[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Siege of Worcester

and on its being read a doubt was raised if Oxford had really surrendered but at night Prince Maurice's secretary, Anthony Kempson, who had been taken prisoner at Oxford, but had a pass given him, arrived, and told them that the fall of Oxford was true and it was utterly hopeless to look for relief.

On 26 June, Washington called a council of war, to meet at the Bishop's Palace, to consider their position and hear Kempson's statement. He told them they were in a hopeless state, as Fairfax, with 10,000 foot and 5,000 horse was marching on Worcester, so that they had better at once accept the best terms they could get. The council, on this, sent Kempson to see Whalley. He did so, and Whalley wrote offering to treat.

On 27 June another council was held to consider Whalley's letter, the result of their deliberations was the Washington sending the following letter:

Considerable discussion arose as to who should be the negotiators. The military men named Sir Robert Leigh, Sir Jordan Crosland, Sir William Bridges, and Major Thomas Savage.

The gentlemen named Lord William Brereton, Sir Ralph Clare, Sir Rowland Berkeley, and Mr. Ralph Goodwin.

The citizens named Sir Daniel Tyas (who, as Mayor, had been knighted by Charles in 1644), Mr. Francis Street, the Town Clerk, Alderman Hacket, and Alderman Heming. To the last-named objection was taken, so Lieutenant Colonel Edward Soley was appointed in his place.

The clergy named Dr. Downe (or Dove) (Dean of Chichester), and Dr. Thomas Warmestry (son of the registrar of the diocese, and afterwards Dean of Worcester).

Mr, Fitzwilliam Coningsby, the head of the recusants and reformadoes, a man of good property in Herefordshire, objected to any idea of surrender until they heard from the King. Coningsby had been the Royalist Governor of Hereford, and he now considered it to be his duty to insist on "no surrender". Great heat ensued. Washington, who was a very passionate man, asked "if they would live and die with him upon the walls, and fight it out to the last man?". Coningsby said they would, and asked that all those who were not of the same mind should be thrown over the walls. The governor said it should be put to the vote whether they surrendered or not. This the bishop and the moderate men opposed, saying that the governor should hold a council of war and get the military reasons for what should be done.

Washington said he would do as he pleased, and proposed to break off all negotiations, and fire a gun from the walls himself to show that this was done. Swearing a great oath, he went off to do it, but the bishop and some others ran after, stopped him, and at last persuaded him to appoint six gentlemen, six soldiers, six citizens, together with the bishop and Dr. Warmestry, to decide if they should or should not treat.

After some debate, the committee were unanimous to treat, and the governor's letter was sent. Whalley replied:

Hostages:
For soldiers and citizens: Colonel Bridges, Colonel Dingley, Colonel Starr, Colonel Lygon, Colonel Betsworth, Lieut.- Colonel Torkington, Major Fiennes, Major Hungerford.
For the gentry: Sir Thomas Rous, Mr. Lechmere, Mr. Hunt and Mr. Moore.
For the ministry: Mr. Moore and Mr. Richard Baxter.

An armistice was agreed upon. The Royalist governor, Washington, sent to Colonel Dingley, with whom he had served in the Low Countries, to meet him outside the city in the Foregate where they met many other friends and drank until 22:00. This act of the governor's was much censured, as it encouraged others to go out of the garrison and allowed the besiegers to come within pistol shot of the works.

On 28 June, the Parliamentarians on Windmill Hill, on the south of the town, came down and examined the works, and at the Foregate many on both sides met and conversed. In the afternoon the articles of the treaty were sent in and read. This caused violent scenes between the governor and the officers.

On 29 June, Whalley, who was at Hallow, sent a safe conduct for the negotiators to come then to Mrs. Fleet's house. A dispute arose as to whether there should be a cessation of hostilities during the negotiations for surrender. At last Whalley wrote the governor the following letter: 

 
At this the Royalist governor, Washington was nettled. He at once set a cannon and fired it himself, and the city's guns began a regular cannonade, which killed some of the besiegers.

The Royalist governor, Washington, sent a trumpeter for the negotiators to meet. This was agreed, and Whalley sent attendants to meet the negotiators in St Johns. When the Parliament negotiators read the proposed terms of surrender, Colonel Bridges said they were terms for men if the King had his towns, castles, and armies, not for such as were the only city left, and were actually better terms than had been given to Oxford or any other place, and could the Worcester garrison, expect better terms for their obstinacy?