[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Triple Eight Racing

Derek Johnston and Luke Hines. Towards the end of the season, Warren Hughes and Jody Firth joined the team in a third Z4. The team finished the year 7th in the team's championship, 2 places behind the debut years finishing position, with Derek Johnston being the highest placed driver finishing 14th.

Triple Eight also entered select rounds of the 2014 Blancpain Endurance Series season and the British-based GT Cup Championship. In the Blancpain Endurance Series, Ryan Ratcliffe joined Lee Mowle and Derek Johnston for the 3 Hours of Silverstone, retiring after 16 minutes, where as Jody Firth and Warren Hughes were joined by Alexander Sims for the 1000 km Nürburgring finishing a respectable ninth, only two laps behind the race winner.

British GT results

Formula Renault BARC
In 2010 Triple 8 teamed up with Uniq to enter a single car into the Formula Renault BARC championship, under the Uniq Racing with 888 name. They entered this series to gain experience for expansion into other series in 2011, particularly series which support the BTCC. Malaysian driver Sazlan Sirajudin drove the car at all six meetings, with 10th being his best finish at Silverstone. He finished the season 16th overall.

Series results

Porsche Carrera Cup GB and Ginetta GT Supercup
Triple Eight announced that they were going to run at least two cars in the 2011 Porsche Carrera Cup Great Britain and that they were going to enter the 2011 Ginetta GT Supercup season. Howerever, they failed to enter any races in both championships.

Other projects
Triple Eight are also involved in several other forms of motorsport, ranging from the British Rally Championship to the Dunlop Sport Maxx Cup.

BTC-T Vauxhall Vectra
The team built a Vectra to the BTC-T Specifications for the 2004 British Touring Car Championship season. However the car was never used due to problems making the car competitive.

Supercars

In September 2003, Triple Eight entered the Australian V8 Supercars series purchasing Briggs Motor Sport and renaming it Triple Eight Race Engineering. The team is now under separate ownership and is no longer directly linked to its British progenitor, although Ian Harrison remains a minority shareholder.

Pro1000 Series
Triple 8 were given the opportunity to develop 16 race-spec Caparo T1000's for the 2010 season. The T1000 was a modified version of the Caparo T1. However, the series never materialised.

Customer Car Division
The customer division of Triple Eight is also growing. Triple Eight Performance Vehicles launched a limited edition Astra Sport Hatch turbo diesel, which followed on from the 2001 manufacture of 100 Special Edition road cars, in the form of the Astra Coupé 888 which was engineered to translate race-winning experience into phenomenal road car response. The T8 proved to be one of Vauxhall's fastest ever selling road vehicles.

References

External links

MG KX Momentum Racing
Quantel Bifold Racing

Auto racing teams in the United Kingdom
British Touring Car Championship teams
1996 establishments in England
2018 disestablishments in England
British GT Championship teams
Blancpain Endurance Series teams
British racecar constructors
British Formula Renault teams
Auto racing teams established in 1996
Auto racing teams disestablished in 2018