[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# DAM (band)

rimination in Israel, the Palestinian neighborhoods suffering from poverty, unemployment, and house demolitions by Israel, in Lyd the main entrance to the Palestinian neighborhoods is through 8 train tracks that you must cross by walking; as a result, more than 10 Palestinians were killed by trains.

In the song "Kan Noladti – Born Here", the group featured the female Palestinian rapper Abir al Zinati , shown walking the streets of Lod. The song was created as a reference to a known Israeli song by "Dats and Datsa" that said, "I was born here, my children were born here, and this is where we built our houses with our hands", DAM changed it to "I was born here, my grandparents were born here, and this is where you destroyed our houses with your hands".

The Born Here Campaign also featured a bus tour in the Palestinian neighborhoods for Israel's top celebrities. The campaign created a huge local media outrage. Many artists joined the ride, among which were: Moni Moshonov, Aviv Geffen, Ha Yehudim, Yoav Kutner, Gila Almagor, and many more. As a result of the campaign, Israel was finally forced to build bridges above the train tracks.

"When we say Hip Hop is a bridge, we mean it metaphorically and Literary," said Tamer in his TEDEX speech at 2012, Nazareth.
Tamer maintained to make political and historical tours after that, for schools, local and foreign groups, and for International artists such as Erykah Badu, Ezra Koenig from the American Rock band - Vampire's Weekend, Michael Franti, Gbenga Akinnagbe actor on the TV show The Wire. The Born Here Campaign with DAM also toured Israel to spread awareness for the campaign.

2006–2010 

DAM released their first album, "Ihda'" or "Dedication", in 2006. DAM signed with the British Label "RCM – Red Circle Music" to market the album in Europe and gave the licensing to EMI Arabia to distribute the album in the Arab countries, they also signed with the French booking agency 3D Family to tour the Sundance Film Festival, Womad, Dubai International Film Festival, among others, as well as the local Taybeh Beer Festival in Taybeh, State of Palestine.

In 2008, the American filmmaker Jackie Salloum released the documentary Slingshot Hip Hop about the story of Palestinian Hip Hop within Israel and the occupied Palestinian territories. The film was screened at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival and prominently features DAM, alongside other Palestinian artists, inclyuding Abeer Zinaty (aka Sabreena da Witch, also from Lod), the Gaza-based Palestinian Rapperz, Arapeyat and Mahmoud Shalabi, both from Acre.

The soundtrack was mostly recorded at Sabreen Studio, East Jerusalem; the album had songs such "Who is the terrorist" by DAM,  "Tzakar" by PR, "Blinded Freedom" by Shalabi, "The witch's Uprising" by Abeer and Suhell Nafar and “Sot el Samt” by WE7. Following the film's success, DAM started touring the US, holding around 60 shows a year.

In 2009, when Israel started to advertise for Israel's Palestinian citizens to serve in the National Service instead of the Army, the campaign was opposed by Palestinian organizations and activists, including the Baladna organization, which asked DAM to write and record a theme song for the campaign.

In 2010, DAM were asked by Adaleh to participate in the short film that describes the Israeli legal discrimination towards Palestinians, DAM was offered to meet with Adaleh's lawyers, ask questions and regarding the answer, they will go to the studio followed by the camera and record a song about it. DAM came out with the song "Muwaten Mustahdaf – Targeted Citizen", the directors liked the title of the song, so they ended up using it for the title of the whole film and the campaign.

In 2010, Tamer Nafar fronted the international music event "Lyrical Alliance" in the UK, which drew together artists from North Africa, the Middle East in what was subsequently called "The dream team of Arabic hip hop".

2011–present 
After 5 years of performing and touring, and participating in other Artists' projects, DAM decided to release the first single from their future album "Nudbok Al Amar – Dabka on the Moon".
The name of the first single is "Risale min Zinzane - A Letter from the Cell", they featured in the song Trio Joubran and Bachar Marcell Khalifa. 

During the writing process of the song, DAM met with the Addameer organization a few times to collect information, personal stories, and letters so they can create three fictional characters that will be based on true stories. The song was supposed to be released with the album, but after the Palestinian prisoners' hunger strike, DAM decided to release the unfinished version to support the prisoners.

Musical Style and Impact