[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Telecommunications industry in China

-line operators with nationwide licenses - China Telecom and China Unicom, three mobile carriers - China Telecom (CDMA and CDMA2000), China Mobile (GSM and TD-SCDMA) and China Unicom (GSM and WCDMA). The State has control and majority ownership of all of them. Most of them are financed in Hong Kong.

 China Telecom is one of the largest telecommunication SOEs in China, including 31 semi-autonomous provincial enterprises in mainland China. It runs land-line and mobile phone networks, operates a PAS system and provides telecom network-based voice, data, multimedia and information services. In 2008, the company acquired CDMA network from China Unicom. A second focus point is broadband based on Ethernet and ADSL. In Jan 2009, China Telcom was one of the three companies having a 3G license, CDMA2000.
 China Mobile operates basic GSM services and value-added services such as General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) data transfer, a TD-SCDMA 3G network, IP telephony and multimedia. It ranks the first in the world in terms of network scale and customer base.
 China Unicom merged with China Netcom in October 2008 and obtained a WCDMA license in January 2009. The company offers mobile phone services, operates domestic and international landline networks, and provides broadband multimedia services, IP telephony, and value-added services.
 China Netcom was acquired by China Unicom in October 2008.
 China Satcom was licensed to engage in all kinds of satellite related services such as transponder lease, domestic television broadcasting, public very-small-aperture terminal (VSAT) communications, video conferencing, data broadcasting, IP telephony, and satellite-based high-speed Internet access. In March 2009, the company announced its basic telephone services (excluding satellite transponder lease and sales) were merged with China Telecom. The rest of the assets including the company would be acquired by China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation.
 China TieTong, formerly affiliated with the national rail network, is a smaller operator that merged with China Mobile in May 2008.
 China Voice Holdings Corp is also licensed to engage in video conferencing, data broadcasting, IP telephony, and satellite-based high-speed Internet access and is the largest corporation in conjunction with foreign owned corporations which hold many of the state-run contracts for the Chinese government.

Network equipment suppliers in China 
The leading international suppliers of network equipment - Alcatel-Lucent, Cisco, Ericsson, Huawei, Nortel and Siemens - as well as the major international suppliers of portable phone sets - Ericsson, Motorola, Nokia, Samsung, and also Siemens - are well known in China.

A large number of Chinese companies compete now with foreign corporations not only in the Chinese market but also in other countries. Datang is the main TD-SCDMA manufacturer, and UTStarcom, the main PAS/PHS manufacturer. Huawei leads the SMS market and Great Wall stands out in the broadband sector. Other recognized Chinese equipment suppliers are Shanghai Bell (subsidiary of Nokia) and Zhongxing Telecommunications Equipment (ZTE). Furthermore, Amoi, Konka Group, Ningbo Bird and Kejan are the most representative Chinese mobile phone manufacturers.

Online and mobile gaming 

Chinese fixed line telecom operators will work with their business partners, online gaming operators and ISPs/ICPs, to provide online games and mobile games in 2005. This can be a market of billions of U.S. dollars. Online gaming/mobile gaming developers work with the telecom operators directly or work with gaming operators and ISPs/ICPs to market their games in China.

Wireless LAN 
Chinese fixed line telecom operators, China Telecom, China Netcom and China Tie Tong (formally China Railcom), may increase their efforts in building wireless LAN networks to provide their customers with fast and easy wireless access to the internet. The fixed-line telecom operators will continue to promote ADSL and other broadband access technologies in China.

Public safety system 
With increasing awareness of the importance of the government's ability to deal with critical situations, there is a growing demand for emergency response systems in China. Without an organization like the National Emergency Number Association (NENA) in the United States, China has not yet developed a national technical standard for its emergency response system. Large and economically well-off cities in China like Beijing, Tianjin, Nanning and Chengdu have started building public safety networks by introducing TETRA-based digital trunking systems that integrate with their existing analogue systems. More Chinese cities followed in 2005. There has been development of database software, interoperability consoles and data management systems.