[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Didier Digard

make three appearances for the side.

A year later on 31 August 2017, Digard terminated his contract at Betis who thanked him for his services to the club. It came after when the club's president Ángel Haro told Digard that he was no longer feature in the first team plan ahead of the 2017–18 season.

Lorca
It was announced on 8 January 2018 Digard signed for Lorca FC in the Spanish Segunda División for the rest of the season, having spent four months as a free agent. However, he suffered a set-back to his Lorca's career after suffering an injury that kept him out for a month.

Digard made his Lorca debut on 11 February 2018, starting a match before being substituted in the 82nd minute, in a 3–0 loss against Reus Deportiu. He made three more starts for the side. However, Digard continued to be plagued with injuries for the next two months at the club. But it wasn't until on 11 May 2018 when he returned to the first team, coming on as a substitute in the 74th minute, in a 2–1 win against CD Numancia. At the end of the 2017–18 season, Digard went on to make six appearances for the side. Following this, he was released by the club after being banned for playing in the third tier, due to not meeting the economic requirements.

In October 2018 he trialled with Ligue 2 side Paris FC for several weeks but the club decided not to sign him stating they needed players who would be "physically ready" soon.

International career
Having previously represented the national team youth side, Digard later played with the under-19 team and was part of the winning team at the 2005 UEFA European Under-19 Championship.

Digard played for the France U21, making eight appearances for the side. He later reflected about playing for the national youth team, saying: "It is a real pride to be one of the best French players, these are good times. I was there from 15 to 22 years old, it was great, I traveled, saw things ... It was the first time I went abroad ... these are just good memories."

His performance at Middlesbrough led then France Manager Raymond Domenech to be called up for a practice match following an injury crisis in October 2008. Digard later acknowledged about not playing for the national team, saying: "No, it is not a regret because the injuries did not allow me to really flourish, to really show my qualities. I really have no regrets, quite the contrary. When I see the guys of my generation who are there, I'm really happy."

Managerial career
Following his retirement from professional football, Digard returned to Nice, where he was appointed as the club's assistant for the U17 side. In 2021, he was appointed as manager of the club's reserve team in the Championnat National 3.

On 9 January 2023, he was made Nice's interim manager following Lucien Favre's dismissal earlier that day. His first game in charge was a 6–1 win over Montpellier.

Managerial statistics

Personal life
Digard revealed that he became a first time father when he was sixteen. Digard commented that being a first time father at age sixteen made him become responsible and serious. Digard is married and together, they have three children.

In addition to speaking French, Digard speaks English. In March 2016, his brother, David, was killed in a car accident. At the time of his death, David worked as a restaurateur.

Digard became an honorary president for EF Gisors-Béz.

Honours 
Paris Saint-Germain
 Coupe de la Ligue: 2007–08
 Coupe de France runner-up: 2007–08

France U19
 UEFA European Under-19 Championship: 2005

References

External links

1986 births
Living people
Footballers from Eure
French men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Ligue 1 players
Ligue 2 players
Premier League players
English Football League players
La Liga players
Segunda División players
Le Havre AC players
Paris Saint-Germain F.C. players
OGC Nice players
Middlesbrough F.C. players
Real Betis players
CA Osasuna players
Lorca FC players
France men's youth international footballers
France men's under-21 international footballers
French expatriate men's footballers
French expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's footballers in England
French expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
French football managers
Association football coaches
OGC Nice non-playing staff
OGC Nice managers
Ligue 1 managers