[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Georgia Landing

l and 5,000 soldiers aboard 7 river transports. These troops landed at Donaldsonville on October 25 and sacked what was left of the town. Colonel William G. Vincent of the 2nd Louisiana Cavalry withdrew his 850 Confederate defenders south to Napoleonville on Bayou Lafourche.

Battle

Order of Battle

Weitzel's Reserve Brigade included the 8th Vermont (detached), 12th Connecticut, 13th Connecticut, 1st Louisiana, and 75th New York Infantry Regiments, the 1st Maine Battery and 4th Massachusetts Battery, Companies A and B, 1st Louisiana Cavalry, and Company B, Massachusetts Cavalry Battalion. The 8th New Hampshire Infantry Regiment was also attached to Weitzel's command. Weitzel left Colonel Richard Holcomb's 1st Louisiana to hold Donaldsonville and marched south on Bayou Lafourche with the rest of his troops in unseasonably cold weather. Holcomb's men began constructing Fort Butler at Donaldsonville.

Mouton commanded the Confederate forces in the area. To prevent his force from being outflanked, Mouton deployed his troops on both banks of Bayou Lafourche. See the Confederate order of battle table below. At this time, Taylor was supervising the layout of defenses on the lower Red River and he did not become aware of the fighting until October 31. The 33rd Louisiana was formed on October 10 at Donaldsonville by consolidating the 10th and 12th Louisiana Infantry Battalions. The merger was unpopular with the soldiers and the new regiment did not fight well at Georgia Landing. Taylor discontinued the regiment on November 22 and restored the two original battalions.

Action

On October 26, Weitzel's force started early and marched down the left (east) bank Bayou Lafourche until  from Napoleonville, where the Union troops camped in battle order. Weitzel had two large river flatboats dragged along the bayou by mules and liberated Black slaves, so that he could switch his troops from one side of the bayou to the other. At 6:00 am on October 27, the Union soldiers took up the march south. Using the flatboats, Weitzel moved the 8th New Hampshire and some cavalry led by Lieutenant Solon A. Perkins to the right (west) bank.

The Union troops on the right bank moved more swiftly than those on the left bank. At 9:00 am near a settlement named Texas, they encountered Ralston's battery and were briefly held up. However, the Union artillery inflicted some damage on Ralston's battery. After losing their commander and running out of ammunition, Ralston's battery made a hasty retreat. Accordingly, Mouton withdrew his forces farther to the south. At 11:00 am, the Union force reached a position about  north of Labadieville. Getting a report that Confederates were in considerable force ahead and that they had 6 artillery pieces, Weitzel formed the 75th New York, 13th Connecticut, and Thompson's battery in battle order on the left (east) bank. These troops moved forward through a sugarcane field. He also ordered 4 of the 6 guns from Carruth's battery to move to the front.

At this time, Weitzel received a report that there was fighting on the right bank and that there were 4 Confederate guns there. Another messenger reported Confederate cavalry had gotten behind the rearguard. Weitzel ordered his pioneers to form a bridge with the flatboats and to cut a road through the levee. He sent 8 companies of the 12th Connecticut across the improvised span to the right bank. Weitzel held back a rearguard of 2 companies of the 12th Connecticut, Williamson's cavalry, and 2 of Carruth's guns (these were 12-pounder howitzers). The Confederate artillery fired at the flatboats, but most of the shots went high. Discovering that the Confederates on the left bank had vanished, Weitzel sent the 13th Connecticut and 4 of Carruth's guns to the right bank, keeping the 75th New York and Thompson's battery on the left bank.