[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Port Militarization Resistance

Port Militarization Resistance (PMR) is an anti-war movement in the United States.  The movement began in May 2006, in Olympia, Washington, but also has chapters in Tacoma, Washington, Grays Harbor, Washington, and the Mid-Atlantic region.  Port Militarization Resistance is also the name of the strategy employed by this movement.  Adherents of the PMR strategy advocate an end to the Iraq War and the War in Afghanistan to be accomplished through making civilian-owned ports inaccessible to the military, with less emphasis on persuading elected officials to abandon the war.  PMR organized high-profile protests at the Port of Olympia and the Port of Tacoma in 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009.

Strategy and tactics

While attempts are made to appeal to local governing bodies to cease military shipments, many PMR organizers and port action participants believe these avenues have largely been exhausted.  Thus, PMR the movement and adherents of the PMR strategy focus on direct action, a political philosophy which relies on circumventing the authority of elected officials.

Tactics used in PMR actions vary, and have included each of the following:

 daily/nightly vigils
 picketing
 die-ins
 banner drops
 human blockades and locking arms
 civil disobedience such as ignoring police-designated "free-speech zones"
 soft-arrest demonstrations
 physical road blockades
 unpermitted marches
 property damage.

While each of the above listed tactics has been used at PMR hosted protests, PMR does not necessarily endorse each of those, and organizers have from time to time spoken out against various actions taken at its protests.

It has also been suggested by port action participants that one of PMR's most effective tactics is the forcing of local jurisdictions to escalate their security expenses during the shipments, making the shipments less valuable.

Port Militarization Resistance has encouraged participants to engage in a mixture of direct action and indirect action for the purposes of obstructing military shipments.  PMR has at times acted as a cohesive unit, and at other times has encouraged members to organize into affinity groups.

Port Militarization Resistance has issued statements committing itself to non-violence.  This commitment includes refusals to engage in things like "verbal harassment" and "malicious sabotage."    While the movement has never been involved in any act in violation of this commitment, not all participants in port actions consider themselves aligned with PMR the movement, and some have engaged in actions which would be in violation of PMR's commitment to non-violence.

Pre-PMR port actions

The basic strategy of Port Militarization Resistance is not unique to the anti-Iraq War movement.  During the Vietnam War, sailors and anti-war activists petitioned local governments to prevent deployments and shipments out of local ports.

Not long after the start of the Iraq War, activists engaged in protests at the Port of Oakland.  Police responded by firing wooden pellets and concussion grenades at protesters and longshore workers alike, sending several people to the hospital.

The Port of Olympia was used several times to ship equipment to Iraq before the formation of Port Militarization Resistance.  In November 2004, an announcement by the Olympia Movement for Justice and Peace indicated the intent to protest one such shipment.  Daily vigils were organized around the port by OMJP.  On the night of November 18, individuals unaffiliated with OMJP gathered around the port fence, cutting a large hole in it, prompting heightened security measures.  Some witnesses have claimed this breach in security prompted the USNS Cape Intrepid to leave early and without all its intended cargo, while the military maintains there was no disruption to its operations.

The following week, anti-war activists packed a meeting of the Port of Olympia Commissioners expressing opposition to the military shipments, only to discover the Commissioners had already decided to continue military shipments in the future.  Contracted vessels continued to ship equipment and munitions to Iraq through the Port of Olympia a few more times over the next several months.  While each of these shipments were met with passive protest, no direct action occurred until May 2006.

Port of Olympia – May 2006

From May 22, 2006 until May 31, 2006, equipment belonging to the 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, based out of Fort Lewis, was convoyed onto the Port of Olympia quay, to be loaded onto the USNS Pomeroy to be delivered to Iraq.  This equipment included Stryker vehicles, as well as various munitions and unlabeled equipment.  Despite prior shipments being met with passive protest, press accounts at the time indicate no resistance to the convoys were expected.