[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Restatement of Policy on Germany

tself.

Lane later continued to reassure Poles of US friendship and was disturbed by distortion of Byrnes speech. Eventually, he learned, after discussing the issue with members of Department of State, that the speech was intended to "smoke out Molotov's attitude on the eve of elections in Germany".

From November 1946, onward the US military government in Germany prepared a number of new alternative border plans.  U.S. Secretary of State George Marshall insisted during the 1947 Council of Foreign Ministers meetings in Moscow and London that a border revision be done that would return agricultural areas Pomerania and Silesia to Germany while leaving Poland large part of eastern Pomernia and Upper Silesia, as well as Gdańsk and East Prussia. With backing from the UK and from France, he also advocated the establishment of a four-power commission that would be given the task of deciding the extent of the new border revisions in favor of Germany. The American change of tactic was motivated by two things: winning over German loyalties and embarrassing the Soviet Union; in private, American policy makers like Marshall admitted that chances of changing the border were "very slender".
 
The speech had a negative impact on US relations with Poland but made the Germans more positive to the US, and the Soviet Union was forced to commit itself to the Oder-Neisse line. As a consequence of this commitment, the Soviet Union had to give up any hope of gaining influence over West Germany.

See also
The President's Economic Mission to Germany and Austria
A Report on Germany
London Agreement on German External Debts

References

Further reading
 John Gimbel "On the Implementation of the Potsdam Agreement: An Essay on U.S. Postwar German Policy" Political Science Quarterly, Vol. 87, No. 2. (Jun., 1972), pp. 242–269.

External links
  Text of the "Stuttgart speech", September 6, 1946
 James Francis Byrnes and U.S. Policy towards Germany 1945–1947 Deutsch-Amerikanische Zentrum / James-F.-Byrnes-Institut e.V
 James W. Riddleberger (Part 3), (Part 1) Chief, Division of Central European Affairs, U.S. Dept. of State, 1944–47
 General Lucius D. Clay  Commander in chief, U.S. Forces in Europe and military governor, U.S. Zone, Germany, 1947–49
 U.K. Policy towards Germany National Archives excerpts of Cabinet meetings, part of which discuss the speech and the Morgenthau plan.
 Time Magazine, September 16, 1946. "Journey to Stuttgart"
 CNN Iron Curtain.

Politics of World War II
Aftermath of World War II in Germany
History of the foreign relations of the United States
Economy of West Germany
Cold War speeches
History of Stuttgart
1946 in Germany
1946 in international relations
Articles containing video clips
September 1946 events in Europe
1946 speeches
History of diplomacy