[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Paulo Jorge (footballer, born 1981)

Paulo Jorge Vieira Alves (born 5 May 1981), known as Paulo Jorge, is a Portuguese former footballer who played mainly as a right midfielder.

He amassed Primeira Liga seasons of 103 games and six goals over six seasons, representing in the competition Boavista, Benfica, Marítimo, Gil Vicente and Belenenses. He also played professionally in Spain and Saudi Arabia.

Club career

Early career and Boavista
Paulo Jorge was born in Maia, Porto District. He spent six seasons in the second division with his hometown club F.C. Maia, including loan spells in the lower leagues with Pedrouços A.C. and F.C. Infesta. He signed a three-year deal at Boavista F.C. for 2005–06. In his one year at the Estádio do Bessa, he scored seven goals in all competitions, including the equaliser in a 1–1 home derby draw with FC Porto on the final day; the team needed a win to make the UEFA Cup.

Benfica
Paulo Jorge signed for S.L. Benfica in July 2006, on a four-year deal for an undisclosed fee. With the Lisbon team, he started in UEFA Champions League matches against FK Austria Wien (both legs of the third qualifying round) and F.C. Copenhagen and Manchester United (group stage). His only goal came on 1 October, opening a 4–1 home win over C.D. Aves.

However, after having appeared sparingly during the league campaign, Paulo Jorge was loaned to Spanish side Málaga CF, whom achieved La Liga promotion in 2008. He shared teams with compatriots Eliseu and Hélder Rosário during his stint. His only goal for the Andalusians came on 10 May 2008, opening a 2–1 home loss to Gimnàstic de Tarragona.

Later career
Paulo Jorge was definitely sold in mid-July 2008, and joined C.S. Marítimo on a two-year deal, alongside Manú and João Coimbra who also transferred from the Estádio da Luz. He scored his first competitive goal for the Madeirans on 4 January 2009 during a 4–1 home win over F.C. Paços de Ferreira, and spent most of the season as a right-back.

In June 2010, Paulo Jorge and former Benfica teammate Nuno Assis joined Al-Ittihad Club (Jeddah) of the Saudi Professional League, under compatriot manager Manuel José. At the start of 2013, he returned to his country's top flight, being signed by Paulo Alves at Gil Vicente FC.

Remaining in the same league, Paulo Jorge signed a one-year deal at C.F. Os Belenenses in July 2013. After seven games, he was released by mutual consent  on 15 January.

References

External links

1981 births
Living people
People from Maia, Portugal
Footballers from Porto District
Portuguese men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Men's association football utility players
Primeira Liga players
Liga Portugal 2 players
Segunda Divisão players
F.C. Maia players
Boavista F.C. players
S.L. Benfica footballers
C.S. Marítimo players
Gil Vicente F.C. players
C.F. Os Belenenses players
Segunda División players
Málaga CF players
Saudi Pro League players
Al-Ittihad Club (Jeddah) players
Portuguese expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Expatriate men's footballers in Saudi Arabia
Portuguese expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Portuguese expatriate sportspeople in Saudi Arabia