[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Postage stamps and postal history of Argentina

Argentine postage stamps were first issued in 1858 by the Argentine Confederation and nationally by the new Republic's  National Postal Service in 1862. Due to the continuing civil wars, a number of provinces and territories, particularly in the then-remote far north and far south, continued to issue their own postage brands and stamps for some time, afterwards; some of these issues have since become collectors' items.

After independence
After independence, the postal service remained much as it had been under Spanish rule. Following the Treaty of Pilar in 1821 the new government placed the postal service under a commission, appointed Manuel Joaquín de Albarracín as commissioner, hired Marcos Prudant as Postmaster General and provided him with an assistant. The first new edict established the postal uniform of a jacket with yellow buttons and a stiff collar.  Boots were to be black, and the employee should wear a metal escutcheon on his hat displaying the new county's coat of arms. The edict further decreed that each post rider was to have a horn which should blown  or so (ten cuadra) before arriving at the town center, and again just before departure.

In 1826 Juan Manuel de Luca was appointed Postmaster General by the Rivadavia government, under the oversight of an enlarged commission.  Despite the demise of that government, and the civil war, the postal service was only minorly inconvenienced and Luca remained at his post until 1858 when he resigned because of his age and health. It was under Luca that detailed regulations were developed; concessions, vehicles, routes, and frequencies set.

Gervasio Posadas managed the post from 1858 to 1874; he introduced revised rates, post office mailboxes, established the stamp program, and in 1860 he inaugurated the first telegraph service.

Early provincial stamps
The first period in the political history of Argentine postage stamps is the so-called “Classical” one between the first stamps (1856) and the first commemorative ones (1892). The earliest Argentine stamps were issued by the separate provinces of  Corrientes (1856-80) and Córdoba (1859-62), and the State of Buenos Aires (1858-59). The mere existence of these provincial stamps reflects the reality that Argentina was hardly a single organized country in that period, but rather a loose federation of some very independent provinces. Early stamps of Buenos Aires were forged by Oswald Schroeder and a paper by Edward Denny Bacon on the subject appeared in The London Philatelist.

Corrientes

 
Corrientes, a province in north-east Argentina, issued postage stamps from 1856 to 1878.  The stamps were printed by typography and were crude copies of the first issue of stamps from France, which depicted the profile head of Ceres, the Roman goddess of agriculture. They were individually engraved by hand, so that each die is noticeably different, and were printed in small sheets.   All stamps were printed on brightly colored paper.  The first stamp, issued in 1856, bore the denomination of one real in the lower panel.  In 1860, the denomination was marked out by pen and the stamp was revalued at 3 centavos. Beginning in 1860, the value panel was erased and six more stamps were issued in two, three and (briefly) five centavos denominations,  distinguished only by the color of the paper used. As locally produced "primitives", the early Corrientes stamps have long been prized by collectors.  After 1880, stamps of Argentina were used. 

Louis Stich, an expert on the Corrientes stamps, has explained the origin of the issue as follows:  In 1856 there was an extreme shortage in paper or coins under 8 Reales.  At the same time, the Corrientes Assembly authorized stamps for pre-paid postal use.  The State Printing Bureau decided to print stamps to serve both for postal use and for small change.  The director of the State Printing Bureau, Paul Emile Coni, supposedly could not locate anyone capable of cutting the stamp dies.  At that time, a baker’s delivery boy, Matias Pipet, who had served as an apprentice to an engraver in Italy before arriving in Corrientes, said he could undertake the task.  Coni, for reasons unknown, selected the French Ceres stamp as the design and the boy prepared the designs.  The dies produced were "so extremely crude" that Coni was afraid to use them, but he eventually decided that he had no choice as the need for the stamps was urgent.  Stich observed that "with each re-telling" of this story, "more fiction seems to replace the original facts."