[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Landfill gas monitoring

te.

Types of landfill gas monitoring
For surface monitoring, a monitor may be either:
Single reading monitor, giving point readings for landfill gas composition, or a
Continuous gas monitor, that remain in boreholes and give continuous readings over time for landfill gas composition and production.

For Collection System Monitoring, users are monitoring gas composition (%CH4, %CO2, %O2 & Balance Gas) as well as temperature, pressure and flow rate. There are three distinct ways collected gas can be measured. 
Handheld, single reading monitor - giving point readings from individual gas collection wells. There are two companies that provide the large majority of these type of meters, LANDTEC and Elkins Earthworks.
Wired, continuous reading monitor - these hard wired monitors can typically be found at either the flare or the landfill gas-to-energy plant. There are a number of companies that provide wired, continuous reading monitors.
Wireless, continuous reading monitor - these wireless monitors can typically be found installed on individual landfill gas collection wells but can be installed anywhere on the gas collection system. Loci Controls is currently the only company that provides wireless, continuous reading monitors.

Techniques for establishing landfill gas (rather than liquid) as the source of VOC in groundwater samples

Several techniques have been developed for evaluating whether landfill gas (rather than leachate) is the source of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in groundwater samples.  Leachate water frequently has elevated levels of tritium compared to background groundwater and a leachate (water) release would increase tritium levels in affected groundwater samples, while landfill gas has been shown not to do so.  Although landfill gas components can react with minerals and alter inorganic constituents present in groundwater samples such as alkalinity, calcium, and magnesium, a frequent major leachate constituent, chloride, can be used to evaluate whether leachate has affected the sample.

Highly soluble VOCs, such as MtBE, diethyl ether, and tetrahydrofuran, are evidence of leachate effects, since they are too water-soluble to migrate in landfill gas.  The presence of highly soluble semi-volatile organic compounds, such as phenols, are also consistent with leachate effects on the sample.  Elevated concentrations of dissolved  have been shown to be a symptom of landfill gas effects—this is because not all of the  in landfill gas reacts immediately with aquifer minerals, while such reactions are complete in leachate due to the presence of soils as daily cover in the waste.  To assess whether VOCs are partitioning into groundwater in a specific location, such as a monitoring well, the headspace gas and dissolved VOC concentrations can be compared.  If the Henry's Law constant multiplied by the water concentration is significantly less than the measured gas concentration, the data are consistent with VOCs partitioning from landfill gas into the groundwater.

aExact percentage distribution will vary with the age of the landfill

Typical problems
Most landfills are highly heterogeneous environments, both physically and biologically, and the gas composition sampled can vary radically within a few metres.

Near-surface monitoring is additionally vulnerable over short time periods to weather effects. As the atmospheric pressure rises, the rate of gas escape from the landfill is reduced and may even become negative, with the possibility of oxygen incursion into the upper layers (an analogous effect occurs in the composition of water at the mouth of an estuary as the sea tide rises and falls).  
Differential diffusion and gas solubility (varying strongly with temperature and pH) further complicates this behaviour. Tunnelling effects, whereby large items (including monitoring boreholes) create bypass shortcuts into the interior of the landfill, can extend this variability to greater depths in localised zones.  Such phenomena can give the impression that bioactivity and gas composition is changing much more radically and rapidly than is actually the case, and any series of isolated time-point measurements is likely to be unreliable due to this variance.

Landfill gas often contains significant corrosives such as hydrogen sulphide and sulphur dioxide, and these will shorten the lifespan of most monitoring equipment as they react with moisture (this is also a problem for landfill gas utilization schemes).

Physical settlement as waste decomposes makes borehole monitoring systems vulnerable to breakage as the weight of the material shifts and fractures equipment.

See also
Anaerobic digestion
Biogas
Biodegradability
Landfill gas migration
Landfill gas utilization

References

External links
California Integrated Waste Management Board policy

Landfill