[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Matsutarō Shōriki

kuza boss Yoshio Kodama, his friend Ryōichi Sasakawa, a preeminent fascist political fixer, and Nobusuke Kishi, the future key man of the Liberal Democratic Party, lived in the same prison cell and were never judged. Their fraternity formed in the Sugamo Prison continued for the rest of their lives.

On August 22, 1947, a recommendation was made to release Shoriki. He was suddenly released after the Americans determined that the accusations against him were mostly of an “ideological and political nature”. Shōriki later stated that his stay at "Sugamo University" was an ideal networking opportunity. Right-wingers would, with Shoriki's help, come back to rule Japan just four years after America signed a peace treaty with Japan in 1951.

Nippon Television Network 
In Japan, private television broadcasting began in the early 1950s thanks largely to the policies of the U.S. occupation authorities. In July 1952, just three months after the US occupation bureaucracy had formally ended, Shōriki was granted a broadcasting license for the new Nippon Television Network (NTV) by Japanese media regulators.

Nuclear power 
In January 1956, Shōriki became chairman of the newly created Japanese Atomic Energy Commission, and in May of that year was appointed head of the brand-new Science and Technology Agency, both under the cabinet of Ichirō Hatoyama with strong support behind the scenes from the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency. He also used his position as owner of the Yomiuri Shimbun to promote nuclear power in the popular media.

In 1957, he joined the first Kishi cabinet as chairman of the National Public Safety Commission, and around the same time, the Japanese government entered into a contract to purchase 20 nuclear reactors from the United States of America. The Shoriki-LDP-CIA faction made a political decision that eventually led to the installation of 59 nuclear power plants across Japan. This corrupted relationship within the faction illustrated the root cause of the Fukushima nuclear disaster in the Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant, in which the state and Tokyo Electric Power Company were held liable for the negligence of maintenance.

In 2006, Tetsuo Arima, a professor specialising in media studies at Waseda University in Tokyo, published an article that proved Shōriki acted as an agent under the codenames of "podam" and "pojackpot-1" for the CIA to establish a pro-US nationwide commercial television network (NTV) and to introduce nuclear power plants using U.S. technologies across Japan. Arima's accusations were based on the findings of de-classified documents stored in the NARA in Washington, D.C.

Shōriki is thus also now known as "the father of nuclear power."

Death 
Shōriki died October 9, 1969, in Atami, Shizuoka.

Tributes 
In , Shōriki was the first inductee into the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame. The Matsutaro Shoriki Award is given annually to the person who contributes the most to Japanese baseball.

The position of Chair of the Department of Asia, Oceania, and Africa at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston is also named after Shōriki.

Further reading 
 
 Uhlan, Edward and Dana L. Thomas. Shoriki: Miracle Man of Japan. A Biography. New York: Exposition Press, 1957.  E-book at the Internet Archive.

References 

|-

|-

|-

|-

1885 births
1969 deaths
Baseball executives
Government ministers of Japan
Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame inductees
Japanese male judoka
Japanese mass media owners
Japanese police officers
Japanese sports businesspeople
Kodokan 10th dans
Members of the House of Peers (Japan)
Members of the House of Representatives (Japan)
Newspaper executives
Nippon TV
People from Toyama Prefecture
Television executives
Television company founders
University of Tokyo alumni
Yomiuri Giants