[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abu Daoud

ssociated Press interview, he justified the operation by claiming it was a strategic success, declaring: "Before Munich, we were simply terrorists. After Munich, at least people started asking who are these terrorists? What do they want? Before Munich, nobody had the slightest idea about Palestine."

Published works
He published his autobiography Palestine: From Jerusalem to Munich in French in 1999. It was later published in English as Memoirs of a Palestinian Terrorist, also titled Palestine-A History of the Resistance Movement, by the Sole Survivor of Black September by Arcade Publishing in hard-cover format. The book is a first hand account of the rise of the Palestinian resistance movement from its inception to the attack at the 1972 Munich Olympics. Regarding the book and his subsequently being barred from returning to the West Bank, "The Israeli decision to bar my return is linked to an event which happened 27 years ago, the Munich operation, which we considered a legitimate struggle against the enemy we (the PLO) were fighting."

In 1999, the Palestinian Prize for Culture was granted to Abu Daoud for his book Palestine: From Jerusalem to Munich, in which he describes how he planned and executed the Munich operation. As part of the prize, Abu Daoud was awarded 10,000 French francs.

Death
On 3 July 2010, Daoud died of kidney failure at Al-Andalus Hospital in Damascus, Syria. After a funeral service in the Al Wasim Mosque in Yarmouk with his coffin draped in the Palestinian flag, he was buried in the Martyrs Cemetery of the Yarmouk Palestinian refugee camp on the southern outskirts of Damascus. He was survived by his wife, five daughters and a son. His daughter Hana Oudeh, in the eulogy, said her father was "a great loving and sincere man whose dream was to go back to Palestine." Representatives of various Palestinian groups, including Fatah and Islamic Jihad, attended the funeral. Shortly before his death, Oudeh said in a statement to Israelis, "Today, I cannot fight you any more, but my grandson will and his grandsons too."

In a condolence letter to Abu Daoud's family following his death, the chairman of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, wrote: "He is missed. He was one of the leading figures of Fatah and spent his life in resistance and sincere work as well as physical sacrifice for his people's just causes."

References

External links
Mastermind of Munich Massacre to Receive the Palestine Prize
"Thirty years after he helped plan the terror strike, Abu Daoud remains in hiding – and unrepentant". Sports Illustrated. 20 August 2002.

1937 births
2010 deaths
20th-century Muslims
21st-century Muslims
Anti-Zionism in the Arab world
Deaths from kidney failure
Extrajudicial killings
Fatah military commanders
Members of the Black September Organization
Munich massacre
Palestinian mass murderers
Palestinian Muslims
People from Jerusalem