[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Growth of the Soil

s trial to take place. Amazingly, the Lensmand's wife, Mrs. Heyerdahl, had stepped up for Barbro by giving a great, eloquent speech that moved everyone. The jury was obviously affected by this speech and Barbro and Axel were fully pardoned. Mrs. Heyerdahl had then gotten Barbro to come work for her.

Meanwhile, Aronsen was furious that Geissler was refusing to sell his tract of land to the mining company. His trading business depended on a lot of foot traffic but since there was no more, there were no more customers. Geissler was taking revenge on the village for removing him as Lensmand. The entire fate and economy of the district hinged on whether he would sell the land. Eventually, Aronsen, not able to handle it anymore, sold his place to Eleseus who decided that he become a farmer. Geissler had finally sold his land and the mine was operational again. Later, Aronsen returned to buy back the farm from Eleseus but to no avail.

Barbro was evicted from Mrs. Heyerdahl's house after an argument in which Mrs. Heyerdahl discovered that Barbro was often sneaking out to celebrations when she was supposed to be working. Mrs. Heyerdahl was outraged that this was what she got after saving Barbro from the clutches of the law. Barbro daringly returned to Axel but unfortunately, Oline had taken her place in the household while she was away. Oline really does not want to leave the place and asked Axel to call for the doctor as she was not feeling well one night. She criticizes them for trying to evict such a poor, ill woman. Oline had died that night.

When Eleseus returned home, he talked privately with Sivert telling him his big plans - he was going to start a new life in America. Sivert was shocked and advised his brother not to go but seeing that this was futile, he gave him 25 kroner for his journey. Eleseus left that day on a boat and never came back. What was once barren land is now rich of settlers, all started from the one pioneer Isak.

Characters

Isak
Isak, the protagonist of the novel, is described as a "strong, course fellow, with a red iron beard, and little scars on face and hands". He is the first settler on the Almenning near the village. He is the husband of Inger and father of Eleseus, Sivert, Leopoldine, and Rebecca. The character of Isak conforms to Hamsun's ideal individual: hard working, with a large family, and averted to modernity but rather finding roots with the agrarian lifestyle. Isak is often portrayed as very simple. He has no education and is unable to read well or write. Isak is a pioneer of the land, starting a farm and family from virtually nothing, a trait which Hamsun admired in individuals. There are several moments when Hamsun reveals Isak's crude and violent side, such as when he slams his wife Inger to the floor when he finds out she has been stealing from him. Isak is admired by many, his farm is very developed compared to his neighbors. He has many sheds, fancy tools that come as gifts from Geissler and a mining operator, good land, an advanced irrigation system, and more, which are a significant cause of this admiration.

Inger
Inger is Isak's wife. She is described as being "a big, brown-eyed girl, full built and coarse, with good, heavy hands, and rough hide brogues on her feet as if she had been a Lapp..." She also had a harelip. She is the mother of two boys, Eleseus and Sivert; two girls, Leopoldine and Rebecca; and a fifth child, whom she killed because it was born with a harelip. She wanted to spare the child the kind of suffering she knew this defect would bring. People soon realized that something had happened to her pregnancy, and the body of the child was discovered buried in the forest. Inger was sentenced to eight years in prison out of a maximum sentence of life. Prison was a positive experience for her. She learned how to knit, do various types of needlework, read, write, and other things. In addition, Inger's harelip was surgically repaired when she was in prison. Hamsun described Inger as being quite ugly, unrefined, and unintelligent. She is always amazed at everything Isak does. Whenever he purchases something at the village, Inger marvels at it. However, her time in prison and resulting introduction to modernity cause her to lose her fervor for Isak's abilities and their simple country life.