[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Senator Theatre

The Senator Theatre is a historic Art Deco movie theater on York Road in the Govans section of Baltimore, Maryland. It is the oldest operating movie theater in central Maryland and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is a designated Baltimore City Landmark.

Managers Buzz and Kathleen Cusack renovated the theater and reopened it on October 15, 2010. The theater closed again for more renovations on April 26, 2012. It has since reopened, with three smaller theaters adjacent to the main one. It shows first run movies as well as classics.

Architecture
The Senator Theatre is an Art Deco landmark built by E. Eyring for Durkee Enterprises at an original cost of $250,000. It opened to the public October 5, 1939. The first movie it featured was Stanley and Livingstone, starring Spencer Tracy and Nancy Kelly. The architect, John Jacob Zink, designed the Senator with a circular upper structure of glass blocks and limestone. Multicolored backlighting of the glass block was added to produce a dramatic effect at night.

The lobby still features the original terrazzo floors, and art deco murals about the history of performing arts. A massive gold curtain still opens to dramatically reveal the screen before each performance. The theatre's interior is accented by a back lit sun-burst at the apex of the screen, and rainbow prisms in the recessed ceiling. "Originally, it had 1150 seats but that has gone down to 900."

The Senator Theatre also has two skyboxes for private parties. They are connected by a mezzanine overlooking the outer lobby and can host up to 40 people.

The sidewalk in front of the theatre features a ‘walk of fame’ which highlights local cinematic accomplishments.

The Senator Theater was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1989.

The Baltimore City Commission for Historical and Architectural Preservation (CHAP) designated the Senator Theatre as an "exterior" Baltimore City Landmark in 2007. It further designated the interior of the Senator Theatre as another Baltimore City Landmark on June 24, 2011.

Technical specifications
The Senator Theatre boasts a massive, modern 40 ft curved screen, state of the art projection systems, and Dolby Digital sound with surround EX. Today, the Senator Theatre mainly showcases first run movies. It is able to screen films in 35mm or 70mm. Equipment includes a Bauer U2 projector with top-of-the-line German lenses.

In 2003, the Senator was selected to become the first venue to complete the Historic Cinema Certification Program offered by THX Ltd., the San-Rafael, California based company founded by George Lucas. The special skyboxes are also equipped with user-controlled digital sound.

The snack bar offers traditional movie house snacks, and freshly popped, hot popcorn, with real butter upon request. Tickets are now $9 each.

Reputation
Many celebrities have attended movie premieres, fundraisers, and screenings at the Senator. They include: Matt Damon, Matthew McConaughey, John Travolta, Joaquin Phoenix, Salma Hayek, and Edward Norton.

The Senator Theatre's facade has been featured in many movies and commercials. It was featured prominently in the cult film Cecil B. Demented, which showcased historic theatres around Baltimore. The theatre can also be seen in the movies Twelve Monkeys, Diner, and Avalon. The Senator was also featured prominently in Mario's 2002 music video "Just a Friend."

Directors John Waters and Barry Levinson premiere most of their films at the Senator. It often hosts East Coast premieres of films shot in and around Baltimore, including Ladder 49, Runaway Bride and The Accidental Tourist. The theatre also showcases films starring Baltimore area natives like Edward Norton and Jada Pinkett Smith.

Several books feature the Senator Theatre, including Cinema Treasures, Popcorn Palaces, Exit: A History of Movies in Baltimore and Motion Picture Exhibition in Baltimore: An Illustrated History and Directory of Theatres.

 The August 5, 2005, issue of Entertainment Weekly Magazine ranked the Senator Theater fourth on the list of “10 Theaters doing it right... movie houses that make watching films a dream”.
 In its September 29, 2003, edition, USA Today declared the Senator Theatre to be one of America's best “Places to see a classic cinema”.
 In 2001, the National Trust for Historical Preservation designated the Senator as America's quintessential independent historic movie house.

On May 19, 2003, the National Main Street Center of the National Trust for Historic Preservation honored owner Tom Kiefaber with the “2003 Business Leadership Award”. The award was “in recognition of his tireless advocacy for historic, independent movie theaters".

Fundraisers
The Senator Theatre routinely hosts special events that have raised millions of dollars for local charities.