[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Peking (1900)

e outside the gate and blasted a hole in the door with artillery.  Once inside the gate, however, in the courtyard between the inner and outer doors, they were caught in a murderous crossfire that killed 26 Russian soldiers and wounded 102.  The survivors were pinned down for the next several hours.

When the Americans arrived at their assigned gate that morning they found the Russians already engaged there and they moved their troops about 200 yards south. Once there, Trumpeter Calvin P. Titus volunteered to climb the 30-foot-tall wall, which he did successfully.  Other Americans followed him, and at 11:03 a.m. the American flag was raised on the wall of the Outer city.  American troops exchanged fire with Chinese forces on the wall and then climbed down the other side and headed west toward the Legation Quarter in the shadow of the wall of the Inner city.

Meanwhile, the Japanese had encountered stiff resistance at their assigned gate and were subjecting it to an artillery barrage.  The British had an easier time of it, approaching and passing through their gate, the Shawo or Guangqui, with virtually no opposition.  Both Americans and British were aware that the easiest entry into the Legation Quarter was through the so-called Water Gate, a drainage canal running beneath the wall of the Inner city.  The British got there first.  They waded through the muck of the canal and into the Legation Quarter and were greeted by a cheering throng of the besieged, all decked out in their "Sunday best".  The Chinese ringing the Legation Quarter fired a few shots, wounding a Belgian woman, and then fled.  It was 2:30 p.m on 14 August.  The British had not suffered a single casualty all day, except for one man who died of sunstroke.

About 4:30 p.m., the Americans arrived in the Legation Quarter.  Their casualties for the day were one killed and nine wounded, plus one badly injured in a fall while climbing the wall. Among the wounded was Smedley Butler who would later become a general and the most famous Marine of his era. The Russian, Japanese and French forces entered Peking that evening as Chinese opposition melted away.  The Siege of the Legations was over.

Aftermath
The next morning, 15 August, Chinese forces probably Dong Fuxiang's Gansu Muslim troops still occupied parts of the wall of the Inner City and the Imperial and Forbidden Cities.  Occasional shots were directed toward the foreign troops.  General Chaffee, the American commander, ordered his troops to clear the wall and occupy the Imperial City.  With assistance from the Russians and French, American artillery blasted its way through a series of walls and gates into the Imperial City, halting the advance at the gates of the Forbidden City.  American casualties for the day were seven killed and 29 wounded. One of those killed was Capt. Henry Joseph Reilly, 54 years old and born in Ireland, a renowned artilleryman.

The Dowager Empress, Cixi, the emperor and several members of the court fled Peking in the early morning of 15 August, only a few hours before the Americans knocked up against the wall of the Forbidden City.  She, dressed as a peasant woman, and the Imperial party slipped out of the city in three wooden carts.  Chinese authorities called her flight to Shanxi province a "tour of inspection".   Remaining in Peking to deal with the foreigners, and holed up in the Forbidden City, were trusted aides to the Dowager, including Ronglu, commander of the army and her friend since childhood. At Zhengyang Gate the Muslim Kansu Braves engaged in a fierce battle against the Alliance forces. The commanding Muslim general in the Chinese army, General Ma Fulu, and four of his cousins were killed charging against the Alliance forces; meanwhile, a hundred Hui and Dongxiang Muslim troops from his home village died in the fighting at Zhengyang. The Battle at Zhengyang was fought against the British. After the battle was over, the Kansu Muslim troops, including General Ma Fuxiang, were among those guarding the Empress Dowager during her flight. The future Muslim General Ma Biao, who led Muslim cavalry to fight against the Japanese in the Second Sino-Japanese War, fought in the Boxer Rebellion under General Ma Haiyan as a private in the Battle of Peking against the foreigners. General Ma Haiyan died of exhaustion after the Imperial Court reached their destination, and his son Ma Qi took over his posts. Ma Fuxing also served under Ma Fulu to guard the Qing Imperial court during the fighting. The Muslim troops were described as "the bravest of the brave, the most fanatical of fanatics : and that is why the defence of the Emperor's city had been entrusted to them."