[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals

lassification
The GHS classification system is a complex system with data obtained from tests, literature, and practical experience. The hazards of a substance are defined in classes of hazards and categories of severity.

The main elements of the hazard classification criteria are summarized below:

Physical hazards
Substances or articles are assigned to 8 different hazard classes largely based on the United Nations Dangerous Goods System. Additions and changes have been necessary since the scope of the GHS includes all target audiences.
 Explosives, which are assigned to one of six subcategories depending on the type of hazard they present, as used in the UN Dangerous Goods System.
 Gases are category 1 flammable if they start to flame in a range in air at 20 °C (68 °F) and a standard pressure of 101.3 kPa. Category 2 is Non flammable and non toxic gases, and category 3 is toxic gases. Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to one of two hazard categories on the basis of the outcome of the test or calculation method.
 A flammable liquid is a liquid with a flash point of not more than 93 °C (199.4 °F).  Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to one of four hazard categories on the basis of the flash point and boiling point. A pyrophoric liquid is a liquid that, even in small quantities, is liable to ignite within five minutes after coming into contact with air. Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to a single hazard category on the basis of the outcome of the UN Test N.3.
 A flammable solid is one that is readily combustible or may cause or contribute to fire through friction.  Readily combustible solids are powdered, granular, or pasty substances which are dangerous if they can be easily ignited by brief contact with an ignition source, such as a burning match, and if the flame spreads rapidly. it is further divided into • flammable solids, • polymerizing substances 
 self-reactive substances, are thermally unstable solids liable to undergo a strongly exothermic thermal decomposition even without participation of oxygen (air), other than materials classified as explosive, organic peroxides or as oxidizing.
 pyrophoric substance more colloquially described as spontaneously combusting substances are those solids or liquids that even in small quantities are liable to ignite within five minutes after coming into contact with air. Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to a single hazard category on the basis of the outcome of the UN Test N.2. 
 Self-heating substances A self-heating solids or liquids, other than a pyrophoric substance, is one which, by reaction with air and without energy supply, are liable to self-heat. Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to one of two hazard categories on the basis of the outcome of the UN Test N.4. Substances which on contact with water emit flammable gases are liable to become spontaneously flammable or to give off flammable gases in dangerous quantities. Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to one of three hazard categories on the basis of the outcome of UN Test N.5, which measures gas evolution and speed of evolution. Flammable aerosols can be classified as Class 1 or Class 2 if they contain any component, which is classified as flammable.
 Oxidizing substances and organic peroxides  contain • category 1: oxidizing substances and• category 2: organic peroxides, organic liquids or solids that contain the bivalent -O-O- structure and may be considered a derivative of hydrogen peroxide, where one or both of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced by organic radicals. The term also includes organic peroxide formulations (mixtures). Substances and mixtures of this hazard class are assigned to one of seven 'Types', A to G, on the basis of the outcome of the UN Test Series A to H.
Radioactive substances 
 Substances corrosive to metal are substances or mixtures that by chemical action will materially damage or even destroy metals. These substances or mixtures are classified in a single hazard category on the basis of tests (Steel: ISO 9328 (II): 1991 - Steel type P235; Aluminum: ASTM G31-72 (1990) - non-clad types 7075-T6 or AZ5GU-T66). The GHS criteria are a corrosion rate on steel or aluminum surfaces exceeding 6.25 mm (0.246063 in) per year at a test temperature of 55 °C (131 °F).
Miscellaneous dangerous substances