[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Passing (gender)

er identification. According to Gillian Branstetter from the National Center for Transgender Equality, "People privilege the rights of others  how they look". People may feel safer being able to appear as a non-transgender person than if their gender identity was more easily identifiable.

Privilege

Passing privilege is the concept that transgender people face less prejudice when they are perceived as cisgender, including less risk of harassment and violence, as well as better employment opportunities. For those in the transgender community, the ability to pass is held as the standard of sorts to which many people aspire. However, there is a lack of research about the impact that successfully passing has on an individual's societal experience. One study showed that successfully passing can reduce one's likelihood of experiencing homelessness, as well as improve one's experience with homeless shelters; the study found that 11.4% of its transgender/gender non-conforming sample group stated that they had experienced homelessness directly related to their gender identity, and 16.3% indicated they needed to seek new or short-term living arrangements due to their identity. Among those dealing with direct homelessness, those who lacked the ability to pass were more likely to experience a variety of difficulties including harassment from staff and other visitors, difficulties being accepted to and staying in the shelters themselves, and being less likely to seek assistance from shelters in the first place.

Risks of not passing 
The risks of not fully passing for the gender one is presenting as can vary depending on the circumstances. There is a significant difference between drag queens, or those who otherwise dress for performances, and transgender persons. The risks tend to be much higher for those concerned with passing on a fairly constant basis as opposed to those attempting to pass in the limited context of a public or semi-public performance. Being outed by one's physical attributes as a transgender or gender non-conforming individual can negatively impact one's cultural experience, resulting in neglect, abuse, or disownment by one's community. According to data from the U.S. 2015 Transgender survey, 88% of those interviewed were denied "equal treatments and services" as a result of their trans identity. Transgender people face high rates of discrimination and harassment, particularly among trans women of color. Transgender people face high rates of harassment and violence, including sexual, physical, and verbal violence and harassment, sexual objectification, and social stigmatization. The experience of transphobia can also lead to negative impacts on mental health.

Methods

Passing as female
For people assigned male at birth, passing as female typically involves wearing a wig or styling hair in a manner typical of women in their culture, removing or disguising facial hair, and wearing makeup to make the face appear like that of a cisgender woman, altering the body to resemble that of a woman, wearing clothing and accessories deemed to be for women, speaking in a voice that fits their presentation, and adopting feminine mannerisms.

Alterations to make the face and body appear feminine fall into two categories: temporary items that are applied or worn, and medical alterations.

Some forms of breast prostheses are sometimes used. If the clothing being worn will reveal breast cleavage, cleavage enhancement techniques can be used if there is not sufficient breast tissue to form cleavage.

Various methods are used to create a feminine waist–hip ratio, by either reducing the waist size and/or enlarging the hips and buttocks. A garment such as a corset, BodyBriefer or control brief is often used to reduce the apparent waist size and/or to flatten the stomach area. Hip and buttock padding is sometimes used to enlarge the apparent size of the hips and buttocks.

Tucking refers to the practice of hiding the penis and testicles so that they are not visible through tight clothing. The most effective method of tucking involves pushing the testicles up into the inguinal canal. Though this can be uncomfortable or even painful, feminizing hormone replacement therapy can reduce the size of the testicles through atrophy, making tucking easier. Once this is done, the penis is pulled back between the legs and a tight pair of panties, a gaff, or another tight garment is then worn on top to hold everything in place. Tucking is often utilized when wearing more revealing clothing such as leggings or swimwear. For those who have not undergone or do not want to undergo genital reconstruction surgery, the penile crotch protrusion (sometimes known by the slang terms moose knuckle or bulge) can be among the most conspicuous signs of birth sex.