[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Operation Savannah (Angola)

th African contingent included an armoured squadron, supporting infantry units, some artillery, engineers, and UNITA irregulars. Their main objective was to seize the Luso airport,  which later went on to serve as a supply point until the South Africans finally departed Angola in early January 1976.

Battles involving Battlegroup Zulu in the west
There were numerous unrecorded clashes fought in the southwest between Colonel Jan Breytenbach's SADF battlegroup and scattered MPLA positions during Operation Savannah. Eventually, Breytenbach's men were able to advance three thousand kilometers over Angolan soil in thirty-three days.

On a related note, Battlegroup Zulu later formed the basis of South Africa's famous 32 Battalion.

Ambrizete incident

The South African Navy was not planned to be involved in the hereunto land operation, but after a failed intervention by the South African Army in the Battle of Quifangondo, nevertheless had to hastily extract a number of army personnel by sea from far behind enemy lines in Angola, as well as abandoned guns. Ambrizete north of Luanda at  was chosen as the pick-up point for the gunners involved in the defeat at Quifangondo. The frigates  and  went to the area, where the latter used inflatable boats and its Westland Wasp helicopter to extract 26 personnel successfully from the beach on 28 November 1975. The replenishment oiler  provided logistical support to the frigates, and picked up the guns in Ambriz after they were towed to Zaire, and took them to Walvis Bay.

General Constand Viljoen, who had grave concerns at the time about the safety of both his soldiers and abandoned field guns, called it "the most difficult night ever in my operational career".

The success of this operation was exceptionally fortuitous, given that the South African Navy had been penetrated by the spy Dieter Gerhardt.

Aftermath

South Africa continued to assist UNITA in order to ensure that SWAPO did not establish any bases in southern Angola.
The FNLA had never recovered from its defeats in the north. After the South Africans had withdrawn from Angola. The FNLA had begun to disintegrate, by March 1976 the FNLA had ceased to exist in Angola.

South African order of battle

The South Africans deployed a number of Combat Groups during Operation Savannah – initially, only Combat Groups A and B were deployed, with the remaining groups being mobilised and deployed into Angola later in the campaign.  There has been much dispute the overall size of Task Force Zulu.  Current evidence indicates that the Task Force started with approximately 500 men and grew to a total of 2,900 with the formation of Battle Groups Foxbat, Orange and X-Ray.

Association
The Savannah Association is an association of ex-servicemen of all units who were involved in the operation. They meet annually to commemorate the operation. The insignia of the association is a caltrop.

Notes and references

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

Further reading

 
 

Savannah
Savannah
Savannah
Savannah
Cold War conflicts
Conflicts in 1975
Conflicts in 1976
Angola–South Africa relations
Military history of Angola
Savannah (Angola), Operation
Savannah (Angola), Operation
Savannah (Angola), Operation
CIA activities in Africa
UNITA
MPLA