[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Monarchy in the Canadian provinces

anitoba Winter Fair), or because at least one member of the royal family serves as a patron. Some of these organizations may use a royal crown in their logo or coat of arms, though this is a gift from the monarch showing royal support and/or association, and requires his approval before being added.

Lieutenant Governor and Commissioner Badge of Recognition

With Queen Elizabeth II's approval of the design, the Lieutenant Governor and Commissioner Badge of Recognition was created in January 1999. It features stylized maple leaf tips, in red and white enamel, forming a diamond shape, at the centre of which is a red ring bearing a maple leaf; the leaf on the lieutenant governors' and commissioners' badge is gold and the one on the badge for their spouses is silver. The diamond shape is topped by a rendering of St. Edward's Crown. On 1 January 2000, all living current and former lieutenant governors and their spouses were presented with the badge.

The Queen also authorized, in July 1998, to the use of the royal crown on the Viceregal and Commissioners Commendation, which consists of a gold bar enamelled in blue, with, at the middle, a circle containing three red maple leaves (as shown on the Royal Coat of Arms of Canada) surmounted by the crown. The crowned circle with leaves also forms a smaller lapel pin. The commendation was first manufactured at the same time as the badge of recognition. It is used by lieutenant governors to recognize excellent service to the respective viceregal offices. The number of nominations permitted during a lieutenant governor's tenure depends on the number of staff working in the viceregal office or household.

See also
 Monarchy in Newfoundland and Labrador
 Monarchy in Prince Edward Island
 Monarchy in Nova Scotia
 Monarchy in New Brunswick
 Monarchy in Quebec
 Monarchy in Ontario
 Monarchy in Manitoba
 Monarchy in Saskatchewan
 Monarchy in Alberta
 Monarchy in British Columbia
 List of current Canadian lieutenant governors and commissioners

Notes

References

 

Further information
Reading
 
 
 
 MacKinnon, Frank (1976). The Crown in Canada''. Calgary, Alta.: Glenbow-Alberta Institute: McClelland and Stewart West. 189 p.  pbk

Viewing
 

Provinces, monarchy in
Government in Canada