[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Central Bank of Armenia

s, set by the Bank for International Settlements, was completed. Based on the results of the evaluation, the EPS has been estimated to be reliable and risk-free in the financial stability aspect. These evaluation results also served a basis for the World Bank activities conducted under FSAP in 2012.

2. Main development goals 
 Develop a financial stability framework to ensure effective systems and procedures are in place for evaluation of potential risks that pose threat to financial stability, and for crisis management. 
 Establish a sustainable framework of regulation and supervision in line with best international experience and principles that would be the best combination of financial system risks management (ensuring stability) and current developments.
  Implement reforms under a single financial system development philosophy to ensure tantamount and balanced development of financial institutions, financial markets and financial infrastructures concomitant with increasing financial intermediation. 
 Continue actions toward introduction of advanced bank regulation and supervision standards, specifically new Basel principles, risk-based forwardlooking supervision, consolidated supervision of financial institutions, improve the reporting system and the quality of data reported by banks, and adopt more streamlined approaches to the supervision on the whole. 16 
 Continue activities towards introduction of best international standards on insurance regulation and supervision, namely the new principles developed by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors, improve the current supervision approaches, and in particular continue further efforts towards the phase by phase introduction of the Solvency 2 framework. 
 Evaluate the “Unified System of Securities Registries Maintenance and Settlement” of the Central Depository of Armenia in accordance with the principles established by the Bank for International Settlements, in order to increase the effectiveness in risk management and functionality of securities settlement systems in the Republic of Armenia and align these systems with internationally recognized standards.
 Evaluate the current changes resulting from the assessment of the EPS of the Central Bank and based on the recommendations for the risk management system for the single purpose to establish compliance of the system operation with the principles indicated by the Bank for International Settlements, which will help the system minimize the emergence of risks and will increase the effectiveness of its performance.

3. Expected outcome and policy action

Monetary policy 

The Central Bank of Armenia (the CBA) is a legal entity empowered with state functions. The primary goal of the CBA is price stability, pursuant to the Constitution of Armenia, Article 83.3 and  Law on Central Bank of Armenia, Article 4. Since January 1, 2006, the CBA has been exercising an inflation targeting strategy which lays down that the forecast level of inflation is an intermediate goal and the interest is an operational goal.
The CBA coordinates the primary goal with the Government of Armenia, as stipulated by the Armenian Law on State Budget, and approved by the National Assembly of Armenia. The CBA itself decides on the strategy of monetary policy it implements, as well as intermediate and operational target indicators that are contained in the monetary policy program and subject to presentation to the National Assembly. The program outlines the main directions of the monetary policy and the monetary instruments which the CBA uses in order to fulfill its objectives. The CBA also conducts a foreign exchange policy.

Starting from January 2006 Central bank of Armenia within the scope of the Law on Central Bank of Armenian officially adopted new framework of inflation management` moving to the strategy of inflation targeting.

The rationale for the adoption of inflation targeting strategy by the Central Bank of Armenia