[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Francis M. Drake

Francis Marion Drake (December 30, 1830 – November 20, 1903) was an American merchant, lawyer, banker and politician.  He fought in the American Civil War and later became the 16th Governor of Iowa.  He is the namesake of Drake University.

Early life
Drake was born in Rushville, Illinois, the son of John Adams Drake and Harriet Jane O'Neal.  He later moved to Centerville, Iowa.  He received a good business education, and became a merchant.

Career

During the California Gold Rush, he led two expeditions across the plains from Iowa to California.  The first one left in 1852.  During that trip with ox teams, he and just 7 other teamsters encountered a band of 300 Pawnee on the plains of Nebraska and he succeeded in blunting their attack with little loss-reportedly after personally slaying the Pawnee leader with a knife, demoralizing the remaining Indians, who broke contact. The second trip in 1854 escorted a herd of cattle. Returning by ship after the second trip, he was wrecked off of Point Arguello.  Eight hundred passengers were killed, but Drake assisted in rescuing 200 passengers.

Civil War
After Fort Sumter, Drake obtained a Captain's commission and operated with a mounted Iowa border regiment patrolling northern Missouri and clearing out small bands of rebels. His leadership was quickly recognized and for a while he was placed in charge of a Federal depot at Hannibal Missouri. After Lincoln's July 1862 call for 300,000 more volunteers to serve for 3 years or until the end of the war, Drake was commissioned as lieutenant colonel in August 1862 of a regiment that was designated the 36th Iowa Volunteer Infantry Regiment. The 36th  was mustered into United States service on October 4, 1862 at Camp Lincoln, Keokuk, Iowa. The 36th departed Keokuk for Helena Arkansas in mid-November 1862. At Helena the regiment was assigned to the 13th Division of the XIII Army Corps and it was on garrison duty there until February 24, 1863, when the 13th Division was ordered by Grant to conduct a raid through the Yazoo Pass into the inland waterways of the Mississippi Delta to attempt to locate a northern approach to assault Vicksburg.  Here Drake saw his first combat action as Executive Officer of the 36th, which was almost constantly under artillery fire from the rebel guns at Fort Pemberton, at the confluence of the Tallahatchie and Yazoo Rivers, and during which the 36th Iowa conducted two hazardous long-range reconnaissance-in-force operations to try to locate a dry land route that would enable them to flank the rebel fort, which had been reinforced with large naval cannon. The regiment suffered 5 wounded from enemy snipers and some half-dozen others died of fevers and were buried at Shell Mound, Mississippi adjacent to the Curtis Plantation on the banks of the Tallahatchie River. Shell Mound, an ancient Native American ceremonial mound, was some 1.5 miles north of the enemy fort located at a sharp bend in the river, three miles west of Greenwood, Mississippi. Lieutenant-Colonel Drake was nearly killed while leading the first reconnaissance operation when a large caliber enemy artillery shell that struck a large tree immediately in front of him and exploded. Despite efforts by Union gunboats to reduce Fort Pemberton, and with reinforcements sent by Grant, the Union forces abandoned the effort in April, and the 13th Division returned to Helena, arriving there on April 8.