[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Islamic Relief Organization

Burundi, Guinea Bissau, Guinea Conakry, Cameroon, Sudan, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Somalia, Togo, Gambia, Ghana Kenya, Mali, Egypt, Mauritania and Nigeria. 
European Countries: Germany, Switzerland, Albania, Bulgaria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosova and Macedonia.
South American Countries: Brazil.

Controversy

Southeast Asia
In the wake of the 9/11 destruction of the World Trade Centre twin towers, it was alleged that one of Osama bin-Laden's brothers-in-law (Mohammed Jamal Khalifa who was subsequently murdered in Madagascar in 2007) utilised the IIRO Philippines and Indonesian Branches to work with terrorist organizations in the Philippines, Indonesia and elsewhere. Khalifa came to the Philippines in 1987 or 1988 as the first head of the Philippine branch of IIRO. He was also the IIRO's Southeast Asia regional director. 
According to researcher Zachary Abuza, Khalifa established several charities and Islamic organizations in the Philippines ostensibly for charity and religious work but which channeled money to extremist groups. 
According to the Philippines National Security Advisor, Roilo Golez, Khalifa "built up the good will of the community through charity and then turned segments of the population into agents."

Amongst other organizations, Khalifa established the "International Relations and Information Center", which served as the "primary funding mechanism" for the "Bojinka plan" of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and Ramzi Yousef  to assassinate Pope John Paul II and blow up eleven American jetliners (killing some 4000 passengers and bringing air travel to a standstill) in early 1995. (The plan was aborted after a chemical fire drew the Philippine National Police's (PNP) attention on January 6–7, 1995.) A Philippines intelligence report claimed that while the IIRO "claims to be a relief institution" it "is being utilized by foreign extremists as a pipeline through which funding for the local extremists" travels. A defector from the Abu Sayyaf terror group told authorities, "the IIRO was behind the construction of mosques, school buildings and other livelihood projects", but only "in areas penetrated, highly influenced and controlled by the Abu Sayyaf." According to the defector, "only 10 to 30% of the foreign funding goes to the legitimate relief and livelihood projects and the rest go to terrorist operations." According to Abuza, while Philippine government claimed to have shut down all the charities run by Khalifa to finance Abu Sayyaf, a senior Philippine intelligence official complained to him that, "we could not touch the IIRO." The IIRO stayed open until it was taken over by another Islamic charity, the Islamic Wisdom Worldwide Mission in 1995. According to Abuza, "intense diplomatic pressure" from Saudi Arabia kept the charity open. "Their most important source of leverage was the visas and jobs for several hundred thousand Filipino guest workers."

On August 3, 2006, the U.S. Treasury Department designated the Philippines and Indonesian branch offices of IIRO as terrorist entities. Consequently, in August 2006 the  United Nations Security Council listed IIRO's branch offices in Indonesia and the Philippines as belonging to or associated with al-Qaeda  – and then after a petition had been made to the UN Ombudsperson, delisted them in 2014. Subsequently, the Philippines and Indonesian branch offices of IIRO were delisted by the US Treasury Department on the 16 August 2016.

At the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United States, Steven Emerson, identified IIRO as a major radical Islamic institution, in part, "responsible for fueling Islamic militancy around the world", and, Rohan Gunaratna, Institute for Defense and Strategic Studies, Singapore, stated, "... Mohammed Jamal Khalifa is the brother-in-law of Osama bin Laden. He arrived in the Philippines in 1988 and he became the founding director of the International Islamic Relief Organization of Saudi Arabia. He used the IIRO to funnel al Qaeda funds to the Abu Sayyaf group and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front."

As well as being designated by the US Treasury in 2006, the Philippines and Indonesian branches of IIRO were also included in the UN list maintained by United Nations Security Council Committee 1267 – which subsequently delisted them in 2014. The Philippines and Indonesian branch offices of IIRO were also delisted by the US Treasury Department on the 16 August 2016.

Neither the Philippines nor the Indonesian branch offices of IIRO have ever been prosecuted by the Philippines or Indonesian authorities.