[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kentucky Declaration of Neutrality

preventive action, Kentucky's economy still faced many damages after the American Civil War ended. Kentucky was forced to deal with the aftermath and pay for the damages of the thirteen battles that occurred within its borders during the American Civil War, putting the state under financial turmoil.

Impact of the Declaration 
The impact of this decision was seen throughout the remainder of the war. Kentucky's land was often occupied by camps and troops from both the Union and the Confederacy, with control constantly fluctuating between the two sides. Many of Kentucky's residents began to develop their own opinions about the decision of neutrality. Some were in favor of remaining neutral in the war, while others opposed it, pushing in favor of the Union as well as the Confederacy. Notably, many Confederate sympathizers strongly advocated for neutrality, fearing that if Kentucky did choose a side, it would choose the Union.

Family homes were divided as a result of the decision, deriving the phrase "brother against brother". The state of Kentucky experienced a great deal of conflict within its own borders during the American Civil War. As the war raged on, Northern and Eastern Kentucky grew further from the ideology of slavery being a necessity in everyday life. While, as the residents from Western and Southern Kentucky, strongly sided with the Confederacy as they relied heavily on slave labor. In total, around 100,000 Kentuckians left to fight for Union Armies, while only 25,000-40,000 served Confederate troops. This only furthered the divide amongst Kentucky residents, as soldiers from both sides began to return home towards the end of the Civil War. The effects of this divide can still be seen in Kentucky's current political climate, with Northern cities such as Louisville and Lexington leaning strongly Democratic, while most other cities in the state leaning Republican.

See also 
Kentucky in the Civil War
History of Kentucky

References 

 Johnston, Col. J. Stoddard. Kentucky in Confederate Military History, Vol. 9, ed. Thomas Yoseloff.  New York:  Thomas Yoseloff, 1962.  22–23.
 

American Civil War documents
Kentucky in the American Civil War
1861 in Kentucky
1861 documents
Non-interventionism