[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Avishay Braverman

ion sponsored by the Deichmann Family of Germany, to develop the university's social outreach with Jewish and Bedouin residents of Beer Sheva and the region, together with the Spitzer Department of Social Work. In addition, the Mandel Center for Leadership in the Negev was established in Beer Sheva.

Braverman enlisted extensive support from both private and governmental sources, to include in particular a fund to promote excellence in research named after Howard and Lotti Marcus worth approximately $450 million; and a grant from the German government for the Jacob Blaustein Institutes for Desert Research in Sde Boker; initiating the establishment of an hi-tech park in an area adjacent to the university, as well as attracting the communications giant, Deutsche Telekom, to establish its first research facility outside of Germany at BGU. During his tenure, BGU engaged in various cooperative projects around the world and particularly in the Middle East, with Morocco, Egypt, Jordan, the Palestinian Authority and the Gaza Strip, and UNESCO endorsed the BGU-initiated International Program for Arid Land Crops - the first such recognition of Israeli expertise by a UN organization. He also raised significant funds for the construction of the Beer-Sheva North/University train station and thé Mexico Bridge, connecting the university and the Advanced Technologies Park with central Israel. At the end of his tenure, there were approximately 18,000 students studying at the university, including 400 students from the Bedouin community in the Negev.

Between 1991 and 2005, he served as Chair of the Committee of University Heads (CUH) three times, was a member of the Public Committee for Election of Bank Directors (1993), served as Chairman of the Jerusalem Literary Award Committee (2003), Chairman of the Reserve Reform Committee appointed by the Minister of Defence (2005) ) and external director of Mackhteshim-Agan (now "Adama"), Israel Corporation, IDB Development and Dead Sea Works.

The Water Sector Report

In 1991, the World Bank initiated a series of studies to assess water needs in countries surrounding the Jordan Basin. The Israeli part of the research was entrusted to Prof. Avishay Braverman. The study involved various Israeli entities including the Israel Water Planning Authority, the Ministry of Defense and leading water experts in Israel and was managed by Nehemiah Hassid. The study's conclusions were submitted to the World Bank in August 1994 and recommended the development of seawater desalination and wastewater purification technology, in order to meet the water needs of Israel and the West Bank territories in accordance with the expected population growth. To date, this report has almost been fully implemented. It has also served water planners and those negotiating with the Kingdom of Jordan and the Palestinians.

Political career

In January 2006, Braverman joined the Labor Party and was elected as a member to the 17th Knesset. He served as a member of the Finance and Economic Affairs Committee and as Chairman of the Lobby for Retirees, and from July 23, 2008, until the end of the 17th Knesset term, served as Chairman of the Knesset's Finance Committee. Under his leadership, the committee approved the "Savers security net" as an appendage to dealing with the erosion in retirees’ savings and caring for Israeli pensioners.

Following elections for the 18th Knesset, Braverman was appointed Minister for Minority Affairs in the 32nd government. In this role, Braverman highlighted the promotion of economic initiatives and economic development amongst the minority populations in Israel. In 2010, he initiated and submitted for government approval a multi-annual plan totaling 800 million NIS, the purpose of which was to promote economic initiative, infrastructure and development in Arab communities. Braverman promoted a program for allocation of 305 million NIS to Arab students and the granting of 1,600 scholarships to outstanding Bedouin students, invested in the promotion of research laboratories in Arab communities and assisted in establishing a national research and development center for the Druze population in Israel. Braverman also sought to include 40% of the Israeli minority population in the national priority map.

On January 17, 2011, he resigned as minister following the resignation of Ehud Barak from the Labor Party and the party's resignation from the coalition.