[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Health (film)

didn't return my phone calls for seven weeks. That's just basic rudeness. I don't think he knows what a movie is anyway."  Moreover, he said of the studio's distribution unit: "Norman Levy and the rest are scum. [...] They're not interested in movies. They're interested in ski lifts and Coca-Cola."

Amid this situation, Altman began to distribute HealtH on his own by taking it to the film festival circuit.  The comedy was screened at the Montreal World Film Festival in August 1980, and later appeared at Telluride and Venice.  Of the response at those venues, the director said: "It has a love-hate reaction—but what's wrong with that?"

By September 1980, the festival exposure prompted 20th Century-Fox to hold over a month of preview screenings at the UA Theater in Westwood, Los Angeles; a nationwide release was also considered.  Despite even worse acclaim this time, Altman remarked that this run "did respectable business, considering that there was no advertising. But it's finished, dead, buried."  Ultimately, HealtH would be Altman's last film for Fox; his experiences would later convince him to skip major distribution for Come Back to the Five and Dime, Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean.

On March 7, 1981, a 16 mm print of HealtH was shown at the facilities of Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois.  The film also received a screening in Baltimore, Maryland, on March 28.  On April 7, 1982, it received its official cinema opening at the Film Forum 1 in New York City.

The film was released in at least two European markets: in Germany under the title Der Gesundheitskongress, and in the United Kingdom, where prints ran a few minutes longer than the original U.S. cut.

HealtH aired on the Philadelphia-based PRISM pay-TV service in February 1981, and also on the national U.S. outlet The Movie Channel that same year.  The film was also broadcast on the CBS network in August 1983.  As of 2010, a widescreen version has been shown on basic cable's Fox Movie Channel. 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment has not released the film on VHS, DVD or Blu-Ray.

Reception
On the day of the film's Los Angeles opening on September 12, 1980, a review from Charles Champlin of the Los Angeles Times described the film as "essentially a revue sketch, giving the boys and girls of the chorus a chance to dress up funny and mill about. All a revue sketch needs is a thin premise, a point of view and an exit line. But having only one out of three won't make it for a movie." He concluded, "If indeed Altman weren't so original and so talented, an indulgent mess like HealtH would merely be another unsuccessful film in a bad year. It is instead mournful and exasperating in about equal measure."

At the time of the Film Forum premiere, The New York Times' Vincent Canby wrote: "HealtH is, I suppose, a mess, but it is a glorious one in the recognizable manner of a major film maker who sometimes gets carried away—by his subject, by his own enthusiasms and those of his actors, and by the collaborative creative process he loves. As do so many of his films, HealtH gives one the feeling of being on a nonstop party with the people who made it."  He added that it "is no masterpiece, but it is one of the most appealing entertainments that Mr. Altman has ever put together".  In a later article, he declared: "HealtH deserves to be seen by anyone interested in the career of this most eccentric and unpredictable of contemporary American film directors."

Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune called it "a pretty bad movie" and "anemic. Altman sets himself up as superior to his insipid characters, laughs at them, and invites us to do likewise. That's not much of an achievement." Leonard Maltin gave HealtH two stars out of four in his Movie Guide, and added: "Non-Altman fans may love this more than devotees; Woodard steals the film—no easy feat considering that incredible cast—as [the] hotel's ultra-patient manager."  Halliwell's Film Guide referred to it as a "zany satirical all-star romp on the lines of A Wedding but by no means as likeable or laughable, considering its cast, as it should be".  The Film Bulletin called it a "misfired satire", and commented that its "major stars [...] are otherwise wasted".

In a 1985 book on Altman, Gerard Plecki called HealtH "a humorous companion piece to Nashville", adding that it "was certainly a major improvement over his two previous films". In regards to the studio shelving the film, Plecki remarked that it "certainly deserved mass marketing and a large promotion campaign".

On June 12, 1982, U.S. President Ronald Reagan screened the film at Camp David during stormy weather. In his diaries that day, he called it "the world's worst movie". On the other hand, director Martin Scorsese named it one of the "85 Films You Need to See to Know Anything about Film".