[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Energy in Bulgaria

Energy in Bulgaria is among the most important sectors of the national economy and encompasses energy and electricity production, consumption and transportation in Bulgaria. The national energy policy is implemented by the National Assembly and the Government of Bulgaria, conducted by the Ministry of Energy and regulated by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The state-owned company Bulgarian Energy Holding owns subsidiaries operating in different energy sectors, including electricity: Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant, Maritsa Iztok 2 Thermal Power Plant, NEK EAD and Elektroenergien sistemen operator (ESO); natural gas: Bulgargaz and Bulgartransgaz; coal mining: Maritsa Iztok Mines. The state holds a 100% stake in the holding company. In Bulgaria, energy prices for households are state-controlled, while commercial electricity prices are determined by the market. 

Total energy production was 10.832 million tonnes of oil equivalent in 2020, of which 23.3% was produced from renewable sources. Energy dependence on foreign imports as of 2020 was at 37.9%, lower than the European Union average of 57.5%. 

Bulgaria’s power sector is diverse and well developed, with universal access to the grid and numerous cross-border connections in neighbouring countries. Although almost totally dependent of imported crude oil and natural gas, Bulgaria has an energy surplus and is a net exporter of electricity. Total electricity production in 2022 has reached 49.4 TWh, while demand was 37.8 TWh. Per capita production as of 2022 was 7,458 kWh, the highest in Southeastern Europe. The main sources of electricity generation were fossil fuels (52%) and nuclear power (33%). Bulgaria has a national target of at least 27.09% renewable by 2030.

Energy sources

Fossil fuels

Natural gas

Bulgaria is believed to have extensive natural gas resources but, due to a successful campaign against hydraulic fracturing on land, only Black Sea exploration is permitted, such as at the Galata gas field. On 8 July 2023, the petrochemical companies OMV and Total announced that after a study of natural gas deposits in the Bulgarian exclusive economic zone in the Black Sea, it was estimated that up to 13 billion cubic meters of natural gas could potentially be extracted. As of 2022, domestic production of natural gas remains insignificant, at 17 million cubic meters. The main consumers are the energy and the chemical sectors, which combined account for 54% of the consumption. 

Bulgaria consumes about 3 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas. The Gas Interconnector Greece-Bulgaria natural gas pipeline became operational in 2022, and Bulgaria receives about 1 bcm a year from Azerbaijan.
The country imported over 90% of its natural gas from Russia via the Turk Stream pipeline under a 10-year contract, which expired at the end of 2022. Due to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, on 16 March 2020 Bulgaria's deputy prime minister Asen Vasilev announced that the country would not hold talks to renew the contract. In April 2022, it was announced that Russia will suspend sending gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland, due to their refusal to pay in roubles. In response to this, Bulgaria shifted to imports of liquefied natural gas.

Oil 
Most oil products are consumed by transport. Lukoil Neftohim Burgas, the biggest oil refinery on the Balkans, refines the predominant amount of the crude oil that eventually reaches the Bulgarian market as refined petroleum. The refinery is owned by the Russian multinational energy corporation Lukoil. 

Bulgaria received an exemption from the EU to continue importing oil from Russia, by ship, until December 2024. Part of the terms of the exemption, was that from January 2023 Lukoil will pay taxes in Bulgaria, which it had until 2022 avoided, by paying profits to Switzerland and The Netherlands, Bulgaria believes it will receive €350m in taxes per year.

In October 2023 Bulgaria noted Lukoil had found interest from potential buyers for the refinery and that the current 60% tax on revenue would fall to 15% for a new owner, with Russian oil ceasing to be processed after 1 October 2024.