[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Single-ended primary-inductor converter

of resonance with inductor L2, and by this time the current in inductor L1 could be quite large.

The capacitor CIN has no effect on the ideal circuit's analysis, but is required in actual regulator circuits to reduce the effects of parasitic inductance and internal resistance of the power supply. 

The boost/buck capabilities of the SEPIC are possible because of capacitor C1 and inductor L2.  Inductor L1 and switch S1 create a standard boost converter, which generates a voltage (VS1) that is higher than VIN, whose magnitude is determined by the duty cycle of the switch S1. Since the average voltage across C1 is VIN, the output voltage (VO) is VS1 - VIN. If VS1 is less than double VIN, then the output voltage will be less than the input voltage. If VS1 is greater than double VIN, then the output voltage will be greater than the input voltage.

Discontinuous mode 
A SEPIC is said to be in discontinuous-conduction mode or discontinuous mode if the current through either of inductors L1 or L2 is allowed to fall to zero during an operating cycle.

Reliability and efficiency 
The voltage drop and switching time of diode D1 is critical to a SEPIC's reliability and efficiency. The diode's switching time needs to be extremely fast in order to not generate high voltage spikes across the inductors, which could cause damage to components. Fast conventional diodes or Schottky diodes may be used.

The resistances in the inductors and the capacitors can also have large effects on the converter efficiency and output ripple. Inductors with lower series resistance allow less energy to be dissipated as heat, resulting in greater efficiency (a larger portion of the input power being transferred to the load). Capacitors with low equivalent series resistance (ESR) should also be used for C1 and C2 to minimize ripple and prevent heat build-up, especially in C1 where the current is changing direction frequently.

Disadvantages 
 Like the buck–boost converter, the SEPIC has a pulsating output current. The similar Ćuk converter does not have this disadvantage, but it can only have negative output polarity, unless the isolated Ćuk converter is used.
 Since the SEPIC converter transfers all its energy via the series capacitor, a capacitor with high capacitance and current handling capability is required.
 The fourth-order nature of the converter also makes the SEPIC converter difficult to control, making it only suitable for very slow varying applications.

See also
Switched-mode power supply (SMPS)
DC to DC converter
Buck converter
Boost converter
Buck-boost converter
Flyback converter
Ćuk converter

References

 Maniktala, Sanjaya. Switching Power Supply Design & Optimization, McGraw-Hill, New York 2005
 SEPIC Equations and Component Ratings, Maxim Integrated Products. Appnote 1051, 2005.
 TM SEPIC converter in PFC Pre-Regulator, STMicroelectronics. Application Note AN2435. This application note presents the basic equation of the SEPIC converter, in addition to a practical design example.
 High Frequency Power Converters, Intersil Corporation. Application Note AN9208, April 1994. This application note covers various power converter architectures, including the various conduction modes of SEPIC converters.

DC-to-DC converters
Voltage regulation