[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iris Martinez

statement that was highly critical of Martinez.

In November 2022, Martinez announced that the office of the clerk of courts had been relieved of federal oversight of its hiring and employment practices. The office had been under this oversight since August 2018 during the tenure of her predecessor.

Since assuming the office of Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Martinez has come under fire for her office's hiring practices and use of political patronage. In March 2022, WBEZ reported that Martinez's office hired a former City of Evanston human resources director who was facing disciplinary review for “mishandling of sexual misconduct complaints from teenage girls and young women who worked at the city’s beaches” and was found to be "primarily at fault for Evanston’s yearlong delay in looking into the “pervasive” harassment and abuse suffered by lifeguards and other beach workers." 

In December 2022, the Chicago Tribune reported that 23 employees of the Clerk of the Circuit Court of Cook County's office hired by Iris Martinez performed political work for the 33rd Ward aldermanic campaign of Samie Martinez, a political protégé of Martinez, raising concerns about machine influence on the race. 

In March 2022, Martinez hosted Chicago Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) Lodge 7 president John Catanzara, a vocal supporter of former president Donald Trump, at a fundraiser for her ward political organization. Martinez also accepted  $7,000 in campaign contributions from Catanzara's FOP Lodge 7. Later that year, she endorsed Erin Jones, a Northwest Side GOP Club committeeman and supporter of Donald Trump's effort to overturn the 2020 election, in a Democratic party primary for State Senate as part of a slate of candidates backed by both Martinez and the FOP.  Martinez's support from and for MAGA Republican figures running in Democratic primaries drew sharp criticism from local progressive organizations. In June 2022, the FOP slate suffered "landslide" losses in the Democratic primaries, and Martinez lost her Democratic Party State Central Committee seat to Delia Ramirez.

In January 2023, the Chicago Sun-Times reported that "more than 50 employees of Cook County Clerk of Court Iris Martinez" were under investigation for allegedly defrauding the federal Paycheck Protection Program loan program "intended to help small businesses struggling during the COVID-19 pandemic." By April, "dozens" of these employees had been fired or otherwise resigned.

In May 2023, WBEZ reported that the Clerk's office under Martinez had been erroneously putting felonies on the records of people who had successfully completed diversion programs for a period of at least 3 years, resulting in losses of housing, employment, and education opportunities for victims of the mistakes. After first being contacted by WBEZ, Martinez's office accepted responsibility for the issue and claimed to have already corrected it, but when notified of examples of erroneous felony records still existing the office deflected blame onto Cook County Chief Judge Timothy C. Evans.

Democratic Party leadership roles
Martinez was elected to the Democratic Party of Illinois State Central Committee in 2002, and to the Cook County Democratic Party Committee in 2020. In 2022, she lost her seat on the Democratic Party State Committee to Delia Ramirez.

Electoral history

State Senate
2002

2004

2008

2012

2016

2018

Clerk of the Cook County Circuit Court
2020

References

External links
Iris Y. Martinez official Cook County Government page

1956 births
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
Clerks of the Circuit Court of Cook County
Democratic Party Illinois state senators
Hispanic and Latino American state legislators in Illinois
Hispanic and Latino American women in politics
Living people
Northeastern Illinois University alumni
University of Illinois Chicago alumni
Women state legislators in Illinois