[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hanoch Teller

ith inspiring stories about Gedolim and other Jewish heroes. Following the publication of his 2015 non-fiction book Heroic Children: Untold Stories of the Unconquerable, he was invited to speak on the Holocaust and stories of child survivors to both Jewish and non-Jewish groups in the United States.

Teller is a senior docent at Yad Vashem, licensed to lead tours in its new Holocaust Memorial Museum. His tours combine his knowledge of the events and lessons of the Holocaust with stories describing the experiences of individual victims. He has produced an eleven-part CD lecture series on this subject, titled Comprehending the Incomprehensible: The History, Heroism and Lessons of the Holocaust.

Producer
In 1996 Teller produced a docudrama exploring miracles in everyday life (Do You Believe in Miracles?) which was seen by over 70,000 people in Jewish community centers, synagogues, and other venues around the globe. In March 2012 he released a documentary about the Hasidic master Elimelech of Lizhensk and the Hasidic legacy of brotherhood, which includes musical performances by Jewish music personalities Abish Brodt and Avraham Fried.

Bibliography

Books
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (2 vols.)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Heroic Children: Untold Stories of the Unconquerable. New York City Publishing Co. 2015.

Selected chapters
 "Pencil It In" and "Caution: Jewish Minds at Work" in Jewish Stories from Heaven and Earth: Inspiring tales to nourish the heart and soul, Rabbi Dov Peretz Elkins, ed. Jewish Lights Publishing, 2008, pp. 87–91, 153–155. .

Audio tapes and CDs
 The Righteous Live On: Rabbi Shlomo Zalman Auerbach (2-tape set)
 The Righteous Live On: Frau Sarah Schenirer and how the Mirrer Yeshiva escaped to Shanghai (2 tapes)
 The Righteous Live On: Rabbi Aharon Kotler (2 tapes)
 The Righteous Live On: Appease process (2 tapes)
 The Righteous Live On: Breaking open the potential vault
 The Righteous Live On: We're too small a people, to be a small people
 The Righteous Live On: Remembering the Chofetz Chaim
 
 Building Bene Brak: The vision, foundation and luminaries of a celebrated Torah community
 Comprehending the Incomprehensible: The history, heroism and lessons of the Holocaust, 11-CD album, 2007

DVDs
 Do You Believe in Miracles?: True stories celebrating Divine Providence, 1996
 Reb Elimelech and the Chassidic Legacy of Brotherhood, 2012

References

External links 
 Hanoch Teller Official Site
 Video lectures by Hanoch Teller
 
 "Mitzvah Crackers" by Hanoch Teller
 "The Man Who Missed the Boat" by Hanoch Teller

Jewish American writers
Haredi rabbis in Israel
American Haredi rabbis
Israeli people of Austrian-Jewish descent
Rabbis from Vienna
1956 births
Living people
20th-century American rabbis
21st-century American rabbis