[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chemicals Convention

may protect the identity in accordance with Article 1.

Responsibility of exporting States 
Articles 19 to 27 deal with the responsibilities for States exporting hazardous chemicals and the responsibilities for control. They also address the validity of this Convention and the scope of application.

Article 19 
When an exporting member State prohibits the use of certain or all hazardous chemicals for reasons of safety and health at work, the fact and the reasons for it shall be communicated to all importing countries.

Article 20 
The ratifications of this convention must be communicated to the Director-General of the International Labour Office for registration.

Article 21 
This convention shall be binding only upon members whose ratifications have been registered with the Director-General.
It enters into force twelve months after the date on which the ratifications have been registered with the Director-General of the first two members.
Thereafter, the convention shall enter into force for each additional member twelve months after the date of its ratification.

Article 22 
A ratified member may denounce ten years after the entry into force of the convention by an act addressed to the Director-General. The denunciation shall take effect one year after the date of registration.
Any ratified member which does not exercise the right of denunciation within the said ten-year period may denounce only after the expiration of a further ten years under the mentioned conditions.

Article 23 
The Director-General shall note all ratifications and denunciations by all notified members.
When notifying members of the second ratification, the Director General shall indicate the date on which the convention shall enter into force.

Article 24 
The Director-General of the ILO shall transmit to the Secretary-General of the UN for registration under Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations the particulars of all ratifications and denunciations.

Article 25 
The Governing Body of the ILO shall, at such times as it may determine, submit a report on the implementation of this convention and shall consider the need for its revision.

Article 26 
If the conference adopts a new convention which revises this convention, ratification of the new convention shall, without prejudice to Article 22, result in the immediate denunciation of this convention.
On the date on which the new convention enters into force, this convention shall cease to be in force.
This convention shall in any case remain in force in its present form for those members which have ratified it but have not ratified the revision convention.

Article 27 
The English and French versions of the text of this Convention are equally authoritative.

Ratifications
As of January 2023, the convention has been ratified by 23 states.

References

External links 
Text.
Ratifications.

International Labour Organization conventions
Health treaties
Treaties entered into force in 1993
Treaties concluded in 1990
Chemical safety
Treaties of Brazil
Treaties of Burkina Faso
Treaties of the People's Republic of China
Treaties of Colombia
Treaties of Cyprus
Treaties of Finland
Treaties of Germany
Treaties of Italy
Treaties of South Korea
Treaties of Lebanon
Treaties of Luxembourg
Treaties of Mexico
Treaties of Norway
Treaties of Poland
Treaties of Syria
Treaties of Sweden
Treaties of Tanzania
Treaties of Zimbabwe
Treaties of the Dominican Republic
1990 in labor relations