[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Second Civil War

rters to continue focusing on the faces of the refugees for ratings. Governors from other states send in their own National Guard units to aid one side or the other, resulting in even worsening nationwide polarization, which comes to a head when Mexican-American pro-immigrant rioters bomb the Alamo.

After losing the support of Representatives from Alabama for not providing them money for Hindu temples despite India's atomic bombing of Pakistan, the President attempts to rely on Chinese-Americans, a core constituency, only to find out that they are siding with Farley due to the White House previously announcing a deal with the Chinese-American community's rivals, the Nation of Islam, and its leader, Congressman Nkomo, to gain Black-controlled electoral votes. The President attempts to shore up his numbers by making appeals to Korean-Americans instead, but finds that there simply are not enough Korean-American votes. As the President prepares to grant visas to two million Koreans to increase the Korean-American vote share, he is informed by the Joint Chiefs that anti-immigrant terrorists have retaliated the Alamo bombing by destroying the Statue of Liberty, claiming that "we do not want your huddled masses anymore". Upon seeing their own reporting of the destroyed monument, already exhausted NewsNet employees begin to argue about their roles in stoking conflict and eventually start to physically fight.

Eventually, Governor Farley's girlfriend convinces him to back down from the conflict and resign, but it is too late to avoid conflict. US Army soldiers see news coverage of the destroyed Statue of Liberty and mutiny, causing them to be court-martialed on the spot. As they await the firing squad, one of the soldiers implores his executioners to "go ahead and kill America", claiming that there's "nothing left" of the American nation, and that the country is now merely run by "politicians and executives who hire people in places we don't live". This speech and the execution are caught on live television by NewsNet, causing more mutinies. The President orders the Joint Chiefs to suppress these mutinies, but all armored divisions nearby are unable to respond, as the manufacture of replacement parts had been outsourced to Taiwan, which had previously embargoed these parts due to an argument between the President and the Taiwanese Prime Minister.

As the situation continues to deteriorate, the decision is made by one side (left unclear) to attack, resulting in a major battle between the US Army and Idaho National Guard. The President makes the decision to invade Idaho, beginning the Second American Civil War. At the movie's close, news reports indicate that hostilities have ceased, but that the immigration system remains unchanged.

Cast
 Beau Bridges as Gov. Jim Farley
 Joanna Cassidy as Helena Newman
 Phil Hartman as The President
 James Earl Jones as Jim Kalla
 James Coburn as Jack Buchan
 Dan Hedaya as Mel Burgess
 Elizabeth Peña as Christina
 Denis Leary as Vinnie Franko
 Ron Perlman as Alan Manieski
 William Schallert as Secretary of Defense
 Kevin McCarthy as Chief of Staff
 Catherine Lloyd Burns as Amelia Sims
 Kevin Dunn as Jimmy Cannon
 Shelley Malil as Congressman Singh
 Larry "Flash" Jenkins as Kenya Nkomo
 Dick Miller as Eddie O'Neill
 Brian Keith as Maj. Gen. Charles Buford
 Richard Gross as Militia Leader
 Roger Corman as Sandy Collins
 Hank Stratton as Blaine Gorman
 Alexandra Wilson as Caroline Dawes
 Johnny Luckett as Captain
 Jerry Hardin as Col. McNally
 Dave Georgi as Major
 Dana Lee as Chinese Colonel
 Stogie Kenyatta Firing Squad Officer
 Sean Lawlor as Brendan
 Leah Gale as White House Reporter
 Dwight D. Eisenhower as Himself (archive footage)
 Ronald Reagan as Himself - At Statue of Liberty Re-dedication (archive footage)
 Nancy Reagan as Herself - At Statue of Liberty Re-dedication (archive footage)
 John Wesley as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
 Ben Masters as Matthew Langford
 Rance Howard as Arnold Tooney Jr
 Robert Picardo as Godfrey
 Jim Lau as Chinese Congressman
 Nathaniel Goodman as Christina's Cameraman
 Jodi Verdu as NewsNet Technician #1
 Jamison Yang as NewsNet Technician #2
 Paul Guyot as NewsNet Technician #3
 Terry Knight as Boise Reporter
 Anthony Lee as Steven Kingsley
 Eve Brenner as Elderly Militia Woman
 Scott Atkinson as Young Militia Man
 Christine Jane Newman as Militia Child
 Darryl Van Leer as Mohammed Amin
 Sonny Skyhawk as Indian

Release
The film was shown in theaters in Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands and France in 1997 and 1998, before being released to home video. In Australia, the film was released directly to video in April / May 1998.

The DVD was released in 2005.

Beau Bridges won the 1997 Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or a Special.

References

External links