[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Willie Tonga

he 2013 NRL season making four appearances as Parramatta finished last for a second consecutive year.

Tonga later re-signed with Parramatta until the end of the 2015 NRL season.  In the 2014 NRL season, Tonga played 16 games as Parramatta narrowly missed the finals under new head coach Brad Arthur.

Reni Maitua
In late 2013 it was revealed that Tonga's best friend Reni Maitua had been suffering from severe depression. In mid 2013, Maitua suffered a breakdown after a game in Brisbane, and days later attempted suicide. Tonga was awake at 1:00am when he received a call from Maitua's sister, who had received a text message which scared her greatly. Tonga chose to drive to Maitua's unit, and found Maitua attempting to take his own life. Tonga believes that had he even arrived 10 seconds later, Maitua would not have survived. Tonga and Maitua told their story on the NRL Footy Show in June 2014 as an attempt to help remove the stigma around mental illness in league.

2015–2017: Super League career
On 9 July 2014, it was confirmed that Tonga had signed a contract to play for the Super League club the Catalans Dragons in 2015.

He made his Super League début in round 1 against the 2014 Champions, St. Helens. He scored his first ever Super League try against the Warrington Wolves in round 3.

References

External links
2017 Leigh Centurions profile
2016 Leigh Centurions profile
State of Origin Official website Rugby League Player Stats

1983 births
Living people
Australia national rugby league team players
Australian sportspeople of Tongan descent
Australian rugby league players
Bradford Bulls players
Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs players
Catalans Dragons players
Indigenous All Stars players
Indigenous Australian rugby league players
Leigh Leopards players
North Queensland Cowboys players
Parramatta Eels players
People educated at Matraville Sports High School
Prime Minister's XIII players
Queensland Rugby League State of Origin players
Rugby league centres
Rugby league players from Canberra
Wiradjuri people