[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ara Darzi, Baron Darzi of Denham

new development strategies based on inclusiveness and collective action" and to create "an opportunity for the Armenian world to pivot toward a future of prosperity, to transform the post-Soviet Armenian Republic into a vibrant, modern, secure, peaceful and progressive homeland for a global nation."

In November 2019, after the US House of Representatives recognized the Armenian genocide, Darzi wrote in The Guardian that he "remain[s] dismayed by the British government’s refusal to acknowledge the slaughter of an estimated 1.5 million Armenians in a wave of violence that followed the fall of the Ottoman empire." He added that it is "a source of intense pain and regret to me and my compatriots that our own government persists in denying the genocide out of fear of offending Turkey."

Global health and innovation
After July 2009, Lord Darzi returned to his clinical and academic work and has expanded his involvement in global health issues. In June 2010 he was appointed Chairman of the Institute for Global Health Innovation at Imperial College, a body dedicated to improving healthcare around the world and reducing health inequalities in developed and developing countries.

In November 2010, under David Cameron, Darzi became a United Kingdom Global Ambassador for Health and Life Sciences; a role he continued until 2012. In 2012 the Institute of Global Health Innovation (IGHI) hosted the inaugural Global Health Policy Summit in London, during the London 2012 Olympic Games. This event brought together global healthcare leaders, academics and industry to debate key topics on global health and included a keynote address by Prime Minister David Cameron.

In September 2013, Darzi was appointed by the Mayor of London Boris Johnson to lead a review of health and wellbeing and services in London. The London Health Commission which reported in October 2014 proposed the toughest measures seen in the UK to tackle the "obesity emergency" that leaves one in three 10-year-olds overweight or obese, including Ofsted-style ratings highlighting the best and worst schools at promoting healthy eating, and requiring chain restaurants to include "traffic light" calorie warnings on menus. He called for the Mayor to rewrite the London Plan to give borough councils greater protecting in banning takeaways from within 400m of the school gates.

Also in 2013, he hosted the World Innovation Summit for Health in Doha, Qatar, under the patronage of Mozah bint Nasser Al Missned and the Qatar Foundation. More than one thousand delegates attended from industry, academia and the healthcare sector and politicians, as well as royal figures including Aung San Suu Kyi of Burma, The Duke of York, Princess Lalla Salma of Morocco, HRH Princess Ghida Talal of Jordan and Princess Dina Mired of Jordan.

He has also run training courses for doctors in Armenia and helped Armenian doctors come to London for clinical training. He has also performed several laparoscopic surgeries in Yerevan, and supplied hospitals in Armenia with equipment and surgical kits.

Other activities
Darzi, along with Amal Clooney, was involved in the release of two Reuters journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, from Myanmar on 7 May 2019.

In 2021, Darzi commissioned a COVID-19 vaccine promotion ad for the NHS, with his friends Elton John and Michael Caine.

Corporate boards
 Evelo Biosciences, Member of the Board of Directors (since 2018) 
 AbbVie, Member of the Advisory Board

Non-profit organizations
 Africa Research Excellence Fund (AREF), Member of the Advisory Panel (since 2015)
 Aurora Prize, Member of the Selection Committee (since 2015)
 Duke Institute for Health Innovation (DIHI), Member of the Global Advisory Board
 Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC), Member
MIT Jameel Clinic, member of the advisory board
 Rangoon General Hospital Reinvigoration Charitable Trust, Member of the Board of Trustees
 Qatar Foundation, Member of the Advisory Board
 Sidra Medical and Research Center, Vice Chair of the Board of Governors

Awards and honours
In 2002, Darzi was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) for his services to medicine and surgery and subsequently was created a Life Peer on 12 July 2007, as Baron Darzi of Denham, of Gerrards Cross in the County of Buckinghamshire. He was appointed to Her Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council in June 2009. Darzi was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 2013.

He was awarded Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence - Minimally Invasive Surgical Technology in 2004 by Hamdan Medical Award.

In January 2014, Darzi was awarded the Qatari sash of Independence by the Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani in recognition of his contribution to the development of Qatar's health sector. Darzi was named by the Health Service Journal as the 38th most influential person in the English NHS in 2015.

In the 2016 New Year Honours, he was appointed to the Order of Merit, for services to medicine.