[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mildred Brown

eighborhood from 1938 to her death in 1989 from a cold.  Her niece Dr. Marguerita Washington continued to publish the newspaper until her own death in 2016.  In 2019, the assets of the newspaper were purchased by the Mildred D. Brown Memorial Study Center, which continues to run the newspaper today.

Honors
Brown was the first African American and one of only three women inducted into the Omaha Business Hall of Fame.
In the 1960s President Johnson commended Brown for her balanced coverage of civil rights efforts and riots, and appointed her as a goodwill ambassador to travel to East Germany.
The National Newspaper Publishers Association, with 200 member owners of black newspapers, one year recognized the Omaha Star as having the "Best Church Page".
In 2007 the Omaha Star Building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places because of the newspaper's significance in the history of Omaha, journalism, and the civil rights movement.
In 2007 Mildred Brown was posthumously inducted into the Nebraska Journalism Hall of Fame.<ref>"Park Named in Honor of 'Omaha (Neb.) Star' Founder", Editor & Publisher, 16 May 2008, accessed 28 Aug</ref>
May 2008 – Mildred Brown was posthumously inducted into the first class of the Omaha Press Club Journalists of Excellence Hall of Fame.
The Mildred Brown Memorial Strolling Park was dedicated in her honor in May 2008 next to the Omaha Star building.
Her niece, the late Dr. Marguerita Washington, who became the owner and publisher of the weekly paper in 1989, founded the non-profit Mildred D. Brown Memorial Study Center in 2007 to provide scholarships for journalism students to explore communication fields.

See also

Civil Rights Movement in Omaha, Nebraska
History of North Omaha, Nebraska

References

 Further reading 
 Forss, Amy Helene. Black Print with a White Carnation: Mildred Brown and the Omaha Star Newspaper, 1938–1989.'' University of Nebraska Press, 2013.

External links
  at Nebraska State Historical Society finding aid
 "Three Nebraska Women", NETCHE website
 "Mildred Brown: Omaha Star Founder", Nebraska Studies
 Mildred D. Brown Memorial Study Center
 

American newspaper editors
American newspaper publishers (people)
1905 births
1989 deaths
Businesspeople from Omaha, Nebraska
Activists for African-American civil rights
Newspaper people from Omaha, Nebraska
African-American life in Omaha, Nebraska
People from Bessemer, Alabama
Journalists from Alabama
Activists from Alabama
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American journalists