[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Plasan SandCat

o upgrade parts or all of the protection as new technologies emerge, plus the ability to swap out specific panels to reconfigure a vehicle. An example here might be replacing a solid roof panel for one with a hatch and/or the ability to mount a weapon station. Firing ports for the crew are standard.

A key differentiator between the fourth and all previous SandCat generations is the latest generation's option of a monocoque body. This variant, the Mine-resistant Light Patrol Vehicle (M-LPV) is the first SandCat engineered as a fully structural monocoque. It retains the Ford F550 automotives but the ladder frame chassis is no longer required, the engine/gearbox utilising a sub-frame assembly that bolts to the monocoque. The key benefit of the monocoque design is a greater level of underbody blast protection without increasing the height, center of gravity, or weight of comparably configured base vehicles. A stated advantage of the monocoque is that a custom wheelbase can be selected without the associated engineering challenges of shortening any chassis.

Internally on both variants ballistic protection is augmented by spall lines, while underbody blast protection is augmented by a floating floor, proprietary foot pads and Plasan's own blast attenuating seats. The interior has two-zone air-conditioning as standard, and can be fitted with an NBC filtration system if required. Additional external protection options available for both versions of the fourth-generation SandCat include radiator, front wings, and critical engine components. A selection of internal and/or external manual or automatic fire suppression systems can be fitted to provide protection in areas such as the engine compartment, crew compartment, wheel arches, fuel tank and so on. At a lower level, mesh screens are available for all lighting and glazing.

Given the wide variety of variants and configurations available the options list for the SandCat is extensive. Equipment and fittings options can include: a GPS system, rifle holders, trailer tow hitch, weapon station (manual or remote), run-flat inserts, electric self-recovery winch, front-axle air-actuated differential lock, external searchlight, public address system, siren, roof-mounted flashing lights, external cameras, a non-slip coating on certain external surfaces, 24 V electrical circuit, blackout lighting, bull bars, and assault ladders to allow the dismounts access to the upper floor of buildings or similar.

The SandCat is reported to have excellent handling and acceleration for an armored vehicle.

Gallery

Users
Plasan has stated that approximately 700 SandCats have been produced since 2004, and while never releasing complete details, these are known to be in service with at least 16 users across five continents:

 
 
 
 
 
  22
 
  350
 
 
 
 
 
 
  50
  5
  4

References

External links
 official website
  SandCat Generation 4 (factual not promo style interview with designer
 Plasan - an overview. Informative not advertorial.

Armoured cars of Israel
All-wheel-drive vehicles
Military trucks
Off-road vehicles
Oshkosh vehicles