[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lev Tahor

judge in Guatemala ruled that six children who had fled would be allowed to remain in Guatemala, provided that they check in with the Canadian Embassy within three days. This requirement was later overturned on appeal on 26 March, allowing the group to stay without conditions for up to three months.

On 2 April 2014, seven Lev Tahor members were arrested in a raid performed by Canadian border security. Three of those members were ordered to be deported to their native Israel, but were given the option to appeal and apply for a stay during the appeal process. On 27 April, the young mother was re-united with her baby in foster care. Ten days later, four other children were re-united with their parents.

Kidnapping case
In December 2018, U.S. authorities charged Nachman Helbrans (age 39), and Mayer Rosner (age 45) with kidnapping two grandchildren of Shlomo Helbrans, whose mother had fled the community after she was ostracized for objecting to her 13-year-old daughter being married to an older man. An FBI agent stated in a court document that two children, a 14-year-old girl and a 12-year-old boy, were kidnapped from Woodridge, New York, and transported to Scranton, Pennsylvania. They were then flown to Mexico City, in the charge of Lev Tahor members. Helbrans and Rosner were convicted on 10 November 2021 on the charges of conspiring to transport a minor with intent to engage in criminal sexual activity, conspiring to travel with intent to engage in illicit sexual conduct and international parental kidnapping. On 31 March 2022  Nachman Helbrans, 40, and Mayer Rosner, 46, were sentenced to 12 years in prison for child sexual exploitation and kidnapping.

Documentaries
Lev Tahor has been investigated in a number of documentaries:
 Israeli programme True Face ran a two-episode series on Lev Tahor in November 2012.
 Global News ran a documentary on Lev Tahor in February 2014 as part of 16×9.
 The Fifth Estate covered Lev Tahor in an hour-long program.
 Mishpacha magazine ran a 15-page cover story on Lev Tahor.
 Ami magazine ran a 32-page cover story on Lev Tahor in its Passover 2014 edition.
 Foreign Policy ran an eight-page story about Lev Tahor in its January/February 2016 issue.
 Channel 2 in Israel ran a documentary on Lev Tahor in October 2016.
 Mendy Levy, a former child member of the group, released his own self-made documentary online in November 2021, documenting his experience in Lev Tahor. This was followed by a 2022 follow-up documentary by his elder brother Yoel Levy.

See also
 Haredi burqa sect

References

External links
The Times of Israel: Lev Tahor
A survivor's story, 2021

Haredi Judaism
Haredi anti-Zionism
Ashkenazi Jews topics
Jews and Judaism in Guatemala
Jewish anti-Zionism in Canada
Jewish communities in Mexico
Jewish religious movements
New religious movements
Child sexual abuse scandals in Judaism
Jewish cults