[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gerald Guterman

Gerald Guterman is an international real estate developer and investor.  He is one of the largest multi-family apartment owner/operators (78,000+- apartments) and condominium converters in the United States, converting through 2017, 16,028 rental apartments to cooperative and condominium ownership throughout the United States. He also served as Operations Adviser to the Minister of Privatization, Government of Romania; Chairman, Committee on Romanian Banking & Finance Operations, United States Center for Strategic and International Studies, Washington, DC;
Co-Chairman, Committee for Romanian Enterprise Development and Operations, United States Center for Strategic and International Studies, Washington, DC; Operations Advisor to the Interior Minister, Government of Austria; Operations and Financial Advisor to the President, Government of Romania.
  He is currently the chairman and CEO of Guterman Partners, LLC.

Gerald Guterman was born on June 13, 1942. He began a career in real estate at the age of 18 as a night porter for Fred Trump, father of famed developer  Donald Trump.  The Brooklyn-born son of a beverage wholesaler, Guterman amassed a fortune with over 18,600 rental apartments purchased for his own account as well as an additional 16,028 apartments which he purchased and  converted to condominium and co-ops in sixteen states and separately, operated more than 60,000 rental apartments in fourteen states for unaffiliated, third-party owners. Guterman also purchased, rehabilitated and resold 605 single family houses in 7 states and purchased and operated more than 3,250,000 net rentable square feet of office properties in eight states, as well as large-scale housing and commercial developments throughout the United States, Europe and the Middle East.

Beginning in the 1980s, he became one of the largest owner/operators and property managers in the United States, owning and operating over 18,600 rental apartments in 55 residential communities for his own long term interests, together with an additional 16,000 apartments which he purchased and operated for condominium and cooperative conversion in 21 residential communities in sixteen states. He also operated more than 60,000 apartments in over 250 third party owned rental communities nationwide.

Guterman's companies were also the original builder/developer of Roosevelt Island's residential housing as well as the developer of Harris Branch, the 1808 acre planned unit development in Austin, Texas and several developments in Europe and the Middle East.

Additionally and in order to enhance is firm's construction capabilities, Guterman acquired two nationwide construction companies known as the Titan Group, Ltd and Sovereign Construction Co. Ltd. Historical projects include:

 New York's Roosevelt Island Development and Housing, New York, New York.
 United States Gold Depository, Fort Knox, Kentucky,
 United States Military Academy, West Point, New York
 Cleveland Hopkins Airport, Cleveland, Ohio,

Beginning in the 1990s through 2016, Guterman planned, organized and directly negotiated the acquisition of the largest single, direct purchase of office properties (Patriot American Investors) in the history of The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, hereafter known as Mack-Cali Real Estate Investment Trust as well as thirty-one multiple tenant office buildings containing more than 3,250,000 net rentable square feet of office space located in Eight States

Additionally, during the same period in the 1990s, Guterman also directly negotiated and completed the purchase of the original hotel properties together known as the “Patriot American Hospitality Portfolio” from The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Thereafter known as Wyndham Hotels and Resorts.

Through 2016, Guterman has also acquired 14 luxury hotels containing approximately 2,366 keys, located in New York, New Orleans, London, Europe and the Middle East, as well the purchasing the only magnetic monorail system in the United States.

Guterman continues to develop condominium housing, with recent communities in Chicago, Illinois;  Fort Myers, Florida;   Fort Pierce, Florida;  Naples, Florida;  Ocean Springs, Mississippi;  Biloxi, Mississippi;  St. Paul, Minnesota and Phoenix, Arizona and Houston, Texas

A bar mitzvah aboard the QE2