[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 173]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ntries
I have visited, my eyes have never seen a more martial race than I have
this day beheld assembled; nor can I doubt that their sentiments
correspond to their appearance; all, therefore, that can be effected by
patience, activity, and dauntless courage, will be achieved by your
countrymen in defence of their liberty; but war, unfortunately, is a
trade where long experience frequently confers advantages which no
intrepidity can balance. The troops which are now approaching have been
for years inured to the practice of slaughter; they join to a courage
which defies every danger, a knowledge of every fraud and subtility
which can confound or baffle an adversary. In bodily strength, in
numbers, your countrymen are superior; even in courage, and the contempt
of danger, they are probably not inferior to their enemies; but such are
the fatal effects of military skill and discipline, that I dread the
event of a combat with such an army and such a leader.'

"'Alas!' answered Sophron, 'how well do the mature reflections of your
wisdom accord with my presaging fears! I know that my countrymen will
perform everything that can be effected by men in their situation, and
that thousands will generously sacrifice their lives rather than abandon
the cause they have undertaken to defend; yet, when I consider the
superior advantage of our enemies, my fears are no less active than your
own. This consolation, however, remains, that I shall either see my
country victorious, or avoid the miseries which will attend her ruin.'

"'Hear me, then,' replied Chares. 'The virtues of your friends, my own
obligations to yourself, and the desire I feel to oppose the career of
mad ambition, conspire to wrest from me a dreadful secret, which I have
hitherto buried in my own bosom, and had determined to conceal from the
knowledge of mankind. I have already told you that much of my life has
been dedicated to the acquisition of knowledge, and the investigation of
the laws of nature. Not contented with viewing the appearance of things
as they strike our senses, I have endeavoured to penetrate into the
deeper recesses of nature, and to discover those secrets which are
concealed from the greater part of mankind. For this purpose I have
tried innumerable experiments concerning the manner in which bodies act
upon each other; I have submitted the plants, the stones, the minerals,
which surround us, to the violence of all-consuming fires; I have
examined their structure, and the different principles which compose
them, with the patient labour and perseverance of a long life. In the
course of these inquiries I have made many curious and important
discoveries, but one above the rest, which I will now impart under the
promise of eternal and inviolable secrecy. Know, then, that I have found
out an easy and expeditious combination of common materials, the effect
of which is equal or superior to the most potent and destructive agents
in nature. Neither the proudest city can maintain its walls, nor the
strongest castle its bulwarks, against the irresistible attacks of this
extraordinary composition. Increase but the quantity, and the very rocks
and mountains will be torn asunder with a violence that equals that of
earthquakes. Whole armies, proud of their triumphs, may be in an instant
scattered and destroyed like the summer's dust before the whirlwind;
and, what increases the prodigy, a single man may securely give death to
thousands. This composition I have hitherto concealed, in pity to the
miseries of mankind; but since there appears no other method of
preserving the virtuous inhabitants of these mountains from slavery and
ruin, I am determined to employ it in their defence. Give orders,
therefore, that a certain number of your countrymen provide me with the
ingredients that I shall indicate, and expect the amplest success from
your own valour, assisted by such powerful auxiliaries.'

"Sophron said everything to Chares which such an unexpected mark of
confidence deserved, and instantly received his orders, and prepared to
execute them with the greatest alacrity. Chares, meanwhile, was
indefatigable in the execution of his project; and it was not long
before he had prepared a sufficient quantity to provide for the common
defence.

"Tigranes now approached with the rage and confidence of a lion that
invades a flock of domestic animals. He had long forgotten all the ties
which attach men to the place of their birth; and neither time nor
distance had been able to extinguish the hatred he had conceived to
Sophron. Scarcely did he deign to send an ambassador before his army;
he, however, despatched one with an imperious message, requiring all the
inhabitants of Lebanon to submit to his victorious arms, or threatening
them with the worst extremities of war.

"When the ambassador returned, and reported the fixed determination of
Sophron and his countrymen, he was inflamed with rage,