[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Socialist Youth (Chile)

The Socialist Youth of Chile (, JS / La Jota Ese) is the youth wing of the Socialist Party of Chile. It was founded on November 4th, 1935, and it incorporates young socialism activists between the ages of 14 and 30. The JS has political representation at the local and national level and its members have played a prominent role in the student organizations in Chile. According to the last internal elections, the youth wing of the socialist party currently has 8500 members.

Historical review

Foundation of the Socialist Youth Federation

On November 4, 1935, two years after the founding of the Socialist Party of Chile, what would become the Socialist Youth of Chile, better known as JS, was born. In those days, the PS maintained support groups organized as a party brigade, whose mission was to strengthen mass work on the different fronts. The Socialist Women's Group, AMS, revolutionaries for women's liberation, the University Brigades and the Socialist Militias stood out especially, for their relentless work in the fight against Chilean fascism. In those years, the PS managed to structure the Socialist Youth Federation, FJS, whose symbol (a closed fist in the heart of a red star) reflected the revolutionary spirit of a youth that would confront the enemies of the people without hesitation. The young socialists distinguished themselves by their combativeness and were the first to confront the troops of national Nazism in the street, managing to stop their advance. In this struggle he left his life Manuel Bastias in Concepción and the young writer Héctor Barreto, first martyrs of Chilean socialism.

Shortly thereafter, the young socialists stand out for their political capacity and their imponderable contributions to the development of the PS. It is the young socialists who raise the revolutionary profile of the popular movement during the multi-class government of Pedro Aguirre Cerda (Frente Popular, 1938). Young people are constantly imprinting their revolutionary and combative stamp on the line of the PS, this is how after the XI Ordinary General Congress of the party, the young socialists consolidate their Latin Americanism by joining the Union of Revolutionary Youth of Latin America. Subsequently, it will be one of its most notable leaders, the young Raúl Ampuero, who will take charge of the General Secretary of the PS, standing out for his classist and revolutionary leadership. Also at that time, the former socialist militiaman, member of the youth Salvador Allende Gossens, had already begun to assume responsibilities of national relevance.

For this period, the JS has already consolidated its insertion in universities, towns and unions, distinguishing itself everywhere for its rupture with the bourgeois structures of domination and fighting for demands that integrate youth in a society that insists on marginalizing them; The right to education for all, school fees, student immunity, labor improvements, all become slogans that the system must quickly satisfy under the pressure exerted by youth mobilization.

At the beginning of the 1960s, young socialists were the first to rescue for Chile the lessons of the recent Cuban Revolution, the first in Latin America. The Young Socialists, motivated by their anti-imperialist rebellion, highlight the need for an insurrectional uprising against the fundamental enemies: Imperialism and the national bourgeoisie. They are the first to rise up and take to the streets to demonstrate that the Cuban path should serve as a guide for us. The JS, of course, was articulated for the formation of the Popular Unity, which would lead the socialist Salvador Allende to the presidency of Chile in 1970.

Unidad Popular 
In the 70s, after a turbulent period of class struggle in the last decade, the popular vanguard already had a solid Youth Movement, which gave it its greatest combative character and where the JS played an important leading role. Furthermore, the JS manages to form brigades in several universities, where at that time a young woman Michelle Bachelet is remembered who approached the Socialist Youth influenced by the university leader Ennio Vivaldi, and by a young deputy and general secretary of the JS Carlos Lorca, both of whom were leaders of the University of Chile.