[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Nikolay Alexeyev

ticle 11), the right to effective legal remedy (Article 13) and the ban on discrimination (Article 14). The court decided that Russia has to pay to the applicant almost 30,000 euros in compensation. The case marked the first ever international defeat of Russian Government on the issue of gay rights.

As of January 2011, Nikolay Alexeyev had one complaint pending at the UN Human Rights Committee concerning the ban of a picket in front of the Iranian Embassy on 19 July 2008 in Moscow. The action was a symbolic protest asking for Iran authorities to stop killing homosexual people. In his complaint Nikolay Alexeyev suggested that by banning the event Russian authorities breached Article 21 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights which guarantees the right to freedom of assembly to everyone. The case was initiated at the UN on 26 March 2009. It is the first time that a case concerning an LGBT topic is sent against Russia to this institution. In April 2009 the UN Human Rights Committee gave Russian authorities 6 months to express their position on the case which was done. As of November 2010, the Committee has yet to take a decision on the admissibility and merits of the case.

Politics
Nikolay Alexeyev has never been a member of any political parties or movements, trying not to associate LGBT movement with any political forces in Russia. Nevertheless, on 26 May 2007, during the press conference of second Moscow Pride, he announced his intention to put his candidature forward during the forthcoming parliamentary elections in December 2007. He finally never did it.

In August 2010 Nikolay Alexeyev and his fellow activists for the first time supported Strategy 31 demonstrations in Moscow which were initiated in support of Article 31 of the Russian Constitution, which guarantees the right to freedom of assembly. At the same time he stressed that gay activists planned to take part in civil protest, not in political demonstration.

Domodedovo Airport arrest
On 15 September 2010 Nikolay Alexeyev was arrested at Domodedovo Airport in Moscow as he was boarding a Swiss Air Lines flight to Geneva. The ostensible reason for the arrest was not clear. Over the subsequent days, the Interfax Belarus news agency reported receiving text messages from him declaring he was seeking political asylum in Belarus and was abandoning his lawsuits regarding the suppression of Moscow Pride. However, LGBT rights activists raised doubts, saying the messages were out of character and wondering, if he had his cell phone, why he had not telephoned his partner or LGBT activists in Minsk. Finally, Nikolay Alexeyev resurfaced in Moscow, contacting Moscow LGBT activists as well as German MP Volker Beck by phone, telling them he was never in Minsk and had not abandoned the lawsuits.

The arrest sparked complaints internationally, including by British MEP Sarah Ludford; a protest was held in front of the Russian Embassy in Berlin, and activists in the US were urged to telephone the Russian Embassy.

Incidents of antisemitism
In August 2013, Alexeyev drew criticism for a series of antisemitic comments posted on his personal Twitter and Facebook. Alexeyev first re-tweeted comments describing Advocate magazine editor Matthew Breen as a "Jewish pig" and an "Israeli monkey", referring to OUT Magazine as a "Jewish slut magazine that supports Jews and their filthy faggotry [sic] propaganda." He then tweeted and posted on Facebook several of his own comments about Jewish vodka being distilled and purified from sperm. Following these comments, Human Rights First cancelled a conference call with Alexeyev. Alexeyev was also criticized by Galha LGBT Humanists. In response to the controversy, he subsequently tweeted and posted on Facebook a large number of comments criticizing the "Jewish mafia", "yids" and "kikes" who he claimed were "trying to overtake the world" and criticised Peter Tatchell's "Love Russia, Hate Homophobia" campaign, suggesting it should be changed to "Love Jews. Hate yids (kikes)!" Although it was originally believed that his Facebook account may have been compromised or hacked following an alleged kidnapping and drugging from Putin's security forces, later comments by Alexseyev proved otherwise, as when confronted with the accusation that he was being antisemitic, he "continued his defense for over three minutes, detailing that he has Jewish friends, and adding that his mother's stepmother was Jewish, and people he works with are Jewish" which, TheNewCivilRightsMovement.com continued to state, "is an unfortunate line of defense as the irony is clear. Who hasn't heard as a defense of bigotry, "Some of my best friends are (insert oppressed minority name here)"?"