[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Albert Hoffmann (Nazi)

ed for lack of evidence. He was then tried by a German denazification tribunal at Benefeld-Bomlitz and received a prison sentence of 4 years and 9 months in December 1948. He only served part of his sentence, in consideration of time served and was pardoned by the Minister President of Lower Saxony.

Later life and family
After his release from prison at Esterwegen in April 1950, Hoffmann earned considerable assets as an entrepreneur in Bremen until his death in Heiligenrode on 26 August 1972. Hoffmann was married, and his son Bolko Hoffmann is likewise a successful entrepreneur and the founder of the Pro DM Party, a right-wing, conservative fringe party in Germany whose main policy is to campaign for the reintroduction of the Deutsche Mark.

SS ranks

References

Sources 
Blank, Ralf: Albert Hoffmann, in: Westfälische Lebensbilder 17, Münster 2005 [= Veröffentlichungen der Historischen Kommission für Westfalen XXVII A, 17].
Blank, Ralf: Albert Hoffmann als Reichsverteidigungskommissar im Gau Westfalen-Süd, 1943-1945. Eine biografische Skizze, in: Beiträge zur Geschichte des Nationalsozialismus 17 (2001), S. 189-210.
Blank, Ralf: "... der Volksempörung nicht zu entziehen". Gauleiter Albert Hoffmann und der "Fliegerbefehl", in: Märkisches Jahrbuch 98 (1998), S. 255-296.

External links
Online-Biography of Albert Hoffmann (in German)
Detailed Biography by Ralf Blank (in German)

1907 births
1972 deaths
German Army personnel of World War II
Gauleiters
German prisoners of war in World War II held by the United Kingdom
Holocaust perpetrators in Germany
Holocaust perpetrators in Poland
Members of the Prussian State Council (Nazi Germany)
Members of the Reichstag of Nazi Germany
Nazi propagandists
Military personnel from Bremen (city)
People indicted for war crimes
Prisoners and detainees of Germany
Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia
Recipients of the Iron Cross (1939), 2nd class
Recipients of the War Merit Cross
SS-Gruppenführer
Volkssturm personnel
Witnesses to the International Military Tribunal in Nuremberg