[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# California mule deer

their surrounding areas.

Diet and behavior
California Mule deer are herbivorous and often browse for food within a 1-2 mile radius of a water source (including rivers and lakes) which creates a feeding area that is often located in or around shaded grassy areas upon which they will make their beds.

They will participate in a behavior where they create beds to sleep on. These beds are roughly 2 meters in diameter and often appear as flatted grassy areas. However frequently used and re-used beds may appear significantly more level and decomposed compared to their surrounding environment. This behavior is often observed among bucks during the later fall season as temperatures drop. They will choose a sunny spot, remove any rocks or branches, and take a nap. These beds are often located on grasses or dry leaves under a tree or a rock, or on flattened areas of snow if there is nothing else available.

Mule deer are often opportunistic and will consume a large variety of vegetation mainly consisting of whatever is available and easily digestible including stalks, flowers, fruits, seeds of grasses, forbs, buds, seeds (particularly acorns), stems, leaves, the bark of trees, shrubs, fungi, lichens, algae, mosses, and ferns. Because of their opportunistic nature, they will adjust their diet in accordance to what is available given various factors including snow and fire. In summer, California mule deer mainly browse on leaves of small trees, shrubs, and herbaceous plants, but also consume many types of berries (including blackberry, huckleberry, salal, and thimbleberry).  In winter, they may expand their forage to conifers (particularly twigs of Douglas fir), aspen, willow, dogwood, juniper, and sage. Year-round, they feed on acorns; grasses are a secondary food source.  Where humans have encroached on historic deer habitat by suburban development or orchards, California mule deer diversify their diet with garden plant material, tree fruit, and occasionally, pet food.

Fawns and does tend to browse together in familial groupings, while bucks tend to travel singly or with other bucks.  California mule deer browse most actively near dawn and dusk, but also forage at night in open agricultural areas or when experiencing hunting pressure.

Mule deer will often form family groups made up of 2 or more generations of females and their fawns. Grown bucks leave these groups and will occasionally form groups with other adult bucks but are more often observed living solitarily. Females will spend their summers isolated in fawning areas after their young have sufficiently grown, where they will remain until the breeding season begins again in the fall.

Breeding
Mule deer have been classified as occasionally polygamous and occasionally polygynous. The average lifespan of the California Mule Deer is a robust twenty-two years, making it one of the longer-lived deer species.The males have sometimes been observed wandering extensively, seeking out females, and occasionally does will seek out a dominant buck who will tend to them until breeding. In either system, larger bucks with large antlers tend to be the most dominant individuals in a community. Rutting season occurs in autumn starting as early as September and lasting occasionally until March. During this time, the does will come into estrus for a period lasting only several days. Males exhibit aggressive behavior in competing for mates. Does begin estrus again if they do not become pregnant in a process that will be repeated up to 5 times with intervals of 22–29 days between estrous periods. The gestation period for these deer is about 200 days, culminating in the birth of fawns during the spring season.

Reproductively, mothers usually give birth to one to two fawns per season. Notably, first-time mothers or those in their 2nd year of birthing tend to have singleton births, contributing to an average litter size of approximately 1.5.

After birth in the spring, the young fawns are highly dependent on their mothers, staying close to them throughout the summer months. They gradually become more independent as they are weaned in the autumn, usually at the age of about six months. The familial structure during this period is typically a mother-and-fawn unit, while mature bucks generally keep to themselves or form small bachelor groups. Since young fawns are more susceptible to predators like mountain lions, bobcats, and coyotes, does care for the fawns by teaching them how to forage and avoid dangers, key survival skills that they will carry into their adulthood.

The buck's antlers fall off in the winter, and commence growing once more in spring in anticipation of next autumn's rut.