[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Evelyn Barker

end of World War II in Europe, Montgomery appointed Barker to head the Schleswig-Holstein Corps District of the British occupation zone. Barker was knighted as a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire on 5 July 1945. During the entire campaign, Barker was twice mentioned in despatches.

Postwar
On 31 December 1945, Barker was made an Honorary Colonel of the Duke of York's Own Loyal Suffolk Hussars. He held this position until 1 September 1950. He was also made colonel commandant of the KRRC from 11 February 1946 to 10 February 1956. On 5 May 1946, his rank of lieutenant-general was made permanent.

British Mandate
Barker was dispatched to Palestine and appointed GOC of the British Forces in Palestine and Trans-Jordan. During his term of duty, he lived in Rehavia in the  Schocken Villa, one of the most upscale residences in Jerusalem.

Affair with Katie Antonius
Soon after arriving in Palestine, Barker became a frequenter of the Jerusalem high society gatherings in the mansion of Katie Antonius, who was the widow of George Antonius. The evening dances in the Karm al Mufti mansion, the Shepherd Hotel, were attended by diplomats, artists and British officers. Barker engaged in an affair with Katie.Barker's letters to his mistress contained passages that were overtly anti-Semitic. For example, he described his feelings towards the Jews in Palestine in an April 1947 letter: "Yes I loathe the lot – whether they be Zionists or not. Why should we be afraid of saying we hate them. Its time this damned race knew what we think of them – loathsome people".

Advocate of death penalty
Barker saw capital punishment as an effective deterrent and argued for a wide application of the death penalty to Zionist guerillas. That it had never been applied in the preceding years he considered among the major causes of the failure to suppress the insurgency. Barker said: "I am in favour of the death penalty for murder, political or otherwise. The one strict law we had was against carrying arms. And it's no good having a law like that if you don't enforce it. So if anyone was caught carrying arms, he was up before a court martial, he could state his case, but if he was found guilty that was it. And, subject to Alan Cunningham's [the High Commissioner of Palestine] final say, I would confirm the death sentence". Barker was strongly supported by Montgomery. On 18 June 1946, the Irgun, a group of Zionist militants, abducted five British officers, to be held as hostages for recently-condemned militants. Montgomery, now Chief of the Imperial Staff, travelled to Palestine and met with Barker. Montgomery recalled: "I said that General Barker, as the confirming authority for death sentences on Jews convicted by military tribunals, must not be deterred from his duty by threats of the murder of five British officers who had been kidnapped since my visit a few days earlier. This did a good deal to strengthen his resolve. Barker was suffering from a lack of support by the Government authorities; I promised him my full support in his difficult task".

Operation Agatha
In June 1946, Barker planned a large-scale police operation throughout the Yishuv. Having the long-awaited order to arrest the leaders of the Jewish Agency, which was now believed to be complicit in terrorism, Barker organised Operation Agatha. The operation began on 29 June, with tens of thousands of soldiers and policemen employed in a cordon-and-search action in almost every Jewish settlement. Over 2,700 Jews were detained, including leaders of the Jewish Agency. Dozens of weapon caches were found, including one in the Great Synagogue of Tel Aviv.

Ban on social interaction with Jews
On 22 July 1946, the King David Hotel in Jerusalem was bombed. The hotel housed Barker's office and the British headquarters for the Palestinian mandate. Barker was present but was not among the injured. Afterwards, Barker drafted an order that placed "out of bounds to all ranks all Jewish establishments, restaurants, shop, and private dwellings". The order forbade British soldiers in Palestine from having "social intercourse with any Jew" and noted, "I appreciate that these measures will inflict some hardship on the troops, yet I am certain that if my reasons are fully explained to them they will understand their propriety and will be punishing the Jews in a way the race dislikes as much as any, by striking at their pockets and showing our contempt of them."Barker later regretted issuing the order: "My office was in the middle of the building, overlooking the Old City. When I heard the explosion, I walked across the landing and I couldn't see anything, only dust. I was so angry when I found out what had happened that I went straight to my office and wrote an order to the troops, putting all Jewish establishments out of bounds. It was a rotten letter, written on the spur of the moment. I ought to have restrained myself for an hour or two before putting pen to paper."