[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Red Terror (Spain)

laged and closed, though some small Protestant churches were spared.
 The Bishop of Almeria was murdered while working on a history of Toledo. His card index file was destroyed.
 In Madrid, a nun was killed because she refused a proposition of marriage from a militiaman who helped storm her convent.

Aftermath
With the total victory of the Nationalists over the Republicans in 1939, the Red Terror ended in the country, but individual terror attacks continued sporadically by remnant Communists and Socialists. Throughout the country, the Catholic Church held Te Deums to thank God for the outcome. Numerous left-wing personalities were tried for the Red Terror, not all of whom were guilty. Franco's victory was followed by thousands of summary executions (the remains of 35,000 people are estimated by the Association for the Recovery of Historical Memory (ARMH) to lie in mass graves) and imprisonments, and many were put to forced labour, building railways, drying out swamps, digging canals (La Corchuela'', the Canal of the Bajo Guadalquivir), construction of the Valle de los Caídos monument, etc. The 1940 shooting of the president of the Catalan government, Lluís Companys, was one of the most notable cases of this early repression.

The new Pope Pius XII sent a radio message of congratulation to the Spanish government, clerics and people on April 16, 1939. He referred to the denunciation of his predecessor, Pope Pius XI, who had described past horrors and the need to defend and restore the rights of God and religion. The pope stated that the victims of terror died for Jesus Christ. He wished peace and prosperity upon the Spanish people and appealed to them to justly punish Republicans who were guilty of war crimes, but to also exercise leniency and generosity against the many others who were on the other side. He also asked for their full participation in society and entrusted them to the compassion of the Catholic Church in Spain.

In a break from his past service in the Spanish Republican Army and its Servicio de Información Militar (S.I.M.) secret police force, Scottish Communist Hamish Fraser converted to Catholicism following the Second World War and expressed support for the reintegration of Spain under Franco into the international community. In later years, Fraser compared both the Red Terror and the Stalinist witch hunts among the Spanish people and within the Spanish Republican Armed Forces, in which he had been a perpetrator, with what happened throughout Eastern Europe after it was assigned to Joseph Stalin at the Yalta Conference. 

In 2007, the Vatican beatified 498 priests killed by the Spanish Republican Army during the civil war. Relatives of Catholics who were killed by the Nationalists have requested similar recognition, criticizing the unequal treatment.

See also
 Spanish Civil War
 White Terror (Spain)
 Erich Mielke
 Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War
 233 Spanish Martyrs
 498 Spanish Martyrs
 Paracuellos massacre
 Republican repression in Madrid (1936-1939)
Political terror
Calles Law - Similar Anti-Catholic persecutions in Mexico

References

Notes

Bibliography
 .
 
 
  (cit Franzen 1988)
 (cit Franzen II 1991)
 
 
 
  (Papal history)
 
 .
 
 .
  (Papal history)
 .
 
 

Anti-Catholicism
Anti-Christian sentiment in Spain
Communist repression
Political repression in Spain
Politicides
Political and cultural purges
Politics of Spain
Persecution of Catholics
Spanish Civil War
Terrorism in Spain
War crimes of the Spanish Civil War
Soviet Union–Spain relations
Communist terrorism
Human rights abuses in Spain
Red Terror (Spain)