[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# George Latham (footballer)

George Latham MC & Bar (1 January 1881 – 9 July 1939) was a Welsh international footballer and coach. A veteran of the Second Boer War and World War I, he was awarded the Military Cross for his actions in Gaza, Palestine and Turkey between 1917 and 1918. He finished his military career at the rank of captain.

As a player, he played for Newtown, Cardiff City, Liverpool, Stoke and Southport Central, and played 10 times for Wales. He coached Cardiff City during its greatest period of success between 1911 and 1936. The team won the FA Cup in 1927, and only missed out on the League Championship by goal difference. He also coached Great Britain at the 1920 Summer Olympics.

Early life and military career
Latham was born in Newtown, Powys, in 1881. He was the fifth of six boys born to William Latham, a general labourer originally from Shrewsbury, and Esther Latham, a laundress from Birmingham. He attended New Road School as a youngster, playing for the school's football team, before training as a tailor in Market Street. At the age of 16, he joined his hometown side Newtown where he played as an inside forward. In his first season, the side reached the fourth round of the Welsh Cup before suffering defeat to Aberystwyth Town. In 1900, Latham volunteered to serve in South Africa during the Second Boer War as a private in the Fifth South Wales Borderers regiment. The battalion had a unit stationed in Newtown which prompted Latham to enlist. He served 14 months in the division, taking part in action at Brandfort and Potchefstroom among others, in a force led by Earl Roberts, and was eventually promoted to the rank of corporal.

Playing career
Latham began his career as a teenager at his hometown club Newtown in 1897 and spent several years at the club. During his time serving in South Africa, he played for a team named the Docks between the months of May and August, the winter league at the time in the country, finishing as runners-up in the league. He also played in a number of representative matches in the area, including an England vs Scotland match, appearing on the English side, and a Britain vs Colonials match.

Latham returned to his first club Newtown for a short spell in 1902 after returning from military service in South Africa,. His form at the time saw him offered a trial with Everton, during which time he was set to be named in a friendly match against West Bromwich Albion but the game was called off due to heavy snowfall in the area. A different friendly match was planned a fortnight later but by then Latham had decided to return to South Africa and he left the country on 22 March 1902. He spent his time there playing for Caledonians, again finishing as runner up in the league and losing the final of the Mayor's Cup to his former side Docks.

On his return to Britain, he joined Liverpool, but was forced to wait three years before he made his debut for the club in an 8–1 victory over Burslem Port Vale on 8 April 1905. He struggled to fully established himself in the team, making just 19 appearances in all competitions during a seven-year spell at the club. After leaving Anfield, Latham had spells with Southport, becoming the first player to win an international cap at the club. He joined Stoke in 1910 and played eight times for the club during the 1910–11 season.

Latham joined Cardiff City as a player-coach in February 1911 under manager Fred Stewart. In his first season, the club won the Welsh Cup by defeating Pontypridd 3–0 in a final replay. After the two sides had drawn the first leg, Bob Lawrie suffered an injury and was ruled out of the replay. Latham took his place for the victory but presented his winner's medal to Lawrie after the game. He appeared sporadically for the side in years preceding the First World War, usually filling in for injuries to the first team. He made 11 league appearances between 1912 and 1914, scoring once in a 6–0 win over Chesham on 1 April 1911.

During his career, Latham won 10 caps for Wales, making his debut on 6 March 1905 in a 3–1 win over Scotland. He was selected for the game after his Liverpool teammate Maurice Parry was recalled by the club to play in a league fixture against Bradford City, allowing Latham to step in. Nine of his ten caps came during his playing career, however his tenth and final cap came when he was forced into action in a 1–0 win over Ireland on 18 January 1913 while serving as a coach for the national team.