[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Badami cave temples

rone with reliefs showing people holding chauris (fans), a Pipal tree, elephants, and lions in an attacking pose. On one side of the statue is a chakra, on the other a conch shell. The statue wears abundant jewelry and a thread over its chest. The face of this statue is damaged and missing its face.

There are several theories as to who the statue represents. One theory holds that it is a relief of the Buddha in a sitting posture. This is supported by two chauri bearers who may be Bodhisattvas flanking the Buddha. According to George Michell, the halo, the Pipal tree, and cloak-like dress suggests that this was originally a Buddha statue. According to B.V. Shettiarchaeologist and curator of Prince of Wales Museum of Western India, the cave was not converted but from the start represented a tribute to Mayamoha of the Hindu Puranas, or Buddhavatara Vishnu (ninth avatar of Vishnu). This theory is supported by the chakra, conch and jewelry included in its iconography. The style suggests it was likely carved in or before the 8thcentury.

Another theory found in colonial-era texts such as one by John Murraya missionary in British India and Jainism scholar, states the main image carved in Cave5 is that of a Jaina figure. According to a third theory, by Henry Cousens and A.Sundaraarchaeologists, and supported by local legends, the statue is of an ancient king; in a photograph of the statue taken before its face was damaged, the figure lacked the Ushnisha lump that typically goes with Buddha's image. The statue has several unusual, non-Buddha ornaments such as rings for fingers, a necklace, and a chest-band; it wears a Hindu Yajnopavita thread and its head is stylistically closer to a Jina head than a Buddha's head. These features suggest the statue may be of a king represented with features of various traditions. According to Carol Radcliffe BolonAssistant Curator at the Smithsonian Freer Gallery of Art, the date and identity of the main statue in Cave5 remains enigmatic.

Close to the controversial cave are other monuments. One of them is a small shrine consisting of a 7th-century rock carving of Anantashayana Vishnu, or reclining Vishnu with Lakshmi and Garuda in namaste posture. Vishnu is shown restarting the cosmic cycle by giving birth to all of existence. Above the reclining carved relief are the ten avatars of Vishnu – Matsya, Kurma, Varaha, Narasimha, Vamana, Parashurama, Rama, Krishna, Buddha, and Kalki. Between the Narasimha and Vamana is shown relief of Brahma cord connected to Vishnu's navel. To the left of the relief is depicted the Trinity – Vishnu, Shiva, and Brahma, while to the right is a human couple and a mother cow with a calf feeding.

In 2013, Manjunath SullolliAssistant Director of Bagalkot district working for the state government of Karnataka, reported the discovery of another cave with 27 rock carvings, about  from the four main caves. Water gushes from this newly discovered cave year round. It depicts Vishnu and other Hindu deities, and features an inscription in the Devanagari script. The dating of these carvings is unknown.

See also 

 Aihole
 Badami Chalukya Architecture
 Indian rock-cut architecture
 Ellora Caves
 Kanheri Caves
 Kappe Arabhatta
 Karla Caves
 List of colossal sculptures in situ
 List of India cave temples
 Mahakuta group of temples
 Nellitheertha Cave Temple
 Pattadakal
 Pandavleni Caves
 Sirpur Group of Monuments
 Undavalli caves
 Varaha Cave Temple

References

Bibliography 

 

Dehejia, V. (1997). Indian Art. Phaidon: London. .
 

Harle, J.C., The Art and Architecture of the Indian Subcontinent, 2nd edn. 1994, Yale University Press Pelican History of Art,

External links 

 Article about Execution of the Paintings and their Sources, Donald Wilber (section on Badami cave temple paintings)
 Article about Paintings at Badami, Stella Kramrisch
 Compilation of photographs, videos and aerial images 
 Badami Cave Templesfour ancient rock cut temples|Wondermondo

6th-century Hindu temples
Architectural styles
Buddhist caves in India
Buddhist monasteries in India
Buddhist temples in Karnataka
Caves containing pictograms in India
Caves of Karnataka
Chalukya dynasty
Former populated places in India
Hindu cave temples in India
Hindu temples in Badami
Architecture in India
Indian rock-cut architecture
Jain temples in Karnataka
Monuments and memorials in Karnataka
Buddhist sites in Karnataka
7th-century Jain temples
Jain rock-cut architecture
Geography of Bagalkot district
Gupta art
Hindu cave temples in Karnataka
Jain caves in India