[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Dutch resistance

e occupying forces were generally under the command of Austrians who were keen to show that they were 'good Germans' by implementing anti-Semitic policy. The Dutch public transport organization and the police collaborated to a large extent in the transportation of the Jews.

Resistance organization 

As early as 15 May 1940, the day after the Dutch capitulation, the Communist Party of the Netherlands (CPN) held a meeting to organize their underground existence and resistance against the German occupiers. It was the first resistance organization in the country. As a result, some 2,000 communists were to lose their lives in torture rooms, concentration camps or by firing squad. On the same day Bernardus IJzerdraat distributed leaflets protesting against the German occupation and called on the public to resist the Germans. This was the first public act of resistance. IJzerdraat started to build an illegal resistance organization called De Geuzen, named after a group who rebelled against Spanish occupation in the 16th century.

A few months after the German invasion, a number of Revolutionary Socialist Worker's Party (RSAP) members including Henk Sneevliet formed the Marx–Lenin–Luxemburg Front. Its entire leadership was caught and executed in April 1942. The CPN and the RSAP were the only pre-war organizations that went underground and protested against the antisemitic action taken by the German occupiers.

According to CIA historian Stewart Bentley, there were four major resistance organizations in the country by the middle of 1944, independent of each other:

 National Organization for Helping People in Hiding (Landelijke Organisatie voor Hulp aan Onderduikers, LO); it became the most successful illegal organization in Europe, set up in 1942 by Helena Kuipers-Rietberg and Frits Slomp complete with its own illegal social services Nationaal Steun Fonds run by Walraven van Hall that paid a kind of dole on a regular basis throughout the war to all families in need, including relatives of sailors and hideaways. Of the 12,000 to 14,000 participants in the LO, 1,104 were killed or died in prison camps. 
 LKP ("Landelijke Knokploeg", or National Assault Group, literally translated "brawl crew" or "goon squad"), with about 750 members in the summer of 1944 conducting sabotage operations and occasional assassinations. The LKP provided many of the ration cards to the LO through raids. Leendert Valstar ('Bertus'), Jacques van der Horst ('Louis') and Hilbert van Dijk ('Arie') organized local Assault Groups into the LKP in 1943. The number of members of the LKP is rather precise since their members were registered after the war. 2,277 was their number in September 1944. A third were members before this time. 514 members of the LKP died. Only one of the top LKP members survived the war – Liepke Scheepstra. Helena-Rietberg, one of the founders of the LO, was betrayed and died in Ravensbruck concentration camp.
 RVV ("Raad van Verzet" or Council of Resistance), engaged in sabotage, assassinations, and the protection of people in hiding.
 OD ("Orde Dienst" or Order of Service), a group preparing for the return of the exiled Dutch government and its subgroup the GDN (Dutch Secret Service), the intelligence arm of the OD.

CS 6 
Another, more radical group, was called 'CS 6'. It was probably named for the address where they were based, 6 Corelli street in Amsterdam. According to Loe de Jong, they were by far the most deadly of the resistance groups, committing some 20 assassinations. Having been started in 1940 by the brothers Gideon and Jan Karel ('Janka') Boissevain, the group grew quickly to some 40 members and made contact with the Dutch communist and surgeon Gerrit Kastein.

They targeted the highest-ranking Dutch collaborators and traitors, but duly became the victim of the most dangerous Dutch traitor and German spy, Anton van der Waals. Included in the list of their victims was the Dutch General Seyffardt, who was used by the Germans to head the Dutch SS-legion. They also managed to assassinate an assistant minister, Reydon, and several police chiefs. However, the planned assassination of the best known Dutch traitor and collaborator, Dutch Nazi-party leader Anton Mussert, was delayed and could never be accomplished. Their activities in eliminating Dutch collaborators prompted the 1943 'Silbertanne' covert murder reprisals by the Dutch SS. By 1944 treason and strain had decimated their ranks.