[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# El Cartel: The Big Boss

ew he stated "leaves no doubt that he still has the skill and style that made him stand out from reggaeton's crowded rank-and-file" and about the artist's charisma and talent wrote "leaves no doubt that he still has the skill and style that made him stand out from reggaeton's crowded rank-and-file".

In a more critical review, Andrew Casillas of Stylus Magazine gave a mixed review to the record and compared the album to Daddy Yankee's previous efforts and said, "while the front-loaded standard reggaetón tracks aren't short on hit potential, they're lacking in the sort of charisma that has made Daddy Yankee famous." He then added that "the closing third of the album is quite encouraging. Neil Drumming from Entertainment Weekly, wrote "Here, the steady, dance-floor-quivering rhythms that make reggaeton a club staple are beefed up by hip-hop producers like Scott Storch and will.i.am. The results, nonetheless, are robotic: shrill melodies and beats so rigid and relentless".

Singles 
"Impacto" was released as the lead single from the album on April 12, 2007. Simultaneously, the remix version, featuring Fergie was released as a second single. The videos of the two version were released in the Universal Studios. "Mensaje De Estado" was released as the first promotional recording off the album; a short music video then followed. The third official single, "Ella Me Levanto" was also released. In October 2007 was released the official video. The video was recorded in the Dominican Republic.

Track listing

Credits and personnel

Production
Executive Producer: Raymond Ayala
Musical Producer: Daddy Yankee
Co-Producer: Jose "Gocho" Torres
Creative Director: Carlos R. Pérez
Interscope Team
A&R: Joe "3H" Weinberger, HHH Artists
Marketing: Christian Clancy
Marketing Director: Andrew Flad
Marketing Coordinator: Justin Dreyfuss
Mix Engineer: Dylan "3-D" Dresdow
Production Coordinator: Les Scurry
Publicity: Dennis Dennehy
Video: Randy Sosin/David Saslow
New Media: Ravid Yosef
Legal: Damian Elahi
A&R Coordinator: Archie Schonfeld, HHH Artists
International: Don Robinson

El Cartel Records
Project Manager: Mireddys Gonzalez
Legal & Business Affairs: Edwin Prado
Manager: Nomar Ayala
Project Coordinator: Lorna Robles
Public Relations: Mayna Nevárez
Tour Manager: Milton Gonzalez
Stage Manager: Pedro Jimenez
Elastic People Team
Art Direction/Design: Carlos R. Pérez
Graphic Design: Kiley del Valle
Interactive Designer: Balind Sieber
Project Coordination: Eric Vazquez
Controller: Joanna Egozcue
Photography by: Mateo Garcia
Producer: Alejandro Navia
Stylist: O'Neal McKnight

Charts and certifications

Weekly charts

Sales and certifications

See also
List of number-one Billboard Top Latin Albums of 2007
List of number-one Billboard Latin Rhythm Albums of 2007

References

2007 albums
Daddy Yankee albums
Albums produced by Akon
Albums produced by will.i.am
Albums produced by Just Blaze
Albums produced by Scott Storch
Albums produced by Luny Tunes
Albums produced by Nely