[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Basque rural sports

sh this is called juego de gansos and in French as jeu d'oie.

Ardi ile moztea (sheep shearing)
Sheep shearing also features in Basque rural sports and works along similar lines as other sheep shearing contests.  translates as "the shearing of sheep's wool" and it is also known as  "sheep shearing".

Asto arineketan (donkey races)
Similar to horse racing but with donkeys.

Blankolari (shooting)
Shotgun shooting is particularly popular in the area around Eibar in the Basque Country.

In Spanish this is called puntería con escopeta and in French as compétition avec escopette.

Bola jokoa (bowls)

Basques have also their own variants of dirt-track and lawn bowls. There is a large number of variations of the game but most are similar to skittles and centre around a set of pins that must be knocked down with a ball.

Espadrila jaurtiketa (espadrilles tossing)
A game of throwing espadrilles, a kind of shoe with a straw sole.

In Spanish this is called  and in French as .

Estropadak (rowing competitions)

A very popular rowing competition all along the coast of the Bay of Biscay and the Northern coast of the Iberian Peninsula.

This sport hails back to the days when fishermen had to reach fishing grounds quickly and return to port as quickly as possible to achieve the best price.

The crew is made up of thirteen oarsmen and the cox, who faces them at the stern. The boats are called  ( in Spanish), and are derived from 19th century fishing boats.

The most important competition in the Bay of Biscay in summer takes place the first two Sundays in September: the Kontxako Bandera, where the best teams compete against each other, following a tradition which is over a hundred years old. There is a regatta in almost every seaside town between July and October.

Goitibeherak (soapbox cars)
In the Basque Country the tradition of building soapbox cars goes back at least to the early 20th century. The name is a contraction of  which means "from the top to the bottom". Unlike most European soapbox cars, the  are three-wheelers and the early versions simply consisted of a triangular frame on three wheels or even scavenged ball bearings with a plank to sit upon, which children would race down the slopes found in many Basque towns.

The earliest documented races date back to the mid-1970s, when races were held during local festivals. The first Basque national competition was held in 1976, and they are common events all over the Basque Country today. One of the biggest events, the Goitibehera Munduko Txapelketa (World Goitibehera Championship) was first held in 1985 in Pamplona during the San Fermínes and has been held at irregular intervals since, the last time on 28 June 2008 when the IX World Championship was held.

The normal soapbox races are called  in Spanish, but this version is called  even in Spanish. They occur in the Basque Country and Uruguay to where they were exported by Basque emigrants.

Igel jokoa (frog game)

The frog game is a pub game played both in the Basque Country and outside. In the Basque Country, it is commonly played in Basque sagardotegiak (cider houses) and taverns. The aim of the game is to score as many points as possible by throwing ten metal discs at a chest.

The chest can be placed at a range of distances away from the players, usually 8–15 paces. On top of the chest, there is an iron frog with an open mouth, a mill, and a bridge. Underneath are more empty compartments. In most variants, a player who manages to hit the frog's mouth is awarded 50 points; 25 points are awarded for getting the disc under the mill, 10 for the bridge, and 5 for any of the compartments below. Other scoring systems also exist.

Some frog chests have obstacles built into the frog, mill, and bridge to make the game more difficult. Discs that have hit any mark are collected at the back of the chest via a set of metal tubes.

In Spanish, this game is called  in Spain and Chile,  in Peru and Argentina,  in Bolivia, and just  in Colombia. In French, it is referred to as . In England, it is known as toad in the hole.

Korrika (racing)
Also a popular sport in the Basque country. There are broadly speaking two categories:
races held in bullrings where a circle with a  radius. Competitors try to complete a set number of laps as fast as possible.
cross country races, usually of more than .

A highly popular race, the Korrika, is held once a year in aid of Basque schools and crosses all parts of the Basque Country.
The goal is not competition, but the raising of funds and awareness.

A variant of the  are the  (walkers), a fast walking race that was particularly popular in Navarre in the 19th and 20th century with the walkers wearing the abarketa, a traditional Basque leather shoe, and a hazel stick.

The traditional forms of running  have been largely supplanted by modern forms of running and racing.

Kukaina (yard climbing)