[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Margaret Howard, Countess of Nottingham

Margaret Stuart (or Stewart) ( – 4 August 1639), Scottish aristocrat and courtier in England. She served as lady-in-waiting to the queen consort of England, Anne of Denmark. She was the daughter of James Stewart, 2nd Earl of Moray, and Elizabeth Stuart, 2nd Countess of Moray. The sailor  and patron of Ben Jonson, Sir Frances Stuart was her brother.

Unions
Margaret Stewart may have become the subject of marriage negotiations in Scotland in July 1602. A committee of "4 Stewarts" to arbitrate in the feuds and disagreements between the Marquess of Huntly and the Earl of Moray. The four Stewarts were Lord Ochiltree, Walter Stewart of Blantyre, Alexander Stewart of Garlies, and the Tutor of Rosyth. 

One solution offered was the marriage of Moray to Huntly's daughter, and Huntly's son to a daughter of the Earl of Argyll. However, in February 1603 Anne of Denmark proposed an alternative solution, that Huntly's son, Lord Gordon, would marry Moray's sister in a double marriage. Moray's sister, perhaps Margaret Stewart, had recently joined the queen's court. The marriage plans were abandoned at this time, but the scheme suggested by the "4 Stewarts" was adopted.

After the Union of the Crowns in 1603, she was appointed to be a lady of the queen's drawing chamber. 

At Winchester in September the queen ordered fabrics for new clothes for Stewart and other women who had made the journey from Scotland, including Anne Livingstone, Jean Drummond, and Margaret Hartsyde.

In September 1603, she married Charles Howard, 1st Earl of Nottingham. She attended the trial of Sir Walter Ralegh and the Earl of Cobham in November 1603 with the Countess of Suffolk and Arbella Stuart.

Nottingham was an older man and the marriage in September attracted comment from Anne of Denmark and her brother Christian IV of Denmark, Arbella Stuart, Thomas Edmondes and other letter writers. Anne of Denmark wrote a letter to King James describing them as a match between Mars and Venus. 

They had two children:
 Charles Howard, 3rd Earl of Nottingham
 Anne Howard (born c. 1612), married on 29 December 1627 to Alexander Stewart, Baron Garlies, son of Alexander Stewart, 1st Earl of Galloway and Grizel Gordon.

Arbella Stuart wrote to the Earl of Shrewsbury that the Lord Admiral had been to visit Prince Henry and Princess Elizabeth and, "either is or will be my Cousin before incredulous you will believe such incongruities in a Counsellour." 

Edmondes described their meeting during dancing organised by the queen at Basing House. The Earl of Worcester wrote of a gallant of 70 years that in one night could dance himself into a fair lady's favour. Robert Cecil wrote that Nottingham had "begun the union", meaning the union of the kingdoms of England and Scotland. The king gave her Chelsea Place and a yearly pension of £600.

In January 1604 she played the part of Concordia in the masque The Vision of the Twelve Goddesses, wearing "crimson and white, the colours of England and Scotland joined". Her mantle was embroidered with clasped hands and she carried a bush with red and white roses as an offering in the Temple of Peace. Her role in the masque made an allusion to the union of England and Scotland. 

In December 1604 she was excused from performing in the queen's masque, The Masque of Blackness, because she had a "polypus" which was thought to require surgery. Ann Howard, her daughter-in-law, appears in the cast list as "Lady Effingham", in the part of "Psychrote". Margaret did not appear in any further court masques.

Her husband was involved with the negotiations with Spain known as the Somerset House Conference and the subsequent ratification of the treaty at Valladolid. The King of Spain, Philip III gave him a diamond and gold feather jewel for his hat, and other jewellery and gilt plate. The countess was given a gold chain with diamonds and portraits of Philip III and Margaret of Austria, Queen of Spain, and a casket decorated with diamonds and the Spanish royal portraits, and perfumed gloves and other perfumed goods.

Misunderstanding on the Thames
In 1606, when Christian IV was preparing to leave London, he had an argument with the Earl of Nottingham aboard ship about time and tide. The Danish king insisted it was two o'clock and waved two fingers at the Earl. Nottingham or the countess thought he made a joke about their age difference. An angry correspondence ensued.

Arbella Stuart attempted to mediate in the scandal in letters to Christian's chamberlain, Sir Andrew Sinclair. Margaret insisted in a letter to Sinclair that Christian IV should know "that I deserve as little that name he gave me as either the mother of himself or his children". Sinclair had to pass the letter on to Christian IV. Anne of Denmark asked James to banish her from court.