[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United States National Grid

it is important to truncate rather than round when removing the unneeded digits.  Because one is always measuring from the lower-left corner of the 100 km square, this ensures that a lower-precision grid reference is a square that contains all of the higher-precision references contained within it.

In addition to truncating references (on the right) when less precision is required, another powerful feature of USNG is the ability to omit (on the left) the Grid Zone Designation, and possibly even the 100 km Square Identification, when one or both of these are unambiguously understood; that is, when operating within a known regional or local area.  For example:

 Full USNG:  18S UJ 23371 06519  (world-wide unique reference to 1 meter precision)
 Without Grid Zone Designation:  UJ 2337 0651  (when regional area is understood; here to 10 meter precision)
 Without 100 km Square Identification:   233 065  (when local area is understood; here to 100 meter precision)

Thus in practical usage,  USNG references are typically very succinct and compact, making them convenient (and less error prone) for communication.

History 
Rectangular, distance-based (Cartesian) coordinate systems have long been recognized for their practical utility for land measurement and geolocation over local areas.  In the United States, the Public Land Survey System (PLSS), created in 1785 in order to survey land newly ceded to the nation, introduced a rectangular coordinate system to improve on the earlier metes-and-bounds survey basis used earlier in the original colonies.  In the first half of the 20th century, State Plane Coordinate Systems (SPCS) brought the simplicity and convenience of Cartesian coordinates to state-level areas, providing high accuracy (low distortion) survey-grade coordinates for use primarily by state and local governments.  (Both of these planar systems remain in use today for specialized purposes.)

Internationally, during the period between World Wars I and II, several European nations mapped their territory with national-scale grid systems optimized for the geography of each country, such as the Ordnance Survey National Grid (British National Grid).  Near the end of World War II, the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) coordinate system extended this grid concept around the globe, dividing it into 60 zones of 6 degrees longitude each.  Circa 1949, the US further refined UTM for ease of use (and combined it with the Universal Polar Stereographic system covering polar areas) to create the Military Grid Reference System (MGRS), which remains the geocoordinate standard used across the militaries of NATO counties.

In the 1990s, a US grass-roots citizen effort led to the Public X-Y Mapping Project, a not-for-profit organization created specifically to promote the acceptance of a national grid for the United States. The Public XY Mapping Project developed the idea, conducting informal tests and  surveys to determine which coordinate reference system best met the requirements of national consistency and ease of human use.  Based on its findings, a standard based on the MGRS was adopted and brought to the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) in 1998.  After an iterative review process and public comment period, the USNG was adopted by the FGDC as standard FGDC-STD-011-2001 in December 2001.

Since then, the USNG has seen gradual but steadily increasing adoption both in formal standards and in practical use and applications, in public safety and in other fields.

Advantages over latitude/longitude 
Users encountering the USNG (or similar grid reference systems) sometimes question why they are used instead of latitude and longitude coordinates, with which they may be more familiar.  Proponents note that, in contrast to latitude and longitude coordinates, the USNG provides:

 Coordinate units that represent actual distances on the ground
 Equal distance units in both east–west and north–south directions
 An intuitive sense of scale and distance, across a local area
 Simpler distance calculation (by Pythagorean Theorem, rather than spherical trigonometry)
 A single unambiguous representation instead of the three (3) formats of latitude and longitude, each in widespread use, and each having punctuation sub-variants:
 degrees-minutes-seconds (DMS):   N 38°53'23.3", W 077°02'11.6"
 degrees-minutes-decimal minutes (DMM or DDM):    38°53.388' N, 077°02.193' W
 decimal degrees (DDD or DD):     38.88980°, -077.03654°

This format ambiguity has led to confusion with potentially serious consequences, particularly in emergency situations.