[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kinlaza

mon intermarriage between the nobles of both countries, there was now an asylum for undesirable nobles to congregate. This undermined the power of the Kinlaza dynasty. Vanquished families no longer had to reconcile themselves with the Kinlaza, as they could simply retire to Sonyo and plot rebellion.

           With the accession of Antonio I to the throne after the death of his father, he failed to cultivate the positive relationship with the Portuguese that his father had. This led to an alliance of the Angolans with the Kimpanzu in Sonyo, with a successful and destructive campaign against the capital, Sao Salvador. Eventually, Antonio himself was killed on the battlefield, sparking an even greater crisis. It was a disastrous and humiliating battle for Kongo, which lost many of its nobles along with the king. While the Portuguese took the royal regalia back to Lisbon in triumph, they generally were not any more heavy-handed in their oversight of the region than they had been before. However, Sonyo, and therefore the Kimpanzu clan, was now able to take the offensive against a weakened and disorganized Kongo.

Decline after the Civil War 
The civil war between the Kinlaza and Kimpanzu, exacerbated by these factors, would continue for another thirty years, until Pedro IV, descended from both the Kinlaza and Kimpanzu, finally brought a fragile peace by instituting an official rotation of the royal office between the two families in the early 18th century. The Kinlaza northern branch, founded by João II at Mbula (or Lemba) made a claim on the throne, but the branch of this family that supported Pedro IV and opposed João's sister Elena in the 1710s eventually was able to become kings of Kongo when Garcia IV came to power in 1743.  A southern branch, led by Ana Afonso de Leão did not hold power for a long time, and indeed, her home territory of Nkondo (Mucondo) was their primary base. With the declining stability of the kingdom, many of the outer provinces chose independence in the face of an increasingly ineffective central kingdom. One such province was that of Wandu, governed by another branch of the Kinlaza family. The queen Violante of Wandu would conduct an invasion of Kongo in 1764, driving King Alvaro IX, another Kinlaza, from the throne temporarily. He himself had ended the period of alternating succession by deposing "Pedro V" the Kimpanzu. By 1779, the southern Kinlazas came to power with the ascent of José I, and held power until Afonso V succeeded his brother José in 1785. The crisis that followed Afonso's death in 1787, however, left the southern Kinlazas out. The official king Pedro V (1856–85) (not to be confused with Pedro V of Kimpanzu) may have had connections to the southern Kinlazas in the nineteenth century, since his base at Mbembe was close to the lands of the Nkondo, though no clear connection has been established. After this period, the decline of the Kingdom of Kongo accelerated, and with it the fortunes of the Kinlaza family. The kingdom would endure even beyond the Congress of Berlin until its finally dissolution by the Portuguese government in 1914.

See also
Kingdom of Kongo
Kimpanzu
Kinkanga
Kongo Civil War
List of rulers of Kongo

References 

Manikongo of Kongo