[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ed Haley

enealogist, collaborated on a Haley book project from 1995 until Hartford's death in 2001. In March 2000, Smithsonian magazine featured a story about their research. The Ed Haley manuscript remains unpublished.

In October 2015, Haley was inducted into the West Virginia Music Hall of Fame.

Releases

In 1975, Rounder Records released Parkersburg Landing, a 14-track vinyl LP of Haley's work. In 1997 and 1998, after several years of promotion by John Hartford, Rounder released many of Haley's songs on two double CD sets: "Forked Deer" and "Grey Eagle", which featured expanded annotations by John Hartford and Brandon Kirk. In August 2022, Spring Fed Records released the 7 CD boxed set, Stole From The Throat of a Bird - The Complete Recordings of Ed & Ella Haley. The set included many previously unreleased cuts and features much improved audio quality when compared to the Rounder releases. A 105-page liner note book is included with essays and family photographs.

Popular culture
As part of Poage Landing Days, the City of Ashland, Kentucky, hosts an Ed Haley Memorial Fiddle Contest every year since 1996. In 2000, John Hartford performed Ed Haley's arrangement of Dick Burnett's composition Man of Constant Sorrow for the film O Brother, Where Art Thou?. (Burnett would record Haley's Blackberry Blossom at his 1930 session in Atlanta). Multiple versions of that song likewise appeared on the Grammy-winning soundtrack. In 2014, Brandon Kirk released Blood in West Virginia: Brumfield vs. McCoy (Pelican Publishing Company, Gretna, LA), which features young Ed Haley as a character in the story of the Lincoln County Feud.

Haley's fiddle tunes continue to be highly popular in the contemporary old time music community.

References

Further reading
 Douglas, Wilson, Old Time Party.
 Tabler, Dave, Appalachian History Net.

Bibliography
 Neal Walters & Brian Mansfield (ed.) (1998) MusicHound Folk: The Essential Album Guide, p. 339, 

1885 births
1951 deaths
People from Logan County, West Virginia
People from Catlettsburg, Kentucky
Blind musicians
American street performers
American fiddlers
Folk musicians from West Virginia
Folk musicians from Kentucky
Appalachian old-time fiddlers
20th-century American violinists
Blind scholars and academics
American blind people
American musicians with disabilities