[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Landfill liner

A landfill liner, or composite liner, is intended to be a low permeable barrier, which is laid down under engineered landfill sites. Until it deteriorates, the liner retards migration of leachate, and its toxic constituents, into underlying aquifers or nearby rivers, causing potentially irreversible contamination of the local waterway and its sediments.

Modern landfills generally require a layer of compacted clay with a minimum required thickness and a maximum allowable hydraulic conductivity, overlaid by a high-density polyethylene geomembrane.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency has stated that the barriers "will ultimately fail," while sites remain threats for "thousands of years," suggesting that modern landfill designs delay but do not prevent ground and surface water pollution.

Chipped or waste tires are used to support and insulate the liner.

Types
There are certain levels of harmfulness in which the different types of trash have; therefore, there are different types of liner systems which are required for these different types of disposal sites. The first type is single liner-systems. These systems usually are put within landfills which mostly hold construction rubble. These landfills are not meant to hold the disposal of harmful liquid wastes such as paint, tar, or any other type of liquid garbage that can easily seep through a single liner system. The second type is double-liner systems. These systems are usually found in municipal solid waste landfills as well all hazardous waste landfills. The first part is constructed to collect the leachate while the second layer is engineered to be a leak-detection system to ensure that no contaminates leak into the ground and contaminate everything.

Components
Composite liners are required to be used in municipal solid waste systems for landfills and use a double liner system which is composed of a leachate system which is a liquid that collects solids from the substance this is passed through it. The leachate system is surrounded in a by a type of solid drainage layer such as gravel which is enclosed by a geomembrane and compressed clay, also known as a geosynthetic clay liner. This geosynthetic clay liner is usually made of sodium bentonite which is compacted in between two thick pieces of geotextile. The next material surrounding the composite liner would be a leak detection system composed of another material like gravel with an additional geomembrane or complex liner. The geomembranes within the composite liner consist of a high-density polyethylene which provide an effective minimization for flow and deliver and helpful barrier which is used on inorganic contaminants. It can be used as a substitute for sand or gravel and also has a very high transmissivity and low storage. The lower surface helps provide an effective leak test once correctly installed. It is also a low permeable vapor and liquid barrier. The geosynthetic clay liners are manufactured by factories and the purpose for it being made of sodium bentonite is that they regulate the movement of liquids in gases within the waste. The geocomposites which are a combination of the geomembranes and geosynthetic liner material also include a layer of bentonite between the middle of the layers of geotextile; however, airspace is allowed to be implemented. It is then topped off with a final cover.