[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Muhyiddin of Brunei

Muhyiddin ibni Abdul Jalilul Akbar (Jawi: محيي الدين; reign 1673–1690) was the 14th Sultan of Brunei and the fourth son of Sultan Abdul Jalilul Akbar. He took the throne after defeating his opponent, Sultan Abdul Hakkul Mubin during the Brunei Civil War. Notably, he also attempted to return the throne back to the origin bloodline via Sultan Muhammad Ali's family.

Reign (1673-1690)

Background 
Following the murder of his father-in-law Sultan Muhammad Ali, Pengiran Bongsu Muhyiddin obtained the title of Pengiran Bendahara Seri Maharaja Permaisuara from Sultan Abdul Hakkul Mubin while he was still in power. Muhyiddin was none other than the younger brother of Sultan Abdul Jalilul Jabbar from the same mother. Muhyiddin, Sultan Muhammad Ali's nephew and son-in-law, was given the title in order to appease the supporters of the assassinated Sultan.

Rebellion 
At first, there was calm throughout the sultanate, despite that there was still a smoldering resentment of Sultan Hakul Abdul Mubin. In order to overthrow him, several of Sultan Muhammad Ali's supporters pleaded with Muhyiddin. He initially thought it wasn't the appropriate thing to do but eventually, he came around and helped arrange the ouster the current Sultan. The first action he and his soldiers took was to cause a commotion for the palace and the nearby homes. By jabbing their spears into the palace and homes, they caused the disruptions. It was simple for the rebels to carry out the attacks because many of them had jobs at the palace.

Brunei Civil War 

Sultan Abdul Hakkul Mubin relocated the administrative center from Kota Batu to Pulau Chermin, in contrast to Muhyiddin. With the goal that Abdul Hakkul Mubin would remain put to weather the crisis that occurred prior to the Brunei Civil War, the relocation was carried out under the direction of the recently appointed Pengiran Bendahara Muhyiddin. Muhyiddin established his reign in Kampong Ayer after moving to the island and declared himself the 14th Sultan of Brunei, starting the country's first civil war. Sultan Hakkul Abdul Mubin were puzzled as to why he had not made the island his home, thus his warriors were shocked to learn that he had raised the yellow flag of the Sultan for himself.

Several Sultan Muhyiddin's Cheterias were killed when their attack on Sultan Abdul Hakkul Mubin's fort in Kinarut, were repelled by his forces with the help of Bajaus and Dusuns. Muhyddin's soldiers failed to overthrow Sultan Hakkul Abdul Mubin in their final assault at Kinarut, prompting Sultan Abdul Hakkul Mubin to return to Pulau Chermin. Aid from the Sultan of Sulu was requested by Muhyiddin to help defeat Sultan Abdul Hakkul Mubin in exchange for the province of eastern Sabah, which would be granted to the Sultanate of Sulu. Sultan Muhyiddin was concerned that the conflict would stretch on and cause further problems for the people of Brunei. Before making a last attack on the island, Muhyiddin's soldiers bombarded Pulau Chermin from Tanjung Kindana. No fighting have taken place since Sultan Muhyiddin's men landed on the island as the bombardment has destroyed the majority of defenses and Sultan Abdul Hakkul Mubin's execution at the island's Great Mosque ended the civil war.

The Brunei History Centre of the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports hosted a session with an emphasis on the study of ancient Borneo manuscripts. A total of 53 papers were featured, with participation from both inside and outside the nation. Of particular note were the 37 presentations from the Borneo Islands, Indonesia, and Malaysia, which took place over the course of two days on 27 to 28 November 2017. A particular letter from Sultan Muhyiuddin was looked into, where he wrote to an English captain, who oversaw the English trade in Jambi, for delivery to the Sultan of Jambi, the Pangiran Adipati, who may have been Prince Dipati Anum who ruled from 1630 to 1661, while Muhyiuddin ruled from 1673 to 1690. This indicates that Jambi was the destination of the troop when Brunei Civil War came to an end. Sultan Muhyiddin was able to beat Sultan Hakkul Mubin on Pulau Chermin because to the purchase of gunpowder.