[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Georgia–Russia relations

ed the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili to visit Moscow. In an effort to thaw frozen conflicts over Abkhazia and South Ossetia, Georgia asked if they could be on the agenda for bilateral talks. The proposal was repeated in 2015. In both cases Moscow demurred and the visits never took place. 

In October 2014, direct, regular flights between Georgia and Russia resumed. In 2015, Russian President Vladimir Putin stated that Moscow was ready to lift visa requirement for Georgia. After few days, Russia simplified visa procedures for Georgian citizens.

On March 9, 2018, Georgian Prime Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili made a statement about readiness of Georgia to normalize bilateral relations with Moscow. Kvirikashvili's proposal never went forward. 

Despite relative success in terms of trade and tourism, as well as the resultant stability in the conflict area, which has helped to lower risks of a new military conflict between the two countries, the normalization failed to bring an end to the disputes over the breakaway regions. This led to public frustration in Georgia with the dialogue with Russia. The public survey showed that only 40 per cent of Georgians supported dialogue with Russia in a sharp contrast with the 83 per cent who backed it at the start of normalization. Georgian diplomant Zurab Abashidze has noted: "When we launched the new so-called Prague format in 2012... we, of course, wanted to restore both trade and transport links and solve humanitarian problems. But internally, emotionally, people expected that, having restored these practical ties, all these would somehow contribute to the solution of the most complex problems related to the territorial integrity of Georgia. That did not happen".

Protests of 2019 and aftermath
 

On June 20, 2019, protests began to break out surrounding Georgia's parliament building over the visit of Russian politician Sergei Gavrilov, who was taking part in the Interparliamentary Assembly on Orthodoxy — an inter-parliamentary institution set up by the Greek parliament to foster relationships between Orthodox Christian lawmakers. This in the aftermath of a speech given by Gavrilov in Russian from the Speaker's chair in Georgia's parliament building, extolling the Orthodox brotherhood of Georgia and Russia. The protests grew violent and Georgian police suppressed them with tear gas and rubber bullets. The ensuing protests would result in a straining of relations between the two countries. Russia, in an apparent response, halted direct flights between the countries and increased regulation on Georgia's main exports to Russia, wine and mineral water.

Russia banned direct passenger flights between Russia and Georgia starting July 8, citing  "the need to ensure a sufficient level of aviation security". Indirect flights through Minsk, Istanbul, Baku, and Yerevan remain, as well as the land border between the two countries.

In late August 2019, the first serious crisis occurred in South Ossetia following the 2008 war after the Georgian government built a police checkpoint close to the line of separation to prevent Russian and South Ossetian border guards from installing fencing on Georgian-controlled territory in the village of Chorchana. South Ossetian authorities demanded from Georgia to dismantle the police outpost and threatened to take it by force. Georgian government refused. In September 2019 the Russian and Georgian foreign ministers met together in an attempt to defuse the tensions. However, they failed to reach an agreement, and the Incident Prevention and Response Mechanisms in South Ossetia (subsidiary dialogue format of the Geneva International Discussions) has stopped working for one year. The Georgian police outpost remained in place. The de facto South Ossetian leadership further threatened to attack the Georgian police and take it over.

Russia–Ukraine crisis 

In December 2021, Russia condemned NATO's eastward expansion and forwarded to its leadership security demands, specifically to never admit Georgia as well as Ukraine to the alliance. In early February 2022, the Georgian parliament adopted a supportive resolution for Ukraine amid the Russian military build-up at its border, expressing concerns over the possible military escalation. During the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, Georgia supported Ukraine diplomatically and politically. During the first four months following the outbreak of war, Georgia has joined more than 260 resolutions and statements condemning Russia's actions. However, Georgia refused to join international sanctions against Russia. Therefore, despite otherwise hostile relations, Russia has not put Georgia on its Unfriendly Countries List.