[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Moshe Sanbar

, but it was not put forward for discussion.

In 1969, Sanbar was among the founding members of the “Rehovot Group” led by Amos de-Shalit, a non-governmental think tank focused on articulating economic and social policies for Israel, while taking under consideration the needs of its Arab population.

Together with Shimon Peres and others, Sanbar created the Economic Development and Refugee Rehabilitation Trust and was appointed as its chairperson. He continued to hold this position also as governor of the Bank of Israel, with the Trust having focus on humanitarian aid to the territories of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. On its first year of action, the trust put forward two million Israeli pounds towards water facilities, basic health services and vocational trainings. During the trust's first four years of action, more than 3 million Israeli pounds were used for renovating refugee camps in the Gaza Strip and new housing was built at Nuseirat Camp, Bureij and Al-Shati, as well as water infrastructures at Nur Shams, Jenin, Jalazone and Nur Shams, electric infrastructure at Jenin, development of sports facilities in Gaza, renovation of Al-Shifa Hospital and the construction of nine medical clinics in the West Bank and several centers of vocational training in Gaza and Rafiah.

The Rehabilitation Trust continued to exist for more than two decades, however its actions varied and in later years focused on humanitarian aid surrounding the Israel-Lebanon border and the Good Fence policy.

Cultural institutions

Chairman of Habima National Theatre

For twelve years, Sanbar was chairman of the board of trustees of Habima Theatre, beginning in 1969 at the dissolution of the theatre as a collective and until 1981. Over this decade, the theatre transitioned to its recognition as Israel's national theatre, claiming a new artistic approach to go with its status. Two policy papers were drafted under the leadership of Sanbar, one for defining the vision of Habima as a national theatre and the other for determining division of responsibilities between the theatre's general director and its artistic director. These years of transition were also successful in drawing new crowds to the theatre: encouraging encounters of the cast with the general public, adapting the theatrical program to the needs of the Ministry of Education, creating the theatre's first subscription program and also incorporating fringe theatre in one of the theatre halls.

Founding of Janco-Dada Museum
In 1979, Sanbar began to head the association for creating a museum in honor of painter Marcel Janco at the artists’ colony of Ein Hod. Two years later, raising of funds was completed and the museum was opened to the public in 1983. For three decades, until his death in 2012, Sanbar was its honorary president.

Promoting sports and excelling athletes
In 1967 Sanbar was appointed as the first chairman of Israel Sports Betting Board, an organization in charge of the national football pool. This complimented his existing position as chairman of the Fund for Excelling Athletes. Until 1970, the Fund awarded a sum of approximately 500 thousand Israeli pounds to athletes representing 17 different sport fields. It was at Sanbar's personal request in various cases of arbitration he took part in, that the fund was given donations, such as funds in 1969 that were directed towards the purchase of six rowing boats in preparation for Israeli representatives competing in Sailing at the 1972 Summer Olympics.

Sanbar chaired the Fund for Excelling Athletes until his appointment as Governor of the Bank of Israel.

Academia and the founding of College of Management

In the years 1972–1995 he served as chairman of the board of trustees of The College of Management Academic Studies. In 1978, the College was accredited by the  Council for Higher Education as a formal institute of higher education, handed to Sanbar by Minister of Education Zevulun Hammer. In addition to his role in the board of trustees, in the years 1983-1989 he was also chairman of the executive.

Over the years he was a member of the executive at Tel Aviv University and the Technion, also sitting on the board of trustees of the Hebrew University, Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design and various other academic institutes. 

Over the years Sanbar was also a member of faculty, teaching statistics in the Hebrew University (1957–61) and as a lecturer on economic research and policy in the Higher School for Law and Economics (1959). Later, he was made a visiting professor of economics at Tel Aviv University (1977–79). In 1971, he was among the founders of the Foerder Institute of Economic Research at Tel Aviv University.

Between 1974 and 1979 he was president of the Association of Graduates in Social Sciences and Humanities.