[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Polish resistance movement in World War II

the Battle of Kuryłówka started. It was the biggest battle in the history of the Cursed soldiers organization – National Military Alliance (NZW). In battle against Soviet Union's NKVD units anti-communist partisans shot 70 NKVD agents. The battle ended in a victory for the underground Polish forces.

On 21 May 1945, a unit of the Armia Krajowa, led by Colonel Edward Wasilewski, attacked a NKVD camp in Rembertów on the eastern outskirts of Warsaw. The Soviets kept there hundreds of Poles, members of the Home Army, whom they were systematically deporting to Siberia. However, this action of the pro-independence Polish resistance freed all Polish political prisoners from the camp. Between 1944 and 1946, cursed soldiers attacked many communist prisons in Soviet-occupied Poland see Raids on communist prisons in Poland (1944–1946).

From 10 to 25 June 1945, Augustów chase 1945 (the Polish Obława augustowska) took place. It was a large-scale operation undertaken by Soviet forces of the Red Army, the NKVD and SMERSH, with the assistance of Polish UB and LWP units against former Armia Krajowa soldiers in the Suwałki and Augustów region in Poland. The operation also covered territory in occupied Lithuania. More than 2,000 alleged Polish anticommunist fighters were captured and detained in Russian internment camps. 600 of the "Augustów Missing" are presumed dead and buried in an unknown location in the present territory of Russia. The Augustów Roundup was part of an anti-guerilla operation in Lithuania.

Formations 

 Antyfaszystowska Organizacja Bojowa
 Armia Krajowa
 Armia Ludowa
 Bataliony Chłopskie
 Brygada Swiętokrzyska
 Gwardia Ludowa
 Gwardia Ludowa WRN
 Narodowa Organizacja Wojskowa
 Narodowe Siły Zbrojne
 Obóz Polski Walczącej
 Państwowy Korpus Bezpieczeństwa
 Polish People's Army PAL
 Szare Szeregi
 Związek Odwetu
 Związek Walki Zbrojnej
 Żydowska Organizacja Bojowa
 Związek Organizacji Wojskowej
 Żydowski Związek Wojskowy

See also 

 Anti-fascism
 Bratnia Pomoc
 History of Poland (1939–1945)
 Home Army and V-1 and V-2
 Lithuanian resistance during World War II
 Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany
 Polish areas annexed by Soviet Union
 Polish resistance in France during World War II
 Resistance movement
 Western betrayal
 Yugoslav Partisans

Notes

a  A number of sources note that the Home Army, representing the bulk of Polish resistance, was the largest resistance movement in Nazi-occupied Europe. Norman Davies writes that the "Armia Krajowa (Home Army), the AK,... could fairly claim to be the largest of European resistance [organizations]." Gregor Dallas writes that the "Home Army (Armia Krajowa or AK) in late 1943 numbered around 400,000, making it the largest resistance organization in Europe." Mark Wyman writes that the "Armia Krajowa was considered the largest underground resistance unit in wartime Europe." The numbers of Soviet partisans were very similar to those of the Polish resistance.

References

Bibliography

External links 
 
 Armia Krajowa
 Die "Stunde W"
 Ann Su Caldwell, . Polonia Online.
 Polish Resistance in World War II 
 Warsaw Uprising 1944 
 History of Warsaw's contributions levied by the German Occupation Authority

Polish nationalism
Guerrilla organizations
 
Military units and formations of Poland in World War II