[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zachary Quinto

998 murder of Matthew Shepard. In 2010, Quinto contributed a video to the It Gets Better Project, an Internet-based campaign that aims to prevent suicide among LGBTQAI+ youth. In 2012 Quinto campaigned on behalf of Barack Obama, including appearing in the video Obama Pride: LGBT Americans For Obama.

From 2010 to 2013, Quinto was in a relationship with actor Jonathan Groff. Quinto began dating model and musician Miles McMillan in the summer of 2013. In early 2015, the couple moved into a NoHo, Manhattan apartment they purchased together. In November 2015 Vogue'' magazine called them "a power couple whose domain extends across the film, fashion, and art scene." The two ended their relationship in early 2019.

In 2017, Quinto criticized the timing of actor Kevin Spacey's decision to come out as part of his response to allegations of sexual advances towards then-14-year-old actor Anthony Rapp. He called the manner of Spacey's announcement "deeply sad and troubling," feeling he had not stood up "as a point of pride—in the light of all his many awards and accomplishments—thus inspiring tens of thousands of struggling LGBTQ kids around the world", but instead as "a calculated manipulation to deflect attention from the very serious accusation that he attempted to molest one".

Filmography

Film

Television

Stage

Video games

Awards and nominations

See also

 Sundance Film Festival
 LGBT culture in New York City
 List of LGBT people from New York City
 List of Carnegie Mellon University people

References

External links

 
 

1977 births
Living people
20th-century American male actors
21st-century American male actors
Activists from Pennsylvania
American film producers
American male film actors
American male television actors
American male stage actors
American people of Irish descent
American people of Italian descent
Carnegie Mellon University College of Fine Arts alumni
American gay actors
LGBT people from Pennsylvania
LGBT producers
American LGBT rights activists
Male actors from Pittsburgh
Theatre World Award winners
Central Catholic High School (Pittsburgh) alumni