[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Universal Primary Education

that the distance to and from school contributes a child's attendance, or lack thereof.  In a study done investigating the relation between location (distance) and school attendance in Mali, about half the villages reported that the school was too far away, causing students not to enroll (Birdsall).

There is still speculation as to whether primary schools are more accessible in rural or urban areas because situations differ depending on geographic location.  In a study done examining the correlation between location and school attendance in Argentina and Panama, researchers found that urban residence was positively correlated with school attendance (De Vos), but another study in a Louisiana school district found that schools with the lowest attendance rates were in metropolitan areas (Moonie).

More research needs to be done to determine geography's specific effects on attendance, but no matter where you live, there is evidence that location will contribute to a child's access and attendance to education.

Gender
Gender contributes to a child's lack of access and attendance to education.  Although it may not be as an obvious a problem today, gender equality in education has been an issue for a long time.  Many investments in girls' education in the twentieth century addressed the widespread lack of access to primary education in developing countries (Dowd).

Although boys not in education outnumber girls in the majority of regions, in 2014, in those with the worst attendance girls outnumber boys, notably in Sub-Saharan Africa, resulting in the total number of girls out of education being approximately 11% higher than the number of boys, world-wide.

In 25 countries the proportion of boys enrolling in secondary school is higher than girls by 10% or more, and in five; India, Nepal, Togo, Turkey and Yemen, the gap exceeds 20%.  Enrollment is low for both boys and girls in sub-Saharan Africa, with rates of just 27% and 22%.  Girls trail respectively behind (Sylva).  It is generally believed that girls are often discouraged from attending primary schooling, especially in less developed countries for religious and cultural reasons, but there is little evidence available to support this association.  However, there is evidence to prove that the disparity of gender in education is real.  Today some 78% of girls drop out of school, compared with 48% of boys (Sylva).

Cost
Costs contribute to a child's lack of acquiescence and attendance to primary education.  High opportunity costs are often influential in the decision to attend school.  For example; an estimated 121 million children of primary-school age are being kept out of school to work in the fields or at home (UNICEF).  For many families in developing countries the economic benefits of no primary schooling are enough to offset the opportunity cost of attending.

Besides the opportunity costs associated with education, school fees can be very expensive, especially for poor households.  In rural China, families dedicate as much as a third of their income to school fees (Peverly).  Sometimes, the cost gets too expensive and families can't support their children's education anymore, although the statistics disagree.  "China has 108.6 million primary school students, with a 1 percent dropout rate, but experts doubt these figures because the dropout rates in rural areas appear much higher" (Peverly).

Although the relationship between school fees and attendance still isn't perfectly clear (Peverly), there is evidence to prove that cost is a factor that contributes to a child's access and attendance to primary education.

Language