[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Solomon Bayley

Solomon Bayley (1771 1839) was an African American freed slave who is best known for his 1825 autobiography entitled A Narrative of Some Remarkable Incidents in the Life of Solomon Bayley, Formerly a Slave in the State of Delaware, North America. Published in London, it is among the early slave narratives written by slaves who gained freedom before the American Civil War and emancipation. Bayley was born into slavery in Delaware. After escaping and being recaptured, he later bought his freedom, and that of his wife and children. He worked as a farmer and at a sawmill. In their later years, he and his wife emigrated in 1827 to the new colony of Liberia, where he worked as a missionary and farmer. His short book about the colony was published in Delaware in 1833.

From slavery to freedom

Bayley is believed to have been born about 1772 into slavery in Kent County, in what is now the state of Delaware). As was the case with many African Americans who lived in the United States during the 19th century, neither his birth nor death were recorded in the U.S.; Bayley died in Liberia.  Scholars such as Henry Louis Gates, Jr. have made rough estimates of Bayley's birth and death years based on his autobiography and related materials. Bayley learned that his maternal grandmother was born in Guinea, where she was captured at the age of eleven, sold into slavery, and transported to the Thirteen Colonies in 1690. She had fifteen children in total.

Bayley's mother had a total of thirteen children, while held by the same family. When a daughter of the family married a man from Delaware, she took Bayley's mother and father Abner, and the rest of the family with her to Delaware. After some time, they moved back to Virginia, and Bayley's family was widely dispersed in sales, with his father, sister Margaret, and brother Abner taken to Long Island in the West Indies and sold to Abner Stephen. His mother escaped with a young son and finally reached New Jersey. It was eighteen years before Bayley saw her again, after he had gained his own freedom.

Bayley was held in Delaware and trained as a cooper. Although the state legislature had passed a law forbidding the sale of slaves in Delaware to other states, in 1799 Bayley was sold as a young man to a man from Virginia. Bayley had already, since slaves could not marry, informally married Thamar, an enslaved woman on another Delaware plantation, and they had a nine-month-old son. His new owner took him to Virginia, but Bayley escaped as he was being transported there. He returned to Delaware, where he was briefly reunited with his wife, but knew he could not stay. He moved on to Dover and then to Camden, Delaware. After a time, his owner recaptured him.

Bayley sued in a Delaware court for his freedom, saying that he had been illegally sold out of state. While the case was in court, his master agreed to let Bayley buy his freedom for $80 (~$ in ). As noted, his wife Thamar and their infant daughter Margaret were owned by another Delaware planter. Bayley first "hired out" his wife (with their child) from her master, paying for her time in order to keep her with him. He worked to save money to buy her outright; and he paid her master about $103 (~$ in ) dollars.

After gaining their freedom, Bayley and his wife worked as tenant farmers. He started work in a sawmill to earn more money. Their son Spence had been sold earlier and was auctioned at a sale in 1813 after his master's death. Prices had risen and Bayley despaired of being able to buy him, but white men who knew Bayley from the Methodist church aided him in buying his son's freedom, at a price of more than $360 (~$ in ).

As their children grew, Bayley apprenticed them to "good families", so that they could learn skills and gain educations. About this time, Bayley also arranged for his mother to come to them from New Jersey, and she lived with him to "a great age", as her own mother had done.

In 1820 Bayley met Robert Hurnard, a Quaker and abolitionist from Essex, England, who was visiting Delaware. After hearing the story of his life, Hurnard encouraged Bayley to write about it and publish an account. He corresponded with Bayley for years afterward, and Hurnard wrote a preface for the memoir, which was published in London in 1825.

In 1821 both Bayley's oldest and youngest daughters died, Margaret and Leah, respectively, several months apart; they were in their early 20s. In each case, he wrote about their faith in their last days.

Emigration to Africa
Bayley learned about Paul Cuffee, a wealthy African-American shipbuilder in Boston, Massachusetts, who promoted free blacks emigrating to Africa. This idea appealed to Bayley but Cuffee died before the project could get well underway.