[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 17th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

The 17th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War.  It was popularly known as the Irish Brigade, due to its composition of mostly Irish American immigrants.

Establishment
The 17th Wisconsin Infantry was organized under the authority granted by the July 22, 1861, act of Congress approving the enrollment of 500,000 volunteers for service in the American Civil War.

In October 1861, Governor Alexander Randall appointed John L. Doran colonel of the 17th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment, and tasked him with organizing the new regiment.  From its inception, the 17th Wisconsin Infantry was recruited principally from the Irish population of the state.

Recruiting continued through the Winter and the regiment was collected and drilled at Camp Randall in Madison, Wisconsin.  They mustered into federal service under Colonel Doran on March 15, 1862, and left the state for Saint Louis, Missouri, on March 23.

Service

Operations around Corinth (Spring 1862Fall 1862)
The regiment proceeded from Saint Louis, on April 10, up the Tennessee River to Pittsburg Landing, Tennessee, where they were assigned to the 6th division of the Army of the Tennessee and moved with the army to invest the Siege of Corinth.  During the siege, Colonel Dornan was placed in command of the brigade—which also comprised the 16th Wisconsin, 21st Missouri, and 25th Missouri infantry regiments—but was replaced on May 24 by Brigadier General John McArthur.

The Union Army took control of the town on May 29, but the 17th Wisconsin suffered significantly from diseases during the siege.  The regiment remained camped south of Corinth through the summer and was then engaged in defense of railroad and logistics in the area.  Company A was detached from the regiment and posted several miles out on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad and would not rejoin the regiment until November.

Around October 1, Company A, under Captain McCauley, engaged in a skirmish with Confederate cavalry north of Corinth while guarding the Mobile and Ohio Railroad.  Company A suffered thirteen killed or wounded, but managed to drive off the Confederate regiment and captured a number of horses.

On the morning of the first day of the Second Battle of Corinth, October 3, 1862, the brigade of the 17th Wisconsin Infantry was placed on the Chewalla Road north of Corinth on the left end of the Union line.  In the late morning, the Union line was being driven back, but a counterattack was ordered.  As the Confederates attempted to outflank the counterattack, Colonel Doran led the 17th Wisconsin Infantry in a valiant charge on the Confederate lines and drove back the enemy regiments.  They then fell back with their division to defensive lines nearer to Corinth.  On the second day of battle, the 17th Wisconsin was engaged in the defense of an artillery battery and did not see significant fighting.  The actions of the 17th Wisconsin and their commander on October 3 were highly complimented in the accounts of the battle written by generals Thomas J. McKean and John McArthur.  In the battle, the 17th Wisconsin Infantry suffered five killed and 20 wounded.

Vicksburg campaign (Winter 1862Summer 1863)
Grant's Vicksburg campaign launched in November 1862, and the 17th Wisconsin Infantry was transferred to the 2nd brigade, commanded by Col. Gabriel Bouck.

On November 25, however, Colonel Doran resigned and was placed under arrest by General John McArthur.  Lt. Colonel Adam Gale Malloy was promoted to colonel and led the regiment through most of the rest of the war.

Under Malloy's command, the regiment arrived in the vicinity of Vicksburg in January 1863, and were assigned to the digging of a canal to bypass Confederate defenses around Vicksburg.  They remained until April 20, when they were sent further south, below Vicksburg.  They were attached to the XVII Corps, commanded by General James B. McPherson, and proceeded to Raymond, Mississippi, arriving on May 16.  Here they received word of the Battle of Champion Hill and were ordered to rush to the battle site, but did not arrive until the battle was over.

From there, they turned back to the Siege of Vicksburg and secured a position southeast of the city.  On May 19, 1863, they were in the vanguard of the assault against the Confederate fortifications and managed to capture a portion of the enemy trenches.  The rest of their brigade, however, did not receive the signal to attack—left without support, the 17th Wisconsin was forced to withdraw.  On the second attempted assault, May 22, the 17th Wisconsin was held in reserve, due to their severe losses on the first assault.