[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

en no voting rights.
25 March – 
Republican leader in County Leitrim, Ned Bofin and three of his men are captured in the Arigna Mountains.
Free State soldiers in Wexford shot dead Michael Furlong (of Ballagh) at Oldcourt, in revenge for the previous days killing of three Free State troops as they suspected that he was an Anti-Treaty IRA member (he had fought in the recent Irish War of Independence in the IRA).
A republican prisoner, Murphy is shot dead by Free State troops in Kerry.
27 March – William Johnson of IFS Citizens' Defence Force killed by IFS Lt. Frank Teeling; Teeling found guilty of manslaughter and serves 18 months.
28 March – Five Republicans who were captured in the Anti-Treaty IRA's 5 March attack on Cahersiveen, County Kerry are executed by firing squad.
29 March – 
Anti-Treaty fighter Bobby Bondfield is arrested on St. Stephen's Green in Dublin by W. T. Cosgrave's CID bodyguards. He is shot dead and dumped in Clondalkin.
Republicans attempt to burn and lay a land mine in Burton Hall, the home of the Guinness family, one of whom is a senator. The fire fails to ignite and the mine is defused by Free State troops.
Press reports that Free State troops have arrested 16 republican fighters around the country.
An Anti-Treaty fighter named Murphy is captured near Tralee, and then shot dead by Free State troops, his body is found in Knocknagoshel, County Kerry
30 March – 
Four Anti-Treaty IRA fighters are killed in an action at Kyle in County Wexford, between Wexford town and Enniscorthy. A party of National Army troops was travelling from Wexford to Enniscorthy, heavy machine-gun fire was opened on them, when reinforcements arrived from Wexford Military barracks the fighting had ceased but the reinforcements pursued the attackers, it was during this pursuit that the four men were killed
The body of an Anti-Treaty soldier is found on Upper Rathmines Road near Tranquilla Convent Dublin. The body of the deceased had 22 bullet wounds. The jury at the inquest found that Thomas O’Leary had been murdered and that the military authorities were uncooperative. Thomas O’Leary, 22 years old from 17 Armstrong Street Harold's Cross Dublin.
31 March – 
An 80-year-old woman, Mrs Fitzpatrick, is shot dead at her home Longford by republicans who were looking for her son, a Free State officer.
In Ballybay, County Monaghan, another civilian, Owen McGuinness, a Treaty supporter, is shot dead by republicans.

April 1923

1 April – Anti-Treaty IRA men ambush a National Army bicycle patrol on Larkin's Road, in County Louth. One man is killed on either side in the engagement.
April – National Army troops under General Prout conduct large sweeps of the Knockmealdown Mountains in counties Tipperary and Waterford. They have extracted information from Republican prisoners in Dublin that the IRA Executive is in the area. Prominent Anti-Treaty IRA officers captured in the operation include Dan Breen, Todd Andrews, Seán Gaynor and Frank Barrett. Many other rank and file Republicans are also taken prisoner. Though the Civil War was marked by executions and killings of prisoners, in Prout's command there were only two judicial executions and no 'summary executions'. Republican Mick Sheehan commented, "We may thank Prout that there are so few."
The Anti-Treaty IRA in Kerry shoot an informer and dump his body near Killorglin. Another civilian informer, a railway worker Cornelius Hannafin, is kidnapped and taken to a remote spot for interrogation.
A Free State lieutenant and an anti-Treaty fighter are killed in a skirmish in the Glen of Aherlow, County Tipperary.
3 April – 
Anti-Treaty IRA members Christy Breslin and Joseph Kiernan, are arrested by Free State forces at Georges Street, Dublin and killed at Cabra. Another, James Tierney, is killed later.
The bodies of two National Army Intelligence officers who were abducted while in plainclothes and unarmed near Barne, County Tipperary on 23 January and killed by Anti-Treaty forces are discovered. Their bodies had been dumped in nearby cemetery.
Anti-Treaty Volunteer Jerome Lyons is shot dead whilst under interrogation in Kickham Barracks, Clonmel.
5 April – Senior Republican leaders Tom Derrig and Moss Twomey are captured by Free State troops on Raglan Road, in Ballsbridge, in Dublin.
6 April – In Kerry, Free State troops mount an operation aimed at rescuing Hannafin, an informer held by the Anti-Treaty IRA. They raid a village at Derrynafeana near Carrauntoohil, where he is being held. Three Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in a resulting skirmish and two more captured. The National Army claims a total of nine Anti-Treaty fighters were killed. Most of the IRA column gets away into the mountains. Hannifin is freed. He had previously been made to dig his own grave prior to his imminent execution.
9 April – Anti-Treaty fighters cross the Corrib in boats from Oughterard and attack the Free State Army barracks at Headford, County Galway. They detonate a mine against the wall of the barra