[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cross-Strait charter

ary 9, China Airlines flight 585 was the last flight of the 2003 Lunar New Year charter services. The flight arrived with 237 travelers on board in Pudong International Airport at 11:14pm the same day.

The period of 16 charter flights occurred between January 26 and February 9, 2003.

Flight record

Flight details
China Airlines (CAL) operated the first flight. Due to the one-way-only service restriction, only the crew,  securities of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (ROC side), two officers of the Mainland Affairs Council, and 14 CAL staff were on board the  Taipei-Shanghai section for the first flights ceremony.
After coming to a complete standstill, staff at Pudong International Airport showed a huge red banner with the words "" (Ardently welcome CAL's First charter flight to Shanghai). A "Lion Dance" show was held.
CAL Chief executive officer Wei, Philip Hsing-Hsiung (present Chairman) and crew waved their hands in greeting when stepping out the aircraft.
Due to the sensitive state and the problem on using the Taiwan Compatriot Pass, the vice secretary of the Mainland Affairs Council, Zhi-Hong Jam() did not attend the celebration but stayed in the aircraft after a short salutation.
At C.K.S. International Airport, Taipei, CAL arranged a small ceremony to salute the first passengers. Then CAL Chairman Lee, Yun-Ning said "It's better to have direct flight as soon as possible. It's better to have it from tomorrow."
The greeting ceremony was different in Kaohsiung. Numerous police were inside the terminal waiting for TransAsia's flight back to Kaohsiung.

2005 Charters
Time Period: January 26 to February 20, 2005
Number of flights: 48
Passengers: Mainly businesspeople, some tourists and overseas students
Destinations: Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou <-> Taipei, Kaohsiung
Airlines: Six Taiwanese carriers and six Chinese airlines
Number of travelers: more than 10,000
Features: Both way available without any stopover

Events
There was no charter service in 2004 for several reasons, including the ROC presidential election in which the independence-leaning Pan-Green coalition was re-elected.
In December 2004, John Chiang expressed high expectations for the 2005 charter.
January 2, 2005, the spokesperson of The Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council proclaimed that they do care for the accomplishment of 2005 charters. They also demanded that the services this time should be operated as round-trip, non-stop service by airlines of both side with an increased number of destinations. They suggested the civil airlines negotiate with each other on technical and operational problems.
January 9, 2005, Mission Animating the Tai-merchants Charters led by John Chiang arrived Beijing.
January 10, 2005, Chen Yunlin, minister of the Taiwan Affairs Office (PRC), delegate of the General Administration of Civil Aviation (PRC) met during the mission. Chen said he would urge to carry the air links into reality.
January 11, 2005, During the conference, the PRC aspect hoped the available airports could include Taichung. But the proposal was rejected by the ROC because Taichung Airport is an air force base. The ROC aspect hoped the destinations could be more than Beijing and original Shanghai, like Guangzhou, Xiamen, Chongqing, and Shenzhen. The ROC also wished that flights could fly through Okinawa Flight Information Region in order to reduce the unnecessarily lengthy flight time. The PRC refused the rearward in avoiding the charters being considered as international flights. They only permitted the flights go via the air space of Hong Kong and Macau.
January 15, the civil operators came to terms. The agreement is as follows,
Time Period: January 29~February 20, 2005.
Restricted destinations: Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou <-> Taipei, Kaohsiung
Airlines on both side could apply the charters to the related governmental departments on the opposite side. Charters would operated in the type of "Both-joining, directly non-stop, carrying passengers both ways (round-trip), and more dots (means destinations in Chinese) included".
Only Tai-merchants could take the flights.
Planes had to go through the Hong Kong Flight Information Region without landing.
Between January 29 and February 20, 2005, twelve mainland Chinese and Taiwanese airlines flew 48 charters.
At 7:46am on January 29, Air China Flight 1087 was the first flight to depart mainland China with 88 passengers. China Airlines flight 581 was the first to depart Taiwan aircraft from Chiang Kai-shek International Airport in Taipei.
At 9:20am, China Southern Airlines Flight 3097, originating in Guangzhou, arrived Chiang Kai-Shek International Airport in Taipei. China Southern became the first airline landing Taiwan legally after the Chinese Civil War. The reason why the earliest-departed was not the earliest-arrived is that Guangzhou, which the city is located in the southern province of Guangdong, is far closer to Taiwan than the northern Beijing.
On February 20, the las