[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Psychological Operations in Guerrilla Warfare

nstrators into clashes with the authorities, to provoke riots or shootings, which lead to the killing of one or more persons, who will be seen as the martyrs; this situation should be taken advantage of immediately against the Government to create even bigger conflicts.

The manual also recommended:

selective use of armed force for PSYOP [psychological operations] effect. ... Carefully selected, planned targets — judges, police officials, tax collectors, etc. — may be removed for PSYOP effect in a UWOA [unconventional warfare operations area], but extensive precautions must ensure that the people "concur" in such an act by thorough explanatory canvassing among the affected populace before and after conduct of the mission.

Nicaragua v. United States
The manual was one of the issues the International Court of Justice (IJC) analyzed in the Nicaragua v. United States 1986 ICJ 1 case. The court's jurisdiction for this case was disputed by the United States, an issue that has never been resolved.

The ICJ statements included: "Finds that the United States of America, by producing in 1983 a manual entitled Operaciones sicológicas en guerra de guerrillas, and disseminating it to contra forces, has encouraged the commission by them of acts contrary to general principles of humanitarian law; but does not find a basis for concluding that any such acts which may have been committed are imputable to the United States of America as acts of the United States of America."

"The Court has to determine whether the relationship of the contras to the United States Government was such that it would be right to equate the contras, for legal purposes, with an organ of the United States Government, or as acting on behalf of that Government. The Court considers that the evidence available to it is insufficient to demonstrate the total dependence of the contras on United States aid. A partial dependency, the exact extent of which the Court cannot establish, may be inferred from the fact that the leaders were selected by the United States, and from other factors such as the organisation, training and equipping of the force, planning of operations, the choosing of targets and the operational support provided. There is no clear evidence that the United States actually exercised such a degree of control as to justify treating the contras as acting on its behalf."

"Having reached the above conclusion, the Court takes the view that the contras remain responsible for their acts, in particular the alleged violations by them of humanitarian law. For the United States to be legally responsible, it would have to be proved that that State had effective control of the operations in the course of which the alleged violations were committed."

See also
The Freedom Fighter's Manual
 U.S. Army and CIA interrogation manuals
 U.S. Army Field Manual 30-31B
 United States involvement in regime change

References

Further reading

 
 
 

 (HTML transcription)

External links

Central Intelligence Agency operations
Contras
Psychological warfare handbooks and manuals
Guerrilla warfare handbooks and manuals
Publications of the United States government
Dirty wars
Nicaragua–United States relations
Nicaraguan Revolution