[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kevin Cassidy

your place" and asked Cassidy, "Why didn't you?" Cassidy said: 

Cassidy admitted he had never read This Is Our Year, though he also did not read McGuinness's autobiography or former Donegal teammate Rory Kavanagh's account of the All-Ireland win, citing a lack of interest rather than any animosity.

International rules
Cassidy represented Ireland in the International Rules Series.

Media career
Cassidy files a column for the weekly publication Gaelic Life. He has worked as a co-commentator with both TG4 and RTÉ Sport.

He was the star of the first episode of Laochra Gael'''s 2021 season. Ahead of the broadcast, local politician Pearse Doherty wrote the following: "The night before we buried my father, Kevin Cassidy told me that he played football not for medals or trophies but for people like my father who enjoyed the game so much. Tonight he reveals in Laochra Gael that his 2011 Ulster medal, the only inter-county provincial title he'd win, went with my father to his grave".

Management career
Cassidy managed Gaoth Dobhair for one year, 2014. He later described the experience as "a bloody nightmare".

In November 2020, Cassidy returned as Gaoth Dobhair manager ahead of the 2021 season (succeeding Mervyn O'Donnell), jointly with Joe Duffy, and with Maxi Curran as team trainer.

Personal life
Cassidy is married to Sarah, the daughter of former Donegal footballer Willie Gallagher, who won five Donegal Senior Football Championships. They, and other members of Sarah's family, run Teach Mhicí, a pub they inherited from her parents.

A fluent Gaeilgeoir'', he lives in the Gaeltacht area of Donegal. Cassidy and his wife both teach as a profession. They have three children: twin daughters and a younger son.

In 2011, Cassidy taught handicapped children songs and how to tie their shoelaces at the Little Angels school in Letterkenny.

Cassidy is a fan of the Celtic soccer team, having been born and spent much of his childhood in Glasgow, Scotland. He holds a season ticket for matches at Parkhead.

While young, Cassidy's childhood Gaelic football heroes were Derry's Anthony Tohill, Seán Óg de Paor of Galway and Donegal's Anthony Molloy.

After being assaulted on 24 August 2008, Cassidy and his older brother became involved in a dispute with his attackers. A court case resulted, though the case took almost four years to come before the court. In July 2012, Cassidy was found guilty of affray and sentenced to community service, the judge noting that none of the men involved had appeared in court since that time and none had had any previous offences like it.

With an associate, Hugh McGinley, Cassidy operates Coláiste Chú Chulainn in Gaoth Dobhair. It is a summer residential Gaelscoil for children of primary school age. Cassidy and McGinley organise Irish language events in the evenings, including Céilí Mórs and water sports, as well as Gaelic football training, which Cassidy oversees.

See also
 List of All Stars Awards winners (football)

References

External links
 Kevin Cassidy at gaainfo.com

1981 births
Living people
Donegal Boston Gaelic footballers
Donegal inter-county Gaelic footballers
Drinking establishment owners
Gaelic footballers who switched code
Gaelic football managers
Gaelic games writers and broadcasters
Gaoth Dobhair Gaelic footballers
Irish columnists
Irish expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Irish international rules football players
Irish schoolteachers
Scottish Gaelic footballers
Writers from County Donegal
Broadcasters from County Donegal