[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# R.O.T.O.R.

R.O.T.O.R. (also known as Blue Steel and R.O.T.O.R.: Police Force) is a 1987 American science fiction action film starring Richard Gesswein, Jayne Smith and Margaret Trigg. The film has been described as a low-budget copy of The Terminator and RoboCop with some elements taken from Judge Dredd.

The film is well known in Argentina as the origin of the name of the Argentinian rock band Él Mató a un Policía Motorizado (He killed a motorcycle cop).

Plot
Scientist and police captain Dr. Barrett C. Coldyron develops a prototype police robot he dubs R.O.T.O.R. (for "Robotic Officer Tactical Operations Research/Reserve") as part of his vision for preserving peace in a chaotic future. He is pressured by his superior, the corrupt Division Commander Earl Buglar, to rush R.O.T.O.R.'s development so Senator Donald Douglas, the project's financial sponsor, can use it to campaign for President. Coldyron refuses Buglar's demands to have R.O.T.O.R. ready in sixty days and resigns rather than be fired, leaving control of the project in the hands of his incompetent assistants, Dr. Houghtaling and his robot Willard.

Following Coldyron's departure, a lab accident results in R.O.T.O.R. activating and going out on duty. While on patrol, it stops a motorist for speeding and, not yet having higher brain functions in its programming, executes him. His fiancée, Sonya, becomes R.O.T.O.R.'s target as it views her as her boyfriend's accomplice, and the robot begins a relentless pursuit of her. Coldyron learns of the murder and discovers R.O.T.O.R.'s activation, finding that it is operating under its prime directive, "to judge and execute". He saves Sonya from R.O.T.O.R. at a gas station and helps her escape, informing her that the robot will continue to pursue her and thus she must keep moving. Devising a plan to stop R.O.T.O.R.'s rampage, Coldyron contacts Dr. Corrine Steele, who developed the robot's combat chassis from a unique, self-teaching alloy, for assistance. They realize that as long as R.O.T.O.R. remains pursuing Sonya, it will not kill anyone else who does not get in its way.

On Coldyron's instruction, Sonya leads R.O.T.O.R. to a fishing camp. Coldyron and Steele arrive soon after, and Steele sacrifices herself to rip open R.O.T.O.R.'s chest, exposing its power core. Coldyron manages to lasso R.O.T.O.R.'s limbs with Primacord ropes to restrain it, and R.O.T.O.R.'s electrical discharge detonates the explosives, finally destroying the robot for good.

Coldyron files a final report on the incident and leaves the police building. However, he is ambushed outside by Buglar, who murders him to cover up the corruption and embezzlement involved in funding the project. His nephew, Brett Coldyron, subsequently inherits his research and money. Brett, deciding to continue and perfect his uncle's work, creates a new R.O.T.O.R. model, upgraded to include the higher brain functions that will make it capable of mercy and modeled in Dr. Steele's physical image.