[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Teitelbaum

on decline:  "The matter cannot be settled by pointing to history, because no previous society has experienced aging on the scale and at the speed of that now occurring throughout the world…. Countries such as China are now aging as much in one generation as France did over the course of centuries."

As a foundation executive, Teitelbaum played a significant role in nurturing a network of scholars and policy experts on the economics of science and engineering.  He observed that passionate debates about feared "shortages" of US scientists and engineers were being conducted without rigorous data and information.  Thus, he helped support the formation of the Science and Engineering Workforce Project based at the National Bureau of Economic Research and led by Harvard labor economist Richard B. Freeman.  Teitelbaum also realized that universities and scientific research institutes were vastly expanding the hiring of postdocs often for long periods but with little likelihood of a career path in research.  He initiated a Sloan Foundation grants program to improve data collection and analysis about postdocs, and  provided start-up support for the National Postdoctoral Association (NPA), founded in 2003 and now based in Washington, D.C.

Teitelbaum has brought historical approaches to the understanding of labor market conditions for scientists and engineers in the United States.  In Falling Behind? Boom, Bust & the Global Race for Scientific Talent (Princeton University Press, 2014), he identifies five periods since World War II in which alarms were sounded that the United States was in danger of a catastrophic shortage of scientific talent. He suggests that the panics that ensued frequently lead to boom and bust cycles that are not healthy for scientific research, nor for the economic well-being of scientists and their research institutions. Nonetheless, claims of  "shortages" of scientists and engineers continue to be strongly promoted by industry lobbyists and others. Teitelbaum's demonstration of the flimsy evidence underlying many such claims seems likely to  be contested or ignored by well-financed advocates of shortage claims.

Selected bibliography 
 Falling Behind? Boom, Bust & the Global Race for Scientific Talent (Princeton University Press, 2014)
 The Global Spread of Fertility Decline: Population, Fear, and Uncertainty (Yale University Press, 2013, co-authored with Jay Winter)
 Political Demography, Demographic Engineering (Berghahn Books, 2001, co-authored with Myron Weiner)
 A Question of Numbers: High Migration, Low Fertility, and the Politics of National Identity (Hill and Wang, 1998, co-authored with Jay Winter)
 Threatened Peoples, Threatened Borders (W.W. Norton, 1995, co-editor);
 Population and Resources in Western Intellectual Traditions (Cambridge University Press, 1989, co-editor);
 The Fear of Population Decline (Academic Books, 1985, co-authored with Jay M. Winter);
 Latin Migration North: The Problem for U.S. Foreign Policy (Council on Foreign Relations, 1985);
 The British Fertility Decline: Demographic Transition in the Crucible of the Industrial Revolution (Princeton University Press, 1984).
 ''Martin Luther King Jr, J'ai fait un rêve (co-écrit avec Lewis Helfand 2014)

Notes 

Harvard Law School faculty
American demographers
Living people
Reed College alumni
American Rhodes Scholars
1944 births
Fellows of Nuffield College, Oxford