[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Territorial claims in the Arctic

ing Strait, to pass through Russian territorial and internal waters in the Kara, Vilkitskiy, and Sannikov Straits.

Arctic territories

Canada
Arctic Archipelago
Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nunavik
Nunavut
Yukon

Denmark
 Greenland

Iceland
 Grímsey

Norway
Bear Island
Finnmark
Jan Mayen
Svalbard

Russia
Arkhangelsk Oblast
Big Diomede (due to US Government definition of "Arctic", even though below Arctic Circle)
Chukotka Autonomous Okrug
Franz Josef Land
Krasnoyarsk Krai (majority of territory south of the Arctic Circle)
Murmansk Oblast
Nenets Autonomous Okrug
New Siberian Islands
Novaya Zemlya
Russian Arctic islands
Sakha Republic (most of the Republic south of the Arctic Circle)
Severnaya Zemlya (Russia)
Siberia (Russia)
Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug
Wrangel Island

United States
Alaska
Aleutian Islands (due to the U.S. Government definition of "Arctic", even though below the Arctic Circle)
Little Diomede Island (due to the U.S. Government definition of "Arctic", even though below the Arctic Circle)

Others
 Sápmi (Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia)

See also

Arctic policy of Canada
United States Outer Continental Shelf
Outer Continental Shelf (in geography)
List of Russian explorers
Arctic policy of Russia
Arctic Cooperation and Politics
Norwegian continental shelf
Arctic Council
Canada–United States relations#Arctic disputes
Continental shelf of Russia
Territorial claims in Antarctica
Natural resources of the Arctic
Arctic resources race

References

Further reading
 Albert, Mathias, and Andreas Vasilache. "Governmentality of the Arctic as an international region." Cooperation and Conflict 53.1 (2018): 3-22. online
 Byers, Michael. Who owns the Arctic?: Understanding sovereignty disputes in the North (Douglas & McIntyre, 2010).
 Coates, Ken S., et al. Arctic front: defending Canada in the far north (Dundurn, 2010).
 Dodds, Klaus, and Mark Nuttall. The Arctic: What Everyone Needs to Know (Oxford University Press, 2019).
 Dodds, Klaus. The Antarctic: A Very Short Introduction (Oxford University Press, 2012).
 Griffiths, Franklyn, Rob Huebert, and P. Whitney Lackenbauer. Canada and the changing Arctic: Sovereignty, security, and stewardship (Wilfrid Laurier Univ. Press, 2011).
 Jensen, Leif Christian, and Geir Hønneland, eds. Handbook of the Politics of the Arctic (Edward Elgar Publishing, 2015).
 Keil, Kathrin. "The Arctic: A new region of conflict? The case of oil and gas." Cooperation and conflict 49.2 (2014): 162–190.
 Knecht, Sebastian, and Kathrin Keil. "Arctic geopolitics revisited: spatialising governance in the circumpolar North." The Polar Journal 3.1 (2013): 178–203.
 Ladies, Przemysław. "The United States and Canada towards Russian Arctic Policy: State of Play and Development Prospects." Society and Politics 2 (63) (2020): 73–103. online
 McCormack, Michael. "More than Words: Securitization and Policymaking in the Canadian Arctic under Stephen Harper," American Review of Canadian Studies (2020) 50#4 pp 436–460.
 Roberts, Kari. "Understanding Russia's security priorities in the Arctic: why Canada-Russia cooperation is still possible." Canadian Foreign Policy Journal (2020): 1–17. 
 Tamnes, Rolf, and Kristine Offerdal, eds. Geopolitics and Security in the Arctic: Regional dynamics in a global world (Routledge, 2014).
 Wallace, Ron R. "Canada and Russia in an Evolving Circumpolar Arctic." in The Palgrave Handbook of Arctic Policy and Politics (Palgrave Macmillan, Cham, 2020) pp. 351–372. online

External links
 
 
 
 Lecture by Donald M. McRae entitled Selected Issues Relating to the Arctic in the Lecture Series of the United Nations Audiovisual Library of International Law
 van Efferink, Leonhardt. Arctic Geopolitics 1 – oil and gas exploration, Northwest Passage, climate change, Arctic Geopolitics 2 – Russia's territorial claims, UNCLOS, the Lomonosov Ridge
 Frozen Assets archive
 The historical and legal background of Canada's Arctic claims (1952) Manuscript at Dartmouth College Library
 Territorial sovereignty in the Arctic (1947) Manuscript at Dartmouth College Library

Territorial disputes of Canada
Territorial disputes of Denmark
Territorial disputes of Norway
Territorial disputes of Russia
International territorial disputes of the United States
Multilateral relations of Russia
Canada–Russia relations
Canada–United States relations
Canada–United States border disputes
Russia–United States relations