[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# List of Shaman King characters

umerous battles and is the only survivor among Hao's followers after Peyote's betrayal, while Brocken was found by Mikihisa Asakura, and was brought to the meeting between the Asakura and the Tao families to explain what occurred. Many years after the Shaman Fight, he becomes a bodyguard to Tao Men.

 
 
 The younger brother of Anatel of Team Niles, who was eliminated by the X-Laws. Anahol, much like Anatel, is vain and proud of his long nose, though Anahol expresses deep admiration for how Anatel's nose was more beautiful. Seeking to avenge Anatel by killing Iron Maiden Jeanne, he joins Hao, who enhances Anahol's power. Though Anahol succeeds in killing Jeanne and Lyserg when he attacks the car they are traveling in, Marco sends Tamao and Manta to find Lady Sati to revive them. He is later captured by Anna and forced to do her bidding, most notably altering his Over Soul to deliver the Elemental Spirits to Yoh's group and transport all the remaining shaman to the continent of Mu.

 
 
 A character that appears in the 2001 anime only and one of Hao's most faithful followers who is known as Basil in the English dub. His guardian spirit is , and his Over Soul takes the form of a gigantic robot-like creature with a big mirror on its chest. He uses the earth as a medium and therefore can regenerate his over Soul as much as needed as long as he's on the ground. He has a major role in the 33rd episode, virtually his only appearance, in which he convinces Hao to let him fight Yoh and his friends. Hao orders him to kill "one or two" of Yoh's friends so that he becomes wiser and angrier. Bill Burton is sent along to keep Yoh himself from taking part in the fight and getting harmed. Even alone, Ashill fights Ryu, Horohoro, Ren, and Lyserg with ease. Eventually, after Yoh manages to break through Burton's defense and joins the fight, Ashil decides to use all his power to destroy Yoh and his friends, but he is unexpectedly killed by the X-Laws, who vaporize both him and his guardian ghost. During the fight, he is the one to reveal that Yoh is a descendant of Hao.

Yosuke Kamogawa
The leader of Team YVS and acting antagonist of Shaman King Flowers, having acquired his wealth as a company CEO through his spirit ally YVS. He masterminded the destruction of the Patch Village along with the deaths of Yoh, Anna, and Jeanne. He uses cards to access YVS's powers, using them to age himself into an adult.

Niaesu Bāji
Also known as the Black Maiden, she is a member of Team YVS who acquires Jeanne as a spirit ally while tricked by Yosuke into believing her murdered Jeanne instead of hesitating.

Other Teams

Team Lily Five
 is a team of five female shamans who appear only in the 2001 anime series. Initially, they alternately attempt to hinder and take great advantage of Yoh and his friends as they attempt to find the Patch Village. However, Yoh seems to have no personal grudge against them and they eventually would later become friends with Yoh at towards the end of the anime series. As with their corresponding shamans, the Lily Five's Guardian ghosts appear only in the 2001 anime and the Game Boy Advance game Shaman King: Master of Spirits 2.

 
 
 Essentially the leader of the group, Sharona is a greedy woman who usually devises all the plans for her group. Before forming the Lily Five, Sharona had been abandoned by a child she took care of. Her ambition is to become famous as the Shaman Queen, which results in an argument with Anna Kyoyama, who has very similar designs. Despite her rude, bold mannerisms and somewhat calculating nature, she is good-hearted and actually quite clever. In the English adaption, her mannerisms are similar to a French socialite. Her Guardian Ghost is a pink smoke pixie spirit named Enra-Enra (Enla in the 2001 English anime) capable of shapeshifting into various objects and its shaman medium is Sharona's golden pipe.

 
 
 The quiet tall redheaded Sally is the toughest and most impatient, of the group. She was rejected by her co-workers when her shamanic powers emerged. Though Sally speaks little, she is far from reserved – she becomes very outspoken and enthusiastic whenever an opportunity to fight arises. She also usually drives the five girls around in their red Lublin van, though Sharona and occasionally Ellie have done so as well. Her Guardian Ghost is a hammer spirit, Korogashi, and its medium is the golden rings on her fingers.