[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Comebacks

-Southwest Conference Championship at the 2nd Annual Toilet Bowl, where "...the excitement is so thick in this stadium you can cut it with a knife." However, the winning season comes at the expense of Lambeau Field's marriage as Coach's Wife leaves him for an exchange student from an obscure nation.

Facing their fiercest opponents yet and yearning to win the big game, The Comebacks face off with the heavily armed Lone Star State Penitentiary Unbeatables, coached by Lambeau Fields' former best friend Freddy Wiseman. Freddy had betrayed Coach, after Coach Fields was imprisoned from attempting to teach his honor society team how football players are supposed to behave. Escaping prison during a one on one basketball game against the warden (portrayed by Dennis Rodman) Coach Fields had returned to the college to lead the team to this championship game. The Unbeatables take a large lead using illegal tactics overlooked by the bribed officials. The Comebacks struggle forward gamely against the team of criminals and unfair officiating. And as every great sports team has always done, The Comebacks use ingenuity, unorthodox measures and dance moves in the final showdown where the best team wins. Coach realizes 'It's not all about winning' and sends a message via the TV camera to Barb. The Comebacks comeback against the heavily favored Unbeatables, as they find new strength and courage from the emotional moment. A special play is called from an unlikely source as Coach realizes that Freddy knows where Coach is getting his plays. A dramatic and climatic 2 point conversion attempt to determine the winner is tried. Every breath hangs in the balance, until... The Comebacks are victorious, while Barb has made her way to the stadium and runs to embrace the finally victorious Coach, but Lambeau is subsequently knocked down in a surprise attack by a bus with Freddie driving it, presumably on his way to a polygamous relationship in Mexico, laughing manically as Lambeau is in pain. Lambeau groans in agony after being asked by a TV reporter how it feels to finally be a winner.

Cast
 David Koechner as Coach Lambeau Fields, the coach of the Heartland Comebacks
 Carl Weathers as Freddie Wiseman, the coach of the Lone Star State Unbeatables
 Melora Hardin as Barb Fields, the wife of Lambeau Fields
 Matthew Lawrence as Lance Truman, quarterback
 Brooke Nevin as Michelle Fields, the daughter of Lambeau Fields
 Robert Ri'chard as Aseel Tare ("uh-seel tah-ree", mispronounced by Coach Fields as "ACL tear"), running back 
 Noureen DeWulf as Jizminder Featherfoot, kicker
 Nick Searcy as Mr. Truman, Lance's father
 Jackie Long as Trotter, wide receiver
 Jesse Garcia as Jorge Juanson, receiver
 George Back as Buddy Boy, lineman
 Martin Spanjers as Randy Randinger, towel boy
 Jermaine Williams as iPod
 Jillian Grace as Maria Sharapova
 Chauntal Lewis as Freddy's Girl
Cameos
 Eric Christian Olsen as Foreign Exchange Student
 Andy Dick as Toilet Bowl Referee
 Dennis Rodman as Warden
 Bradley Cooper as Cowboy
 Dax Shepard as Sheriff
 Jon Gries as Barber
 Will Arnett as Mailman
 Kerri Kenney as Sports Judge
 Lawrence Taylor as himself
 Michael Irvin as himself
 Eric Dickerson as himself
 Stacy Keibler as All-American Mom, a character in the toilet bowl halftime show.
 Drew Lachey as All-American Dad, a character in the toilet bowl halftime show.
 Jason Sklar and Randy Sklar as Superfans
 Frank Caliendo as Chip Imitation

Reaction
On Metacritic, the film received a 25 out of 100 rating from 13 reviews, meaning "generally unfavorable reviews". On Rotten Tomatoes, it has an approval rating of 9% and an average rating of 2.7/10 from 33 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads: "Full of groin-centric humor and tired sports clichés ('Dad, there used to be a big...big man inside of you.' 'There was a reason for that...I was in prison...'), The Comebacks is poor even by parody movie standards."

Blake French of filmcritic.com gave it a 4 out of 5 saying: "for those who would rather step on a tack than sit through another Miracle, this film is a long overdue revival to the spoof genre."

Comebacks stunt actor Mark Chadwick was nominated for the best fire stunt scene by the World Stunt Awards for 2008.

Box office
The Comebacks had an opening weekend of $5.6 million at #5. At the end of its box office run, it grossed $13.3 million in the US and $139,173 in foreign countries. The movie had a budget of $20 million, saw an international box office of $13.5 million< with DVD sales of $9.5 million. Streaming sales are still to be determined.

Soundtrack 
The Comebacks soundtrack features the original song "T&A" performed by White Beaver and written by Christopher Lennertz.

See also
 List of American football films

References

External links