[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# May 1974

Ri’ayatuddin Al-Mu’azzam, 69, hereditary ruler of the Sultanate of Pahang in Malaysia for more than 40 years, beginning in 1932. Abu Bakar was succeeded by his son, Ahmad Shah Al-Musta’in Billah ibni Almarhum, who would later serve as the monarch of Malaysia from 1979 to 1984.

May 6, 1974 (Monday)

Willy Brandt, the Chancellor of West Germany, presented his resignation to President Gustav Heinemann after his personal assistant, Günter Guillaume, had been discovered to be a spy for East Germany.
In Iceland, the coalition government of Prime Minister Ólafur Jóhannesson collapsed. Jóhannesson did not resign immediately, but elections were scheduled for June 30 for the Althing, Iceland's parliament.
Portugal's General Francisco Costa da Gomes offered a cease-fire in its ongoing war against independence movements in the African colonies of Angola, Mozambique and Portuguese Guinea, conditioned on the rebels' acceptance of a plan of democracy and protection of the white European residents of the colonies.
World Team Tennis (WTT), a new format in tennis with players on franchised teams in North American cities, played its very first match, debuting before a crowd of 10,611 people inside the Philadelphia Spectrum indoor arena, as the Philadelphia Freedoms, featuring league founder Billie Jean King, defeated the Pittsburgh Triangles, 31 to 25.
The Partido Social Democrata (PSD) was founded in Portugal by Francisco Sá Carneiro, Francisco Pinto Balsemão and Joaquim Magalhães Mota, liberal members of the Assembleia Nacional. From 1934 to 1974, the only legal political party had been the União Nacional and elections were limited to the top 130 finishers in voting for a list of party candidates. Originally called the Partido Popular Democrático, the PSD was formed two weeks after democracy was restored in Portugal after the Carnation Revolution.
Johannes Vermeer's painting The Guitar Player, stolen from London on February 23, was recovered by Scotland Yard after a caller said that it could be found in the cemetery adjacent to the St Bartholomew-the-Great church at Smithfield, London. The painting, more than 300 years old, was relatively undamaged except for some dampness.
Died:
Vera Gilbride Davis, 79, described as the Grand Dame of Delaware Politics
Walter C. Lowdermilk, 85, American soil conservationist who worked internationally on reclamation of farm lands in Belgium and in Israel to alleviate famine.
Robert Maestri, 74, former Mayor of New Orleans and campaign manager for Huey Long
Ángel Sagaz Zubelzu, 61, Ambassador of Spain to the United States, died of bladder cancer.

May 7, 1974 (Tuesday)
West Germany's President Gustav Heinemann accepted the resignation, made the day before, of Chancellor Willy Brandt and temporarily appointed Vice Chancellor Walter Scheel as head of government until Brandt's Sozialdemokratische Partei could select a new leader who would serve as Chancellor. An election was scheduled for May 16 on whether to approve Finance Minister Helmut Schmidt, Brandt's choice, as successor.
German serial killer Volker Eckert committed the first of at least six murders of teenage girls and young women, but may have killed as many as 19. Eckert, only 14 years old, strangled a classmate, Silvia Unterdörfel, at her home in Plauen.
In the U.S., delegates to the convention of the League of Women Voters voted to allow men to become members, favoring the measure by a vote of 935 to 433, more than the two-thirds majority required by the League's bylaws.
At least 15 Haitian refugees drowned in Nassau Harbor in the Bahamas after the boat they were in struck a reef and capsized. Another 32 were able to swim ashore to Paradise Island.
Born:
 Lawrence Johnson, American pole vaulter, 2001 world indoor champion; in Norfolk, Virginia
 Breckin Meyer, American TV and film actor; in Minneapolis, Minnesota
Died: Fred Kelly, 82, U.S. Olympian and 1912 gold medalist in the 110 meter hurdles