[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Anne of York (daughter of Edward IV)

sworn to marry Anne's older sister. Upon ascending the throne, Henry VII repealed the Titulus Regius act, which deprived the children of Edward IV of titles and rights to the throne; the act itself and all its copies were removed from the archives, as well as all the documents associated with them.

When Elizabeth of York married the new king, Anne was only twelve years old, and she, along with her other sisters, were at court under the tutelage of the queen, their eldest sister and only patroness. The princess began to participate in court ceremonies. She attended the christening of her first nephew, Arthur, Prince of Wales on 24 September 1486; Anne carried the baptismal veil, which, after the ceremony, covered the head of the prince, and she herself was accompanied on the right hand by the knight-constable Richard Guildford and on the left the by knight-marshal John Turbeville. Anne performed the same role at the christening of her eldest niece Margaret in 1489. The princess took part in the Easter celebrations, Pentecost and Christmas, as well as other events at the court of Henry VII.

Shortly after his accession to the throne, Henry VII began to make matrimonial plans for his wife's relatives and seek an alliance with Scotland. The king planned to marry his mother-in-law Elizabeth Woodville to the widowed King James III, and his heir James, Duke of Rothesay was to marry one of the daughters of the late king. Since Cecily, the former bride of James, was already engaged to the king's uncle John Welles, and Catherine was to become the wife of the prince's younger brother, it was necessary to choose between Anne and the youngest of her sisters, Bridget. Bridget planned to enter a monastery, and thus Anne remained the only candidate, but with the death of James III in 1488, all negotiations were terminated and never resumed.

In 1488, on St George's Day, Anne, among twenty other ladies, was present in the retinue of her sister the queen; she was dressed in a robe of scarlet velvet and sat on a snow-white palfrey, whose saddle was draped in a golden cloth embroidered with white roses, the symbol of the House of York. The next time the princess is mentioned in the sources in connection with the death of her mother in June 1492: Anne sat at the bedside of the dying woman in Bermondsey Abbey, where the dowager queen spent the last five years of her life. Anne led the mourners at her mother's funeral instead of Queen Elizabeth, who was expecting the birth of her fourth child and therefore delegated her powers and responsibilities to her younger sister. Anne and her younger sisters, Catherine and Bridget, departed with the Queen's body by river to Windsor Castle, where on 13 June Elizabeth Woodville was buried next to her second husband Edward IV in St George's Chapel. According to the herald's notes, "the standard-bearers walked ahead of milady Anne, who was present at the memorial mass instead of the queen; she prayed on her knees on the carpet and pillow. She was accompanied by Viscount Welles...and Dame Catherine Grey carried the train of Lady Anne...".

Marriage

When Anne reached the marriageable age, Queen Elizabeth began to look for her a suitable groom. The queen turned her attention to representatives of the English nobility and, first of all, to Thomas Howard, the son and heir of the 1st Earl of Surrey, to whom Richard III had already planned to marry Anne. The princess was personally acquainted with her future husband since childhood, since his father served at court in the private chambers of Edward IV. In the Wars of the Roses, the Howard family sided with the House of York, which is why under Henry VII, heir to the Lancasters, in 1485 the Earl of Surrey was imprisoned in the Tower for three and a half years, deprived of his rights, titles and possessions. Later, he received freedom, restoration of rights and most of the lands and was called to the court, where he received a position close to the king. At the same time, not all titles were returned: Thomas' father received back the title of Earl of Surrey but the title and honours of Duke of Norfolk, which he was supposed to inherit after the death of his father at Bosworth, were granted to him only in 1514. Thomas was older than Anne by about two years.