[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bradford Bypass

o the Holland Marsh, where it would cross towards the northeast onto the alignment of Ravenshoe Road (York Road32). The extension would have traversed the length of Ravenshoe Road to Lakeridge Road (Durham Road23), where it would zig-zag onto Concession Road7 and end immediately north of Sunderland.

In June 1981, environmental approval was given for the project, excluding the portion crossing of the Holland Marsh.
The marsh crossing was opposed by the Sierra Club,
the Federation of Ontario Naturalists,
the Canadian Wildlife Service,
and the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR).
The , then known as the Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MTC), conducted several studies on the crossing and alternatives to it, which were collectively published in July 1984.
However, as a result of public opposition and due to the potential environmental impacts of crossing the marsh, Minister of Transportation Edward Fulton abruptly cancelled the project on April21, 1986. In his speech, Fulton said of the C$30million project: "The environmental impact outweighs the transportation benefits in the particular location."
While this was applauded by environmental advocates,
it was opposed by several local politicians, as well as the York Region Federation of Agriculture, both of which began to petition the government to reverse the decision.

Highway 400 – Highway 404 Link 
The  engaged in several years of consultations with York Region, Simcoe County, and various other project stakeholders. The resulting Highway404/89 Route Location Study, published in 1989, confirmed the need for a "Provincial facility north of Bradford linking Highway400 to the future Highway404 Extension."
Highway404 was itself opened as far north as Davis Drive (York Regional Road31) on October24, 1989; the proposed extension largely succeeded the Highway89 extension east of Woodbine Avenue.
Separate s for both the Bradford Bypass and the Highway404 extension began in 1993 and 1992, respectively.
The  for the Bradford Bypass was completed in December 1997, with environmental studies noting that the proposed highway may contaminate groundwater and the Lake Simcoe watershed. The Chippewas of Georgina Island First Nation were noted to oppose the route due to archaeological concerns.
Both s were approved on August28, 2002.
Later that year on October4, Minister of Transportation Norm Sterling announced that design work was progressing, with construction set to begin in 2006, with completion expected by 2010.

As an interim measure, several upgrades were made to the roads surrounding Newmarket in the early 2000s.
The Newmarket Bypass – consisting of the widening to four lanes of Davis Drive (former Highway9) between Highway400 and Bathurst Street, Bathurst Street between Davis Drive and Green Lane, and Green Lane between Bathurst Street and Leslie Street – was approved by York Region in January 1999; construction began in September 2002.
Construction began on a four-lane extension of Highway404 from Davis Drive to Green Lane, and the reconstruction of Green Lane into a four-laned arterial road between Leslie Street and Woodbine Avenue in September 2000. Both were completed and opened to traffic on February8, 2002, at a ceremony attended by  for York North Julia Munro and York Region chairman Bill Fisch.
The Newmarket Bypass was completed and opened on September1, 2004.

Meanwhile, during the 2003 Ontario general election campaign, incumbent PC premier Ernie Eves pledged to build the Bradford Bypass.
Liberal leader Dalton McGuinty, who would go on to win the election, promised to tackle gridlock with a transit-oriented approach, pledging only "the removal of highway bottlenecks."
The McGuinty government passed the Places to Grow Act in 2005, which set forth consistent urban planning principles across the province for the following 25years. The Growth Plan for the Greater Golden Horseshoe was released in June of the following year as a framework for implementing the act,
which despite including the Highway404 extension as far as Ravenshoe Road, did not show the Bradford Bypass.
Minister of Transportation Donna Cansfield confirmed in May 2007 that no further work was being undertaken on the corridor.

The Bradford Bypass was first included in the 2002 Transportation Master Plan for York Region. Simcoe County followed suit in its 2008 Transportation Master Plan.
In late 2011, York Region and Simcoe County commenced the York-Simcoe Boundary Area Transportation Needs Study as a basis to advocate for the bypass.
Despite this and studies conducted by the , the provincial government did not change its stance in the five-year Growth Plan for the Greater Golden Horseshoe in 2012.