[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adel Noori

lau, a local newspaper, that speculated Noori may have been trying to make his way to Turkey, to join his wife and child.

The Tia Belau reported that Noori had not been seen at work for two months.
They reported he had traveled through Japan, but Japanese officials could not refute or confirm this.

Carol Rosenberg, of the McClatchy News Services, confirmed on February 20, 2013, that US officials knew Noori had joined his wife in Turkey, though the officials she spoke with insisted on anonymity.
Joshua Keating of Foreign Policy magazine noted that "Noori's relocation is particularly impressive given that he is technically stateless and has no travel documents."

On June 29, 2015, Nathan Vanderklippe, reporting in The Globe and Mail, wrote that all the Uyghurs had quietly left Palau.
The Globe confirmed that Palau's agreement to give refuge to the Uyghurs was reached after the USA agreed to various secret payments.  Those payments included $93,333 to cover each Uyghurs living expenses.  The Globe confirmed that controversy still surrounded former President Johnson Toribiong who had used some of those funds to billet the Uyghurs in houses belonging to his relatives.

Vanderklippe reported that the men had never felt they could fit in with the Palauans.  
Some of the men compared Palau with a lusher, larger Guantanamo.  Some of the men were able to bring their wives to Palau.  Attempts to hold most regular jobs failed, due to cultural differences.  Attempts to use their traditional leather-working skills to be self-employed failed.  Eventually, all six men were employed as night-time security guards, a job that did not require interaction with Palauans.

One of the men's young toddler, born on Palau, died when he fell from a balcony.  
According to Vanderklippe, the men's departure from Palau was quietly arranged with the cooperation of American officials.  He reported they left, one or two at a time, on commercial flights.  Palauan officials would not share the Uyghurs' destinations.

References

External links

 Adel Noori's Guantanamo detainee assessment via Wikileaks
 From Guantánamo to the United States: The Story of the Wrongly Imprisoned Uighurs Andy Worthington October 9, 2008
 Judge Ricardo Urbina’s unclassified opinion (redacted version)
 MOTIONS/STATUS HEARING - UIGHURS CASES BEFORE THE HONORABLE RICARDO M. URBINA
 Palau Uyghurs try to build new lives Kyodo News December 15, 2009

Chinese extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Uyghurs
Living people
1979 births
Guantanamo detainees known to have been released
Chinese refugees