[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mohammad Munaf

mbia from Sean Riordan, then a third year law student at UCLA School of Law who was working as an intern at the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law. The U.S. Government provided rebuttals to these allegations in several sworn declarations filed with the court during the U.S. proceedings.

Iraqi conviction vacated and remanded for retrial
On February 29, 2008, the Iraqi Court of Cassation (the appeals court) vacated Munaf's conviction and death sentence, remanding it to the lower court and ordering Munaf to remain in custody. The Court of Cassation found numerous irregularities in the lower court proceedings, including that the lower court failed to ascertain the role of Munaf and other defendants in the kidnapping and failed to document the statements of the kidnap victims.  The Court of Cassation vacated all decisions of the lower court and remanded the case to the lower court for retrial, directing that Munaf and the other defendants remain in custody.

Munaf v. Harvey

On October 13, Munaf's lawyers filed a habeas corpus petition in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia seeking his release from then Secretary of the Army Francis J. Harvey's custody and to block the transfer of Munaf to Iraqi custody. On October 19, Judge Royce Lamberth dismissed the petition and denied the motions for the temporary restraining order sua sponte. In the memorandum opinion dismissing the petition, the judge stated that the court lacked jurisdiction because Munaf is being held in MNF-I custody, not US custody, thus failing the  requirements for habeas corpus relief. Munaf's lawyers appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals, and on October 27, The D.C. Circuit also denied Munaf's motion for injunctive relief, but ordered the US military to refrain from releasing Munaf into Iraqi custody pending an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court. Munaf's attorneys filed a petition to the Supreme Court on November 6, 2006, and on November 13, 2006, the court refused certiorari. Munaf's attorneys attempted to have the case reconsidered by the D.C. Circuit en banc, but on April 6 the appeal was denied and the district court's decision upheld.

On December 7, 2007, the U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari in Munaf's case, and oral arguments were heard on March 25. On February 29, it was announced by several organizations that the Associated Press, the American Bar Association, the committee to Protect Journalists, the International Federation of Journalists, the PEN American Center and the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press would be filing amici curiae on behalf of Munaf and Shawqi Ahmad Omar.

The court handed down its decision on June 12, 2008, finding habeas jurisdiction existed but found that habeas corpus provided them with no relief holding that "Habeas corpus does not require the United States to shelter such fugitives from the criminal justice system of the sovereign with authority to prosecute them."

UN Human Rights Committee
On December 12, 2006, Mediafax reported that Munaf filed a complaint against Romania at the United Nations' Human Rights Committee alleging that Romania violated Munaf's rights by refusing to offer him diplomatic assistance during his trial. After reviewing his complaint, the UNHRC rejected Munaf's claims, noting in July 2009 that "the Committee cannot find that the State party exercised jurisdiction over the author in a way that exposed him to a real risk of becoming a victim of any violations under the Covenant."

References
Inline

General

External links
 Project to Enforce the Geneva Conventions archive

1952 births
21st-century criminals
Iraqi criminals
People convicted of kidnapping
American kidnappers
People convicted on terrorism charges
Fugitives wanted on kidnapping charges
Fugitives wanted on terrorism charges
Fugitives wanted by Romania
American extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Iraqi extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Iraqi emigrants to the United States
Living people
Iraqi prisoners sentenced to death
Prisoners sentenced to death by Iraq
American prisoners sentenced to death