[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Tamil Eelam

ministration and oversee the rehabilitation process in the north and east, and it would be controlled by the LTTE until elections were held. Crucially however, the LTTE had dropped their demand for an independent Tamil Eelam in favour of regional autonomy. The key points of the LTTE's proposals are:

An ISGA will established for the eight districts and in the Northern and Eastern provinces until a final negotiated settlement is reached and implemented.
Initially the members of the ISGA will be appointed by the parties to this agreement with the LTTE appointing an absolute majority, but
Democratic elections will be held if no final negotiated settlement is reached and implemented within five years.
The ISGA shall have plenary power for the governance of the north-east including powers in relation to resettlement, rehabilitation, reconstruction, development, raising revenue including imposition of taxes, revenue, levies and duties, law and order, and over land.
The GOSL agrees that any and all of its expenditures in or for the north-east shall be subject to the control of the ISGA.
The ISGA shall have powers to borrow internally and externally, provide guarantees and indemnities, receive aid directly, and engage in or regulate internal and external trade.
The ISGA shall have direction and control over any and all administrative structures and personnel in the north-east.
The ISGA shall have the power to alienate and determine the appropriate use of all land in the north-east that is not privately owned.
Land occupied by the armed forces of the GOSL must be immediately vacated and restored to the possession of the previous owners. The GOSL must also compensate the owners for the past dispossession of their land.
The ISGA shall be responsible for the resettlement and rehabilitation of displaced civilians and refugees in such lands.
The ISGA shall have control over the marine and offshore resources of the adjacent seas and the power to regulate access thereto.
The ISGA will have control over the natural resources in the north-east region. The GOSL shall ensure that all monies due under existing agreements are paid to the ISGA.
All future agreements concerning matters under the jurisdiction of the ISGA shall be made with the ISGA.

International reaction to the LTTE's proposals was generally positive. US Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage gave a cautious welcome, saying that the proposal is "the first time I have seen such a comprehensive delineation of the aspirations of the LTTE...it is significant". The European Union's Head of Mission in Colombo welcomed the proposals as an "important step forward in the peace process".

Sri Lankan reaction was mixed. The GOSL reacted by stating that the proposal "differs in fundamental respects from the proposals submitted by the GOSL. The GOSL is convinced that the way forward lies through direct discussion of the issues arising from both sets of proposals". The Tamil National Alliance (TNA), the main political party representing Eelam Tamils, welcomed the proposals positively. R. Sampanthan, leader of the TNA, said "The ISGA proposal...bears historical importance in the political history of Tamils in the island. The ISGA provides a base to find a permanent political solution to the Tamil national question".

Support for Tamil Eelam

Sri Lanka
The main pledge made by the Tamil United Liberation Front (TULF) in its manifesto for the 1977 parliamentary election was "to establish an independent sovereign, secular, socialist State of Tamil Eelam...". The TULF won all 14 seats in the Northern Province after receiving more than 278,000 votes (68%). In the Eastern Province the TULF won 4 of 10 seats after receiving nearly 140,000 votes (32%). Eelam Tamils constituted 92% and 43% of the population in each of the provinces respectively.

In March 2010 the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), the largest political group representing the Eelam Tamils, dropped its demands for an independent Tamil Eelam but continues to demand greater autonomy through federalism. The TNA's change of policy is believed to be a pragmatic one based on the reality of the political situation in Sri Lanka: the Tamil Tigers have been defeated, the Sri Lankan government/military have the support of the regional super powers (China, India and Pakistan), there is no international support for independence and it is illegal in Sri Lanka to support separatism. However, the TNA's watered down demands are still a lot more than what the Sri Lankan government is prepared to give.