[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Yellow Bayou

The Battle of Yellow Bayou, also known as the Battle of Norwood's Plantation, (May 18, 1864) saw Union Army forces led by Brigadier General Joseph A. Mower clash with Confederate States Army troops commanded by Brigadier General John A. Wharton in Avoyelles Parish, Louisiana during the American Civil War. This was the final action of the Red River campaign in which a Union army under Major General Nathaniel P. Banks was repulsed by Confederate forces led by Major General Richard Taylor. The failed Union campaign almost ended in disaster when an accompanying Union fleet led by Rear Admiral David Dixon Porter was trapped at Alexandria, Louisiana, by low water in the Red River. An engineering feat saved the fleet, allowing Banks' army to complete its withdrawal. 

While Banks' army waited for a bridge to be built across the Atchafalaya River, Wharton's forces began pressing the Union troops from the rear. Mower was ordered to halt their advance. Mower's forces subsequently drove the Confederates back to their main line. The Confederates then counter-attacked and a back-and-forth battle erupted, with the Confederates finally repulsed. A thicket between the contending sides caught fire, ending the fighting after a few hours. Mower's holding action allowed the Union army to safely cross the Atchafalaya on May 19–20.

Background

Forces

Union advance
President Abraham Lincoln and Major General Henry Halleck wanted a military campaign to plant the United States flag in Texas to counter the threat of the French-installed Maximilian regime in Mexico. Over the objections of Major Generals Banks, Ulysses S. Grant, and William T. Sherman, the venture up the Red River was ordered and assigned to Banks. In mid-March, one 17,000-man column under Banks moved north on Bayou Teche to meet a 10,000-strong column under Major General Andrew Jackson Smith at Alexandria. A. J. Smith's troops were accompanied by Porter's gunboats and river transports in the Red River. Slowed by low water in the Red River, the Banks-Porter expedition finally reached Natchitoches on April 2–3. 

On April 8, Banks' troops were routed by Taylor at the Battle of Mansfield (Sabine Cross Roads) and compelled to retreat. Both armies were reinforced and on April 9, Taylor's attacks were repelled by Banks' army at the Battle of Pleasant Hill. Taylor's superior, General Edmund Kirby Smith reached the scene and decided to take Major General John George Walker's and Brigadier General Thomas James Churchill's divisions north to oppose a 15,000-man Union column coming from Little Rock, Arkansas, under Major General Frederick Steele. Kirby Smith left Taylor with only 5,200 troops to harass Banks' much larger army. Realizing that he could expect no help from Steele and required to return A. J. Smith's troops to Sherman, Banks decided to end the campaign and retreat.

Union retreat
On April 23, the Union army overcame a Confederate attempt to block its retreat at the Battle of Monett's Ferry and reached Alexandria safely. Porter's fleet suffered some losses to Confederate artillery in the action of 26–27 April 1864 and reached Alexandria, but his vessels proved unable to pass its rapids because of low water in the Red River. From May 4 to 13, Taylor's inferior force completely isolated the Banks-Porter expedition in actions near Alexandria. Finally, a Union army engineer, Colonel Joseph Bailey designed Bailey's Dam which raised the water level enough to allow Porter's fleet to pass the rapids on May 13. On that day, Banks' army evacuated Alexandria and continued its retreat. On May 14–15, there were skirmishes at Wilson's Landing and Marksville. Taylor tried unsuccessfully to block the Federal retreat at the Battle of Mansura on May 16. 

On May 17, Banks' army crossed Bayou De Glaise and broke down the bridge spanning that stream. At Moreauville, Wharton pressed back the Union cavalry rearguard. When A. J. Smith's troops advanced to meet this threat, two cavalry regiments and an artillery battery led by Colonel Xavier Debray ambushed the Federals. Opening enfilading fire from a concealed position in the woods, the Confederates killed some of Smith's men and took others prisoner. Simultaneously, Colonel William O. Yager, leading his own regiment, the 1st Texas Cavalry, and the 2nd Louisiana Cavalry attacked the Union wagon train near Yellow Bayou. The wagon guard, Company E of the 92nd U.S. Colored Infantry, put up a spirited fight and the Confederates eventually fell back to Norwood's Plantation. Yager's men destroyed some wagons but were unable to remove any captured wagons because A. J. Smith's troops blocked the only road.

Battle