[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hudson Hornet

The Hudson Hornet is a full-size car manufactured by Hudson Motor Car Company of Detroit, Michigan from 1951 until 1954, when Nash-Kelvinator and Hudson merged to form American Motors Corporation (AMC). Hudson automobiles continued to be marketed under the Hudson brand name through the 1957 model year.

The first-generation Hudson Hornets featured a functional "step-down" design with dropped floor pan and a chassis with a lower center of gravity than contemporary vehicles that helped the car handle well — an advantage for racing. The Hornet's lower and sleeker look was accentuated by streamlined styling, sometimes called "ponton" styling.

Following the merger forming AMC in 1954, Hudson cars were built on the newer factory assembly line for Nash Statesman/Ambassador unibody chassis; therefore, all second-generation Hudson Hornets were restyled Nash automobiles that were badge engineered as a Hudson.

First generation

The Hornet, introduced for the 1951 model year, was based on Hudson's "step-down" design that was first seen in the 1948 model year on the Commodore. Unlike a unibody, the design did not fully merge the body and chassis frame into a single structure, but the floor pan footwells recessed down, in between the car's chassis rails, which were, in turn, routed around them – instead of a conventional floor, sitting on top of straight ladder frame rails – a body on frame design that later became more widely adopted, and known as a perimeter frame. Thus one "stepped down" into a Hudson. The step-down chassis and body meant the car's "lower center of gravity...was both functional and stylish. The car not only handled well, but treated its six passengers to a sumptuous ride. The low-slung look also had a sleekness about it that was accentuated by the nearly enclosed rear wheels."

1951 

Hudson Hornets were available as a two-door coupe, four-door sedan, a convertible, and a pillarless hardtop coupe. The models were priced the same as Commodore Eight, which was priced from US$2,543 to $3,099.

All Hornets from 1951 through 1953 were powered by Hudson's high-compression straight-six "H-145" engine. It was based on Hudson's previous  "Super Six" that was not only bored and stroked to increase displacement, but "thoroughly over-engineered in the Hudson tradition. a high-chromium-alloy block and other premium features." An electric clock was standard.

Starting for the 1952 model year, a factory-optional "Twin H-Power" featured twin one-barrel Carter carburetors with greater throat area and improved fuel distribution. This upgrade was first available in mid-1951 as a dealer-installed option at the cost of $85.60 (~$ in ). At , the L-head (flathead or side-valve) design was the largest displacement six-cylinder engine used in mass-production cars at the time. The two-barrel carburetor version produced  at 3800 rpm and  of torque. 

In 1954, power output was increased from . The engine was also capable of far more power in the hands of precision tuners, including Marshall Teague, who claimed he could get  from an AAA- or NASCAR-certified stock Hornet, as well as Hudson engineers who developed "severe usage" options (thinly disguised racing parts). The combination of the Hudson engine with overall road-ability of the Hornets, plus the fact the cars were over-designed and over-built, made them unbeatable in competition on the dirt and the very few paved tracks of the 1950s.

Hudson Hornet 1951 model year production totaled 43,666 units.

1952 

In 1952 the "Twin H-Power" version became standard equipment with dual single-barrel carburetors atop a dual-intake manifold, and power rose to . The hood featured a functional scoop that ducts cold air to the carburetors and was considered "ventilation" in 1954, rather than ram air. The engine could be tuned to produce  when equipped with the "7-X" modifications that Hudson introduced later. During 1952 and 1953 the Hornet received minor cosmetic enhancements, and still closely resembled the Commodore of 1948.

The Hornet proved to be nearly invincible in stock-car racing. Despite its racing successes, sales began to languish. Hudson's competitors, using separate body-on-frame designs, could change the look of their models on a yearly basis without expensive chassis alterations, whereas the Hornet's modern, sophisticated unibody design was expensive to update, so it was essentially locked in and suffered against the planned obsolescence of the Big Three (Ford, GM and Chrysler) automakers.

A total of 35,921 Hornets were produced for 1952, with approximately 2,160 hardtops and 360 convertibles.

1953 

The 1953 model year brought minor changes to the Hudson Hornet. The front end was modified with a new grille and a non-functional air scoop hood ornament. four different body designs: two-door club coupe, Hollywood hardtop, Convertible Brougham, and a four-door sedan.