[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Diane Bell (anthropologist)

restricted women's knowledge was fabricated or that it was not part of genuine Aboriginal tradition'. As to Ngarrindjeri key witness, Dr. Doreen Kartinyeri, he wrote, 'I am not persuaded that I should reject Dr. Kartinyeri's evidence and find that she has lied about the restricted women's business'.

On 4 May 2009, 'The Meeting of the Waters', the site complex the Ngarrindjeri women had sought to protect through the courts, was registered by the State Government of South Australia. On 6 July 2010, on behalf of the SA Government, Paul Caica, Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, acknowledged von Doussa's Decision that Ngarrindjeri knowledge was a genuine part of Aboriginal tradition and apologised for the great pain and hurt to the community. Notwithstanding the von Doussa Decision, the SA Government apology and site registration, there remain commentators who hold to the opinion that the 'usual suspects again have been promulgating the cultural fabrications of the island'.

Bell became involved in this matter of gender-restricted knowledge after the Royal Commission. On the basis of her research in the SA archives and fieldwork with the women in 1996–8, Bell was convinced there was sufficient evidence to support the women's claims that there was gender-restricted knowledge in Ngarrindjeri society and that the women had told the truth.

Bell's subsequent monograph, Ngarrindjeri Wurruwarrin (1998/2014), won the NSW Premier's Gleebook Award for cultural and literary criticism in 1999. The book was also short listed for 'The Age Book of the Year' and the Queensland Premier's History Award in 1999 and the Gold Medal of the Australian Literary Society in 2000. Bell's most recent writing with Ngarrindjeri women, Kungun Ngarrindjeri Miminar Yunnan (2008) is a further contribution to collaborative research and writing and documents the impact of the contesting of cultural knowledge on the Ngarrindjeri. From 2005 to 2013, Bell lived on Ngarrindjeri lands as she researched and wrote the Connection Report for their Native Title Claim.

Creative writing 
Bell's first published novel, Evil, addresses secrets within the church and is set on the campus of a fictional American liberal arts college. Adapted by Leslie Jacobson to a play, Evil was performed for the "From Page to Stage" season on new plays at the Kennedy Center, Washington, D.C., USA, 2006 and in Adelaide, 2008. Bell's play "Weaving and Whispers" was performed at the TarraWarra Museum of Arts Biennial in 2014.

Politics 
Bell ran as an independent candidate in the 2008 Mayo by-election, caused by the resignation of former foreign minister and Liberal leader Alexander Downer. Her campaign was called Vote4Di and was supported by a campaign website. South Australian independent Senator Nick Xenophon gave support to Bell's campaign. In a field of eleven candidates and the absence of a Labor candidate, Bell finished third on a 16.3 percent primary vote, behind the Greens on 21.4 (+10.4) percent and the Liberals on 41.3 (–9.8) percent. The seat became marginal for the Liberals on a 53.0 (–4.0) two-candidate vote.

River advocate 
Bell campaigned for fresh water flows for the River Murray, Lakes Alexandrina and Albert and the Coorong. In 2007, she was a co-founder of the 'StoptheWeir' website and worked with the River, Lakes and Coorong Action Group Inc to stop the construction of a weir across the River Murray at Pomanda Island (at the point where the river enters Lake Alexandrina). She administered the "Hurry Save The Murray" website and has been a frequent speaker and commentator on environmental matters online, in the media and in preparing submissions and giving evidence to various environmental inquiries.

Works

As author
Evil: A novel Spinifex Press, Melbourne, 2005
Ngarrindjeri Wurruwarrin: A world that is, was, and will be Spinifex Press, Melbourne, 1998 (New edition 2014)
Generations: Grandmothers, Mothers and Daughters Melbourne, Penguin, 1987
Daughters of the Dreaming, First ed. Melbourne, McPheeGribble/Sydney, Allen and Unwin, 1983 (Second ed. Minneapolis, University of Minnesota Press 1993; Third ed. Melbourne, Spinifex Press 2002)
Law: The Old and the New (with Pam Ditton) Aboriginal History, Canberra, 1980