[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carnival in Flanders (film)

ll-known cinematographer for films such as A Streetcar Named Desire, Funny Girl, and Alfred Hitchcock’s Mr. & Mrs. Smith. He came over to France due to the restrictions to two-reelers, or films with a runtime of 20 minutes, in Hollywood. In France he would work on a number of Jacques Feyder’s films.

Much of the themes of the film are shown through the subtle camerawork Stradling bought to the picture. These range from lines in the set or poles separating the Duke and his wife, showing the audience the distance between the characters. In the imaginary pillaging of the town a wide shot is used to allow the viewer to take in all the destruction but also distance from the violence to keep the sarcastic nature of the sequence intact. The sequence also includes many camera movements such as pans, tilts or tracking shots to hide some of the more extreme acts that are suggested as women are being dragged away. The use of wide shots also aids in reinforcing the idea of a Flemish painting. Shots such as windmills on green pastures or all the activity happening in the town for preparation for the carnival.

Meerson envisioned a middle ground of set design between core to poetic-realism between “realism and stylization” meant to highlight the themes of the film. Totalization, the ability to show the full scope of a setting and the micro-details contained within comes from Meerson’s detailed set design. In conjunction to Stradling’s use of shots emphasizing the scale, Meerson’s set combines the architecture of the time such as the church spires to provide a large feeling of the town of Boom.

Themes 
Carnival in Flanders satirizes acts of cowardice using the women of the town to foil the men as they hide themselves against what they believe to an invading Spanish army. Other themes include the power dynamics of men and women, passivism does not necessarily mean one has to be a coward, and sexual liberation.

Reception
On the strength of its richly detailed tableaux and the confident manner in which Feyder animated his historical farce, the film enjoyed considerable success in France and elsewhere in the world. The film historian Raymond Chirat pointed to the combination of the admirable sets, the splendid costumes, the biting irony of the story, and the quality of the acting which earned the film a cascade of awards, the admiration of the critics, and the support of the public. Georges Sadoul referred to "this important work, of exceptional beauty". Writing for The Spectator in 1936, Graham Greene gave the film a good review, praising director Feyder for his ability to add "into his ribald story a touch of the genuine, and simple emotion". Comparing the film to Restoration prose, Greene claims that the "photography moves with a fine strut", and summarizes it as "an admirable film, a little obscene like most good comedies, and beautifully acted". Feyder won the Best Director Award at the 4th Venice International Film Festival in 1936.

However, even on its first appearance in 1935 this tale of occupation and cheerful collaboration also caused uneasiness, and the screenwriter Henri Jeanson deplored the "Nazi inspiration" of the film. It was indeed enthusiastically praised in Germany, and its première in Berlin (15 January 1936) took place in the presence of Joseph Goebbels. (Yet, a few days after the outbreak of war in 1939, the film was banned in Germany and the occupied countries of Europe, and Jacques Feyder and Françoise Rosay subsequently sought refuge in Switzerland.)

It was in Belgium that the film caused greatest controversy, perhaps for the unflattering portrayal of Flemish leaders in the 17th century, or in suspicion of covert references to the German occupation of Belgian territory during the First World War. At any rate, the release of the film led to brawls in cinemas in Antwerp, Ghent, and Bruges.

In the Netherlands, the release of the film was heavily protested by various fascist and right wing authoritarian groups, who viewed it as an insult to the national history. At the first showing in the Amsterdam Tuschinski Theatre, violent clashes broke out between members of fascist organizations and police.

Even two decades later (1955), its enduring reputation irked François Truffaut who wrote, in a broadside against so-called 'successful' films: "In this regard, the most hateful film is unarguably La Kermesse héroïque because everything in it is incomplete, its boldness is attenuated; it is reasonable, measured, its doors are half-open, the paths are sketched and only sketched; everything in it is pleasant and perfect."

Nevertheless, this remains probably the most popular and widely known of Jacques Feyder's films.

Awards
 1936 Grand Prix du cinéma français
 1936 4th Venice International Film Festival : Jacques Feyder, best director
 1936 National Board of Review, USA : best foreign film
 1937 New York Film Critics Circle Awards : best foreign film
 1938 Kinema Junpo Awards : best foreign film