[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Nicolas Schöffer

two cybernetic light towers do. They express the power of human intellect and interactively observe and control their environment. Since the spiral of galaxies can be deduced from the golden section, the basic principle of the structure, Schöffer regarded these towers as the symbol of the Universe.

The Cybernetic Light Tower that Schöffer designed for Paris must be categorized as sculptural architecture, which means the dividing line between sculpture and architecture has been crossed. The height of the tower varied between 324 and 347 m in the different plan versions which implies that architectural and static considerations had to be in the foreground. It was planned as a building that could be entered. Schöffer envisaged seven visitor platforms that could be reached via elevators and stairs. He planned restaurants, signalling systems, television stations, concert halls with an organ, a post office, a drugstore and other shops on the platforms. The tower should have simultaneously fulfilled the functions of an information centre, art and cultural space, lighthouse, air navigation tower, weather service tower, observation tower and media tower.

Ten large French companies took part in the project and worked out the various detailed technical plans according to Schöffer's ideas. 14 concave mirrors, 363 mirrors, 144 rotatable axes with electric motors, 2085 electronic flashes, 2250 partly coloured headlights, thermometers, hygrometers and anemometers were to be mounted on the construction of vertical and horizontal steel profiles. 15 light cannons were planned at the top of the tower, the light from which would have increased the optical dimensions of the tower by two kilometres in height.

Supporters of the project were Charles de Gaulle, President of the Fifth Republic from January 1959 to April 1969, his successor Georges Pompidou, André Malraux, Minister for Cultural Affairs, M. Prothin Director of EPAD (L'Établissement public pour l'aménagement de la région de la Défense), Marcel Jolly Director and M. van den Putten, President of the Philips company. Unfortunately, the tower has never been built because its biggest supporter, George Pompidou, died and the two oil crises shook its funding base. It is still considered as Schöffer's masterpiece.

Voom Voom 
The first disco with light show, the predecessor of discos in today's sense was Voom Voom in Saint-Tropez. It was a kind of preparation for the entertainment district of the cybernetic city. The project was accomplished by Félix Girault, the architect Paul Bertrand and Nicolas Schöffer. The interior was furnished by Schöffer and was similar to an enlarged effect box (boîte à effet). A large prism of mirrors and a light wall were used as elements of the spectacle. The walls of the room, except for the light wall, were curved and covered with mirrors. An electronic brain controlled the spectacle. Shortly after a new Voom Voom disco was built in Juan-les-Pins because of the rush of guests.

Brigitte Bardot frequented regularly the disco in Saint Tropez. One of the first video clips were shot with her accompanied by Schöffer's spectacle. Fashion designer was Paco Rabanne.

Cybernetic city 
In March 1965, the International Group for Prospective Architecture (Groupe International d'Architecture Prospective - GIAP) was founded under the chairmanship of Michel Ragon. The founding members were Nicolas Schöffer,  Ionel Schein, Yona Friedman, Paul Maymont, Georges Patrix, Michel Ragon and later the Swiss Walter Jonas also joined the group.

The group's manifesto summed up the factors because of which previous forms of housing and urban structures could not meet the needs of modern life and implied the need for future-oriented planning. They concluded that the demographic explosion, the rapid technical and scientific development, the continued increase in living standards, the socialization of time, space and art, the growing importance of free time and the accelerated speed in communication broke up the traditional structures of society.

All these considerations spurred Schöffer to design the city of the future. Like Le Corbusier, who had the opportunity to design the new city of Chandigarh on empty grounds, Schöffer began his planning from zero.

The cybernetic city is characterized by functional separation and consists of three parts that are closely connected and coordinated by the cybernetic headquarters. One part is dedicated to work and concentration, separated from it are the residential and leisure areas. Schöffer distinguishes two levels of the city: a soft city and a hard city, which together make up the cybernetic city. It's similar to our terms when we talk about software and hardware that together make up the computer.