[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cultural depictions of tuberculosis

sis ward in New York.

The permanent collection of the American Visionary Art Museum contains a life-size applewood sculpture, Recovery, of a tuberculosis sufferer with a sunken chest. It is the only known work by an anonymous patient in an English asylum who died of the disease in the 1950s.

Music

A tuberculosis theme appears in Carl Michael Bellman's 1790 Fredman's Epistles, where the character Movitz catches the disease: Epistle no. 30, "Till fader Movitz, under dess sjukdom, lungsoten. Elegi" ("To father Movitz, during his illness, consumption. An elegy"), has the lines Movitz, din Lungsot, den drar dig i grafven ("Movitz, your consumption is taking you to the grave"). It appears, too, in American blues music. Jimmie Rodgers (1897–1933), country music singer, sang about the woes of his tuberculosis in the song "T.B. Blues" (co-written with Raymond E. Hall) which he recorded in 1931 at San Antonio, Texas. He also recorded Whippin' That Old T.B. in 1932, but ultimately died of the disease days after a New York City recording session. The tuberculosis theme is reworked in Van Morrison's song "T.B. Sheets", in which the narrator nurses a girl who is dying of tuberculosis.

Anime and manga

Tuberculosis also appears in anime and manga. For example, an early manga work by the influential author and illustrator Osamu Tezuka is named Tuberculosis. It tells the tale of a boy and his uncle who shrink to microscopic scale to fight the disease inside a child's body.

Video games

Tuberculosis plays a major role in the 2018 western video game Red Dead Redemption 2. In the game, the protagonist Arthur Morgan contracts the disease after an altercation with a diseased farmer, giving him only a short time to live following his diagnosis. Faced with his own mortality, he becomes more conscious of his actions and tries to better himself in the time he has left, doing his best to give the remaining members of the van der Linde gang an opportunity at a better life following his death, all the while seeking redemption for his past behaviour.

See also
 List of tuberculosis victims
 Human interactions with microbes

Notes

References

Art
Tuberculosis in fiction