[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Va'etchanan

ll not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it for yourself." And the Mekhilta reasoned that just as in  the word "covet" applies only to prohibit the carrying out of one's desire into practice, so also  (20:14 in NJSP) prohibits only the carrying out of one's desire into practice.

The Mekhilta of Rabbi Simeon distinguished the prohibition of  (20:14 in NJSP), "You shall not covet," from that of  (5:18 in NJPS), "neither shall you desire." The Mekhilta of Rabbi Simeon taught that the differing terms mean that one can incur liability for desiring in and of itself and for coveting in and of itself.

Rabbi Isaac deduced from  (5:19 in NJPS) and  that all the Sages who arose in every generation after the Revelation at Sinai received their wisdom from that event. Rabbi Isaac read  to teach that the prophets received from the Revelation at Sinai all the messages that they were to prophesy to subsequent generations. For  does not say, "who are not here standing with us this day," but just "who are not with us this day." Rabbi Isaac taught that  thus refers to the souls that were to be created thereafter; because these souls did not yet have any substance in them, they could not yet be "standing" at Sinai. But although these souls did not yet exist, they still received their share of the Torah that day. Similarly, Rabbi Isaac concluded that all the Sages who arose in every generation thereafter received their wisdom from the Revelation at Sinai, for  (5:19 in NJPS) says, "These words the Lord spoke to all your assembly . . . with a great voice, and it went on no more," implying that God's Revelation went on no more thereafter.

Rabbi Tanchum ben Chanilai found in God's calling to Moses alone in  proof that a burden that is too heavy for 600,000—hearing the voice of God (see  (5:22 in NJPS))—can be light for one.

The Gemara cited  (5:27–28 in NJPS) to support the proposition that God approved of the decision of Moses to abstain from marital relations so as to remain pure for his communication with God. A Baraita taught that Moses did three things of his own understanding, and God approved: (1) He added one day of abstinence of his own understanding; (2) he separated himself from his wife (entirely, after the Revelation); and (3) he broke the Tables (on which God had written the Ten Commandments). The Gemara explained that to reach his decision to separate himself from his wife, Moses applied an a fortiori (kal va-chomer) argument to himself. Moses noted that even though the Shechinah spoke with the Israelites on only one definite, appointed time (at Mount Sinai), God nonetheless instructed in , "Be ready against the third day: come not near a woman." Moses reasoned that if he heard from the Shechinah at all times and not only at one appointed time, how much more so should he abstain from marital contact. And the Gemara taught that we know that God approved, because in  (5:27 in NJPS), God instructed Moses (after the Revelation at Sinai), "Go say to them, 'Return to your tents'" (thus giving the Israelites permission to resume marital relations) and immediately thereafter in  (5:28 in NJPS), God told Moses, "But as for you, stand here by me" (excluding him from the permission to return). And the Gemara taught that some cite as proof of God's approval God's statement in , "with him [Moses] will I speak mouth to mouth" (as God thus distinguished the level of communication God had with Moses, after Miriam and Aaron had raised the marriage of Moses and then questioned the distinctiveness of the prophecy of Moses).

The Sifre interpreted the “ways” of God referred to in  (as well as ; ; ; ; ; ; and ) by making reference to , “The Lord, the Lord, God of mercy and grace, slow to wrath and abundant in mercy and truth, keeping lovingkindness for thousands, forgiving transgression, offense, and sin, and cleansing . . . .” Thus the Sifre read , “All who will be called by the name of the Lord shall be delivered,” to teach that just as  calls God “merciful and gracious,” we, too, should be merciful and gracious. And just as  says, “The Lord is righteous,” we, too, should be righteous.