[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wout Brama

t time after beating NAC Breda 2–0 in the last game of the season. At the end of the 2009–10 season, Brama went on to make a total of 45 appearances and scoring once in all competitions. He also finished third place behind Douglas and Bryan Ruiz for the club's player of the year voted by supporters.

In the 2010–11 season, Brama continued to feature in the first team following an arrival of Manager Michel Preud'homme. He started the season when he started and helped the side win 1–0 win over Ajax in the Johan Cruyff Shield. Brama then set up a goal for Marc Janko, in a 3–0 win over Vitesse to give them their first league win of the season. He then started every match since the opening game of the season until he suffered a hamstring injury in late–October. After returning to the first team as a second–half substitute in a 2–1 win over Excelsior on 6 November 2010, Brama regained his first team place and this resulted in him signing a three–year contract extension in January 2011. Shortly after signing a new contract, Brama scored his first goal of the season, in a 2–1 win over Feyenoord on 30 January 2011. He later scored his second goal of the season, in a 2–1 win over VVV-Venlo on 13 March 2011. Brama also scored a goal in the final of the KNVB Cup, in a 3–1 win over Ajax. After the match, Brama said of the game: "The previous final was a disappointment for me. Now I knew for sure that I would play. I did not think back about that final, but afterwards it's a nice revenge for me. Certainly that I also had a share in the victory." At the end of the 2010–11 season, Brama went on to make a total of 48 appearances and scoring three times in all competitions.

In the 2011–12 season, Brama was linked with a move away from the club, as Fulham was keen on signing him, having signed his teammate, Bryan Ruiz. Despite the move never happened, he remained at the club and switched his position to defensive–midfield. He also became the club's vice-captain for the new season. Brama started the season well when he helped the club once again beat Ajax 2–1 in the Johan Cruyff Shield. It wasn't until on 15 October 2011 when he scored his first goal for the club, in a 4–0 win over RKC Waalwijk. Five days later, on 20 October 2011, Brama scored again in a UEFA Europa League match, in a 4–1 win over OB. He then set up two goals for Peter Wisgerhof and Ola John, in a 4–0 thrashing victory over De Graafschap on 6 November 2011. Throughout the January transfer window, Brama continued to be linked with a move away, with SV Werder Bremen interested but eventually stayed at the club. His appearance against Steaua București in the second leg of the second round of UEFA Europa League with a 1–0 win overtake the record of Kick van der Vall and Kees van Ierssel for the most appearance in European football. The following month, Brama was given a captaincy for the first time on 15 March 2012, in a 4–1 loss against Schalke 04 in second leg of the last 16 that saw them eliminated in the UEFA Europa League. Brama later captained the side on three occasions later in the season. Despite missing two matches in all competitions for the 2011–12 season, Brama went on to make a total of 50 appearances and scoring two times. At the end of the 2011–12 season, Brama hinted about his departure from the club to seek new challenges.

In the 2012–13 season, Brama was given a captaincy at the start of the season in absence of Wisgerhof, who, himself, acknowledged about Brama's captaincy. He began to found himself in a competition with newly signing Robbert Schilder at the start of the season. After suffering ankle injury in late–August, Brama continued to regain his first team place throughout the season, as well as, captain. However, from beginning of February, he was soon plagued with suspensions (twice) and injuries. After returning from suspensions and injury, Brama scored on his first appearance from the sidelines, in a 1–1 draw against NAC Breda. But his return was short–lived when he suffered a heel bone injury in training that ended his season. At the end of the 2012–13 season, Brama went on to make a total of 39 appearances and scoring once in all competitions.