[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nanjing Foreign Language School

selected among the 4,000 applicants by a computer algorithm, with high degree of public supervision. This new policy destroyed the decision power of exams, and allowed more room for other schools to select good students, but aroused serious arguments concerning the fairness for individual students.

Senior School admissions 
For students from junior high school of NFLS, enrollment qualifications are determined by a combination of standard High School Admission Examination(Zhongkao) in Nanjing and a school-held language examination. Students' combined scores of the two examinations are ranked, and the top 320 students are qualified for high school enrollment. Admissions from other junior high schools to NFLS has two options:

 Applicants take another language test different from that for on-campus students, whose score, combined with the Zhongkao score, are used to determine qualification. The language test has two sections, a paper test, and a speaking interview test. Only top 100 scorers (before 2021) will be shortlisted and interviewed for the 2nd section, the English speaking test. Then after Zhongkao, their language testing score and Zhongkao score will be added up and the top 45 candidates will be admitted. Before 2021, NFLS recruits about 45 students every year through this category, while from 2022 the number rises to 120 per year. 
 Applicants participate in a school-organized test on STEM capabilities. Only very limited number of students are admitted in this way in different subjects. This option is also shared with students from NFLS junior school.

Before 2003, the senior high school of NFLS only enrolled students from its own middle school, with a small number of elimination. Since 2003, students from other middle schools can also apply and compete for the entrance to NFLS, by taking the city's public exams and an additional English language test.

Facilities 
The school's library includes a main library and foreign language reading rooms. There is a laboratory for experiments and curriculum in STEM elective courses, including a UV spectroscope, IR spectroscope, TGA, HPLC, HP-MS, and an elemental analyzer. Engineering workshops are available to students taking selective courses or upon request, equipped with roboting facilities and 3D printers. The School Stadium has facilities for sports, including table tennis, indoor basketball, gym, badminton field, volleyball and others.

Academics 
Nanjing Foreign Language School employs the standard education system of Jiangsu Province in disciplines other than foreign languages. Students may select one from English, German, French and Japanese as their major language as early as their applications for admission. Comparing to the other languages, English is the major choice, consisting approximately 330 students in a grade. Enrollments of minor languages are controlled to be around 20 students for each language, and the admission score line in the interview vary correspondingly, as mentioned above.

Comparing with other middle schools, numbers of language lessons rise to 10 classes per week, including one class given by foreign teachers for almost every grade. Language courses in NFLS are smaller in class size than other courses, with only 20-30 students; small-size classrooms are also specially designed for such class model. For English courses, junior high school students use special textbooks instead of standard textbooks in China, while students in senior high school use  New Concept English 3.

NFLS is reputed as a highly competitive school, at least in Nanjing. As of 2019, all 19 students taking Gaokao attained scores above the first standard score; Average score in Zhongkao was 620 out of 700.

Various selective courses are available for all students. Topics range from liberal arts to STEM, from sporting to lectures, and from Olympiad training to cartoon design. Students are recommended to take 1-2 selective courses, but not as a compulsory. Some courses are certified international course programs, such as FHAO courses; others are generally school-based courses, such as STEM courses, debate, and MUN.

Olympiads 
NFLS has strong coaching resources in various fields, notably Mathematics, Physics, and CS, which contributed to a considerable number of students excelling in STEM competitions. By far, students from NFLS has won 9 gold medals in international STEM Olympiads (IPhO 1996, 2012, IChO 2008, IOI 2005, 2006, 2009, 2013, 2013, 2019). In year 2019 alone, 6 students have been selected into national Olympiad teams (IOI 1, IYPT 2, ISIJ 1, ILO 2).