[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Andriscus

ganizing a new army; however, Metellus pursued him swiftly and routed his forces before he could prepare them. Andriscus then fled to the Thracian princeling Byzes; however, Metellus managed to persuade the latter into becoming a Roman ally and handing Andriscus over as a prisoner, ending his reign.

He remained a prisoner over the next two years, while Metellus subdued any remaining Macedonian resistance, organized Macedon as a province and settled the Achaean War of 146 BC. When Metellus returned to Rome in 146 BC, he received the agnomen Macedonicus for his victory and was granted a triumph. Andriscus was brought in chains and paraded in the triumph, and later executed — the last king to reign over Macedon.

Assessment and legacy
Ancient sources are extremely hostile, not only to the origins and claims, but also of the character of Andriscus — Diodorus calls him "shot through with cruelty, greed and every base quality"; Dio and Livy call him "a man of the lowest kind". They also describe him as cruel and tyrannical; accusations of tyranny probably reflect his harsh persecutions of pro-Roman and pro-republican elements in Macedon. At the same time, it is possible that he was indeed tyrannical, especially after his victory over Thalna, and perpetrated acts of terrorism and repression against his subjects.

His main legacy was that in the aftermath of his revolt, the Romans understood the strength of anti-Roman feeling that had arisen in Macedon, and realized that the old administration could not be sustained — a thorough reorganization was necessary. Another reason why reorganization was necessary was that Andriscus' persecutions had killed many pro-Roman republicans and thoroughly disrupted the old administrative structure; it would be difficult to re-establish it. Therefore, the Senate made Macedon a Roman province, with Metellus as its first governor.

References

Notes

Citations

Sources

Primary sources

Velleius Paterculus, Roman history, Book I
Florus, Epitome, Book 1;
Livy, Ab Urbe Condita Libri, Periochae 46-50 and 51-55
Diodorus Siculus, Bibliotheca Historica, Book 32
Polybius, The Histories, Book 37
Cassius Dio, Roman History, Book 21

Secondary sources

Attribution

2nd-century BC Macedonian monarchs
Ancient Anatolian Greeks
2nd-century BC Greek people
Pretenders of Macedonia (ancient kingdom)
Impostor pretenders