[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jon Bruning

and that "I don't want it to be a legal option for my children or your option or anyone's children in this state or in this country."

Bruning left office as Nebraska Attorney General with the inauguration of his successor, Doug Peterson, on January 8, 2015.

U.S. Senate and gubernatorial elections

In 2007, Bruning entered the race for the U.S. Senate seat then held by Chuck Hagel, and raised more than $1 million for his campaign.  Later that year, however, Hagel announced that he would not seek reelection; soon thereafter, former Nebraska Governor Mike Johanns joined the race for the now-open seat. Faced with an overwhelming likelihood that Johanns would win the Republican primary, Bruning withdrew from the campaign almost a year before the election.

In late 2010, Bruning announced that he would run in the 2012 election for the U.S. Senate seat held by Democrat Ben Nelson, whose approval ratings in Nebraska had plummeted after he provided the 60th and final vote necessary to break a Republican filibuster and pass the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  In December 2011, Nelson announced that he would not seek reelection. Bruning was seen as the strong front-runner in the Republican primary race; former Attorney General and current State Treasurer Don Stenberg, favored by the conservative Tea Party movement, was seen as his strongest challenger. Bruning and Stenberg attacked one another aggressively throughout the campaign. Shortly before the election, the political action committee Ending Spending, financed by Omaha businessman Joe Ricketts, ran a television ad attacking Bruning for buying a lake house together with two executives of Lincoln student-loan firm Nelnet less than a year after Bruning, in his capacity as attorney general, had sought to waive a $1 million penalty against the company.  In the primary election, voters delivered an unexpected victory to dark-horse candidate Deb Fischer, who won 41% of the vote to Bruning's 36% and Stenberg's 19%.

In 2014, Governor Dave Heineman was barred by Nebraska's term-limits law from running for a third consecutive term. In February of that year, Bruning announced that he would seek the governorship, joining the five candidates who had already declared. His entry into the race, although it came late, made him the perceived front-runner, supplanting Omaha businessman Pete Ricketts.  In the course of the campaign, two groups that declined to name their donors purchased $1.3 million in television ads attacking Bruning, who accused Ricketts and his father Joe Ricketts of funding the groups, charges which Ricketts denied. Ricketts won the primary election, with 26.6% of the vote to Bruning's 25.5%; State Senator Beau McCoy received 20.9% and State Auditor Mike Foley 19.2%.

Electoral history

References

External links

 
 
 

1969 births
Living people
Nebraska Attorneys General
Nebraska lawyers
Republican Party Nebraska state senators
Tea Party movement activists
Politicians from Lincoln, Nebraska
University of Nebraska–Lincoln alumni