[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)

ces such as soldiers’ homes. Despite being a smaller branch compared to other parts of the Union, the women of the Northern Ohio Sanitary Commission raised nearly $1,000,000 worth of supplies to support the Union soldiers. Recognizing the efforts of women in this manner was progressive for the time.

This panel features life-sized figures of individuals including Rebecca Cromwell Rouse, a leading social-services organizer and reformer; Lucy Webb Hayes, first-lady of the United States; as well as a Catholic nun, believed to be a Sister of Charity who is seen dressing the arm of a wounded man.

Individuals Depicted (left to right, names as they appear): Mrs. John Shelly, Miss Ellen Terry, Mrs. W.M. Melhinch, Mrs. Benjamin Rouse, Miss Sara Mahan, Miss Mary C. Brayton, Mrs. J.A. Harris, Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes, and Mrs. Peter Thatcher, Unidentified Catholic Nun.

The Beginning of the War in Ohio 

Moving clockwise, the Beginning of the War panel depicts Ohio's three wartime governors, William Dennison Jr., David Tod, and John Brough in the center. Surrounding these men are major generals either from Ohio or in charge of Ohio troops. These include James A. Garfield, Jacob D. Cox, George B. McClellan, William S. Rosecrans, Rutherford B. Hayes, and Quincy A. Gilmore. In the background of the panel, there is a depiction of civilians signing up for military service on the right and, on the left, leaving for war in uniform.

Individuals Depicted: James A. Garfield, Jacob D. Cox, George B. McClellan, William Dennison, David Tod, John Brough, William S. Rosecrans, Rutherford B. Hayes, Quincy A. Gilmore.

The Emancipation Panel 
This represents two important pieces of federal legislation: the Emancipation Proclamation and the creation of the United States Colored Troops. Behind Abraham Lincoln stand four major figures from Ohio who fought for emancipation: Joshua R. Giddings, Benjamin Wade, Salmon P. Chase, and John Sherman. Abraham Lincoln, who stands at the center, is seen handing a union rifle to an African-American man named Dan R. Field who is seen being sworn into the Army. The panel faces North.

Individuals Depicted: John Sherman, Salmon P. Chase, Dan R. Field, Abraham Lincoln, Benjamin F. Wade, Joshua R. Giddings.

The Peace-Makers at City Point 
The Peace-Makers at City Point depicts an allegorical meeting between Abraham Lincoln and his generals and admirals discussing how the war would be brought to an end. Although not all of the men depicted in this panel were in the same place at the same time, the depiction was inspired by an actual council of war that occurred in March 1865 between President Lincoln, General Ulysses Grant, General William Sherman, and Admiral David Porter abroad the steamship called the River Queen near City Point, Virginia. At this meeting that Lincoln expressed his desire for a swift end to the war and magnanimous treatment of the rebels thereafter. General Sherman's aggressive posture in this panel represents his opposition to Lincoln's desires, favoring a much more aggressive strategy. Lincoln stands calmly, contrasting Sherman's stance while Grant stands off to the side.

The panel mirrors the well-known 1868 painting called The Peacemakers by George P. A. Healy.

Individuals Depicted: George A. Custer, Phillip H. Sheridan, George Crook, Ulysses S. Grant, John A. Rawlins, Abraham Lincoln, Robert T. Lincoln, Mortimer D. Leggett, Wm.T. Sherman, G.K. Warren, George G. Meade, E.O.C. Ord, David D. Porter, A.A. Humphreys

Medallions 
The bronze medallions are affixed to the inner wall above the bronze panels and depict notable Ohioans associated with the Civil War.

North Wall 
 James B. McPherson
 Edwin M. Stanton
 William Babcock Hazen

South Wall 
 Alvin Coe Voris
 John Johnson Elwell
 John Stephen Casement

East Wall 
 Alexander McDowell McCook
 James Blair Steedman
 Manning Ferguson Force

West Wall 
 Emerson Opdycke
 George Washington Morgan
 Charles A. Hartman

Notable honorees