[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh

ainability.

Center for Bangla Language and Literature

Center for Critical and Qualitative Studies 
Center for Critical and Qualitative Studies (CQS) is a research center jointly operated by University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh and University of Sussex, UK.

Center for Archaeological Studies (CAS)

Center for Advanced Theory (CAT) 
The Center aspires to be a premier institution in theoretical studies in the liberal arts and human sciences. It's offer superior research facilities in a variety of intellectual pursuits.The programs has three levels of activity: sponsoring research, providing advanced education (through workshops, seminars, public lectures, and colloquiums), and editing research publications (monographs, occasional articles, journals, and bulletins). Salimullah Khan is the director of CAT.

Center for Language Studies (CLS)

Dhaka Translation Center (DTC)

Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning (CETL)

Co-curricular activities 
Clubs are the mainstay of co-curricular life and activities. ULAB is a member of Duke of Edinburgh's Award program.

The Department of Media Studies & Journalism of ULAB also has apprenticeship programs for the students

CinemaScope 
Cinemascope, Film Apprenticeship Program of University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh (ULAB) is dedicated to inspire and train student who aim to obtain knowledge about creation and aesthetics of film production. CinePedia is a semester based film magazine, publish by CinemaScope.

ULAB TV 
ULAB TV launched on 27 June 2013, is the first campus TV channel in Bangladesh. Its stated purpose is hands-on training in television production and journalism. Run by students, it broadcasts infotainment programs and news bulletins.

The ULABian 
The ULABian is an apprenticeship programme at the Department of Media Studies and Journalism to hone real-life knowledge and skills of students so that they can work in the news media industry confidently and efficiently. Students at the programme learn the arts and crafts of journalism through hands-on practices beyond the classroom. Under the programme, a bilingual (Bangla and English) print newspaper is published once in each academic semester. The ULABian publishes content of 24 pages (12 pages for Bangla and 12 English). The size of the paper is: (14.5 x 9.5) inch.

CamBuzz 
Bangladesh's first-ever campus radio is ULAB's “Radio CamBuzz!” The objectives of ULAB Radio CamBuzz are to serve as a learning facility for radio production, broadcasting and management; and to bring the ULAB community closer through the use of this communication medium.

ShutterBugs.ULAB 
Photography apprenticeship program of Media Studies and Journalism Department.

PR 4U 
PR4U an apprenticeship programme of ULAB-MSJ, is a Public Relations platform for ULABians to improve, develop and practice advanced elements of public relations.

Animation Studio.ULAB 
Animation Studio, a campus based animation apprenticeship program.

Outreach Program

Dhaka International Mobile Film Festival (DIMFF) 
DIMFF started its journey in 2015 and gradually became an outreach program of the Department of Media Studies and Journalism of the University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh. DIMFF is the bridge that connects filmmakers to the world of storytelling by utilizing new mobile technologies.The festival promotes ‘New generation, New tools, New communication.’It is the pioneer in Bangladesh for arranging a film festival where films are exclusively shot on mobile phones.

AxisMIL 
Axis MIL is an outreach program of the Department of Media Studies and Journalism at the University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh (ULAB) that promotes Media and Information Literacy (MIL) as a lifelong learning skill among students, educators, journalists, advocates, and practitioners in a knowledge-based and media-saturated Bangladeshi society. AxisMIL one of the coordinator for South Asia for the Global Alliance for Partnerships on Media and Information Literacy (GAPMIL), a joint initiative of UNESCO and other key stakeholders to promote international cooperation to ensure that all people have access to media and information competencies.