[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yerevan Metro

tions; seven are underground of which one is a single-vault shallow level, and the rest are pylon deep-level stations. Continuing the tradition of all ex-Soviet underground systems, most of the stations are exquisitely decorated, often blending Armenian national motifs with late-Soviet architecture.

When the system opened it initially had no depot, and service bays in the reversal sidings were used to make minor repairs instead. The proper depot Charbakh was opened in 1985 as part of the second extension. In the early 1990s, the metro system had a total of 70 cars (all of them Metrovagonmash 81-717/81-714 models) forming approximately 12 three-carriage trains. However, since then the intermediate carriages were sold to the Moscow and Saint-Petersburg systems in return for overhaul repairs on the driving cars (which Charbakh has no facility or apparatus to perform).

In 2000–2001, for economic reasons, all of the intermediate 81-714 carriages stopped operating and the system currently has only 13 81-717 two-carriage trains running, (12 on the main line, one on the shuttle service).
The annual budget for Yerevan Metro in 2002 was 1 billion 440 million drams (about $2.5 million). Of this amount, about 800 million drams were financed by the State. The rest of the budget was allocated from ticket costs, trade and advertisement. A ride on the Yerevan Metro currently costs 100 drams (about 25 cents).

In 2012–2014 81-717 carriages were refurbished. After the refurbishment trains were given the same exterior and interior as the 81-71M trains in Prague.

The modernization was carried out by the Tbilisi ZREPS, the same factory that modernizes Tbilisi cars, and modernized them into the type 81-717M.

Plans

Despite the optimism of the growing city (which did reach one million in 1986), today the Metro is underfunded and does not form the main transport artery of the city. It has had practically no extensions since 1989 (albeit a small shuttle service to a single-platform station in Charbakh). In the city budget, which is still having to make provisions for the repair of the damage done in the horrendous 1988 earthquake, the metro lacks priority. The next extension will be to the Achapnyak and Nazarbekyan stations (the construction of which has been frozen since the early 1990s).

Moreover, since the Metro did not manage to connect the important residential districts before the earthquake and the economic crises that took place following the nation's declaration of independence, minibus routes have taken over as the backbone of Yerevan's urban transport, often doubling the Metro routes. In 2004, the annual ridership numbers were 12.1 million. This trend, however, has reversed in recent years as the city's congested road arteries have encouraged commuters to see the metro as a quick, clean and affordable transit alternative. As of 2016, the annual ridership of the metro had increased to 15.4 million annual passengers. By 2017, the annual ridership increased to 16.2 million passengers. By 2019, ridership further increased to 20.2 million annual passengers.

Although the current building progress is distant, there are plans for a second and third line to eventually open, forming a typical Soviet triangle design layout of six radii, intersecting in the city centre. It was reported in March 2013 that city officials were approaching banks to seek loans for an expansion of the Yerevan Metro system. In 2018, Armen Gularyan the deputy chairman of Armenia's Urban Development Committee discussed the possibility of constructing another subway station on the already existing line. This proposed stop, between the Sasuntsi David and Andranik stations, would offer direct access to the Surmalu and Petak shopping malls. It is unclear whether this proposal will be included in the new metro extension plan.

On 15 May 2019, the chief architect of Yerevan confirmed that plans are now underway to begin the expansion of the Yerevan metro. He expressed hope that the design works of the new subway station in the Ajapnyak District will be completed shortly and that construction works will launch in early 2020. Also in 2019, the Mayor of Yerevan Hayk Marutyan announced that the preliminary stages have begun to extend the metro northward to Davtashen District.

Renovation 

The Yerevan Metro was thoroughly renovated for the first time since its founding 30 years ago, with funds of about $41 million allotted by the European Union.  A drainage system construction, one of the preconditions for the underground's security will be done first. Additionally, with the assistance of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, tunnels were upgraded, metro cars were renovated and new logistical equipment was installed. The renovation was fully finished by 2012.