[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Human rights in Nigeria

eldest son or, if there are no sons, the eldest male relative of her husband. There have also been instances where the woman must return to her premarital home after refunding the bride price. The lack of sufficient property right makes these women dependent on men while single, married, or widowed.

Though the Nigerian Supreme Court has yet to formally deal with this issue, in the 2007 Nnanyelugo v. Nnanyelugo case, two brothers attempted to get the land of their deceased brother under the case that a widow has no business with the property. The ruling stated that they would no longer allow the males to take advantage of the vulnerable position of the widows and young children. There are other cases in which courts have ruled to implement the equality guaranteed underneath the constitution.

Because of the patrilineal nature of Nigerian cultures, it is often seen as justifiable to have another wife to ensure that there will be a male heir to carry the lineage of the family.  In custody decisions, women's opinions are often ignored, and decisions are usually made in men's favor.

Women in Nigeria also face maltreation from the police and the society when they go about their business. In one of the widely condemned incidents, the Police in Federal Capital Territory arrested some set of women on 27 April 2019 after it raided night clubs in the Federal Capital Territory and committed inhumane offences against them while in detention at their station. This action led to widespread condemnation by different human rights activities and calls were made for them to be released and the officers prosecuted.

Child labor and child marriage

According to the U.S. Department of Labor, 31% of Nigerian children (around 14,000,000 children) aged 5 to 14 years old are working children who engage in forced labor in various sectors. According to the International Labor Organisation, over 15 million children in Nigeria are estimated to be child labourers. According to the Department's List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor, instances of child labor have been observed in the agricultural sector where children participate in the production of cocoa, cassava, and sand, and in the mining industry where they mine, quarry, and crush gravel and granite.

Nigeria is characterized by many small farms that largely depend on family labor in the operations of the farm.  In Nigeria, most child labor is found in the informal agricultural sector.  Instead of attending school, more than 50% of children living in the rural areas of Nigeria spend more than 20 hours a week working, which is considered the point at which a child's education becomes significantly affected.

Early marriage is prevalent in Nigeria, especially amongst Muslims in the north, due to the belief that early marriage prevents promiscuity. However, the major cause of  early marriage has been attributed to poverty by Tim Braimah. Based on Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (NDHS) of 2013, 58.2 per cent of Nigerian girls get married before they turn 18 years old. Moreover, from 2014 to 2020, 16% and 43% of ladies aged 15 and 18 years of age were married respectively.

Many girls are married off by the time they are 15, and some girls are married as early as age 9.  Girls are extremely susceptible to disease and domestic violence and are restricted access to education due to the early age at which they give birth and begin caring for their children.

One popular source of legislation that was first brought forward in 1991 and became national law in 2003 is the Child Rights Act. This Act provides that in all matters involving a child, which may come before a court for adjudication; the best interest of the child is the paramount consideration. Among other factors to protect children from abuses and discrimination, Section 21 and 23 of the act made it illegal to marry off a child below the age of 18. If a husband consummates a marriage with a child, it is considered rape.

The Child Rights Act competes with sharia law in some states as well as with customs and cultural expectations in different regions. The Child Rights Act has not been enacted in 13 of Nigeria's 36 states where other cultural and religious factors are largely influencing the laws that are enacted.  Even in states with laws prohibiting child marriage, these laws have been ineffective since there remain many cases of child marriage. By the provisions of the Child Rights Act, any decision to be made in any proceeding before a court which involves a child; the best interest of the child is the paramount consideration.

Ethnic minorities