[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Francis Martin O'Donnell

du, Sorbonne, October 2018 Une famille partie avec les « Oies Sauvages » oubliée - Les comtes O'Donnell en France, ou le passage de l'ancienne chevalerie militaire à la haute fonction publique
 The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell – A Hidden Legacy, published by Academica Press LLC in London and Washington, D.C., 2018, (750 pages), endorsed by several historians and genealogists (). The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell – A Hidden Legacy (Maunsel Irish Research Series) | Academica Press .
 Globalisation and Multilateralism, based on his guest lectures in Helsinki and Berlin under the auspices of the Association of Schools of Political Studies of the Council of Europe, and published (in Russian language) by the Moscow School of Civic Education in its quarterly journal, Obschaya Tetrad, no. 3-4 (75), Moscow, 2018 () (pp. 34–51) Московская школа гражданского просвещения Глобализация и общество - (Globalization and Society) [in Russian], published in "Общая тетрадь" (Bulletin of the School of Civic Education), Moscow, 2018 Глобализация и общество - (Globalization and Society) [in Russian]
 Irish Nobility and Armigerous Families, his chapter in Actas – Il Coloquio Internacional Sobre La Nobleza (2nd International Colloquium on Nobility, Madrid 20–21 October 2017), published by the Real Asociación de Hidalgos de España, Madrid, 2019 (paperback, ).
 The Ghost of Ballyheigue Castle, published on www.academia.edu, 2019 The Ghost of Ballyheigue Castle
 An Irish Princess in Exile, published on www.academia.edu, 2019 An Irish Princess in Exile
 Early radical action required to fight Coronavirus COVID-19, published on www.academia.edu, March 2020 Early radical action required to fight Coronavirus COVID-19
 The Very Rev. Fr. Thomas O'Donnell,  C.M. (1864-1949), President of All Hallows College – A Biographical Sketch, published on www.academic.edu, April 2020 Fr Thomas O'Donnell, C.M. - A Biography
 Coronavirus and UN Reform, an article in How do we lead in an uncertain world? in the special edition of Global Policy Analysis, the flagship journal of the Nizami Ganjavi International Center, Baku, April 2020  
 No Man's Land – Selected Poetry & Art, published by Tyrconnell-Fyngal Publishing, Dublin, 2020.() No man's land : selected poetry & art / No Man's Land : Selected Poetry & Art.
 Coronavirus  - An Opportunity for Global Governance Reform, an article published in Metropole, Austria's English language magazine, Vienna, 4 April 2020 Coronavirus | An Opportunity for Global Governance Reform
 How to make the 5th of April a meaningful International Day of Conscience (in Russian), published by the School of Civic Education, under the auspices of the Association of Schools of Political Studies of the Council of Europe Как сделать 5 апреля — Международный день осознанности — по-настоящему осмысленным
 The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell – A Hidden Legacy: a note on the research behind my book, article in the annual Journal, Volume 21, 2020, published by the Genealogical Society of Ireland, Dún Laoghaire  Journal of the Genealogical Society of Ireland - Volume 21 (2020) -  by Genealogical Society of Ireland - Issuu [www.familyhistory.ie].
 The Cholera Pandemic of the 1830s, the Code Vicinal and modernization in France, published on www.academia.edu, May 2020 The Cholera Pandemic of the 1830s, the Code Vicinal and modernization in France
 Red Hugh O'Donnell – Further background on the search for his remains, published on www.academia.edu, May 2020 Red Hugh O'Donnell - Further background on the search for his remains
 The Burial Place of Red Hugh O'Donnell in the Convent of Saint Francis in Valladolid, published on www.academia.edu, June 2020 The Burial Place of Red Hugh O'Donnell In the Convent of Saint Francis in Valladolid
 'Red' Hugh O'Donnell merece ser enterrado en la Abadía de Donegal, interview with J. A. Pardal, published 7 June 2020 by El Norte de Castilla, Valladolid, Spain, 7 June 2020.  
 The Church and the United Nations in 2020 - Reflections, published on www.academia.edu, June 2020 The Church and the United Nations in 2020 - Reflections
 Donegal Abbey as a mausoleum for the  return of the remains of Red Hugh O'Donnell, Sovereign of Tyrconnell, published on www.academia.edu, June 2020 Donegal Abbey as a mausoleum for the return of the remains of Red Hugh O'Donnell, Sovereign of Tyrconnelll
 The O'Donnell Dynasty and Donegal Abbey, published on www.academia.edu, June 2020 The O'Donnell Dynasty and Donegal Abbey
 How to Honour the Heritage of Red Hugh O'Donnell, front cover lead story, Ireland's Genealogical Gazette, Vol. 1,  No.6, Genealogical Society of Ireland, June 2020  Ireland's Genealogical Gazette (June 2020) by Genealogical Society of Ireland - Issuu
 Leadership Challenges in Post-COVID-19 Recovery, published on www.academia.edu, July 2020 Leadership Challenges in Post-COVID-19 Recovery. Also published by the Association of Schools of Political Studies of the Council of Europe, in Russian as  Вызовы для лидерства в эпоху восстанов