[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maritime security operations

hey contained 11,700 kilograms of cocaine off the coast of Central America. While conducting a regular patrol the USS Gary tailed and located a small coastal freighter. After observing the crew discarding suspicious contraband overboard Gary launched a small boat to recover the suspected contraband.

Slavery also known as human trafficking in modern days is the act of forcing some type of labor or sexual act upon someone. As the years go by the number of men, women, and children being trafficking are significantly large, this is happening around the world including the United States. Human trafficking comes second to drug trafficking generating billions of dollars per year. This crime is hard to follow up due to the victim's language and fear to the traffickers and law enforcement. The Department of the Navy (DoN) and the Department of Defense (DoD) along with other offices have come together to fight and ensure that the Combating Trafficking in the Persons (CTIP) policies are properly implemented and integrated. In the month of January 2017, the SDPD was able to arrest 38 men involved with human trafficking during an undercover operation. Even though the Coast Guard and the Navy were not involved in this operation, they also have operations similar to drug trafficking.

Search and rescue missions is also considered a maritime security operation, it is one of the oldest Coast Guard missions. As the leader in the field of search and rescue missions, worldwide, to do so the coast guard keeps facilities on the East, West, and Gulf coasts. When a search and rescue(SAR) mission is being conducted, it involves cutter, aircraft, and boats. Their goal is to minimize the loss of life and injuries, to provide aid to those in need of it. Using the coordinates of the vessel in need gives the Coast Guard and an idea of where to look for. These coordinates are given by a device called a "Black Box".

An example of such operations is the involvement of the multinational coalition Combined Task Force 150, which performs Maritime Security Operations in the Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf. During the Somali Civil War, they provided anti-piracy operations along the coast of Somalia in international waters. During the 2006–2007 war, they performed a cordon along the coast to prevent the escape of Al-Qaeda operatives by sea.

References

External links 
 Maritime Security Operations United States Navy
 Maritime Security Policy Papers
 MARITIME SECURITY: NATO AND EU ROLES AND CO-ORDINATION

Military science
Naval warfare tactics