[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tom Meek

rs of the broadcasting and cable industries directly together in a day-long event for the first time. In 1998 Meek expanded his consulting practice again to include computers, networks and Web design, with an additional added emphasis on skills training and Intranet/Internet Web-based collaboration.

Meek was repeatedly cited in the 1997 United States Supreme Court decision Turner Broadcasting vs. FCC, which established the must-carry rules regarding cable carriage of broadcast television stations in the United States, where Meek represented the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), United States Department of Justice, the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB), the Association of Local Television Stations (ALTV), and the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS), among others.  Meek also produced research used by the U.S. Congress in passing the Satellite Home Viewer Act of 1988 governing the carriage of local television stations by Direct broadcast satellite providers.  Meek has also been heavily involved in the rules governing syndicated program exclusivity ("Syndex") for broadcast television and "superstations" such as WGN-TV and WTBS-TV, submitting research in the United Video case which ruled in favor of Syndex .  Meek maintains a Web page at the TVCCS site used by students and college classes in the U.S. concerning the history of must-carry and the Turner decision. 

Meek is also a frequent guest on the WUFT-FM (Gainesville, FL) program "Conner Calling", hosted by Hank Conner, and has offered personal, online and satellite presentations to technical groups, professional and trade organizations, private business, museum docents, civic groups and secondary and college audiences nationwide on the use of the Internet, communications, computers, mobile television, public service rules for broadcast television, Louis Comfort Tiffany, television ratings, journalism and the history of must-carry and the Turner case for the past twenty years.

Meek also authors two blogs on media issues, "Reflections On Media" featuring information and reviews of recent media and music subjects, and "The Video Audio Overdose Galore" highlighting music and entertainment videos from online video and audio services.  He is also the founder and moderator of CateraOwners, the world's largest owners group dedicated to the Cadillac Catera automobile, with more than 2000 members worldwide.

In 2007 Meek began authoring a weekly music events blog, "About & Out", for the Los-Angeles based music Web site LAJazz.com.

External links
 Gainesville Voice Web site
 Oyez Supreme Court Project With Text & Audio Of Turner Oral Argument & Court Opinions
 TVCCS
 CateraOwners
 Blog - Reflections On Media
 Blog - The Video Audio Overdose Galore
 Schedule for WUFT-FM "Conner Calling"
 LAJazz.com

1956 births
Living people
University of Florida alumni