[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mitchell Map

Minnesota River: Ouadebameniſsouté or R. St. Peter (reflecting the Dakota name Watpá Mnísota and the French name Rivière de St. Pierre)
 Muskegon River: Maticon R.

The map also included non-existent features, such as Isle Phelipeaux in Lake Superior, found in earlier maps by Jacques-Nicolas Bellin.

Use at the Treaty of Paris and in the Northwest Ordinance
The Mitchell Map remained the most detailed map of North America available in the later eighteenth century. Various impressions (and also French copies) were used to establish the boundaries of the new United States of America by diplomats at the 1783 Treaty of Paris that ended the American Revolutionary War. The map's inaccuracies subsequently led to a number of border disputes, such as in New Brunswick and Maine. Its supposition that the Mississippi River extended north to the 50th parallel (into British territory) resulted in the treaty using it as a landmark for a geographically impossible definition of the border in that region. It was not until 1842, when the Webster-Ashburton Treaty resolved these inconsistencies with fixes such as the one that created Minnesota's Northwest Angle, that the border between British North America and the United States was clearly drawn from the Atlantic Ocean to the Oregon Country.

Similarly, during the drafting of the Northwest Ordinance, the map's inaccuracy in depicting where an east–west line drawn through the southernmost point of Lake Michigan would intersect Lake Erie led to a long dispute over the Ohio–Michigan border that culminated in the Toledo War.

References

Osher Map Library: John Mitchell's Map which includes detailed discussions of the use of the map in Paris and the many surviving "red-line maps" and also full transcriptions of the text blocks added to the "second edition".
Library of Congress, Mitchell Map, Second impression of 1st Edition
Mitchell Family Bible, Typed transcript, Virginia Historical Society.

External links

18th-century maps and globes
History of the Thirteen Colonies
Cartographic errors