[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of St. Charles

am. Steam filled the ship, scalding many of the ship's men. Many of those not near escape points were killed. Of the roughly 175 men onboard Mound City, 105 or 125 were killed and a further 25 or 44 wounded; only 25 or 26 escaped unhurt. This shot has been described as the deadliest shot of the war.

With steam pouring out of her and badly scalded men visible on the decks, Mound City drifted downstream and ran into the riverbank near the lower battery. Fry demanded that the remaining Union sailors aboard surrender, and when this was refused, ordered his men to fire on Union sailors in the river trying to swim to safety. Several of the wounded men were killed when the Confederates opened fire. With Mound City out of the fight, St. Louis and Dunnington's guns began dueling, until Fitch signaled for the ships to cease fire. The Union infantrymen were about to storm the Confederate fortifications, and Fitch wanted to prevent accidental friendly fire. Scaling the bluffs, Fitch's men moved into a position from which to outflank the Confederate defenses. Williams attempted to have some of his men occupy Charles Belknap's house as a defensive position, but the Union men beat them to the position. After learning of this, Fry had the guns in the lower battery spiked and the position abandoned. Spiking the cannons involved driving a metal spike into the touch hole of the cannon to temporarily prevent it being capable of firing. After a short skirmish, it became clear that the Confederates would be captured if they did not retreat.

Fry ordered Dunnington to cover the retreat with his men, but Dunnington refused, noting that some of his men were unarmed and those who were had only single-shot pistols which had already been emptied at Mound City's survivors, with no time to reload. A final cannon shot was fired at St. Louis, and the Confederates then scattered with Union troops within . During the retreat, Fry was wounded and captured while trying to reach the Belknap house. In addition to Fry, 29 others were captured, although six of them were prisoners Fry had been holding on suspicion of treason. After taking the Confederate fortifications, Fitch signaled the ships. Lexington and St. Louis advanced up to where the sunken ships blocked the river, while Conestoga and Spiteful towed Mound City downstream. Union soldiers were sent into St. Charles to patrol the town, and the local civilians were warned that it would be razed if guerrilla activity occurred. As punishment for the firing on Mound City's wounded, 20 of the Confederate prisoners were placed under arrest, including Fry. The battle was over in under four hours.

Aftermath

Kilty was among those scalded on Mound City, and his wounds resulted in the loss of an arm. Lieutenant Wilson McGunnegle, commander of St. Louis, replaced him as expedition commander. The highest-ranking unhurt officer of Mound City had been unnerved by the events and was replaced by an officer from Conestoga. The 58- or 59-man replacement crew for Mound City was drawn from the 46th Indiana. Either 58 or 59 Union dead were buried in a mass grave at the lower battery, while eight Confederates were buried in St. Charles. Hindman claimed losses of six dead and one wounded. The Civil War Battlefield Guide estimates that the Union had about 160 casualties and that the Confederates lost 40. No serious casualties were suffered by the 46th Indiana during its capture of the batteries. The historian Mark K. Christ provides Confederate losses as eight killed and 24 wounded. Historian Mark Hubbs suggests that seven percent of all Union Navy battle deaths in the entire war were the result of the single catastrophic shot that struck Mound City. The Union wounded were sent back down to Memphis on Conestoga. Six Confederate cannons had been captured on the field. Four were sent to Memphis, and the two 32-pounders were spiked and dumped into the river. The Union troops destroyed the Confederate fortifications after the battle.