[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Adlington Hall

Adlington Hall is a country house near Adlington, Cheshire. The oldest part of the existing building, the Great Hall, was constructed between 1480 and 1505; the east wing was added in 1581. The Legh family has lived in the hall and in previous buildings on the same site since the early 14th century.  After the house was occupied by Parliamentary forces during the Civil War, changes were made to the north wing, including encasing the Great Hall in brick, inserting windows, and installing an organ in the Great Hall.  In the 18th century the house was inherited by Charles Legh who organised a series of major changes.  These included building a new west wing, which incorporated a ballroom, and a south wing with a large portico.  It is possible that Charles Legh himself was the architect for these additions.  He also played a large part in planning and designing the gardens, woodland and parkland, which included a number of buildings of various types, including a bridge known as the Chinese Bridge that carried a summerhouse.

The hall was reconstructed and reduced in size in 1928.  The work included demolition of much of the west wing, building a screen wall to fill the gap, and removing parts of the south wing.  During the 19th and early 20th centuries the gardens, parkland and woodland became overgrown, and the condition of some of the buildings in them deteriorated.  From the middle of the 20th century, work has been undertaken to restore some of the parkland and its buildings, and to create new formal gardens near the hall.

Adlington Hall is recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade I listed building.  The stable block has been converted for modern uses; part of it is listed at Grade II*, and the rest is at Grade II.  The grounds contain eleven Grade II listed buildings, and the grounds themselves have been designated at Grade II* on the National Register of Historic Parks and Gardens.  The hall is open to the public for visits and guided tours, and parts of the building can be hired for weddings and social functions.

History
The first known building on the site was a Saxon hunting lodge for Earl Edwin.  After the Norman conquest the estate was given to Hugh Lupus, and it remained in the possession of the Norman earls until 1221, when it passed to the Crown.  Henry III granted the manor to Hugh de Corona.  Hugh's son Thomas, who had no children, granted it to his sister Ellen, who married John de Legh of Booth in the early 14th century during the reign of Edward II, after which it became the ancestral home of the Leghs of Adlington.  Originally the hall consisted of timber-framed buildings on three or four sides of a courtyard surrounded by a moat.  The Great Hall, on the north side of the courtyard, was built between 1480 and 1505 for Thomas Legh I.  The east wing and porch were added for Thomas Legh III in 1581.  During the Civil War the hall was held by Colonel Thomas Legh for the Royalists but was taken twice, in 1642 and in 1644, by the Parliamentary forces.  The hall was returned to the Leghs in 1656, and the north front was restored in 1660.  Between 1665 and 1670 the north wing was rebuilt for Thomas Legh IV. Windows were inserted and along with the Great Hall, excluding the porch, it was encased in brick.

The estate was inherited in 1739 by Charles Legh, who embarked on a major programme of reconstruction, transforming the hall "from a medium-sized Tudor house into a large Georgian manor". He built a new west wing, which contained a dining room, a drawing room, a library, and a ballroom, the last occupying the whole length of the first floor.  He then rebuilt the south wing, connecting it with the new west wing and the older Tudor east wing. At each end of the south wing was a pavilion with a canted bay on its south front.  The west pavilion contained the southern end of the ballroom, and the east pavilion housed a chapel.  During this time the stable block and other buildings were constructed in the grounds.   The architect responsible for this work is unknown, although it has been suggested that the design was by Charles himself.  A major reconstruction took place in 1928 under the direction of the architect Hubert Worthington.  Much of the west wing was demolished, removing the ballroom but retaining the drawing and dining rooms.  To avoid leaving a gap exposing the courtyard, Worthington filled it with a screen wall containing a corridor linking the west and south wings.  He decorated this with quoins, cornices and sash windows.  The projecting pavilions at the ends of the south front were also demolished. During the Second World War, parts of the Hall were used as a Services maternity ward run by St. Mary's Hospital. In the 1960s the stable block was converted into mews flats.  Between 2004 and 2009 the east wing was restored.

Architecture