[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Skene, Lord Curriehill

kland Palace, as "deer of that ilk". He said he had gout or "podagra". James VI was hunting at Hatton House in West Lothian with Sir James McConneil. Another James McConneil alias McSorley was to be knighted, possibly with the designation "of Inchgarvy". They were grandsons of Sorley Boy MacDonnell.

Regiam Majestam 
His compilation of old Scots law Regiam Majestatem is a source of the laws of Scotland previous to James I. He was granted a pension by Regent Morton for preparing a digest of laws. He also produced a Scots law dictionary, De Verborum Significatione. According to the Dictionary of National Biography, "In 1592 he was named one of a commission to examine the laws and acts of parliament, and to consider which of them should be printed, and he was finally entrusted with the preparation of the work. It was published by Robert Waldegrave on 15 May 1597, under the title 'The Lawes and Actes of Parliament maid be King James the First and his successors kings of Scotland, visied, coffected, and extracted forth of the Register,’ and on 3 June the privy council remitted to the lords of session to enforce the purchase of it by all subjects of sufficient 'substance and habilitie'."

Later life 
As a member of the Privy Council, Skene went with others to Stirling Castle in May 1603 to discuss and investigate a controversy involving Anne of Denmark who wished to take custody of her son, Prince Henry. In 1604 he bought the lands of Curriehill Castle. Curriehill is north of Currie, a village to south of Edinburgh. He took "Lord Curriehill" as his title.

He is buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard in Edinburgh. His memorial stands on the north face of the church.

Ane Account of ane Embassie, 1590
John Skene's wrote an account of his embassy to Denmark in 1590, known from a copy made by the antiquary Robert Mylne. This is in the form of a journal of events. Skene left Edinburgh with William Stewart on 9 June 1590 and rode to Berwick upon Tweed and on to London. Their secretary John Geddie spoke to William Cecil to arrange an audience with Elizabeth I of England at Greenwich Palace. On 17 June they came to court again and spoke to Christopher Hatton the Chancellor, the Treasurer (Cecil), the Admiral, Lord Cobham, and Lord Buckhurst. They also spoke to the French ambassador Jean de la Fin, seigneur de Beauvoir La Nocle. They embarked on the George Noble at Leigh on Sea, and after some difficulty sailed to Heligoland and Stade, then crossed the Elbe into Holstein.

On his return, in London, they stayed at an inn on Gracechurch Street. Skene got an appointment with William Cecil, who received him lying on his bed at Cecil House, because he was old and weary. Skene told him details of his negotiations in Denmark, Germany, and the Low Countries. The next day he went with Cecil to Somerset House and waited in the Chamber of Presence until the queen came out at 11 o'clock on her way to Richmond Palace. Skene then went to York House in Westminster and met the French ambassadors Beauvais and Henri de la Tour, Viscount of Turenne.

Family
He was married to Helen Somerville of Cambusnethan. Their children included;
 Catherine Skene, who married Alexander Hay, Lord Fosterseat.
 Jane Skene, who married Sir William Scott of Ardross, their daughter Euphemia Scott married William Cochrane and was Countess of Dundonald.
 Euphemia Skene, married Sir Robert Richardson of Pencaitland.
 Margaret Skene, married Robert Learmonth, a son of George Learmonth of Balcomie.
 James Skene, Lord Curriehill (d. 15 October 1633), who married Janet Johnston.
 John Skene of Halyards, 
 Alexander Skene, who married Joneta Syms. Their son John Skene was Keeper of the Register of Hornings.
 William Skene.

Sources
 Concise Dictionary of National Biography

External links 
 
 'SKENE, SIR JOHN (SSNE 1585)', St Andrew University, The Scotland, Scandinavia and Northern European Biographical Database.

1549 births
Skene, John
Currehill
Skene, John
Ambassadors of Scotland
Ambassadors of Scotland to Denmark
Scottish legal writers
Academics of the University of St Andrews
Lord Advocates
16th-century Scottish people
17th-century Scottish people
Octavians