[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Transitional Federal Government of Somalia

White Pearl of the Indian Ocean".

State governments

Under the Transitional Federal Government, local state governments maintained some power over their affairs and maintained their own police and security forces, but were subject to the authority of the Transitional Federal Government.

Parliament

The Transitional Federal Parliament elected the President and Prime Minister, and had the authority to pass and veto laws. It was also in charge of governance and administration of Mogadishu. Each of the four major clans held 61 seats, while an alliance of minority clans held 31 seats.
 
After an alliance with the Islamic Courts Union and other Islamist groups, the Islamists were awarded 200 seats. Representatives of citizens' groups and representatives of the Somali diaspora held 75 seats. By law, at least 12% of all representatives had to be women. Members of parliament are selected through traditional clan leaders or shura councils.

Executive branch

A President was elected by Parliament. The President was head of government, and chose the Prime Minister, who would lead the cabinet.

Council of Ministers

The Cabinet, formally known as the Council of Ministers, at first comprised 42 offices, but was later slimmed down to 31 portfolios  during a period of contention in 2006. In 2010, it was further scaled down to 18 posts. The Council of Ministers was appointed by the Prime Minister.

The government posts and ministerial positions were as follows:

Judiciary

Under the Transitional Federal Government, a Supreme court based in Mogadishu was established, as well as an Appeals Court. Smaller local courts were also established. A Judicial Service Council directed all judiciary and advised the president. All Sharia courts established by the ICU were discontinued, but Islamic principles were to be upheld in TFG courts.

Education

The Ministry of Education was officially responsible for education in Somalia, with about 15% of the government's budget being spent on education. However, in practice, the education system was largely private.

In 2006, the autonomous Puntland region in the northeast was the second territory in Somalia after the Somaliland region to introduce free primary schools, with teachers receiving their salaries from the Puntland administration. As of 2007, primary schools have also seen a 28% increase in enrollment over the preceding three years.

Several universities in Somalia, including Mogadishu University, were ranked among the 100 best universities in Africa despite the harsh environment, which was hailed as a triumph for grass-roots initiatives.

Healthcare
The Ministry of Health headed the country's healthcare system. The  Minister of Health was Qamar Adan Ali. The autonomous Puntland region had its own local Ministry of Health, which is headed by Dr. Mohamed Bashir Ali Bihi, as did the Somaliland region in northwestern Somalia, with its Ministry of Health led by Osman Bile Ali.

Media
The transitional federal government had two main media outlets: Radio Mogadishu, the state-run radio station; and Somali National Television, the national television channel.

Military and police

The Transitional Federal Government's Ministry of Defense was officially responsible for the Somali National Army (SNA).

In August 2011, a TFG-Puntland cooperative agreement called for the creation of a Somali Marine Force unit, of which the already established Puntland Maritime Police Force (PMPF) would form a part.

There were also plans for the re-establishment of the Somali Air Force.

In addition, a new police force was re-established to maintain law and order. The first police academy to be built in Somalia for several years opened on 20 December 2005 at Armo, 100 kilometres south of Bosaso. The Somali police also had a criminal investigations department in Mogadishu.

The autonomous Puntland and Somaliland regions within Somalia had their own security forces.

History

The new Transitional Federal Government of Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed wished to establish authority over Somalia, and sought assistance from Ethiopian troops to forcibly seize power from the Islamic Courts Union through three years of bitter warfare.

A 2008 Human Rights Watch report called 'So Much to Fear' accused the Transitional Federal Government, while under the leadership of President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, of human rights abuses and war crimes including murder, rape, assault, and looting. The report also states that the TFG police force were implicated in arbitrary arrests of ordinary civilians in order to extort ransoms from their families.

The Transitional Federal Government officially comprised the executive branch of government, with the TFP serving as the legislative branch. The government was headed by the President of Somalia, to whom the cabinet reported through the Prime Minister. However, it was also used as a general term to refer to all three branches collectively.