[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Marin Barleti University

Marin Barleti University (UMB) () is a private institution of higher education in Albania named after the 15th-century historian/humanist, Marin Barleti, author of the historic account on the Skanderbeg epics. The university was established in 2005 by Marin Barleti Ltd, which is part of DUDAJ Group.

Its campus is in Tirana National Park and has facilities such as a sports yard and cafeteria which provide for the student's social lives.

The university offers majors and minors in fields such as information technologies, business law, marketing, international business, international relations, management, public administration, English, and social psychology. It provides library and computing and networking resources, and major campus buildings are wired to the university network.

As part of the Dudaj Group, MBU offers students the opportunity to practice their knowledge through internships or summer jobs at business activities of the group. MBU provides financial aid schemes to admitted students which can be merit based scholarships, employment schemes and awards.

History 

Marin Barleti University (MBU) was established in 2005 by Marin Barleti Ltd, which is part of DUDAJ Group. Its mission is to raise the standards of a higher level of education within Albania. It is a fully accredited higher education institution.

Board

The university is governed by a board of some of the most respected names in Albanian, including the former president of the country, Rexhep Mejdani. Part of Marin Barleti University Board includes Sabri Godo, Ermelinda Meksi, Edmond Spaho, Artan Fuga,
 Luan Omari,
and Paolo Rago.

Faculties 

The university has three main faculties: Economics, Human Sciences, and Law. The university also offers Master's degree studies as part of the graduate program. Research and professional master's degrees are offered.

Economics and Business 

Faculty of Economics and Business is divided into three departments: Department of Management, Department of Finance and Accounting, and Department of Applied Mathematics

This Faculty awards bachelor's degrees, such as manager, financier-accountant, mathematician-administrator [manager], mathematician-financier and minors in the fields of management, marketing, finance and accounting, information technology

Dean of Faculty is Prof. Dr. Jorgji Bollano.

Humanities 

Faculty of Humanities, based on a combination of credits for major subjects (30%), special and elected subjects (45%), and minor (25%), is highly recommended for students with an inclination to social studies and a willingness to work with groups in need or aspiring to undertake a political career.

Faculty of Humanities is divided into five departments: Modern Languages, Law, Political Sciences, Psychology, and Sociology.

Bachelor's degrees are offered in areas such as philologist, jurist, political scientist, psychologist, sociologist etc., with minors in modern languages (English, German, French, etc.), communication (mass media), business right, international relations, public administration, social psychology etc.

Dean of Faculty is Prof. Dr. Luan Omari.

Institutes and centres

Research and Development Institute Barleti

Center for Excellence in Teaching and Learning

Academics

Bachelor's degree 

The Faculty of Economics and Business awards four bachelor's degrees:

 manager
 financier-accountant
 mathematician-administrator [manager]
 mathematician-financier

and four minors:

 management
 marketing
 finance and accounting
 information technology

The Faculty of Humanities offers six bachelor's degrees:

 philologist of modern language (English, German, French)
 jurist of commercial right
 jurist of elected profile
 political scientist
 psychologist
 sociologist

and four minors:

 modern languages (English, German, French, ...)
 communication – mass media
 business right
 international relations
 public administration
 social psychology

Master's degree 
UMB offers research and professional master's degrees which are made up of 60 or 120 credits respectively.

 Research master's degree - 120 credits
 Professional master's degree - 90 credits
 Executive Professional master's degree - 60 credits

Economic and business oriented master's degrees:

 Financial Accounting
 Marketing and Business Management
 Banking and Financial services
 Real Estate and Insurance services 
 Leadership and Human Resources

Public Administration master's degrees

1. Public Policies and Administration
2. Leadership

Law School master's degrees

1. Public Law
2. Business Law

Psychology and Sociology Degrees

1. Psychology
2. Sociology

Communication master's degrees

1. Public Communication
2. Economic Reporting

Additional qualifications (minors)