[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Council of Europe

to this court that Europeans can bring cases if they believe that a member country has violated their fundamental rights and freedoms.

The various activities and achievements of the Council of Europe can be found in detail on its official website. The Council of Europe works in the following areas:

 Protection of the rule of law and fostering legal co-operation through some 200 conventions and other treaties, including such leading instruments as the Convention on Cybercrime, the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Conventions against Corruption and Organised Crime, the Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, and the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine.
 CODEXTER, designed to co-ordinate counter-terrorism measures
 The European Commission for the Efficiency of Justice (CEPEJ)
 Protection of human rights, notably through:
 the European Convention on Human Rights
 the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture
 the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance
 the Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings
 the Convention for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data
 the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse
 The Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence.
 social rights under the European Social Charter
 European Charter of Local Self-Government guaranteeing the political, administrative and financial independence of local authorities.
 linguistic rights under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages
 minority rights under the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities
 Media freedom under Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Convention on Transfrontier Television
 Protection of democracy through parliamentary scrutiny and election monitoring by its Parliamentary Assembly as well as assistance in democratic reforms, in particular by the Venice Commission.
 Promotion of cultural cooperation and diversity under the Council of Europe's Cultural Convention of 1954 and several conventions on the protection of cultural heritage as well as through its Centre for Modern Languages in Graz, Austria, and its North-South Centre in Lisbon, Portugal.
 Promotion of the right to education under Article 2 of the first Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights and several conventions on the recognition of university studies and diplomas (see also Bologna Process and Lisbon Recognition Convention).
 Promotion of fair sport through the Anti-Doping Convention
 Promotion of European youth exchanges and cooperation through European Youth Centres in Strasbourg and Budapest, Hungary.
 Promotion of the quality of medicines throughout Europe by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and its European Pharmacopoeia.

Support for intercultural integration through the Intercultural Cities (ICC) program. This program offers information and advice for local authorities on the integration of minorities and the prevention of discrimination.

Institutions 

The institutions of the Council of Europe are:

 The Secretary General, who is elected for a term of five years by the PACE and heads the Secretariat of the Council of Europe. Thorbjørn Jagland, the former Prime Minister of Norway, was elected Secretary General of the Council of Europe on 29 September 2009. In June 2014, he became the first Secretary General to be re-elected, commencing his second term in office on 1 October 2014.
 The Committee of Ministers, comprising the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of all 46 member states who are represented by their Permanent Representatives and Ambassadors accredited to the Council of Europe. Committee of Ministers' presidencies are held in alphabetical order for six months following the English alphabet: Turkey 11/2010-05/2011, Ukraine 05/2011-11/2011, the United Kingdom 11/2011-05/2012, Albania 05/2012-11/2012, Andorra 11/2012-05/2013, Armenia 05/2013-11/2013, Austria 11/2013-05/2014, and so on.