[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Eliseo Medina

edina turned around the "failing" local: Membership soared from 1,700 to 10,000, and then Local 2028 absorbed a far larger independent union which had been SEIU's rival for decades.

Medina and his first wife divorced in 1993. In 1995, he married widower and former UFW organizer Liza Hirsch Du Brul.

In 1996, Medina ran against token opposition for the position of international vice president on the SEIU executive board. He won, becoming first Mexican American elected to an international office at SEIU. Medina was an active vice president, overseeing many successful union organizing campaigns in the right-to-work Southwest and Deep South. He was a critical supporter of the Active Citizenship Campaign, an effort in the mid-1990s led by Miguel Contreras and others to boost Latino voting in Los Angeles County (and which led to the election of Antonio Villaraigosa as Mayor of Los Angeles in 2005). He played a critical role in SEIU's successful strike and organizing campaign at the University of Miami in 2001, engaging in a hunger strike in support of the janitors being organized there. In 2005, he brought the Latino voter project Mi Familia Vota to Arizona, where he and others led a successful effort to enact by referendum a rise in the state minimum wage. He led SEIU's successful campaign to convince the AFL-CIO to abandon its long-standing policy of opposition to illegal immigration and to support legalization of undocumented workers. Since the late 1990s, his views immigration have been largely been adopted by the American labor movement, and he was the Change to Win Federation's chief lobbyist on immigrant rights in 2006. Medina was the guiding force behind SEIU's Justice for Janitors in the 1990s and 2000s, and pushed the union to organize home healthcare workers by seeking legislative changes that would make the government the "employer of record" for these employees (allowing them to be easily organized by the tens of thousands). In 2000, he oversaw a Justice for Janitors organizing effort tied to collective bargaining negotiations that led to the largest wage increases in the history of the program, and in 2001 helped negotiate an employer neutrality and card check agreement between SEIU and the large Catholic Healthcare West hospital chain which led to thousands of new healthcare workers joining the union. As of 2006, he oversaw the activities of SEIU locals in 17 Southwestern and West Coast states. In 2010, he was unanimously elected international secretary-treasurer of the SEIU, completing the unfinished term of Anna Burger. In 2012, he was re-elected to the position.

As of 2010, Medina was an honorary chair of the Democratic Socialists of America.

Retirement and immigration reform
Medina announced on September 3 that he would resign as an executive vice president of SEIU effective October 1, 2013. He said he wished to concentrate more of his time on winning passage of immigration reform. In November and December 2013, Medina undertook a 22-day hunger strike, at the age of 67, to draw attention to the need for action on immigration reform. During his fast, Medina was visited by President Obama in a tent near the Capitol in Washington DC.

Footnotes

Bibliography
Aubry, Erin. "Conversation With Labor Ground-Breaker Eliseo Medina." Los Angeles Times. May 4, 1996.
Ferriss, Susan; Sandoval, Ricardo; and Hembree, Diana. The Fight in the Fields: Cesar Chavez and the Farmworkers Movement. New York: Harcourt Brace, 1997.
Ganz, Marshall. Why David Sometimes Wins: Leadership, Organization, and Strategy in the California Farm Worker Movement. New York: Oxford University Press, 2009.
Hammerback, John C. and Jensen, Richard Jay. The Rhetorical Career of Cesar Chavez. College Station, Tex.: Texas A&M University Press, 1998.
Levy, Jacques. Cesar Chavez: Autobiography of La Causa. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 2007.
Medina, Eliseo. "Eliseo Medina." In Hope Dies Last: Keeping the Faith in Difficult Times.  Studs Terkel, ed. New York: New Press, 2003.
Medina, Lara. Las Hermanas: Chicana/Latina Religious-Political Activism in the U.S. Catholic Church. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2004.
Mooney, Patrick H. and Majka, Theo J. Farmers' and Farm Workers' Movements: Social Protest in American Agriculture. New York: Twayne, 1995.
Mukasey, Michael Bernard. How Obama Has Mishandled the War on Terror. New York: Encounter Books, 2010.
Pawel, Miriam. "Decisions of Long Ago Shape the Union Today." Los Angeles Times. January 10, 2006.
Pawel, Miriam. "Former Chavez Ally Took His Own Path." Los Angeles Times. January 11, 2006.
Pawel, Miriam. The Union of Their Dreams: Power, Hope, and Struggle in Cesar Chavez's Farm Worker Movement. New York: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2010.
Shaw, Randy. Beyond the Fields: Cesar Chavez, the UFW, and the Struggle for Justice in the 21st Century. Berkeley, Calif.: University of California Press, 2008.
Who's Who in Labor. New York: Arno Press, 1976.