[Source: PubMed]

42. BMJ Glob Health. 2024 Jan 1;9(1):e013680. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2023-013680.

Lessons learnt from COVID-19 to reduce mortality and morbidity in the Global 
South: addressing global vaccine equity for future pandemics.

Martin R(1), Maleche A(2), Gay J(3)(4), Fatima H(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Global Health Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA 
rebecca.martin@emory.edu.
(2)Kenya Legal & Ethical Issues Network on HIV and AIDS (KELIN), Nairobi, Kenya.
(3)Global Health Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.
(4)J Gay Associates, Takoma Park, Maryland, USA.
(5)Georgia State University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

COVID-19, which killed more than 6 million people, will not be the last 
pandemic. Vaccines are key to preventing and ending pandemics. Therefore, it is 
critical to move now, before the next pandemic, towards global vaccine equity 
with shared goals, intermediate steps and long-term advocacy goals. Scientific 
integrity, ethical development, transparency, accountability and communication 
are critical. Countries can draw on lessons learnt from their response to the 
HIV pandemics, which has been at the vanguard of ensuring equitable access to 
rights-based services, to create shared goals and engage communities to increase 
access to and delivery of safe, quality vaccines. Access can be increased by: 
fostering the spread of mRNA intellectual property (IP) rights, with mRNA 
vaccine manufacturing on more continents; creating price transparency for 
vaccines; creating easily understandable, accessible and transparent data on 
vaccines; creating demand for a new international legal framework that allows IP 
rights to be waived quickly once a global pandemic is identified; and drawing on 
scientific expertise from around the world. Delivery can be improved by: 
creating strong public health systems that can deliver vaccines through the 
lifespan; creating or strengthening national regulatory agencies and independent 
national scientific advisory committees for vaccines; disseminating information 
from reliable, transparent national and subnational surveillance systems; 
improving global understanding that as more scientific data become available, 
this may result in changes to public health guidance; prioritising access to 
vaccines based on scientific criteria during an epidemic; and developing 
strategies to vaccinate those at highest risk with available vaccines.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2023-013680
PMCID: PMC10773420
PMID: 38167259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.