[Source: PubMed]

18. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2025 Mar;60 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S120-S122. doi: 
10.1002/ppul.27310. Epub 2024 Oct 28.

New advances in RSV: Is prevention attainable?

Zar HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, Red Cross War Memorial Children's 
Hospital and SA-MRC unit on Child & Adolescent Health, University of Cape Town, 
South Africa.

Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a major cause of lower respiratory tract 
infection (LRTI), hospitalization, and mortality in infants and young children 
globally. The greatest burden of severe disease and mortality occurs in 
low-middle income countries (LMICs), with large and vulnerable childhood 
populations. The highest rates of RSV-hospitalization occur in healthy-term 
infants under 3 months of age. Preterm infants, children with chronic lung 
disease of prematurity, Down's syndrome, congenital heart disease, or 
immunodeficiency also have a higher risk of severe RSV-LRTI. Early-life RSV-LRTI 
has also been associated with chronic sequelae, including recurrent LRTI, 
recurrent wheezing, asthma, and lung function impairment. A RSV pre-fusion (F) 
maternal vaccine and long-acting monoclonal antibody (nirsevimab) have been 
licensed for the prevention of RSV-LRTI in infants and young children. Studies 
show high efficacy and effectiveness particularly for preventing severe 
RSV-LRTI. Maternal RSV vaccine given at 24-36 weeks of pregnancy was effective 
in preventing RSV medically attended LRTI and severe RSV-LRTI through 6 months 
after birth in a phase 3 study conducted in 18 countries over two RSV seasons. 
Vaccination was safe with no significant difference in adverse events between 
infants born to mothers who received RSV preF vaccine compared to placebo. A 
numerical imbalance in preterm births that occurred predominantly in South 
Africa, unrelated to vaccine timing or gestational age at vaccination and 
unassociated with mortality, coincided with COVID-19 delta and omicron waves. 
Nirsevimab, given as a single dose prior or during the RSV season, had high 
efficacy in preventing RSV-LRTI hospitalization in infants in preterm and in 
full-term infants, as well as in young children with underlying conditions 
through 150 days post administration in phase 2 and 3 trials. High effectiveness 
against hospitalization or severe disease in infants and in at-risk children up 
to 2 years of age has also been reported in several countries where 
implementation has occurred. RSV-LRTI is now a preventable disease in infants 
and young children. Rapid implementation of these highly effective interventions 
has occurred in many high-income countries, but access remains very limited in 
LMICs. Access to such RSV preventive interventions is urgently needed for all 
children to strengthen child health and promote global equity.

© 2024 The Author(s). Pediatric Pulmonology published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.27310
PMCID: PMC11921062
PMID: 39466029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest.