[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arthur Lenk

zerbaijan and developing investment and exports in a number of sectors including agriculture, infrastructure and telecommunications. According to figures published by Israel's Central Bureau of Statistics, Israeli exports to Azerbaijan grew by nearly 5000 percent during Lenk's tenure as ambassador. 

Serving as the director of the Department of International Law in the Office of the Legal Adviser of Israel's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Lenk rejoined the Office of the Legal Adviser following the conclusion of his tenure as Israel's ambassador to Azerbaijan in 2009, and worked from 2010 through 2013 as the Ministry's director of the Department of International Law. He was seconded to work during 2010-2011 as a staff member on the UN Secretary-General's Panel of Inquiry on the Gaza flotilla raid.

In August 2013, he arrived in Pretoria to begin serving as Israel's ambassador to South Africa and non-resident ambassador to Lesotho and Swaziland. He submitted his credentials to the President of South Africa Jacob Zuma on 16 October 2013. He submitted his credentials to the King of Swaziland Mswati III on 27 February 2014. He submitted his credentials to the King of Lesotho Letsie III on 2 July 2015. Lenk vocally promoted trade and development opportunities for South Africa with Israel, emphasizing topics like water management, technology and agriculture as areas where Israeli innovation has positively impacted life across Africa. During the 2014 Israel-Gaza conflict Lenk played an active role in representing Israel's position in South African traditional and social media.

In June 2016, Lenk led a special Israel-South African Water Week event bringing top Israeli water management experts to South Africa to share the country's experiences in combating drought. The events, held in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban, brought water experts from the two countries together. In April 2017, Ambassador Lenk led a large Israeli trade delegation to Swaziland, for the first ever bilateral trade seminar between the two countries.

Publications
 
 
 
 
 
 
 English translation.
 Russian translation in Zerkalo Nedeli.
 Azerbaijani translation in Express.
 
 525 published a response from the Iranian Embassy on 3 October 2008.
 
 appeared in Yeni Azerbaijan (Azerbaijani).
 appeared in Express (Azerbaijani).
 appeared in Zerkalo (Russian).
 
 appeared in Yeni Azerbaijan (Azerbaijani).
 appeared in 525 (Azerbaijani). 
 appeared in Echo (Russian).
  
 appeared in Yeni Azerbaijan (Azerbaijani).
 on 7 July 2007, Majid Feyzullahi, Press Officer of the Iranian Embassy in Baku published a response to this article titled "Who is a regional threat – Iran or the Zionist regime?"
 appeared in Ayna (Azerbaijani).
 appeared in Zerkalo Nedeli (Russian).
 
 appeared in Echo in Russian on 20 or 21 December 2006.
 appeared in Ekspress in Azerbaijani on 20 or 21 December 2006.
"Hizbullah must be stopped", Yeni Azerbaycan, (Azerbaijani), Kaspiy (Russian), Kaspy (Azerbaijani), 25 July 2006

 appeared in Ekspress (Azerbaijani).
 
 
 .

External links
 Embassy of Israel, Baku, Azerbaijan
 Speech at United Nations Sixth Committee on International Terrorism, 19 October 2004
 Response of Embassy of Iran in Azerbaijan to article written by Lenk about Tehran Holocaust Denial Conference, 23 December 2006. Arthur Lenk's original article is an English translation of the article, "Iran's extreme leaders reject history", published in Echo and Ekspress newspapers, 20–21 December 2006.
 Interview with Azerbaijani Trend news service, 25 August 2006. Interview with Azerbaijani APA news service, 18 September 2008; Video interview with Trend Agency, 13 January 2009.

See also
 List of Israeli ambassadors to Azerbaijan
 Ambassadors of Israel
 Israel-Azerbaijan relations

References

1964 births
Living people
Frisch School alumni

Israeli Jews
American emigrants to Israel
Israeli lawyers
American lawyers
Israeli civil servants
Ambassadors of Israel to Azerbaijan
People from Paterson, New Jersey
Ambassadors of Israel to South Africa
Ambassadors of Israel to Lesotho
Ambassadors of Israel to Eswatini
Ambassadors of Israel to Mauritius
Azerbaijan–Israel relations