[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cross-Strait charter

ecame the first airline landing Taiwan legally after the Chinese Civil War. The reason why the earliest-departed was not the earliest-arrived is that Guangzhou, which the city is located in the southern province of Guangdong, is far closer to Taiwan than the northern Beijing.
On February 20, the last charter of the year, Hainan Airlines flight 7952 arrived Beijing Capital International Airport at 9:30pm.

Flight records
The six mainland Chinese airlines originated in three cities in mainland China: Beijing (Air China, Hainan Airlines), Shanghai (China Eastern Airlines), and Guangzhou (China Southern Airlines, Xiamen Airlines). All Air China's flight are operated by Shandong Airlines' aircraft to avoid Air China's livery which features the "Five Star Red Flag".

The Taiwanese airlines were the same as in 2003. Most Taiwanese flights departed for Guangzhou (TransAsia Airways), and Kaohsiung was mainly serviced by Uni Air.

One-Way/round-trip argument
As the charter flight was only for Taiwanese merchants returning home for the Chinese New Year, there would not be a demand to travel from Taiwan to mainland China before the New Year's Day. Neither would there be people needing to travel on the flights from mainland China to Taiwan that operated on dates after the New Year period.

In order to make sure the original purpose was not violated, in the 2003 case, the ROC government ensured that passengers could only travel one way, that meant no one was allowed to fly from Taiwan to mainland China before the festival, and no one could travel on the return flight after the festival.

However, since the 2005 charters, the ROC government later approved of passengers traveling the entire round-trip though there were still other limits.

2006 Charters
Time span: January 20, 2006 to February 13, 2006
Number of flights: 36 flights in each direction, 72 flights in total
Main target: Taiwanese residents
Cities served: PRC -- Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, Xiamen ; ROC -- Taipei, Kaohsiung
Airlines: 6 airline companies from ROC and PRC
PRC -- Air China, China Eastern Airlines, China Southern Airlines, Shanghai Airlines, Xiamen Airlines, Hainan Airlines
ROC -- China Airlines, Eva Air, Mandarin Airlines, Uni Air, TransAsia Airways, Far Eastern Air Transport
Number of passengers: To be tabulated
Features: Direct flights to and from mainland China, passing through Hong Kong Flight Information Region

Events
November 18, 2005: Vice director-general of Cross-Straits Aviation Transport Exchange Council (海峡两岸航空运输交流委员会) Pu Zhaozhou said at the news conference of the Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council that the plan for 2006 charters has been confirmed.
January 20, 2006: 07:06, China Airlines flight CI 585, the earliest-departed charter, took off at the Taipei Chiang Kai-Shek International Airport, and arrived Shanghai at around noon. The returning flight (same aircraft with new flight number - CI586) included a Taiwanese motor neurone disease patient, the 1960s singer Ye Ling (葉彩育). The ROC's Mainland Affairs Council also permitted two mainland Chinese paramedic to take the charter to assist the patient. This was also the first time for heavily injured people to be able to travel home directly across the strait for their treatment. China Airlines, especially for her, ripped six seats in a row with two left. The spare space was for her stretcher's settlement; this made Ye's way home comfortable. "My Wife couldn't make her way back to Taiwan if there had not been the charters!" her husband said appreciatively.
2006 was the first time for adding Xiamen to be a destination.

Flight details
Different from the great reactions in 2005, media and airlines took the 2006 one much less seriously. The airline operating the first-departed charter, China Airlines, did not hold any ceremony; it only saw the charter as a normal commercial flight. Quantity of news reports from both sides of the strait was less than the previous one. Only the Taiwanese Eastern Television and the mainland Chinese CCTV have had some reports on news programs.
Specially-designed aircraft was the focus of this year. Most airlines sent out their aircraft with special livery to fly the routes:
Air China used a Boeing 737-700 aircraft which registration number is B-5202 with logos and slogan, One World, One Dream, of 2008 Beijing Olympics on it.
EVA Air used an Airbus A330 aircraft, registration number B-16303, which has Hello Kitty characters painted on it. It flew the Taipei - Beijing route.
Hainan Airlines' "Happy Waves" (快樂海浪) special-painted plane operated the Beijing-Taipei flight, symbolizing the cheerful setting sail.
Far Eastern Air Transport flew to Xiamen with their painted plane "unlimited dignity", showing respect to all charter passengers.

2008 Humanitarian flights
Date: May 16, 2008

Airlines: EVA Air (Chongqing), China Airlines (Chongqing), TransAsia Airways (Chongqing), Mandarin Airlines (Chengdu)