[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Melkite Greek Catholic Eparchy of Newton

phic regions (e.g., California, New England, Michigan, Ohio, Greater New York City metropolis).  While the eparchy lists the number of parishes as 43, the additional missions and "outreaches" bring the total of Melkite communities in the U.S. to almost 50, each varying in size and level of vitality.

According to a research study published in Sociology of Religion, there were approximately 120,000 Melkites residing in the country in 1986, although only about 24,000 were formally enrolled in Melkite parishes.  In 2013 there were 24,000 Melkite Catholics in 43 parishes.  The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops reports that, as of 2018, there were 21,691 registered Melkites in the U.S., ranking it among the smallest 25% of Eastern Catholic groups.  
As of August 29, 2022, Bishop Nicholas Samra stated that there are about 36,000 registered Melkites with over 100,000 more of whom we do not know.  The number of active Melkites is considered to be significantly lower, as it the case with most other religious groups, especially highly-ethnic denominations.Hartford Institute for Religion Research  The discrepancy between a large number of canonical Melkites in the U.S. and the relatively small number of Melkite parishes, as well as decreasing numbers of attendees in many of those parishes, suggest to some that Melkites are assimilating into other denominations or, perhaps, not affiliating at all.  In fact, anecdotal evidence suggests that many Melkites whose first language is English become members of their local Roman Catholic parish.  Some Lebanese and Lebanese-American Melkites have migrated to the Maronites. Other Melkites whose first language is Arabic migrate to Greek Orthodox and Antiochian churches.  A few others, especially in larger metropolitan areas such as Los Angeles, assimilate into Arabic-speaking Mainline Protestant or Evangelical denominations.  Many, especially younger, Melkites are "Nones".

Seminary programs
In 1975, Archbishop Tawil founded a seminary program for the eparchy, after the Basilian Salvatorian Fathers -- a religious order separate from the eparchy with a superior of their own and who had originally been charged with the formation of Melkite eparchial clergy -- closed their program in Methuen, Massachusetts. Salvatorian students subsequently enrolled at Weston School of Theology, then in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Eparchial students matriculated at Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology in Brookline, Massachusetts and received supplemental instruction from eparchial clergy. Both Weston and Holy Cross were members of the Boston Theological Institute, as it was known then.

In 1976, the eparchy purchased a house in Newton Centre, Massachusetts as a residence and house of studies for its seminarians, and named it St. Gregory Seminary. Eventually, Bishop John Elya sold the complex—along with the former chancery offices and bishop's residence in West Newton—to a private developer, at which time the chancery and bishop's residence relocated to an area adjacent to the cathedral.

Following ancient Christian tradition the eparchy counts among its clergy both celibate and married priests and deacons.

Most celibate eparchial clergy study at the Byzantine Catholic Seminary of SS. Cyril and Methodius in Pittsburgh.  Most of the married clergy study at various other Catholic schools of theology prior to their presbyteral ordinations.

Other Offices and Functions

The vocation office is co-located with the Melkite mission in San Antonio, Texas

The Judicial vicar/Tribunal is co-located with St. Ignatios Church in Augusta, Georgia.

The Economos is co-located with St. Ann Church in Woodland Park, New Jersey.

Office of Educational Services provides "catechetical materials and training programs for the parishes of the eparchy."  It is, in essence, run from the Melkite community in Sacramento, California.

Sophia Press publishes liturgical and prayer books, as well as biographies, histories, and other texts of Melkite interest.

OES Publications publishes booklets for sacramental preparation and spiritual development.Sophia is the quarterly magazine of the eparchy.

The office of the eparchial Victim Assistance Coordinator (VAC) is expected to be established in 2022.

There is a periodic national convention generally hosted by a Melkite parish, the last one held in July 2022 in Rancho Mirage, CA, the first hosted by no parish.  Other eparchial groups (e.g., NAMY, see below) often hold national gatherings shortly before the national convention.  There is also an annual clergy conference, the last two cancelled during the COVID pandemic.

Lay organizations
Bishop Ignatius Ghattas founded the Order of Saint Nicholas in 1991, a regional lay order attached to the Melkite Greek Catholic Eparchy of Newton.  This program is a revitalization during Bishop Samra's tenure.