[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 24]
# List of smoking bans

ke on the outdoor property of the institutions of public education in Slovenia, penalties are dictated by internal orders of the concerned institutions.
It is illegal to smoke at some bus shelters (complex rules determine which, leading to variable compliance) and inside telephone boxes in Scotland.

Other restrictions
In some countries, such as Germany, India and Russia, earlier smoke-free regulations allowed for smoking sections in restaurants, as well as possible special rooms for use by smokers in other workplaces (though many employers prefer not to incur the costs of building and maintaining such rooms).

All public and Catholic schools in the Region of Waterloo in Ontario, Canada, prohibited smoking on school property in Autumn 1994. A province-wide smoking ban on school property was scheduled to begin for the 2007–2008 school year in British Columbia, Canada.
A tobacco fatwa was issued in Iran in 1891 and Egypt in 2000.
Australia has a federal law prohibiting the manufacture and sale of all smokeless tobacco products. The sale of oral snuff and chewing tobacco has been banned since 1989 under the Trade Practices Act 1974.
Many colleges and universities have banned smoking on campus.

International treaties
International treaties that ban smoking:

Australia, Canada and the United States banned smoking on flights between their countries on 1 March 1995.

Proposed smoke-free laws

New Caledonia is likely to introduce restrictions on smoking in public places following a 2007 25-nation global air-quality monitoring initiative.

Niue is considering banning tobacco completely, and is seeking the cooperation of Australia and New Zealand to ensure that no tobacco can be imported into the country. In 2008, a bill was introduced in outlawing both the sale of tobacco and smoking, but it is yet to be implemented.

Some Singapore citizens have launched an online campaign to support the proposal to prevent the supply of tobacco to Singaporeans born from the year 2000.

New Zealand hopes to be smoke-free in 2025. ASH New Zealand is a group of people who believe New Zealand should be smoke-free and have become popular. The Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health also are trying to promote the idea that New Zealand should be smoke-free.

In the United Kingdom, MPs successfully passed a law on 1 October 2015 banning smoking in cars with under 18s as well as stopping passengers from smoking while an under 18 is present, this law has since been withdrawn for unknown reasons. This has been further advocated by doctors and the devolved governments of Wales and Northern Ireland.

Lack of smoke-free regulation
As of 2020, several countries have no legislation restricting smoking whatsoever, including Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, and other countries in Central and West Africa.

See also
 Anti-tobacco movement in Nazi Germany
 MPOWER tobacco control
 Philip Morris v. Uruguay
 Regulation of electronic cigarettes
 Smokeasy
 TNCO ceilings
 Tobacco control
 World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control

References

External links

 Smoking bans around the world (updated)
 Interactive map on prevalence of smoking among men and women 
 Smoking ban news

Tobacco control
Lists by country
Smoking
Health-related lists