[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Greek battleship Salamis

in British service, though they suffered from significant barrel droop after around 250 shells had been fired through them, which contributed to poor accuracy after extended use. The turrets that housed the guns allowed for depression to −5° and elevation to 15°, and they were electrically operated.

There is some disagreement over the nature of the ship's intended secondary battery. According to Gardiner and Gray, the battery was to consist of twelve  /50 caliber guns, also manufactured by Bethlehem, mounted in casemates amidships, six on either side. These guns fired  projectiles at a muzzle velocity of 2,800 f/s (853 m/s). According to Norman Friedman, these twelve guns were sold to Britain after the war broke out, where they were used to fortify the Grand Fleet's main base at Scapa Flow. But Antony Preston disagrees, stating that the guns were to have been  guns ordered from the Coventry Ordnance Works. Salamiss armament was rounded out by twelve  quick-firing guns, also mounted in casemates, and five  submerged torpedo tubes.

Armor
Salamis had an armored belt that was  thick in the central section of the ship, where it protected critical areas, such as the ammunition magazines and machinery spaces. On either end of the ship, past the main battery gun turrets, the belt was decreased to  thick; the height of the belt was also decreased in these areas. The main armored deck was  in the central portion of the ship, and as with the belt armor, in less important areas the thickness was decreased to . The main battery gun turrets were protected by 9.875-inch armor plate on the sides and face, and the barbettes in which they were placed were protected by the same thickness of armor. The conning tower was lightly armored, with only  worth of protection.

Construction and cancellation

The keel for Salamis was laid down on 23 July 1913. The naval balance of power in the Aegean, however, was soon to change. The Brazilian Navy put their third dreadnought () up for sale in October 1913, and they found no shortage of countries interested in acquiring it, including Russia, Italy, Greece, and the Ottoman Empire. The British and French were also highly involved, given their interests in the Mediterranean; in November, the French agreed to back Greece with a large loan as a way of preventing Italy from acquiring the ship. Moreover, the Greek consul general in Britain claimed that the Bank of England was prepared to advance all the money needed to purchase the ship as soon as a French loan was guaranteed. Arrangements for all this took quite some time, however, and at the end of December, the Ottomans were able to secure Rio de Janeiro with a private loan from a French bank.

The purchase caused a panic in Greece, as the balance of naval power would shift to the Ottomans in the near future. The Greek government pressed AG Vulcan to finish Salamis as quickly as possible, but she could not be completed before mid-1915, by which time both of the new Ottoman battleships would have been delivered. The Greeks ordered two dreadnoughts from French yards, slightly modified versions of the French ; the first, Vasilefs Konstantinos, was laid down on 12 June 1914. As a stopgap measure, they purchased a pair of pre-dreadnought battleships from the United States:  and , which became  and , respectively. Kerr criticized this purchase as "penny-wise and pound-foolish" for ships that were "entirely useless for war", carrying a price that could have paid for a brand-new dreadnought.

The outbreak of World War I in July 1914 drastically altered the situation; the British Government declared a naval blockade of Germany in August after it entered the war. The blockade meant that the guns could not be delivered, but the ship was nevertheless launched on 11 November 1914. With no possibility of arming the ship, work was halted on 31 December 1914. In addition, manpower shortages created by the war, along with the redirection of steel production to the needs of the Army, meant that less critical projects could not be completed, especially since other warships were nearing completion and could be finished much more quickly. By this time Greece had paid AG Vulcan only £450,000. Bethlehem refused to send the main battery guns to Greece. The 14-inch guns were instead sold to the British, who used them to arm the four s.