[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sonny Cumbie

passes and 4,370 yards. After the AFL folded in 2009, Cumbie joined the San Angelo Stampede of the Indoor Football League as the head coach and director of player personnel. Cumbie then became the starting quarterback for the team and led the team to the playoffs and a playoff win.

Coaching career

Texas Tech
In 2009, Cumbie began his coaching career at Texas Tech as a graduate assistant under head coach Mike Leach where he was in charge of the defensive scout team and coaching the quarterbacks. In this role, he worked with quarterbacks Taylor Potts, Steven Sheffield, and Seth Doege. Cumbie served in this capacity for two seasons.

After Leach's departure, Tommy Tuberville was hired as the head coach for the team. He promoted Cumbie to inside receivers coach, a post held formerly by current University of Southern California head coach Lincoln Riley. One of the receivers he coached was Eric Ward.

Following the hiring of coach Kliff Kingsbury after the subsequent departure of Tommy Tuberville from Texas Tech, Cumbie was the only assistant retained by Kingsbury. Cumbie was promoted along with Eric Morris to be co-offensive coordinator prior to the start of the 2013 season. During that season, Tech would score 465 points and win the Holiday Bowl over 16th ranked Arizona State. As a team, they threw for 5,107 yards and 35 touchdowns while running for 1,593 yards (including sacks) and 19 touchdowns.

TCU
Stefan Stevenson reported that Cumbie would become the offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach at Texas Christian University (TCU) for the 2014 season. Gary Patterson hired Cumbie hoping that he would implement the popular Air raid offense at TCU that he had run at Texas Tech. This marked a shift in philosophy as TCU had played a pro-style offense before Cumbie's arrival. The move proved to be successful as TCU was in the top 3 offensively in his first 2 seasons. Cumbie interviewed in 2016 for the University of Texas offensive coordinator job, ultimately deciding to stay at TCU when he received a pay raise that made him the highest paid offensive coordinator in the country. The offense struggled in his last two seasons as opposing teams adapted to an unchanging scheme.

Texas Tech (second stint)
On December 21, 2020, Cumbie was hired and returned to Texas Tech as their offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach under head coach Matt Wells. Wells was fired on October 25, 2021, with Cumbie being named the interim head coach.

On November 24, 2021, Cumbie was retained as offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach under new head coach Joey McGuire.

Louisiana Tech
On November 30, 2021, Cumbie was named the 34th head coach at Louisiana Tech University.

Personal life
Cumbie was a color commentator for the Texas Tech Football Radio network for three seasons (2005–2008), shortly before joining the Tech coaching staff. He currently resides in Ruston, Louisiana, and is married to his wife, Tamra. Cumbie graduated from Texas Tech with a bachelor's degree in history. Tamra, who is an alumna of Texas Tech, has a master's degree in technical communication and a PhD in marriage and family therapy. They have two children.

Head coaching record

See also
 List of NCAA major college football yearly passing leaders
 List of NCAA major college football yearly total offense leaders

References

External links
 Louisiana Tech profile
 Texas Tech profile

1981 births
Living people
American color commentators
American football quarterbacks
Baltimore Ravens players
Indianapolis Colts players
Los Angeles Avengers players
Louisiana Tech Bulldogs football coaches
San Angelo Stampede Express players
Texas Tech Red Raiders football coaches
Texas Tech Red Raiders football players
TCU Horned Frogs football coaches
Players of American football from Abilene, Texas
People from Snyder, Texas
Snyder High School (Texas) alumni
Coaches of American football from Texas