[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jim MacNeill

irectors of Ontario Hydro, then the largest electrical power utility in North America.  In 1990, he was asked by Per Gyllenhammar, Chief Executive of Volvo, to assist him in designing the Volvo Foundation’s Environment Prize and has served as a member (and now Chairman) of the Prize Jury ever since.

In 1994, as an advisor to Netherlands Prime Minister Ruud Lubbers, he negotiated an agreement between Mikhail Gorbachev as the Chairman of Green Cross International and Maurice Strong as the Chairman of the Earth Council to undertake the development of an Earth Charter, a code of ethical principles which has now been endorsed by over 8,000 organizations representing more than 100 million people worldwide.  In 1990, he was one of three founding members of the International Institute for Sustainable Development, an initiative of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney of Canada and Premier Gary Filmon of Manitoba, and served as Chairman between 1994 and 1999.

In 1997, MacNeill became a member and in 1999 full-time Chairman of the World Banks Independent Inspection Panel to which people affected by a Bank-financed project can appeal for an investigation of their complaints over the heads of their government and of Bank Management.  Since 2003, he has been a member of the Caspian Development Advisory Panel, an independent body commissioned by Lord John Browne, Group Chief Executive Officer of BP, to advise him on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the  Baku–Tbilisi–Ceyhan pipeline and other related BP activities in Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.

Relationship to Maurice Strong

In 2005 the New York Sun ran a front page special edition in which it reported that Jim MacNeill was a close associate of fellow Canadian Maurice Strong, and that MacNeill's career in the United Nations benefited from that relationship. Maurice Strong was a close adviser to former UN Secretary General Koffi Annan and became embroiled in what is now known as the Oil for Food Program Scandal and reportedly received millions of dollars from North Korean and Iraqi lobbyists.

Since Strong left the UN in 2005 following the scandal, there appears to be little linking the two men. However Jim MacNeill's relationship with Maurice Strong is well-documented before then - their shared background includes activities ranging from sharing high-profile awards, to sitting on the Board of Directors of the same non-profit corporation to transferring million of dollars of charity money raised by MacNeill in the US to an organization created by Strong in Canada. Strong is credited in assisting with the creation and submission of the 1987 Brundtland Report (called "Our Common Future") that would be presented to the UN General Assembly and become the basis for the 1992 Earth Summit. In 1992 when Maurice Strong launched the Earth Council Foundation (now the Earth Council Alliance) from his position as Secretary General of the U.N. Conference on Environment and Development, Jim MacNeill had a seat on the first Board of Directors. An independent auditor's report for the Earth Council Foundation's operations ending in October 31, 1993 revealed that a charity based in the United States and run by MacNeill called EcoFund '92 (now called Earth Council Foundation U.S.) had sent $1.3 million of its own funds to Maurice Strong's Earth Council Foundation in Canada, which is not a charity but a non-profit corporation. In 2002, the two were the sole recipients of the United Nations Candlelight Award, which was presented to them personally by Kofi Annan.

Awards

In 1983, he received the City of Paris' Silver Medal.
In 1984, he received the highest achievement award of his native Province of Saskatchewan.
In 1991, he received the Merit Award of the Climate Institute.
In 1991, he received the WASA Environmental Award from the King of Sweden.
In 1994, he received the Lifetime Achievement Award of Environment Canada.
In 1995, he was appointed is an Officer of the Order of Canada.
In 2002, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan presented MacNeill and his colleague Maurice Strong with the Candlelight Award for his distinguished service to the United Nations and his key role in promoting and advancing sustainable development.
In 2006 he received the Elizabeth Haub Award for environmental diplomacy.

Honours

In 1988, he received an honorary Doctorate of Laws from the University of Saskatchewan.
In 1992, he received an honorary Doctorate of Science from McGill University.
In 1993, he received an honorary Doctorate of Environmental Studies from the University of Waterloo.
In 1994, he received an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters from Lakehead University.

References

Canadian Who's Who 1997 
World Bank Inspection Panel
Caspian Development Advisory Panel 
University of Saskatchewan Engineering Alumni Wall of Distinction

1928 births
2016 deaths
Canadian environmentalists
Officers of the Order of Canada
University of Saskatchewan alumni