[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Calibre Sports

one of the largest pistol clubs in Australia. The club affiliated with IPSC and ICORE and together with Relic Custom implemented a significant sponsorship program which helped to promote both entities.

In 2003 handgun owners were hit hard by the government buyback, a result of the Monash shootings.

The National Handgun Buyback Act 2003 was signed into law on 30 June 2003. New restrictions were put in place on maximum calibre and number of shots for handguns and minimum barrel lengths for handguns.

Victoria began its handgun buyback scheme in August 2003. This impacted severely on both the club and the range.

Whilst owners were compensated for their surrendered handguns, many chose not to remain in the sport and as a result of a lengthy period of uncertainty dealers sold very few guns over the following month with many forced to close their doors.

Calibre Sports lost a significant number of members during this time. Changes to the laws made handgun ownership more complex and competitions were made compulsory.

Those dealers that remained had the option of filing a claim for compensation and Relic Custom exercised that option. It was a long drawn out process which finally saw a conclusion on 16 October 2007 when the Victorian government settled the claim by Relic Custom and advised that the range would close two weeks late on 30 October.

A club in limbo 
After the closure of the Relic Custom complex in Thomastown the club was without a home range for several years. With thanks to the generous support of the Oakleigh Pistol Club, Calibre Sports was able to continue running a monthly competition for its members, therefore allowing it to survive as a club.

All forms of venues were investigated as a possible new home range for the club until an advertisement was placed in the local paper of the Mitchell Shire seeking expressions of interest for the lease of land to build an outdoor range.

A new future for the club. 
There were a number of responses to the advertisement and a lot of inspections were conducted by the committee. Finally a suitable site was found and after a lengthy process of lease negotiations with Motorcycle Victoria an agreement was reached subject to getting approval from Victoria Police.

After further delays for planning applications with the Mitchell Shire Council, work finally began on creating a pistol range and in December 2014 Calibre Sports hosted its first club match at its new home range in Broadford.

The club has continued to make improvements to the range over the years. In 2017 there was the addition of dividing walls on the top and bottom ranges increasing the amount of stages that could be run simultaneously.

The increase in stages also increased attendances at the monthly club competitions and necessitated improvements and expansion of the car park. New club rooms were built in mid 2020 as well as shade structures on all the ranges.

Calibre Sports's Broadford range is now one of the best ranges in the state and is capable of hosting state and national level matches in various disciplines.

See also
 Shooting sports

External links
 
 

Organisations based in Melbourne
Handgun shooting sports