[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Trinity Blood

English across its networks in Southeast Asia, South Asia and South Africa, and in Spanish and Portuguese across its networks throughout Latin America, respectively. The series also aired in Malaysia on ntv7, in Australia on the Australian Cartoon Network's Adult Swim, and in Spain on Buzz Channel.

Funimation, which owns the Region 1 license for the series, gave Trinity Blood a 90-minute US theatrical release to promote the series.  The film was made by combining the first four episodes of the series. Named Trinity Blood: Genesis, the movie was released May 5, 2006 in conjunction with Anime Central in Chicago, IL, followed by a limited run in select theaters and at other anime conventions.  The series was released on DVD in six volumes with English and Japanese audio and English subtitles. Each volume is available in a regular edition, a limited edition, and as part of the value priced Viridian Collection. They have also released the complete series as a complete series box set.

The Funimation English dub of the series first premiered on Canadian television on the Razer network on July 6, 2006 and later in the United States as part of Cartoon Network's Adult Swim programming block on September 10. These dubbed episodes have also been made available on Netflix and for purchasing through iTunes, with the option to buy individual episodes or the entire series.

Reception
The first volume of the Trinity Blood manga reached the 30th spot on the Top 100 Graphic Novel sales for November 2006. Subsequent volumes have also all appeared in the top 100 spots in March, July, and November 2007.

The Trinity Blood anime series enjoyed strong television ratings when it originally aired in Japan.  Its North American debut was also considered successful.  The series is one of four FUNimation properties credited with helping the company achieve a 47.8% sales gain in 2006.

Anime News Network's Carl Kimlinger finds the series "shiny, attractive, and—on the whole—entertaining". But he adds that "given the premise (and skill of the writers) it really should have shot for pulpy thrills instead of stately political intrigue." Theron Martin says "for the series as a whole to be worth watching, though, the storytelling and character development need to improve". Melissa Harper adds it is a "slick, well animated show" but "disjointed story makes it difficult to know or care what is going on". Hyper'''s Daniel Wilks comments that the anime is "for most part rather formulaic but the series does really pick up when it comes to the action scenes which are fast, frenetic, highly creative and beautifully animated".

See also

Vampire film
List of vampire television series

References

External links

 Kadokawa's official Trinity Blood web site 
 WOWOW's official Trinity Blood anime web site 
 Official Tokyopop websites: Trinity Blood manga, Rage Against the Moon novels, Reborn on the Mars novels
 Madman Entertainment Trinity Blood manga site
 Official Kadokawa website 
 Official Adult Swim website
 Madman Entertainment series website
 FUNimation's official website
 
 

2004 manga
2005 Japanese television series endings
2005 anime television series debuts
Action anime and manga
Anime and manga based on light novels
Dark fantasy anime and manga
Funimation
Gonzo (company)
Kadokawa Dwango franchises
Kadokawa Shoten manga
Light novels
Madman Entertainment anime
Madman Entertainment manga
Novels about religion
Odex
Post-apocalyptic anime and manga
Shōjo manga
Tokyopop titles
Vampire novels
Vampires in anime and manga
Viz Media manga
Wowow original programming