[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Immigration to Mexico

he payment of fees for the following:

I. Proof of payment for receiving and examining the application of the procedure... ... MXN 1124.00 (USD 77.14 as of 12 January 2015)

II. For the issuance of the certificate giving them the status of temporary stay for four years ...... MXN 7914.00 (US$514.17)

Through Article 16 of the Ley Federal de Derechos, foreign national are exempt them from payment if it can be proven that they earn a wage at or below minimum wage. During the period that the PTRM is in effect, no fine is applied (as is the practice otherwise).

The PTRM was reenacted on 11 October 2016; eligibility was extended to undocumented migrants that entered the country before 9 January 2015. Migrants are assured that they will not be detained nor deported when inquiring for information or submitting their application at an INM office. Identification and proof of residency/entry date (such as bus or airplane tickets, utility bills, school records or expired visas) should be presented. If these proofs can not be provided, the legal testimony of two Mexicans/resident foreigners may also be accepted. The program runs until 19 December 2017.

Public opinion 
The 2019 survey found that 58% of Mexican respondents oppose immigration from Central America.

Demography 

Most foreigners in Mexico counted in the Census come from the United States or other Hispanophone countries, with smaller numbers from Europe, East Asia, and the non-Hispanophone Americas. Their numbers have been rising as the country's economy develops, and now makeup about 1% of the population.

Country of Birth

By Region

Source: INEGI Census

Documentation and condition of stay in Mexico

Temporary Resident / Permanent Resident 

Article 52 from the Mexican Immigration Laws establishes that foreigners may remain on national territory under the conditions of stay of visitor, temporary resident and permanent resident, provided that they comply with the requirements established with the law. With the Temporary Resident Card (TRT), in terms of Article 52, Section VII establishes the following:

On the other hand, the Permanent Resident Card (TRP), in terms of Article 52, Section IX establishes:

The following table shows foreign people documented with the Temporary Resident Card (TRT) and Permanent Resident Card (TRP) in the period 2021 - 2023 (January - July).

Immigrant groups in Mexico
Immigrants arrive in Mexico for many reasons, most of the documented immigrants have arrived for economic and/or work-related reasons. Many, such as executives, professionals, scientists, artists, or athletes working for either Mexican or foreign companies, arrive with secure jobs. Retirement is the main motivation for immigrants who tend to be more permanent. Aside from dual national descendants of Mexicans, naturalized Mexicans, or the undocumented, 262,672 foreign residents live on its soil. The majority of its foreign residents are from the Guatemala, followed by Africa, Spain and Haiti.

North American

American 

Mexico hosts the largest community of Americans outside the United States. As of 2022, there's an estimate of 1.6 million American immigrants in Mexico. In 2020 people from the United States made the single largest immigrant group, at 65%, followed by 4% of Guatemalans and 4% of Venezuelans.

Before the COVID-19 pandemic, people from the USA were by and large retirees, students, religious workers (Mormon missionaries, Protestant missionaries, etc.), Mexican-Americans, and spouses of Mexican citizens. A few are professors who come employed by Mexican companies to teach English, university professors and corporate employees and executives. With the advent of remote work after the COVID-19 pandemic and the soaring cost of living in the United States, many "digital nomads" have migrated to Mexico, roughly doubling the number of immigrants since 2010.

While significant numbers live in Mexico year round, some residents do not stay the whole year. Retirees may live half a year in the U.S. to keep retiree benefits. Those called "snowbirds" arrive in autumn and leave in spring. The American community in Mexico is found throughout the country, but most concentrate in the US-Mexico border cities or nearby (Tijuana, Mexicali, Matamoros, Reynosa, Nogales, Ciudad Juárez, Nuevo Laredo), the big metropolises of inland Mexico (Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey, Puebla, Toluca, Morelia, Querétaro), beach resorts (Los Cabos, Rosarito, San Carlos, Puerto Peñasco, Mazatlán, Tulúm, Puerto Morelos, Mérida, Puerto Escondido, Puerto Vallarta, Ixtapan, Manzanillo), or small towns popular among retirees (Tequila, Valle de Bravo, Tepozotlán, Malinalco, Pátzcuaro, San Miguel de Allende, Ajijic, Chapala).

Central American