[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yitzhar

to attack Palestinians and Palestinian property, and the Israeli security forces. Several students affiliated with the yeshiva were forbidden to enter the West Bank on "well-founded suspicions that these students had been involved in attacks on Arabs, including 'price tag' attacks on Arab property".

In 2003, rabbi Ginzburg who is a member of the Chabad Lubavitch Hasidic movement, was indicted for incitement to racism in his book "Tipul Shoresh" ("Root Treatment"), which contains calls for the Arabs to be expelled from Israel, and for the land to be "cleansed" of foreigners, and compares the Arabs to a cancer. Previous demands to indict Ginzburg had been rejected by Attorney General Elyakim Rubinstein in 2001, and following the 1998 publication of Ginzburg's book Baruch Hagever ("Baruch the Man"), which praised the mass murderer Baruch Goldstein. Ginzburg was offered an end to all criminal proceedings against him in return for his explicitly and publicly retracting his offensive statements about Arabs.

In January 2010, Shapira was arrested for alleged involvement in the torching of a Palestinian mosque in the village of Yasuf, after five of his students had been arrested on suspicion of torching the mosque's carpet and book closet and obstructing the investigation. Shapira, who refused to say which of his students had taken part in the attack, was released a day after his arrest.

An investigation into the book Torat HaMelech ("The King's Torah"), co-written by Shapira and rabbi Yosef Elitzur-Hershkowitz, which discusses the rules of war, and states that in certain situations, non-Jews can be killed, including babies of enemy forces "because of the future danger they may present", led to a police raid of the Od Yosef Chai yeshiva in Yitzhar. Police detained Shapira and Elitzur-Hershkowitz in Summer 2010 for questioning on suspicion of incitement to racial violence, possession of a racist text, and possession of material that incites to violence.

According to Haaretz, Israeli security service Shin Bet is urging the Education Ministry to stop funding the Od Yosef Chai Yeshiva in Yitzhar. In 2009, the yeshiva high school received NIS 468,000, and the yeshiva gedola received NIS 847,000 from the Education Ministry. The yeshiva also got NIS 707,000 from the Social Affairs Ministry for a project to rehabilitate ultra-Orthodox drop-outs, and an additional NIS 156,000 to operate a dormitory. In January 2011, it was decided not to transfer funds to the yeshiva gedola, but after political pressure was applied, the yeshiva received a letter saying funding would be restored. Od Yosef Chai, for its part, is preparing to petition the High Court of Justice if its funding is halted.

In November 2011, Israel's Education Ministry decided to withhold funds from the Od Yosef Chai yeshiva and close down the Dorshei Yehudcha Yeshiva high school. The decision was based on information received from the defense establishment of extensive involvement by students and rabbis in violent acts against Palestinian residents and Israeli security forces.

Violent incidents
The inhabitants of Yitzhar, known as hardalim (ultra-orthodox nationalists),  have a reputation as being among the most extreme Israeli settlers, and regularly clash with local Palestinian civilians. From the late 1980s through the next decade, Yitzhar youth were accused of arson at a local mosque, firing on Palestinian cars, torching Palestinian fields and olive groves, and rampaging through local villages. In 1989, two yeshiva students were convicted of aggravated assault, after a rampage led to the killing of a local 13-year-old girl, and injuries to an 82-year-old man.
The settlement is at the forefront of the settler movement's so-called "price tag" policy, which calls for attacks against Palestinians in retaliation for actions of the Israeli government against West Bank settlements. A reserve officer serving in the area, commenting on incidents where Israeli soldiers were punished or attacked for carrying out demolition orders, is on records as stating:
"You never know if a patrol in the community and its surroundings won't end with a barrage of stones", says a reserve officer who served there. "And the most irritating thing is that later on in the army, and in the community, they'll feed you with the Shabbat cakes they bring and tell you to let it be, because it's just a few psychos."