[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

ue, the third most important Israeli football competition, after a 4–1 win over Ironi Kiryat Shmona in the final game held in Netanya Stadium. On 29 April, Be'er Sheva won 2–1 Maccabi Tel Aviv in Netanya Stadium achieving the second consecutive championship with three games remaining for the season.

In the 2017–18 season, Be'er Sheva won the title of Super Cup after winning 4–2 the cup holder Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv. This season the team took part in qualifying for the UEFA Champions League and reached the playoff stage after beating Budapest Honvéd from Hungary and Ludogorets Razgrad from Bulgaria. In the playoffs, the team was eliminated against Maribor from Slovenia and as a result fell to the UEFA Europa League stage. At the end of the season the team won the fifth championship in its history, and for the third time in a row.

In the 2019–20 season, Be'er Sheva won the title of State Cup for the second time in their history.

In the 2021–22 season, Be'er Sheva won the State Cup for the second time in three years, in the final game played at Teddy Stadium in Jerusalem and ended in a 2–2 draw plus overtime and in the penalty shootout, in which the club won 3–1 with goalkeeper Omri Glazer stopping three of four kicks.

Stadium and facilities

Since its inception in 1949, the club Hapoel Be'er Sheva has played in 3 different plots, starting out playing on the soil surface at the stadium which was located in the old city.

In 1959, the municipal stadium was built and inaugurated in Be'er Sheva on 31 October 1959 in a Hapoel Be'er Sheva game against Hapoel Tel Aviv.
December 1988 ended in a major overhaul of the stadium, the contribution of Mrs. Lilly Friedman-Vasermil, and the stadium was named for Arthur Vasermil. Ms. Friedman-Vasermil perpetuated the name of her son, who was murdered in the Holocaust by the Nazis, in 1943, Majdanek extermination camp, at the age of seven.

In 1995, in honor of her portrayal of Hapoel Be'er Sheva in front of a Barcelona UEFA Cup group, the stadium was renovated and plastic seats were installed at the bleachers instead of exposed concrete.

In 2009 the rest of the seats were installed in the galleries, following the return of Hapoel Be'er Sheva Premier League.

On 30 May 2015 the last game was played in Vasermil Stadium, which increased Hapoel Be'er Sheva 4–0 on the team Beitar Jerusalem.

On 16 September 2015, Turner Stadium opened for the first time to some 4,000 fans who watched the team public show practice. The first game hosted by the stadium took place on 21 September 2015 against Maccabi Haifa, and ended with a 0–0 draw. Before the game there was a dedication ceremony for a house and the setting of mezuzot in the presence of Mayor Rubik Danilovich.

Compound Vasermil
Be'er Sheva Municipality decided during 2015 to commemorate the legendary stadium named Arthur Vasermil that carries on a meaningful story.

This compound serves mainly the youth department groups Hapoel Be'er Sheva, but sometimes even the older group.

Compound five training facilities include a field with artificial turf as required by FIFA.

In 2013 the building was inaugurated "at the Association". The project includes 750 square meters of computer rooms, professional spaces, dressing rooms, doctor's room, coaches room, an area for gatherings, logistics and other rooms with modern elements of the most advanced in the country and meets all the standards of the Israel Football Association Premier leagues. There is a possibility of building another floor to the club in the future, to continue activities such as a football academy construction project.

Fans
Hapoel Be'er Sheva fans spread throughout the country and are one of the largest audiences in Israel.

The 2012–13 season fans won the title of Be'er Sheva year's fair audience.