[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Henry M. Mathews

ureau to attract new workers to the state, expanded the coal and oil industries, improved transportation, and funded a state geological survey. His administration at large has been characterized as "an era of good feeling," due to his appointing of Republicans to office during his Democratic tenure.

Historian Mary L. Rickard, in the Calendar of the Henry Mason Mathews Letters and Papers in the State Department of Archives and History (1941),  offered a critical analysis of his administration: "At this time there was less wealth per capita in West Virginia than in 1865, the result of which had a pronounced effect upon State politics. Those highest up in the social scale held the highest political positions and the entire organization became dangerously corrupt." However, West Virginia historian Richard Fast notes that no committee to investigate any alleged scandal or mismanagement was appointed during Mathews' term.

Fellow West Virginia Governor William A. MacCorkle, in Recollections of Fifty Years of West Virginia (1928), said of him: "He was not a good come-and-take debater, but when he had prepared himself to make an oration on the issues of the day, he was splendid. His oratory was easy, smooth, perfectly balanced, his voice was splendidly modulated, his gestures were perfect, and he could make as fine an impression on a rather cultivated audience as any man in the state."

Because Mathews was the first state governor to call on federal troops in response to the Great Railroad Strike of 1877, this action has been recognized as a catalyst that would help to transform the United States National Guard.

References

Bibliography

External links 
 Biography of Henry M. Mathews
 Inaugural Address of Henry M. Mathews
 Papers of Governor Henry M. Mathews
 

1830s births
1884 deaths
Military personnel from West Virginia
Beta Theta Pi
Burials in West Virginia
Confederate States Army officers
Educators from West Virginia
Democratic Party governors of West Virginia
Mathews family of Virginia and West Virginia
People from Lewisburg, West Virginia
People of Virginia in the American Civil War
People of West Virginia in the American Civil War
University of Virginia alumni
University of Virginia School of Law alumni
Washington and Lee University School of Law alumni
Virginia lawyers
West Virginia Attorneys General
West Virginia lawyers
People from Greenbrier County, West Virginia
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American politicians
The Greenbrier people
Bourbon Democrats