[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Exposure assessment

ntact between a contaminant and an organism can occur through any route. The possible routes of exposure are: inhalation, if the contaminant is present in the air; ingestion, through food, drinking or hand-to-mouth behavior; and dermal absorption, if the contaminant can be absorbed through the skin.

Exposure to a contaminant can and does occur through multiple routes, simultaneously or at different times. In many cases the main route of exposure is not obvious and needs to be investigated carefully. For example, exposure to byproducts of water chlorination can obviously occur by drinking, but also through the skin, while swimming or washing, and even through inhalation from droplets aerosolized during a shower. The relative proportion of exposure from these different routes cannot be determined a priori. Therefore, the equation in the previous section is correct in a strict mathematical sense, but it is a gross oversimplification of actual exposures, which are the sum of the integrals of all activities in all microenvironments. For example, the equation would have to be calculated with the specific concentration of a compound in the air in the room during the time interval. Similarly, the concentration in the ambient air would apply to the time that the person spends outdoors, whereas the concentration in the food that the person ingests would be added. The concentration integrals via all routes would be added for the exposure duration, e.g. hourly, daily or annually as

where  is the initial time and  the ending time of last in the series of time periods spent in each microenvironment over the exposure duration.

Measurement of exposure

To quantify the exposure of particular individuals or populations two approaches are used, primarily based on practical considerations:

Direct approach

The direct approach measures the exposures to pollutants by monitoring the pollutant concentrations reaching the respondents.  The pollutant concentrations are directly monitored on or within the person through point of contact, biological monitoring, or biomarkers.  In a workplace setting, methods of workplace exposure monitoring are used.

The point of contact approach indicates the total concentration reaching the host, while biological monitoring and the use of biomarkers infer the dosage of the pollutant through the determination of the body burden. The respondents often record their daily activities and locations during the measurement of the pollutants to identify the potential sources, microenvironments, or human activities contributing the pollutant exposure.  An advantage of the direct approach is that the exposures through multiple media (air, soil, water, food, etc.) are accounted for through one study technique. The disadvantages include the invasive nature of the data collection and associated costs.  Point of contact is continuous measure of the contaminant reaching the target through all routes.

Biological monitoring is another approach to measuring exposure measures the amount of a pollutant within body tissues or fluids (such as blood or urine). Biological monitoring measures the body burden of a pollutant but not the source from whence it came. The substance measured may be either the contaminant itself or a biomarker which is specific to and indicative of an exposure to the contaminant. Biomarkers of exposure assessment is a measure of the contaminant or other proportionally related variable in the body.

Air sampling measures the contaminant in the air as concentration units of ppmv (parts per million by volume), mg/m3 (milligrams per cubic meter) or other mass per unit volume of air.  Samplers can be worn by workers or researchers to estimate concentrations found in the breathing zone (personal) or samples collected in general areas can be used to estimate human exposure by integrating time and activity patterns.  Validated and semi-validated air sampling methods are published by NIOSH, OSHA, ISO and other bodies.

Surface or dermal sampling measures of the contaminant on touchable surfaces or on skin.  Concentrations are typically reported in mass per unit surface area such as mg/100 cm2.

In general, direct methods tend to be more accurate but more costly in terms of resources and demands placed on the subject being measured and may not always be feasible, especially for a population exposure study.
Examples of direct methods include air sampling though a personal portable pump, split food samples, hand rinses, breath samples or blood samples.