[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# GoShogun

super-computer, counterpart to Father.
Keruna: Kernagul's stress-relief robot, mainly functioning as his personal punching bag during outbursts of anger. Typically a source of comic relief, Keruna also plays a pivotal role towards the end of the show. Renamed Clarence (v.b. Ted Layman) in Macron 1.

Destroids
Tester Robo: Appears in episode 2. Powers include an electric head laser, a 6-tube missile launcher in each pectoral, scanners, and flight.
Debiza: Appears in episode 4. Power include flight, eight ensnaring tentacles each armed with a missile launcher, a cannon hidden in the nose, and laser resistant armor.
Interception Robots: Appear in episode 5. Powers include flight, lasers from the eye, and launchable fists on wires
Castler: Appears in episode 5. Powers include flight, three head horns, abdomen homing missiles, and an ax.
Dogave: Appears in episode 6. Powers include flight, a pair of 6-tube rocket launchers on the front, an 8-tube rocket pod in each wing, and six laser cannons in the lower section.
Fire Muscat: Appears in episode 7. Powers include flight, dividing into balls, and a tail blade.
Scratchers: Appear in episode 8. Powers include flight, a pair of launchable claws, a frontal electric laser, an underside drill., and an energy cannon under each rear fin.
Diamond Mine Guardian: Appears in episode 9. Powers include flight and pelvis missiles.
Chandela: Appears in episode 10. Powers include flight, dual wing turbines that fire energy beams and can detach, underside crystal blades, electric surges, and a needle that fires lasers in the underside.
Guerilla Robots: Appear in episode 11. Powers include swimming, eye and tail lasers, and anti-metal acid upon self destructing.
Scorpia: Appear in episode 11. Powers include flight, bladed legs, and a tail napalm gun designed to plant bombs.
Docuum: Appears in episode 13. Powers include flight, a mouth laser, a pair of 9-tube missile launchers in the torso, a pair of energy cannons on each side of the body, four clawed limbs that constrict upon detachment, and a pair of drills in each retractable limb.
Spectrum: Appears in episode 14. Powers include flight, an underside searchlight that analyzes machines, gatling gun arms, a pelvis flamethrower, and electric surges.
Zyclone: Appears in episode 15. Powers include burrowing, a sword stored on the back, energy balls from the fists, and energy rings from the hands.
Missile Warrior: Appears in episode 18. Powers include flight, head lasers, a 5-tube rocket launcher for each hand, and a pair of missiles in the abdomen.
Datsuma: Appears in episode 19. Powers include flight, swimming, and a torso heat beam.
Disc Bion: Appears in episode 21. Powers include flight, underside capture rings that absorb teleportation energy, four internal capture claws, and a body tractor beam.
Doshard: Appears in episode 22. Powers include flight, forehead beams, and heat resistant armor. Was given a double sided lance called the Dosherval in the Super Robot Wars games.
Gonagurl: Appears in episode 23. Powers include flight, a Nagurl Bazooka on the back, and electric eye lasers. Was given a Nagurl Saber in the Super Robot Wars games.
Turn Flasher: Appears in episode 25. Powers include levitation, beamlar absorption, and firing lasers from its core that can control machines.

Movie Special
The GoShogun Movie, released in 1982, is a combination of episodes 20 and 17 (in that order) from the original series. It includes a summary of key events, snippets from the daily lives and background stories of the characters, and advertisements for fictional products. The closing credits show images of the main characters as children. The last of these, young Remy, would later make an appearance in The Time Étranger.