[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation

The Bureau of International Security and Nonproliferation (ISN) is a bureau within the United States Department of State responsible for managing a broad range of nonproliferation and counterproliferation functions. The bureau leads U.S. efforts to prevent the spread of weapons of mass destruction (nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons), their delivery systems, advanced conventional weapons, and related materials, technologies, and expertise. 

It was created on September 13, 2005 when the Bureau of Arms Control and the Bureau of Nonproliferation were merged. Stephen G. Rademaker was the first the Acting Assistant Secretary of State for International Security and Nonproliferation. He had been the Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Arms Control, and in February 2005 he was named the head of the Bureau for Nonproliferation pending the two bureaus' merger.

The Bureau's role within the Department of State is to spearhead efforts to promote international consensus on WMD proliferation through bilateral and multilateral diplomacy, and to address WMD proliferation threats posed by non-state actors and terrorist groups by improving physical security, using interdiction and sanctions, and actively participating in the Proliferation Security Initiative.

The bureau also coordinates the implementation of international treaties and arrangements. It seeks to work with international organizations such as the United Nations, the G7, NATO, and the International Atomic Energy Agency to reduce and eliminate threats posed by weapons of mass destruction, and to support foreign partners in their efforts.

Organization
In addition to the Assistant Secretary, the bureau is overseen by four Deputy Assistant Secretaries, who supervise thirteen unique offices.

Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Security and Nonproliferation 
Office of Congressional and Public Affairs
Office of Critical Technology Protection
Office of Policy Coordination
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Nonproliferation Policy
Biological Policy Staff
Office of Multilateral Nuclear and Security Affairs
Office of Nuclear Energy, Safety, and Security
Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Security Policy
Office of Conventional Arms Threat Reduction
Office of Counterproliferation Initiatives
Office of Missile, Biological, and Chemical Nonproliferation
Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Security and Nonproliferation Programs
Office of Cooperative Threat Reduction
Office of Export Control Cooperation
Office of Nonproliferation and Disarmament Fund
Office of Weapons of Mass Destruction Terrorism

The bureau also includes:
U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation, who leads the U.S. delegation to the Nonproliferation Treaty.
Special Representative for the Biological Weapons Convention

References

External links
 

Arms control
Nuclear proliferation
ISN
Government agencies established in 2005