[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Harsley

ere knocked out by Lincoln City. At the end of the campaign he was handed the club's Player of the Year award. The following season proved to be a disappointing one, with Macclesfield again fighting relegation. Harsley managed to make 45 league appearances, making 55 appearances in all competitions.

Port Vale
Harsley moved to League One Port Vale on a free transfer for the start of the 2006–07 season. A quiet season for both club and player, he made a total of forty appearances. Vale were relegated in the 2007–08 season, and the club's misfortune on the pitch began to depress Harsley. Though the season had its high points for Harsley as he was captain of the side and also player of the year.

Chesterfield
At the end of the season he was out of contract, and decided to move on after turning down a new deal at Vale Park and instead signed for Chesterfield. He failed to impress in 2008–09, making less than 20 appearances all told. By February 2009 he was put on the transfer list by manager Lee Richardson.

After starting the 2009–10 campaign just as poorly, he signed for Darlington on loan for three months on 26 November 2009, along with teammate Danny Hall. He played just three games for the club. He joined Conference Premier side York City on loan until the end of the season in March 2010, teaming up with his former Vale manager Martin Foyle. He made his first start in a 1–0 victory over Mansfield Town on 16 March, and scored his first York goal with the opener in a 4–0 victory over Grays Athletic. He finished the loan spell with nine appearances and one goal for York, helping them to a play-off position. Chesterfield announced that he would not be offered a new contract at the end of the season.

North Ferriby United
Harsley trialled with Northern Premier League Premier Division team North Ferriby United in July 2010 and he signed for them in August. He helped them to a play-off finish in 2010–11, though they lost out 2–0 to Colwyn Bay in the play-off semi-finals. He made 41 appearances in both league and cup games, before retiring in January 2012.

Coaching career
Harsley was appointed as Centre of Excellence co-ordinator at Scunthorpe United in January 2011. In August 2015 he began working with Steve Spooner at the Birmingham City Academy. In October 2016, Harsley was appointed as Senior Professional Development Coach at Barnsley, with the responsibility of coaching the club's under-23 team. On 6 February 2018, Harsley was named as caretaker manager at Barnsley following Paul Heckingbottom's move to Leeds United. He managed the South Yorkshire derby between the "Tykes" and Sheffield Wednesday four days later, leading the team to a 1–1 draw at Oakwell. On 16 February, José Morais was named as Barnsley's new permanent manager. On 12 June 2018, Harsley was appointed EDS manager at Manchester City. He left when his contract expired in 2020.

Harsley rejoined Birmingham City, initially as lead professional development coach, took on some first-team duties when Lee Bowyer was appointed head coach in March 2021, and was confirmed as first team development coach in June. After John Eustace took over from Bowyer, Harsley initially remained in post before leaving in August 2022 for Huddersfield Town, where he was appointed one of two assistants to head coach Danny Schofield. Following Schofield's sacking on 14 September 2022, Harsley became co-caretaker manager alongside Narcís Pèlach. Harsley reverted to his coaching role once Mark Fotheringham was appointed as manager 14 days later. On 27 November 2022, it was announced that Harsley had left Huddersfield, after Fotheringham had brought in Kenny Miller to be his new co-assistant coach.

Career statistics

Playing statistics

Managerial statistics

Honours
Scunthorpe United
Football League Third Division play-offs: 1999

Individual
Scunthorpe United F.C. Player of the Year: 1999
Northampton Town F.C. Player of the Year: 2003
Macclesfield Town F.C. Player of the Year: 2005
Port Vale F.C. Player of the Year: 2008

References

1978 births
Living people
Footballers from Scunthorpe
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Scunthorpe United F.C. players
Halifax Town A.F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Macclesfield Town F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Chesterfield F.C. players
Darlington F.C. players
York City F.C. players
North Ferriby United A.F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Northern Premier League players
English football managers
Barnsley F.C. managers
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. managers
English Football League managers
Association football coaches
Scunthorpe United F.C. non-playing staff
Birmingham City F.C. non-playing staff
Barnsley F.C. non-playing staff
Manchester City F.C. non-playing staff
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. non-playing staff