[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

ay circus clowns are". His main focus, Crăciun contends, was on lying by omission, and on formulating sentences that could mean two things at the same time. By contrast, a report compiled in March 1950 by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs characterized Pintilie as "very gifted and intelligent".

DGSP creation
Documentarist Lucia Hossu Longin argues that, while still at the Siguranța, Pintilie was partly responsible for the Tămădău framing of July 1947, which saw the political destruction, and judicial repression, of Romania's leading opposition group, the National Peasants' Party. The Romanian Kingdom was finally disestablished in the early days of 1948, when the Romanian People's Republic was proclaimed. In May of that year, "Bodnarenco Pintilie" was awarded the Order of the Star of the Republic, Second Class. The PCR also rewarded Pintilie's "faith and toughness" when he was added to the party's Central Committee on June 11. As another recognition for his merits as a communist, he was proposed for, and sent to, the Great National Assembly (MAN) in the March 1948 election. Here, he represented a People's Democratic Front list in Ialomița County, headlined by Constantin Agiu; he only served as such to November 1952. 

In tandem, Bodnăraș appointed Pintilie as head of the Securitate's General Directorate (DGSP), where he took over on August 30, 1948 (after a formal appointment on August 15). Georgescu, as Minister of Internal Affairs, simultaneously proposed Pintilie for the rank of Lieutenant General, the highest and only such office to be attained by a Securitate cadre at that time; the suggestion was approved by the MAN on August 28, 1948. The position came with "financial revenues that matched [his] devotion." Leadership of the Securitate was officially defined as "defend[ing] the democratic conquests and ensur[ing] the security of the Romanian People's Republic against the plotting of internal and external enemies." As read by Deletant, these two goals were meant, in practice, a defense of communist supremacy, the Securitate being immediately "charged with implementing the regime's policy of repression." 

Among the scholars, Liviu Pleșa argues that the appointment was part of a deliberate move to infiltrate security structures with known Soviet spies—including not just Pintilie and Bodnăraș, but also Nicolau, Nicolschi, Vladimir Mazuru, and Lucian Stupineanu. According to historian Adrian Cioroianu, several of these figures, including Pintilie, were not just reactivated spies, but also registered officers of the MGB; Neagu Cosma, at one point the head of Securitate's Counterintelligence Directorate, found that "under Pantiușa and Nicolschi, there were hundreds of other NKVD men, occupying all supervising offices, and quite a few of the executive offices". Pintilie himself credited such notions, reporting that Soviet intrusion had come to be seen as a problem by Nicolau himself, who rebelled against his handlers. He also noted that Gheorghiu-Dej never followed up on Nicolau's reports; according to Pintilie, Nicolau was punished by the Soviets "in some way that remained between them".

Pintilie, Nicolschi and Mazuru, as the very first Securitate triumvirate, were originally involved in greatly increasing the Securitate's personnel, taking on 2,600 new recruits in March 1949. At the time, Pintilie took personal pride in noting that most were working-class men, who "hadn't yet learned how to hold a pen with their hand". The trend was undermined by many resignations, or by cases in which officers never showed up for active duty. Recruitment was finally curbed in early 1950, when the biographical records submitted by the new arrivals were reconsidered. Pintilie led this effort, suggesting that "ever-greater vigilance" was required when vetting new admissions, so that "class enemies will have no way of entering our ranks, or that they be discovered just in case they do". Meanwhile, he kept informed about the round-up of former Romanian Police cadres, including old prison guards. By September 1949, 870 of them had been sent to Târgșor Prison, where they maintained fervent (but unrealistic) beliefs about a coming American liberation of Romania.