[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Government Bridge

62 gave him the power to choose the eastern terminus of the transcontinental railroad, he picked a location favorable to his former clients. The case trial ended in a hung jury, and was dismissed; the Supreme Court ruled on a subsequent suit on December 18, 1862, and the bridge remained operational.

Second bridge 1866
The first bridge only lasted until 1866, when it was considered inadequate for the ever-increasing loads carried by the railroad. It was replaced by a heavier wooden structure, which reused the original piers. All that remains of the first bridge is an elevated approach west of River Drive on the Iowa side, and a reconstructed pier on Arsenal Island. The second bridge had two decks: a lower deck for pedestrians and an upper deck for railroad traffic. In 1868, an ice storm damaged the bridge's piers and timber spans. Later that year, a tornado also severely damaged the bridge; construction crews from Chicago were able to reopen it.

Third bridge 1872

The wooden structure was replaced by an iron, twin double-deck bridge in 1872 which carried a single-track rail line and a roadway. This bridge was at a new location on the western tip of Arsenal Island, and the original bridge and rail line were abandoned. The relocation was driven by the federal government, which still owned the island and wished to redevelop it as an arsenal. The original bridge and rail line divided the property in two, and the development constraint was removed by moving the bridge to one end of the island. The federal government used this bridge for access to the railroad, giving rise to its name.

The railways used the upper deck, and wagons, livestock and pedestrians used the lower deck. This bridge was  long, and was located near the Rock Island shore. During the 1880s, it accommodated horse-drawn trolley cars and electric trolleys; this tradition was continued on the fourth bridge until 1940.

Present Government Bridge 1896

The current Government Bridge, the fourth crossing of the Mississippi in the area, was built in 1896 at the same location and used the same piers as the 1872 structure. A twin double-deck bridge which carries rail (top level) and road traffic (bottom level), it has two train tracks to eliminate what had become a rail-traffic bottleneck. The bridge was designed by Ralph Modjeski and built by the Phoenix Bridge Company, and was the first bridge designed by Modjeski. On March 2, 1895, Congress authorized the War Department to build the new bridge. A 2006 stress test indicated that the bridge used only "10 to 12 percent" of its service life, and was listed as part of a proposed rail trail.

The height restriction of 11 feet on the lower deck means that many trucks have been damaged in an attempt to cross the bridge. It has gained the nickname "Truck-eating bridge" from the incidents reported. Another nearby bridge in Davenport also has this nickname.

In 1956, a steam-powered train was brought to the Quad Cities to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the first bridge's completion. The train pulled dining cars that included dignitaries from Rock Island to Davenport. On February 22, 2006 (50 years later), a dinner was held at RiverCenter to mark the 150th anniversary of the bridge. The dinner re-enacted a similar event that was held on February 22, 1854, which celebrated the completion of the Rock Island railroad. The Quad Cities again celebrated the 150th anniversary of the bridge completion from Thursday September 14 to Sunday September 17 2006 in a festival that included "steam locomotive excursions, riverboat rides, canoe and kayak races, a story-telling festival and a unique 'ghost bridge' display".

In 1965, the bridge closed when the Davenport approach was flooded in the record-setting Upper Mississippi flood of that year. On May 2, 2019, the bridge and several others in the Quad Cities region were closed to all traffic due to severe flooding of the Mississippi and Rock Rivers and a levee breach in Davenport. The bridge was reopened on May 8. On July 10, 2019, the bridge closed for a day after a train derailed. The bridge and gates reopened a day after it closed.

See also 
List of crossings of the Upper Mississippi River
List of bridges documented by the Historic American Engineering Record in Illinois
List of bridges documented by the Historic American Engineering Record in Iowa

References

External links 

 USACE – The Rock Island Government Bridge
 Bridging the Mississippi: The Railroads and Steamboats Clash at the Rock Island Bridge
 
 
 A pictorial history of the first railroad bridge across the Mississippi River and its three successors
 Government Bridge (Arsenal Bridge)
 Government Bridge, Davenport, Iowa