[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Occupational lung disease

fused through the skin or ingested. Rapid infusion of high-dose cyanide cause cyanide poisoning. It is produced when nitroprusside is broken down into its constituents. It inhibits cells from properly utilizing oxygen by disrupting cytochrome oxidase, and can be more damaging to the brain and heart.

Cyanide is a highly toxic chemical often used in industries and in laboratories. Finger nail glue remover products contain acetonitrile and its metabolic break down produces cyanide. In some plants such as in pits of apricots, cyanide can be found as glycosides can synthesize cyanide. Smoking cigarettes is a major avenue of exposure.

Pulmonary Aspiration Syndromes 
 Deglutition is the main cause for minute food and fluid to get aspirated into the lungs. Impaired consciousness and esophageal disorders can cause deglutition.

Acute Aspiration of Gastric Content (Mendelson Syndrome): pulmonary response to aspirated content depend on the quantity and constituent of aspirated gastric content. Chemical pneumonitis is severe if aspirated content is acidic and aspirated gastric acid – pH less than 2.5 – can inflame bronchial epithelium and cause bronchiolitis, hemorrhagen, and pulmonary edema.

Chronic Aspiration of Gastric Contents: disorders of the larynx and the esophagus are major causes of chronic aspiration of gastric content – achalasia, esophageal stricture, systemic sclerosis (scleroderma), esophageal carcinoma, esophagitis, and gastro-esophageal reflux. Pulmonary aspiration can result when the lower intestinal sphincter relax and spill out gastric content into the esophagus. 

Smoking, consuming alcohol or caffeine, and the drug theophylline used in asthma patients are known to cause lower intestinal sphincter relaxation. Gastro-esophageal reflux and chronic aspiration are associated with few pulmonary disorders: asthma, chronic cough, bronchiectasis, and pulmonary fibrosis.

Difficulty swallowing, ageing, dental problems impeding proper chewing, consuming alcohol, and taking sedatives cause café coronary, obstruction of the upper airways by food particles. 

Retaining an Aspirated Foreign Body: poor clearance of aspirated material out of the tracheobronchial tree can result in acute and chronic conditions including atelectasis, post obstructive hyperinflation, acute and recurrent pneumonia, bronchiectasis, and lung abscesses. Retained aspirated foreign body can sometimes get misdiagnosed as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or lung cancer

Aspirating an Inert Material: aspirating large inert material coupled with an impaired cough can cause asphyxia 

Hydrocarbon Pneumonitis: secondary aspiration following vomiting ingested petroleum products – gasoline, kerosene, furniture polish, and other petroleum products used around home environment – can injure lungs and result in hydrocarbon pneumonitis

Lipoid Pneumonia: is a chronic disorder common among older people who have difficulty swallowing, with aspiration of oily material - mineral oil, cod liver oil, and oily nose drops - as its mains cause

Occupational environmental exposure

Arsenic
Arsenic is classified as an IARC Group 1 carcinogen and is a cause of lung cancer. Workers can be exposed to arsenic through work with some pesticides or in copper smelting.

Asbestos

Asbestos is a mineral which was extensively used in the United States to fireproof buildings and textiles, among other items, in the 1950s-1980s. Workers are frequently exposed to asbestos during demolition and renovation work, which can cause asbestosis and/or mesothelioma. Asbestos exposure can also cause pleural effusion, diffuse pleural fibrosis, pleural plaques, and non-mesothelioma lung cancer. Smoking greatly increases the lung cancer risk of asbestos exposure.

Residents and workers of asbestos mining centers such as the town of Asbest, Russia experience dangerous exposure to asbestos and asbestos dust.

BCME

BCME (Bis(chloromethyl) ether) is associated with small cell lung cancer in workers who have been exposed. Exposure can occur via direct manufacture of BCME or its presence as a byproduct.

Beryllium

Beryllium is classified as an IARC Group 1 carcinogen and can also cause interstitial lung disease. Manufacturing workers, dental technicians, machinists, jewelers, plumbers, electricians, precious metal reclamation workers, and welders are at risk for beryllium exposure.

Cadmium
Cadmium is classified as an IARC Group 1 carcinogen and it is a cause of several cancers, including lung cancer. Workers can be exposed to cadmium through welding, zinc smelting, copper smelting, lead smelting, electroplating, battery manufacture, plastics manufacture, and in alloying.

Chromium
Chromium is classified as an IARC Group 1 carcinogen and is linked to lung cancer. Workers can be exposed to chromium via welding, steel manufacturing, pigment/dye manufacturing, and electroplating.

Coal dust