[Source: PubMed]

25. Physiother Res Int. 2026 Apr;31(2):e70178. doi: 10.1002/pri.70178.

Refugees' Experiences of a Trauma-Focused Physiotherapy Program.

Nazzal M(1), Fricker I(2), Al-Qudah A(1), AbuAlhayjaa H(1), Busse M(3), Khalil 
H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, Jordan University of Science and 
Technology, Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, Irbid, Jordan.
(2)The Center for Victims of Torture, Saint Paul, Minnesota, USA.
(3)Department of Digital Health and Applied Technology Assessment, Faculty of 
Nursing, Midwifery & Palliative Care, King's College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, College of Health Sciences, QU Health, 
Qatar University, Doha, Qatar.

BACKGROUND: A considerable number of forcefully-displaced refugees experience 
conflict-related traumatic events, which can result in significant mental and 
physical health challenges such as pain, poor sleep, inability to regulate 
emotionally driven sensations of distress, and avoidance of movement. 
Consequently, these challenges may lead to musculoskeletal deconditioning, loss 
of function, and sedentary behavior. Trauma focused physiotherapy, an emerging 
area of physiotherapy practice, is used to manage the negative effects of 
traumatic events and to restore wellbeing and function. This study aimed to 
explore the perceptions of trauma-exposed refugees in a trauma-focused 
physiotherapy group intervention program.
METHODS: Using a qualitative approach, three focus groups (n = 18 clients) and 9 
individual interviews were conducted with refugees with a history of trauma 
exposure who had received trauma-focused physiotherapy services sponsored by a 
non-government organization in Jordan. Topic guides were used to facilitate the 
discussion, with an emphasis on their perceived experience of the physiotherapy 
program. All conversations were audio recorded and then transcribed verbatim 
into the Arabic language. Thematic analysis was conducted.
RESULTS: Three main themes emerged across the focus groups and interviews: (1) 
Common complaints driving motivation for seeking physiotherapy services, (2) 
Perceived benefits of accessing trauma-focused physiotherapy from within an 
interdisciplinary service setting, and (3) Trauma-focused components perceived 
as helpful.
CONCLUSION: This study highlights special considerations for physiotherapists 
when working with refugees who have experienced trauma related to armed 
conflict. It also sheds light on the distinctive features of trauma-focused 
physiotherapy that clients perceived as critical for achieving successful 
outcomes.

© 2026 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pri.70178
PMID: 41808392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]