[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# List of Shaman King characters

r from the United States' Delta Forces. He is assigned to snipe Hao during X-II's attempt to kill Hao but is distracted when he notices Hao's tears and is impaled by the Spirit of Fire as he is telling Denbat and Lucky over the radio to flee. Porf is named after Hope cigarettes and the TVR Griffith.

 
 
 A former Delta Force member from the United States, who joins Denbat and Prof in their ill-fated attempt to kill Hao. After hearing a radio transmission of Prof being killed off, he attempts to run but is burned to death by Hao. Larch is named after Lark cigarettes and Cadillac cars.

Team X-III
A trio consisting of Venstar, Cebin, and Meene, who willingly fight Team Star during the tournament with full knowledge their would die in forcing Hao to reveal his method of using the Spirit Of Fire's power. Their souls and their spirits are consumed by the Spirit of Fire, though the X-Laws' gamble to force Hao to reveal his medium succeeds. But their deaths become a sore point for the members of X-II, who eventually act on their own to kill Hao.

  ("Bunstar" in the early editions of the English manga)
 
 A severe but kind man with a strong sense of duty who served in the Gulf War as a member of the American military's elite SAS team; he encountered Hao in the same battlefield where Hao found Mohamed Tabarsi. Venstar's unit was destroyed by Hao, with Venstar surviving but losing both his legs.  The incident awoke his latent shamanic powers and he later met Marco at a field hospital and joined the X-Laws to take revenge. When both Meene and Kevin are killed by Hao, Venstar detonates a powerful X-Grenade to kill Hao by burning up all the oxygen in the arena. The attempt fails when Hao uses his Onmyōdō abilities to change the Spirit of Fire into water. Venstar is named after the Seven Stars cigarette brand.

  ("Kevin" in the English manga, "Sebin" in the English anime)
 
 A former sniper from the EKO Cobra Unit that aided the Austrian Federal Police, Cebin was badly burned by Hao with the Spirit of Fire when Hao was identified as a terrorist ten years ago and Cebin joined the X-Laws to seek revenge. As a result of his burns, he wears a mask and a large hat to conceal his disfigured burned face and his badly damaged body has been extensively replaced with mechanical prosthetics. His primary weapon is his artificial arms, which have long extending claws for combat and serve as his spirit's medium. He is the second member of X-III to be killed during their battle against the Hoshi-Gumi. His hobby is singing in a chorus and his favorite food is Sachertorte. Cebin is named after Cabin cigarettes and Gregor Mendel.

  ("Minnie" in the early editions of the English manga, "Mina" in the English anime)
 
 A former member of the Canadian Special Forces's Emergency Response Team, Meene gave up her promising military career and joined the X-Laws after learning her father had been killed by Hao. Her unrelenting dedication to the X-Laws' mission is tempered by her sensitivity and belief that kindness is needed to save the world and not just blind justice. She enjoys swimming and, unknown to her, she is popular among the X-Laws' male members, who have created a secret fan club for her. In the manga, Meene is the first member of X-III to fall to Hao and killed when her soul is consumed by the Spirit of Fire.  In the 2001 anime, she survives the failed attempt to open the Gate of Babylon and returns Morphine to Lyserg in hopes he will leave the X-Laws and not be killed as the surviving X-Laws attempt to kill Hao. Meene is named after "Mine" (峰) cigarettes and Lucy Maud Montgomery.

Hans Reiheit
  ("Lihite" in the English manga)
 
 The arsenal keeper for the X-Laws, excluded from the main force because, despite his high ability, he is too belligerent. A caring man that enjoys the company of others, Reiheit proudly follows the ideals of Iron Maiden Jeanne. However, he believes that Jeanne not longer has the right to live after she joins the enemy and defects from the X-Laws to become a bodyguard for Mansumi Oyamada during the assault on the Shaman Fight's island location. Both Marco and Luchist consider him to be very dangerous because his spirit, Azazel, has a Reiyoku level of 470 000, though Reiheit's furyoku is high enough only to materialize Azazel for three seconds. He dies when his Over Soul is suddenly broken by Hao, though he is later resurrected and unexpectedly proposes to his colleague, the voodoo shaman . Reiheit is named after Hi-Lite cigarettes.