[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# Government procurement in the United States

ions provides good practice insight.  
See DOR Biodefense, Inc.; Emergent BioSolutions: http://www.gao.gov/decisions/bidpro/2963583.pdf

See DCMA's Contract Administration Handbook for more information:  https://web.archive.org/web/20070807083159/http://guidebook.dcma.mil/15/instructions.htm

Claims

Contract Disputes Act 
Contract claims are handled under the disputes clause in commercial items contracts or another clause in different types of contracts. The clause simply refers to another clause, the contract dispute clause. That clause invokes the Contract Disputes Act (CDA) and specific procedures that must be followed.

The Government seeks to avoid treating requests for additional money or changes to the contract as a claim, for several reasons.  For starters, the Government has to pay interest from the date of receipt to the date of payment.  Second, if the amount is over a specified amount, then the claim must be certified (see the FAR and CDA). Certification is essentially a company swearing under pain of 18 USC false claims act penalties that they are not falsifying the claim.

Instead of dealing with it as a claim, the Government should deal with it as a REA; the contractor will have to decide what is more advantageous to it – a REA or CDA claim.

Cancellation of contract
Contractors are understandably quite upset when an awarded contract is cancelled before contract performance can begin.  There is some authority for a contractor to recover bid preparation costs in very limited circumstances.  Even so, a contracting agency need only establish a reasonable basis to support a decision to cancel an RFQ; in this regard, so long as there is a reasonable basis for doing so, an agency may cancel an RFQ no matter when the information precipitating the cancellation first arises, even if it is not until quotations have been submitted and evaluated. Quality Tech., Inc., B-292883.2, Jan. 21, 2004, 2004 CPD para. 29 at 2–3; Datatrak Consulting, Inc., B-292502 et al., September 26, 2003, 2003 CPD para. 169 at 5.  It is well established that an agency's lack of funding for a procurement provides a reasonable basis for cancellation, as agencies cannot award contracts which exceed available funds. First Enter., B-221502.3, Mar. 24, 1986, 86-1 CPD para. 290 at 3. Procurement authorities are presumed to act in good faith and in order for GAO to conclude otherwise, the record must show that procuring officials intended to injure the protester. Cycad Corp., B‑255870, April 12, 1994, 94-1 CPD para. 253 at 5. A protester's mere inference of bad faith is insufficient.

Terminations
The Government may terminate a contract for cause (commercial items), for default (T4D) or for convenience (T4C).  Terminations for commercial items (FAR Part 12) contracts are governed by FAR 52.212-4(l) and (m), not the T4C or T4D clauses of FAR 52.249-x.  FAR Part 49 prescribes T4D and T4C clauses in FAR Part 52 for non-commercial items (FAR Part 12) related contracts.  In particular, T4D is covered by FAR Subpart 49.4, Terminations for Default.  T4C is covered by several sections of FAR Part 49.

Termination for default reviews can be done a variety of ways, however, one method is to start with what is the ACTUAL deliverable on the contract, not the one that the customer thought they had.  Carefully track what the contractor's actual performance is against the specific language in the contract.  If there has been verbal changes by the Government without going through the contracting officer (which should never happen), is there something that indicates the contractor consented to those changes?  In writing?  For example, the DFARS 252.212-4 clause section that deals with modifications states that mutual consent is required for all modifications.  In this review, use the language from the contract and then see if you have adequate evidence from the Government documenting the actual performance.  Ask if the Government COR has signed any receiving reports e.g., DD Form 250s accepting performance (so they can get paid).  Is there anything in the record that shows the Government placed the contractor on notice of their default or non conforming deliveries?

FAR Part 49 should be read that to get information on terminations including notice to cure and show cause notices.  The more the Government tries to give the contractor chances to remedy their default, the more the Government bolsters its case that T4D is appropriate.