[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Javier Santiso

d a profound transformation under Javier Santiso leadership, with nearly a tripling of the staff and a doubling of the Governing Board members, with most of the key emerging now full participants (Brazil, India, South Africa, Indonesia, VietNam, Egypt, Colombia, Chile, Turkey, Mexico, Poland, etc.).

Javier Santiso holds several degrees from Sciences Po, France, including a PhD, an MBA from HEC School of Management (France). He finished his doctoral studies at Oxford University where he has been also a research fellow of the St Antony's College. He followed Executive Programs at IESE Business School (Spain) and at Harvard University J.F. Kennedy School (United States). He was a visiting professor at Johns Hopkins University Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies. He gave lectures and presentations at Columbia University, Harvard University, Oxford University, London Business School, among others, and at annual conferences on emerging markets organized by The Economist (Brazil), The Financial Times (London), Munich Re (Munich), Coface (Paris), Investec Asset Management (Turkey) or Khazanah's sovereign wealth fund annual conference (Malaysia).

Javier Santiso is the author of over 70 articles on emerging markets, venture capital and startups. His most recent published books are: Latin America's Political Economy of the Possible: Beyond Good Revolutionaries and Free Marketeers, Cambridge, Massachusetts, MIT Press, 2007; The Oxford Handbook of Latin American Political Economy, Oxford and New York, Oxford University Press, 2012; The Decade of the Multilatinas, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press, 2013. He publishes regular Opinion Editorials in El País (Spain), Valor Económico (Brazil), and América Economía (Latin America).He publishes also novels, in 2023 with Gallimard in Paris (La traversée)and before in 2021 with La Huerta Grande in Madrid (Vivir con el corazón). He founded the art & poetry publishing house La Cama Sol www.lacamasol.com that works with writers and poets like Christian Bobin, Pascal Quignard, Tahar Ben Jelloun, Joan Margarit or Pere Gimferrer, and also painters and artists like Lita Cabellut, Etel Adnan, Paula Rego, Soledad Sevilla, Anselm Kiefer, Rachid Koraïchi, Juan Uslé, Rafael Canogar or Jaume Plensa.

Books
 España 3.0., Planeta, 2015.
 Banking on Democracy: Financial Markets and Elections in Emerging Economies, Cambridge, Massachusetts, MIT Press, 2013.
 The Decade of the Multilatinas, Cambridge and New York, Cambridge University Press, 2013.
 The Oxford Handbook of Latin American Political Economy (Co-Ed.), Oxford and New York, 2012.
 La Década de las Multilatinas, Madrid, Siglo XXI, 2011.
 The Visible Hand of China in Latin America (Ed.), Paris, OECD Development Centre, 2007.
 Latin America's Political Economy of the Possible: Beyond good revolutionaries and free marketeers, Cambridge, Massachusetts, MIT Press, 2007.
 Amérique latine. Révolutionnaire, libérale, pragmatique, Paris, Autrement, 2005.
 The political economy of emerging markets: actors, institutions and crisis in Latin America, New York / London, Palgrave, 2003.
 Les puissances émergentes d'Amérique latine. Argentine, Brésil, Chili, Mexique, Paris, Armand Colin, 1999 (with Alain Musset, Hervé Théry and Sébastien Velut).
 Tiempo y democracia, Caracas, Nueva Sociedad, 1999 (co-edited with Andreas Schedler).

References

External links
 Development Centre

Spanish economists
French economists
Living people
Sciences Po alumni
Academic staff of ESADE
Year of birth missing (living people)