[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Utilization behavior

Utilization behavior (UB) is a type of neurobehavioral phenomena that involves someone grabbing objects in view and starting the 'appropriate' behavior associated with it at an 'inappropriate' time. Patients exhibiting utilization behavior have difficulty resisting the impulse to operate or manipulate objects which are in their visual field and within reach. Characteristics of UB include unintentional, unconscious actions triggered by the immediate environment. The unpreventable excessive behavior has been linked to lesions in the frontal lobe. UB has also been referred to as "bilateral magnetic apraxia" and "hypermetamorphosis".

Background
Individuals who display utilization behavior tend to reach out and begin to automatically use objects in the visual field of their environment. This may not seem incorrect but the difference in action to a person without UB is that the "object-appropriate" action taken is performed at the inappropriate time. For example, a person will be shown a pair of glasses and automatically put them on. This demonstrates the appropriate action at the "inappropriate" time. This causes the inappropriate motor responses to specific objects in the environment.

Symptoms
People with utilization behavior may be unable to resist grasping or using an object placed in front of them, regardless of the context or environment. It is not known what triggers them to exhibit UB with certain external stimuli and not others.

An effect related to UB consists of the feeling that a body part is separate from the rest of the body and has a mind of its own. This set of symptoms may be related to Alien Hand Syndrome (AHS), a neurological disorder in which the subject does not acknowledge ownership of a limb when visual cues are lacking. AHS can involve damage to the anterior cingulate gyrus, the medial prefrontal cortex and the anterior corpus callosum when a patient has frontal AHS. The other type of AHS, callosal AHS, is due to an anterior callosal lesion and affects dominant hemisphere control.

Causes
The cause of utilization behavior can be attributed to many diseases including Alzheimer's disease, Cerebrovascular disease, Frontotemporal dementia, neoplasm, and corticobasal degeneration.

Frontal lobe
The frontal lobe is responsible for problem solving, motor function, memory, judgment, impulse control, and social behavior. It is also needed for goal-directed behavior. Patients with frontal lobe injury may have problems in the selection, production, and organization of goal-directed behavior. 

One category of frontal lobe damage is the exhibition of behaviors that may not be usually displayed. This is the category that involves behaviors such as manual grasping and groping, imitation behavior and utilization behavior. The rest of this article will be discussing the latter, utilization behavior.

Lhermitte (1983)
Jean Lhermitte first coined the term Utilization Behavior (UB). He observed six patients with unilateral and bilateral lesions in the frontal lobe while the patients were enticed to grab objects. The patients with the frontal lobe lesions grasped the objects and started to use them appropriately even if it was not the appropriate time. Lhermitte used this study to attribute UB to damage of the orbital frontal structures and the caudate nuclei. Imitation Behavior (IB) has been studied by Lhermitte et al. in conjunction with UB which showed an imbalance between the dependence on and independence from external stimuli. It was thought that UB was an imbalance in the frontal and parietal lobes, but the study demonstrated that only damage to the frontal lobe affects UB as patients with damage to both areas did not demonstrate UB or IB.

Shallice et al. (1989)
Tim Shallice believed that Lhermitte's experiments led the patients to perform the behaviors that they thought were expected of them as the researchers either placed the objects in the patients hands or enticed them to pick up the objects. Shallice performed two procedures, Lhermitte's experiment ("induced UB") and an 'incidental' which included a neurological examination while objects that could elicit UB were present. 23 patients were found to have symptoms of UB.