[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Agriculturist

r time than CAS. All the Research Management Positions are filled through open competition. The Director General of ICAR is the highest-ranked member of the ARS, who is ex officio Secretary to the Government of India, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture.

Philippines 
In the Philippines, the official professional designation is Licensed and Registered Agriculturist but is more commonly shortened as "Licensed Agriculturist" or more simply as "Agriculturist". They are licensed and accredited after successfully passing the Agriculturist Licensure Examination, regulated by the Professional Regulation Commission and the Board of Agriculture. A Licensed Agriculturist can affix the title "L.Agr." (as name suffix) or "Agr." (as name prefix) to indicate the profession.

The primary role of agriculturists are to prepare technical plans, specifications, and estimates of agriculture projects such as in the construction and management of farms and agribusiness enterprises. The practice of agriculture also includes the following:

 Consultation, evaluation, investigation, and management of agriculture projects
 Research and studies in soil analysis and conservation, crop production, breeding of livestock and poultry, tree planting, and other biotechniques
 Conduct training and extension services on soil analysis and conservation, crop production, breeding of livestock and poultry, tree planting
 Teaching of agriculture subjects in schools, colleges, and university
 Management of organizations related to agriculture, both in private and government (eg. Office of the Provincial Agriculturist)

A prospective professional agriculturist is typically required to have a four-year Bachelor of Science degree in Agriculture, although other degree programs directly-related to agriculture are also allowed to take the licensure examination if they earn at least eighteen (18) units of agriculture credits from a recognized higher education institution. About 5,500 registered agriculturists pass the licensure examination annually. It is one of the hardest licensure examinations in the country with 29.84% passing rate in November 2021.

The agriculturist profession and its board of agriculturists were created in 2002 by the Professional Regulation Commission, in order to "upgrade the agriculture and fisheries profession" by the virtue of the Agriculture and Fisheries Modernization Act of 1997. The practice of the agriculture profession is a professional service admission. Similar to other professions in the Philippines, malpractice and illegal practice of agriculture are grounds for suspension or revocation of certificates of registration and professional licenses. Licensed agriculturists in the Philippines are integrated into one accredited integrated professional organization, which is the Philippine Association of Agriculturists.

Europe

European Union 
In the European Union, the generic name of the profession is Agronomist/Agricultural Engineer. The profession is exercised for the public interest in defense of the principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Directive 2005/36/EC.

Italy 
In Italy, the professional designation is "Dottori Agronomi" (translated as Agronomy Doctor). The profession is exercised for the public interest in defense of the principles of Articles 9 and 32 of the Italian Constitution and of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Professionals enrolled in the Register of Dottori Agronomi while exercising the profession base their actions on the following principles:

 Contribute to the integrated and sustainable development through the planning and design compatible with the conservation of biodiversity;
 Ensure and promote the quality of food for animal feed and animal welfare;
 Ensure the safety and promote the quality of food products for the protection of the business system and the health and well-being of the consumer;
 Promote and enhance the landscapes and cultures of rural communities;
 Qualify and enhance urban ecosystems and the development of plant and animal heritage and biodiversity.

North America

Canada 
In Canada, the professional designation is "agrologist", also called "agronome" in Québec. There are more than 10,000 professional agrologists and agronomes in Canada.

Professional agrologists are accredited through provincial regulatory bodies, e.g. Saskatchewan Institute of Agrology, Nova Scotia Institute of Agrologists. The requirements to attain professional designation (PAg) are similar in each province. A prospective agrologist is typically required to have a four year undergraduate science degree directly related to agrology.  If accepted by their provincial institute, the applicant is known as an articling agrologist (AAg) or agrologist-in-training (AIT) and must complete a two year educational and mentorship program before being considered for a professional designation.