[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mount Laurel doctrine

eloped land is being razed for development when so much property in Parsippany lies vacant," said Dave Kaplan, of the Stop the Overdevelopment at Waterview opposition group.

Sierra Club

The New Jersey chapter of the Sierra Club applauded Christie's efforts to reform affordable housing law in 2010:

The current COAH law has had a bigger impact on land use and development than any other law in New Jersey's history. The Sierra Club strongly supports a requirement for affordable housing. As towns grow, they must provide a fair share of it. But the need for affordable housing should not undermine the environmental protections given to wetlands, flood plains, steep slopes, stream buffers that protect water supplies, ocean-fronts, and endangered species habitat. And no homes should be built where water supply is at critically low levels. Furthermore, new housing should be located where jobs are, to reduce the carbon footprints and pollution associated with automobile commuting.

Present-day demands for legislative reform
Some believe the NJ Supreme Court seeks legislative action to implement the Mount Laurel doctrine based on recent rulings, as of mid-2017:

January 2017 NJ Supreme Court decision 
In January 2017, the NJ Supreme Court issued a ruling stating that towns had to consider any historic failure to provide affordable housing.  As one commentator put it,

This case resolved affordable housing regulation debates that have been ongoing since 1999. However, the Court provided no guidance on the method of implementation of affordable housing accommodations that it now requires of municipalities. This decision leaves numerous unanswered questions and it will depend heavily on the Legislature to issue reform of affordable housing requirements. This decision requires implementation of affordable housing accommodations into township plans that have not otherwise considered them since 1999. It is likely that the open spaces in towns will now be filled with affordable housing units, which will bring an influx of population to municipalities. ... We will need to watch the Legislature to see how and if it will alter the current affordable housing regulations to comply with the Court's recent ruling.

In its January 2017 opinion, the NJ Supreme Court welcomed the legislature to re-approach the affordable housing issue: "We recognize, as we have before, that the Legislature is not foreclosed from considering alternative methods for calculating and assigning a municipal fair share of affordable housing, and to that end, we welcome legislative attention to this important social and economic constitutional matter," Justice LaVecchia wrote.

Legislator criticism
A Morris County Freeholder candidate,  Harding Committeeman Nicolas Platt, proposed in May 2017 that all mayors state-wide conduct a sit-in in Trenton and refuse to leave the statehouse until legislators acted to reduce the overdevelopment impact of the builder's remedy issue.

Bergen and Passaic County Assemblywoman Holly Schepisi argued in a July 2017 opinion piece that reform was urgently needed: "If built, the number of new homes alone would far exceed all the homes in the entire borough of Manhattan," she stated, calling the issue one of overdevelopment "madness."

In the summer of 2017, Schepisi held the first of several planned public hearing in Paramus with various civic leaders on mandated affordable housing with local mayors and other state assembly members.

"It is long past time for the Legislature to act, and block [the nonprofit group Fair Share Housing Center] from their objective of destroying our suburban communities," said one mayor at the hearing according to the press. "We really need action. Nobody has done what they need to do."

Schepisi stated she invited the Fair Share Housing Center to attend but received a letter declining an appearance.

In Somerset County, Montgomery Township Mayor Ed Trzaska said the influx of apartment complex development would ruin the rural character of the area, "overwhelm the township's infrastructure, greatly increase property taxes and burden the school system and negatively impact the quality of life in the township."

In Union County, in the summer of 2017, the Clark town council issued a unanimous resolution demanding for the state legislature to take action to reform the affordable housing issue; the mayor stated that otherwise, "Union County will look like Queens in 25 years."

In Berkeley Heights in Union County in June 2017, council president Marc Faecher said he considered the legislature's failure to act on overdevelopment to be an "abject failure by our state government."

Public criticism

In June 2018, NJ 101.5 radio host Bill Spadea advocated for a constitutional amendment to revoke the doctrine, arguing the imposition of unnecessary development increased tax burdens unfairly.