[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Čelebići camp

efence forces which included the local Croatian Army (HVO) and the Ministry of the Interior (MUP) in addition to the TO, launched a military campaign. At the time, the TO and the HVO had a common interest in uniting against the Serbs and thus co-operated.

Joint Bosniak and Croat military operations

The first area to be targeted was the village of Donje Selo where on 20 May 1992 TO and HVO and forces entered. Muslim and Croat soldiers then moved through Vinište towards the villages of Cerići and Bjelovčina. Cerići, was the first village to be shelled and it was attacked around 22 May and some of its inhabitants surrendered. The village of Bjelovcina was also attacked around that time. Some people in the village of Vinište were arrested around 23 May.

The Serb-populated village of Bradina was shelled in the late afternoon and evening of 25 May and then soldiers in both camouflage and black uniforms appeared, firing their weapons and setting fire to buildings. At least 43 or 48 Serb civilians were killed in the Bradina massacre and the village was burned to the ground. Many of the population sought to flee and some withdrew to the centre of the village. They were nonetheless, arrested at various times around 27 and 28 May, by TO, HVO and MUP soldiers and police. These operations resulted in the arrest of many members of the Serb population, necessitating a facility where they could be detained.

The camp

Establishment

The former JNA Čelebići compound appears to have been chosen out of necessity as the appropriate facilities for the detention of prisoners in Konjic were minimal. The compound was a relatively large complex of buildings covering an area of about 50,000 square metres, with a railway line running through the middle. The JNA had used it for fuel storage and so it had underground tunnels and tanks, in addition to various hangars and assorted buildings. Only a small part of the camp was actually used to detain prisoners. At the entrance laid a small reception building beside a larger administrative building, referred to by the ICTY as "Building A" and "Building B" respectively. A building containing water pumps referred to "Building 22" was located opposite. To the north-east was a tunnel that was 1.5 metres wide and 2.5 metres high, labeled "Tunnel 9" by the ICTY. It extended about 30 metres downwards into the ground and led, after a steel door, to a fuel measuring and distribution station. On the other side of the camp, beside other buildings was a large metal one, 30 metres long and 13 metres wide, referred to as "Hangar 6".

The camp was operational from April 1992 to December 1992.

The total number of prisoners held at the camp is not known but estimates range from at least 400 to as many as 700.

Inmates

The majority of the prisoners who were detained were men captured during and after the military operations at Bradina and Donje Selo and their surrounding areas. Many of the men who were rounded up were elderly or infirm. The women who were held at the camp were housed separately, first at Building A then Building B. Most of the prisoners were civilians.

Most of the detainees were captured between 22 and 27 May 1992 and transferred to the camp from various locations and villages. A large group of people from Bradina were arrested on 27 May, made to walk in a column then searched and beaten by their captors before being loaded into trucks and transported to the camp. These Bradina detainees, numbering 70-80 were taken to Hangar 6 and appear to have been the first group stationed there. Many of the witnesses who were taken to the camp testified that upon their arrival, they were made to line up against a wall where they were searched or forced to hand over valuables. Several said that they were severely beaten by soldiers or guards. Other detainees were housed in Building 22 which was tightly packed with people and later moved to Hangar 6. Some spent a substantial amount of time in the tunnel.