[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Barasoain Church

ans were made to write a new constitution for the soon to be proclaimed Philippine Republic; Barásoain Church was chosen to be the site of the First Philippine Congress, otherwise known as the Malolos Congress, which convened on September 15, 1898 to draft what would become the Malolos Constitution.

On January 21, 1899, the Malolos Constitution was ratified. This paved way for the formal inauguration of the First Philippine Republic on January 23, 1899) with Emilio Aguinaldo taking oath as president. But the outbreak of the Philippine-American War on February 4 brought the Republic into crisis. The Malolos Congress held its last session on the last week of February as the Aguinaldo government evacuated from Malolos and transferred the capital to Nueva Ecija.

On March 31, 1899, the American forces captured Malolos and Barásoain, which were placed under American control.

Reunification with Malolos and subsequent events 

In 1903, the town of Barásoain was dissolved and annexed to Malolos.

By Presidential Decree No. 260, Barásoain Church was proclaimed as a National Shrine by President Ferdinand Marcos on August 1, 1973. A museum was opened at the old convent of the church which is being managed by the National Historical Commission of the Philippines.

In the wake of the 1998 Philippine Centennial celebrations, the church became the venue for the inauguration of Joseph Estrada on June 30, 1998.

Philippine bill issue
The image of the church has been depicted in certain monetary bills until 2001, namely the English series one peso bill and the Pilipino, Ang Bagong Lipunan, and both the 1985 and 1997 New Design series ten peso bill together with an image of Apolinario Mabini (Andrés Bonifacio on the 1997 version) on the other side. However, it was replaced by a ten-peso coin without the representation of the church. In 2009, local priests and Laban ng Bulacan movement officials, led by their chairman John Paul Albert Limpo, initiated a signature campaign to appeal to the Philippine Bangko Sentral restoring at least the image of the church in any present Philippine bill.

After three years of petition and nine years since the last printing of the ten peso bill in 2001, in December 2010, upon the issuance of the "New Generation Currency" series for Philippine banknotes, Barásoain Church was featured again, this time in the 200-peso denomination until 2017 when it was replaced with the scene of the opening of the Malolos Congress.

List of parish priests & rectors

Gallery

References

External links
 
 

Roman Catholic churches completed in 1888
National Historical Landmarks of the Philippines
Buildings and structures in Malolos
Roman Catholic churches in Bulacan
19th-century Roman Catholic church buildings in the Philippines
Churches in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Malolos
1888 establishments in the Philippines