[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leigh Broxham

ictory to the Asian Champions League. Soon later on their first ACL Group stage match away against Guangzhou Evergrande, Broxham would score from a loose headed ball off a corner with a volley blasting into the back of the net to send Melbourne Victory 2–0 up, a match in which ended in a 2–4 defeat.

The 2014-2015 A-league calendar would continue to challenge Leigh Broxham to find a spot in the starting lineup with both Mark Milligan and new-signing Carl Valeri preferred as first choice central midfielders. International duties to Milligan and injuries to either Delpierre, Leijer or Ansell would call upon his services to fill in the gaps. Noticeably, Melbourne Victory's first clean-sheet came upon when Broxham was started at central defence and would keep a further 3 clean sheets in a row to start the season in the same position. Near the end of the season, Broxham became determined to find a place in the starting line-up after all key players in midfield and central defence were playing fit and consistent football and thus he subsequently landed his place at right-back. His combination play with Kosta Barbarouses and overlapping runs found himself in strong positions in the final third including an assist to Besart Berisha in the A-league semi-finals against Melbourne City after left-winger Harry Novillo failed to track back Broxham's run. It was then in the 2015 A-League Grand Final where his high pressing forced an eventual turnover from Sydney FC which lead to teammate Gui Finkler to assist Berisha to open the scoring. Whilst there were little opportunities to find overlapping runs for the entirety of the game, it was until the 90th minute where Fahid Ben Khalfallah found Leigh Broxham who sprinted from own half to receive the ball inside the box and finish the ball into the near post to seal the Championship 3–0.

Broxham also filled out as vice-captain on numerous occasions throughout the 2012–13 season, and captained Melbourne in the famous friendly match between Melbourne and Liverpool in front of over 95,500 at the MCG.

Playing style

Broxham is a versatile midfielder who can slot in as central defence, right-back, or a left-back when needed. His commitment on the pitch enforcing his presence against opposition players have been admired by all managers of Melbourne Victory including Ernie Merrick, Mehmet Durakovic, Jim Magilton, Ange Postecoglou and Kevin Muscat. His style of play can often be compared to Claude Makélélé, who, when in possession of the ball, makes seemingly overly conservative passes without posing a threat to the opposition. However, his role has revolved around recovering the ball from contests or off the opponent and being the first to start the string of passes where the team can construct an attack pattern. This potential was not seen until Ange Postecoglou took charge and changed the overall philosophy of the team and subsequently Broxham's recovery and distribution skills could be appreciated.

In the 2014/15 season, Broxham has found himself in central defence in no less than 6 matches to cover for the injuries to fellow defenders Matthieu Delpierre and Nick Ansell recording 4 clean sheets despite his obvious lack of height. Opposition's forward pressing were also noted to have failed as a result of Broxham's comfortable midfield ball control and awareness, who under pressure can easily advance forward and/or distribute passes reliably. Despite the previously mentioned lack of height, he has successfully scored with his head against Brisbane Roar in the 13/14 season, and Adelaide United in the 14/15 season. His aerial threat has been consistent throughout the 14/15 season including 3 attempted headers at goal against Brisbane Roar in a 1–0 win.
He also scored the third goal in the 2015 Grand Final win against Sydney FC at AAMI park with a near post finish following an over-lapping run on the right.

In the 2016/17 season, Broxham found himself occupying the left-back role giving consistent and reliable performances. During the latter parts of the season with the departure of midfielder Oliver Bozanic, Broxham returned to central midfield once again partnering with Carl Valeri and bossing the oppositions off the park especially during the finals series against Brisbane Roar and Sydney FC.

In the 2017/18 season with the departure of Daniel Georgievski, Broxham filled in the role of left-back for the season and in typical fashion performed reliably defensively. Broxham and the team finished the season with a championship trophy.

With the departure of Kevin Muscat, managers Marco Kurz, Carlos Salvachua and Grant Brebner mainly utilized Broxham back in the centre of midfield with the prospect of maintaining possession and distributing the ball laterally.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours

Club
Melbourne Victory
 A-League Championship: 2006–07, 2008–09, 2014–15, 2017–18
 A-League Premiership: 2006–07, 2008–09, 2014–15
 Australia Cup: 2015,  2021