[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Christopher Soghoian

Christopher Soghoian (born 1981) is a privacy researcher and activist. He is currently working for Senator Ron Wyden as the senator’s Senior Advisor for Privacy & Cybersecurity. From 2012 to 2016, he was the principal technologist at the American Civil Liberties Union.

Personal life
Soghoian is the nephew of Sal Soghoian, the former Automation Product Manager at Apple Inc., responsible for AppleScript and Apple Automator.

Education
Soghoian, who holds British and US nationality, received a B.S. from James Madison University (Computer Science; 2002), a Masters from Johns Hopkins University (Security Informatics; 2005), and a PhD from Indiana University (Informatics; 2012). His dissertation focused on the role that third-party internet and telecommunications service providers play in facilitating law enforcement surveillance of their customers.

Soghoian is a visiting fellow at Yale Law School's Information Society Project and a TED Senior Fellow. He was previously an Open Society Foundations Fellow and a Student Fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet & Society at Harvard University.

Government surveillance research and activism

Soghoian's research and advocacy is largely focused on government surveillance. His research has shed significant light on the use of sophisticated surveillance technologies by US law enforcement agencies, exposing such techniques to public debate and criticism.

In December 2009, while an employee of the Federal Trade Commission, Soghoian secretly audio recorded a closed-door surveillance industry conference. The agency's inspector general opened an investigation into Soghoian's conduct, and he was subsequently let go from the FTC. In the recording, an executive from Sprint Nextel revealed that the company had created a special website through which law enforcement agents can obtain GPS information on subscribers and that the website had been used to process 8 million requests during the previous year. That recording was subsequently cited by Alex Kozinski, Chief Judge of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in U.S. v. Pineda-Moreno, in support of his view that "1984 may have come a bit later than predicted, but it's here at last."

In a February, 2012, public speech, Soghoian criticized the commercial market for so called zero-day security vulnerabilities, a topic which, until then, had yet to receive significant attention from the mainstream press. One month later, Soghoian was quoted by Forbes, in a lengthy article about the zero day market, describing the firms and individuals who sell software exploits as “the modern-day merchants of death” selling “the bullets of cyberwar.” Over the next several years, several major media outlets published their own front-page stories on the industry, often with quotes from Soghoian criticizing those providing such hacking software to governments.

In an August, 2013 presentation at the hacker conference DEF CON, Soghoian highlighted the existence of a dedicated FBI team that delivers malware to the computers and mobile devices of surveillance targets. In his presentation, Soghoian stated that he discovered the team by reading heavily redacted government documents and by looking at the profiles of ex-FBI contractors on the social network website LinkedIn. In October, 2014, Soghoian called attention to the fact that the FBI had, in 2007, impersonated the Associated Press in an effort to deliver malware to a teenager in Washington state who had threatened to bomb his high school. This act of deception was strongly condemned by leading news organizations, including by the General Counsel of the Associated Press.

Encryption activism

In June 2009, Soghoian co-authored an open letter to Google with 37 prominent security and privacy experts, urging the company to protect the privacy of its customers by enabling HTTPS encryption by default for Gmail and its other cloud based services. In January 2010, Google enabled HTTPS by default for users of Gmail, and subsequently for other products, including search. According to Google, it was already considering HTTPS by default. Soghoian has in recent years continued his HTTPS advocacy, calling on news media, law firms, government agencies and other organizations to encrypt their own websites.

Consumer privacy research and activism

Between 2009 and 2010, he worked for the US Federal Trade Commission as the first ever in-house technical advisor to the Division of Privacy and Identity Protection. While at the FTC, he assisted with investigations of Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and Netflix.