[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ihei Kimura

was a Japanese photographer, known for his portrayal of Tokyo and Akita Prefecture.

Life and work
Born on 12 December 1901 in Shitaya-ku (now Taitō-ku), Tokyo, Kimura started taking photographs when very young but his interest intensified when he was around 20 and living in Tainan, Taiwan, where he was working for a sugar wholesaler. He opened a photographic studio in Nippori, Tokyo in 1924. In 1930, he joined the advertising section of the soap and cosmetics company Kaō, concentrating on informal photographs made with his Leica camera. In 1933, he joined Yōnosuke Natori and others in forming the group Nippon Kōbō ("Japan workshop"), which emphasized "realism" in photography using 35mm cameras; but this rapidly broke up and Kimura formed an alternative group, Chūō Kōbō ("central workshop") with Nobuo Ina and others.

During the war, Kimura worked in Manchuria and for the publisher Tōhō-sha. He edited Front, the propaganda photo journal of the Tōhō-sha company. He also contributed to a propaganda magazine, Shashin Shūhō, in the same period.

In 1950, Kimura was elected chairman of the newly formed Japan Professional Photographers Society (JPS); together with Ken Domon he did much to encourage a documentary spirit in amateur photography.

In the mid-fifties, Kimura made several trips to Europe, providing photographs for the camera magazines. His work was included by Edward Steichen in the world-touring 1955 MoMA exhibition The Family of Man. Pari, a collection of his color photographs of Paris, would only be published in 1974, but the use of color was ahead of its time.

On his return to Japan, Kimura concentrated on photographing rural life in Akita. He also worked on portraits, particularly of writers.

Kimura died at his home in Nippori on 31 May 1974; the Kimura Ihei Award for new photographers was promptly set up in his honor. He remains popular in Japan: samples of his photographs still (2009) regularly appear in the magazine Asahi Camera.

His work was exhibited at the Rencontres d'Arles festival in 2004.

Publications

Books of Kimura's photographs
 
A Historical Sketch of Japanese Customs and Costumes. Tokyo: Society for International Cultural Relations (Kokusai Bunka Shinkōkai), 1936.
Japanese School Life through the Camera. Tokyo: Society for International Cultural Relations (Kokusai Bunka Shinkōkai), 1937.
(As "Ihee Kimura".) Japan through a Leica. Tokyo: Sanseido, 1938. One hundred photographs of Japan. Facsimile edition: Tokyo: Kokushokan, 2006. . (NB The box that contains this expensive reprint is considerably larger than the book within it.)
Four Japanese Painters. JPS Picture Books. JPS, 1940. In English. 
 Kōki nisenroppyaku-nen gōshuku geinōsai (). Kokusai Hōdō Kōgei, 1941. 
 Ōdō rakudo (). Tokyo: Ars, 1943. Photographs of Manchuria.
Rokudaime Onoe Kikugorō butai shashinshū (, Photograph collection of the sixth Onoe Kikugorō on the stage). Kyoto: Wakei Shoten, 1949. On the kabuki actor Onoe Kikugorō VI (1885–1949).
 Kimura Ihee kessaku shashinshū () / Select Pictures by Ihei Kimura. Tokyo: Asahi Shinbunsha, 1954. A book of generous format (30×21 cm) that presents 132 photographs, most taking the entire page but a few in half-, quarter- or double-page format. They represent all facets of Kimura's work. The reproduction quality is of course no match for that in the posthumous collections, and what is interesting about this book is the material that the latter drop, for example three photographs from a (demure) striptease performance. Short captions in English as well as Japanese, longer explanations as well as texts by Kimura and Nobuo Ina in Japanese only. 
 Kimura Ihee gaiyū shashinshū: Dai ikkai (). Tokyo: Asahi Shinbunsha, 1955. 
 Kimura Ihee gaiyū shashinshū: Dai nikai: Yōroppa no inshō () / Impression of Europe. Tokyo: Asahi Shinbunsha, 1956.
Zōsenjo no inshō () / At a Shipyard. Sekai Shashin Sakka (). Tokyo: Heibonsha, 1958.
Kimura Ihee sakuhinshū (), Collected photographs of Ihei Kimura). Gendai Nihon shashin zenshū (), vol. 1. Tokyo: Sōgensha, 1959. 
Ōkawa Hashizō butai shashinshū (, Photograph collection of Hashizō Ōkawa on the stage). Wakei Shoten, 1962. On the kabuki actor Hashizō Ōkawa (1929–84).
 Zenshinza butai shashinshū (, Photograph collection of Zenshinza on stage). Tokyo: Kenkōsha, 1966. Black and white and also some color photographs of the Zenshinza kabuki troupe on stage and off, on the occasion of the 35th anniversary of its founding.
 Kimura Ihee no me (, The eye of Ihei Kimura). Special issue of Asahi Camera, December 1970. A representative collection of Kimura's works, all black and white.
 Kimura Ihee shashinshū: Chūgoku no tabi (, Ihei Kimura photograph collection: Travels in China). Tokyo: Asahi Shinbunsha, 1974.
Kimura Ihee shashinshū: Pari (, Ihei Kimura photograph collection: Paris). Tokyo: Norasha, 1974. Most of the photographs are spread across facing pages (and thus split down the middle).
 Akita (). Nikon Salon Books 4. Tokyo: Nikkor Club, 1978. Photograp