[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 115]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

called to the
music to begin. Miss Simmons, in her turn, was equally surprised at the
partner which was provided for her; she had never imagined minuet
dancing to be one of Harry's accomplishments, and therefore instantly
suspected that it was a concerted scheme to mortify her. However, in
this she was determined they should be disappointed, as she was
destitute of all pride, and had the sincerest regard for Harry. As soon,
therefore, as the music struck up, the young lady began her reverence,
which Harry, who found he was now completely caught, and had no time for
explanation, imitated as well as he was able, but in such a manner as
set the whole room in a titter. Harry, however, arming himself with all
the fortitude he possessed, performed his part as well as could be
expected from a person that had never learned a single step of dancing.
By keeping his eye fixed upon his partner, he made a shift at least to
preserve something of the figure, although he was terribly deficient in
the steps and graces of the dance. But his partner, who was scarcely
less embarrassed than himself, and wished to shorten the exhibition,
after crossing once, presented him with her hand. Harry had
unfortunately not remarked the nature of this manoeuvre with perfect
accuracy, and therefore, imagining that one hand was just as good as the
other, he offered the young lady his left instead of his right hand. At
this incident a universal peal of merriment, which they no longer
laboured to conceal, burst from almost all the company, and Miss
Simmons, wishing at any rate to close the scene, presented her partner
with both her hands, and abruptly finished the dance. The unfortunate
couple then retreated to the lower end of the room, amidst the jests and
sneers of their companions, particularly Mash and Compton, who assumed
unusual importance upon the credit of such a brilliant invention.

When they were seated, Miss Simmons could not help asking Harry, with
some displeasure, why he had thus exposed himself and her, by attempting
what he was totally ignorant of, and added, "that, though there was no
disgrace in not being able to dance, it was very great folly to attempt
it without having learned a single step." "Indeed, madam," answered
Harry, "I never should have thought of trying to do what I knew I was
totally ignorant of; but Master Compton came to me, and told me that you
particularly desired me to dance with you, and led me to the other end
of the room; and I only came to speak to you, and to inform you that I
knew nothing about the matter, for fear you should think me uncivil; and
then the music began to play, and you to dance, so that I had no
opportunity of speaking; and I thought it better to do the best I could
than to stand still, or leave you there." Miss Simmons instantly
recovered her former good-humour, and said, "Well, Harry, we are not
the first, nor shall be the last by hundreds, who have made a ridiculous
figure in a ball-room, without so good an excuse. But I am sorry to see
so malicious a disposition in these young gentlemen, and that all their
knowledge of polite life has not taught them a little better manners."

"Why madam," answered Harry, "since you are so good as to talk to me
upon the subject, I must confess that I have been very much surprised at
many things I have seen at Mr Merton's. All these young gentlemen and
ladies are continually talking about genteel life and manners, and yet
they are frequently doing things which surprise me. Mr Barlow has always
told me that politeness consisted in a disposition to oblige everybody
around us, and to say or do nothing which can give them disagreeable
impressions. Yet I continually see these young gentlemen striving to do
and say things, for no other reason than to give pain; for, not to go
any farther than the present instance, what motive can Masters Compton
and Mash have had but to mortify you by giving you such a partner? you,
madam, too, who are so kind and good to everybody, that I should think
it impossible not to love you."

"Harry," answered the young lady, "what you say about politeness is
perfectly just. I have heard my uncle and many sensible people say the
same; but, in order to acquire this species of it, both goodness of
heart and a just way of thinking are required; and therefore many people
content themselves with aping what they can pick up in the dress, or
gestures, or cant expressions of the higher classes; just like the poor
ass, which, dressed in the skin of a lion, was taken for the lion
himself, till his unfortunate braying exposed the cheat." "Pray, madam,
what is that story?" said Harry.

"It is a trifling one that I have read," answered Miss Simmons, "of
somebody who, having procured a lion's skin, fastened it round the body
of an ass, and then turned him loose, to the great affright of the
neighbourhood. Those who saw him first, imagined that a monstrous lion
had