[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# A Scourge of Screamers

served for Screamers.

He endures months of psychic pain, apparent hallucinations, and terror, narrowly avoiding the typical fate of Screamers, who tend to commit suicide when their sedation wears off enough for them to reach a convenient high window.  He recovers and is met by Helen on his release.

Now, like many ex-Screamers, Gregson is a valuable commodity to SecBu.  Most elected officials are ex-Screamers, as are the top officials in the Bureau.  Gregson learns that Wellford also recovered, only to be kidnapped by the Valorians.  Radcliff reveals to him the existence of a device which can suppress the Screamies over a small area, by blocking the effects of an unknown form of radiation.  Radcliff wants Gregson to help construct a super-suppressor on the space station Vega Jump-off, the departure point of the Nina, to cover the entire planet.

First Gregson is sent to Paris for training.  He learns that the Screamies really are a new form of perception, called zylphing and the radiation is called rault, created by a body at the galactic center known as Chandeen.  Another body known as the Stygum Field blocks the rault, and Earth has been in the shadow for thousands of years.

Besides the training, Gregson is introduced to a temptress called Karen Rakar.  Gaining proficiency at zylphing he learns that the perception can be used for many purposes, including telepathy, long-distance viewing, and even precognition.  He also begins to realize the depth of the SecBu plot to keep and hold power.  Discovering the head of the training institute asleep in a field of artificial rault he is able to zylph the man's true purposes from his mind.  The man wakes up and Gregson has to kill him.  He then escapes in a car, but as he does so he zylphs a re-entry capsule, bearing a Valorian, coming down nearby after having been disabled by SecBu weapons.  Rescuing the occupant, a female, he drives to confront Madam Carnot, a conspirator who claims to be the oldest and most powerful zylpher on Earth.  As he zylphs her true intentions, a rescue party led by Wellford breaks into the building, intent on rescuing the Valorian woman, but in the process capturing Gregson and killing Carnot.  She had previously foretold a violent end for Gregson, but in reality she would be the victim.

In the Valorian hideout, a castle in the Rhine valley, Wellford assures Gregson that the Valorians have no powers beyond zylphing, nor any evil intent.  Gregson is still doubtful.  He sees the necessity to build the super-suppressor as the Screamies are getting worse by the day.  His qualms at the intent of the SecBu conspirators are balanced by the urge to carry out the plan for the good of humanity.

The Valorian he rescued, who is called Andelia, tells him that his brother Manuel is alive, one of the few on the Nina who survived when the ship emerged into full rault.  He cannot return to Earth because he has lost the ability to live without zylphing.  Eventually, she promises Gregson, they will be re-united.  Gregson, apparently free to leave the hideout, steals a craft and returns to Pennsylvania to find Helen, only to be captured by SecBu.  They zylph the location of the castle from him, but by the time they get there only the injured Andelia is left for them to capture.

Gregson ships up to the space station for the final phase of construction.  Crucial to the process is lowering the station's altitude, which is something only he can be counted on to do.  On the station he re-unites with Karen Rakar.  He is still ambivalent about which faction to side with.  The station is already in a small suppressor field, but this breaks down long enough for him to detect the presence of Andelia.  While he is talking to her a guard arrives and kills her.  Gregson kills the guard, but is cut down yet again by Wellford, one of a boarding party intent on a last-ditch gamble.

Recovering, Gregson learns Wellford's plan.  The super-suppressor can be re-wired to be a super-transmitter.  All the top SecBu people are on the station, and activating a super-transmitter would fry the brains of everyone aboard. It is the supreme chance to decapitate the conspiracy, who plan to use their control over the super-suppressor to cement their power, threatening to turn it off if their demands are not met.  With them eliminated, the super-suppressor could be activated as planned, and with help from the Valorians humanity would be able to recover the lost perception, ready to deal with high levels of rault which must be coming.

Gregson helps Wellford re-wire the suppressor, and they escape to a comparatively safe distance of a few thousand miles aboard Wellford's ship.  Even at that distance, the radiance is almost more than they can bear.  Returning to the station, they find the people aboard either dead or catatonic.