[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

o eventually betray the Innovators and avenge her brothers when she got a chance, Ribbons Almark had already arranged her to be dealt with by Louise in the Regnant, immediately attacking her as a result. After disabling the Throne Drei, Louise kills Nena without mercy to avenge her parents.

A-Laws 

The Autonomous Peace-Keeping Force, or , is the primary antagonistic organization of the second series. Officially, their mission is to further unify nations by rooting out anti-government resistance. But their ideals and tactics are a facade of brutal oppression. Their actions trigger the emergence of some anti-Federation forces, like Katharon, and Celestial Being, which returns after four years. Many characters from the first series join the A-Laws, including Graham Aker (as Mr. Bushido), Billy Katagiri, Soma Peries, Patrick Colasour, Kati Mannequin and Louise Halevy.

 
 In the first series, Louise Halevy is Saji Crossroad's girlfriend and classmate. She becomes an acquaintance of Setsuna F Seiei when the latter becomes Saji's neighbour. While Louise is attending her cousin's wedding, Gundam Throne Meister Nena Trinity attacks the wedding party killing Louise's entire family and causing Louise to lose her left hand, which is unable to be regenerated due to the red GN particles. After the attack, broken mentally, Louise breaks off her relationship with Saji so that he can be free to pursue his dream of working in space.

 In the second series, after receiving an artificial limb, Louise becomes a member of the A-Laws after Regene Regetta escorts her from a hospital to meet with Ribbons Almark, who channels her intent for revenge and world peace and attempts to make her the first purebred Innovator with pills that enhance her physical capabilities despite the side-effect of causing slow bodily deterioration. She learns of Setsuna's connection with Celestial Being after meeting him at a party held by Ribbons. During the A-Laws' attack on Celestial Being's asteroid base, she discovers that Saji is helping Celestial Being and assumes that he has been with Celestial Being all along. Her hatred for Celestial Being grows, first after the reported death of Soma Peries and later when her commanding officer Barack Zinin is killed in action. After the collapse of the Africa tower, she learns that Andrei Smirnov killed his own father. Shocked by the revelation, she wonders if she could ever do the same to Saji. Louise almost crosses that barrier as she gains the mobile armor Regnant from Ribbons which she uses to kill Nena, falling under Ribbons's influence after her mental breakdown. During the final battle when she clashes with him until she sees him wearing the engagement ring he gave her and she faints upon being overwhelmed by her memories of them together. Setsuna Trans-Am burst wakes her up and apparently healed all the cell abnormalities thus granting her a healthy body again. At the season's epilogue and in the movie, Louise is once again in a relationship with Saji but is plagued by chronic PTSD. On the Gundam movie she seems to be turned into a quantum-brainwaves user singularly sensible as she is one of the first persons to be affected by the ELS approach, she later encourages Saji's decision to travel to the orbital ring and help on to its maintenance while the Earth forces battles the ELS invasion.