[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yasin Qasem Muhammad Ismail

Sun.  He was told, "You are not allowed to see the Sun."  According to David Remes, one of Ismail's lawyers, Ismail and his guards engaged in an angry dispute, and a frustrated Ismail, who had not seen the Sun in a month, took off one of his sandals, and threw it at the pen's fence near his guards.

According to Remes, Ismail was left in the exercise pen for hours, until night fell, and he fell asleep.  
He was woken to find himself being beaten by the camp's "immediate reaction force".  Remes said that Ismail told him the immediate reaction force not only shackled him, and beat him, but that they choked him, and then one of the guards urinated on his head.  He told Remes that after he was returned to his cell, when he woke the next morning he was bleeding from his ear.

Camp Commandant David M. Thomas claimed Ismail's version was a "complete and total fabrication".
According to camp authorities, Ismail had not only thrown his sandal, but he had thrown a book, and he had spit on the guards.  Camp authorities characterized the alleged spitting as an "assault".

Camp authorities claimed that the immediate reaction force's extraction was
"passive in nature and used the minimum amount of force necessary."
They further claimed that the incident had been videotaped, and that Ismail was given a medical examination afterwards, which found no wounds.

However, the Christian Science Monitor noted that camp authorities had refused to release the videotape, or any of Ismail's medical records, including the report from the medical examination camp authorities had asserted showed he had not been wounded.

June 2009 sit-in

Carol Rosenberg, writing for the Miami Herald, reported that Yasin Qasem Ismail participated in a protracted sit-in.
Captives' attorney, like Yasin's attorney David Remes, were aware of the sit-in, but were not allowed to tell reporters without violating their classification agreement.  Rosenberg said the sit-in involved approximately half the captives held in Camp 5.  The captives refused to leave their exercise yard, and in contrast to previous confrontations with the camp authorities, they decided to wait out the protesters, rather than resort to violence.

The sit-in was triggered by increased security measures following the June 1, 2009, apparent suicide of Muhammed Ahmad Abdallah Salih.

Hunger striker

Ismail was a long term hunger striker.
In 2013, the Yemen Times quoted him describing the manner of the force-feeding of the hunger strikers as inhumane.

References

Yemeni extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp
Living people
1979 births