[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Vauquelin-class destroyer

The Vauquelin class was a group of six large destroyers () built for the French Navy () in the early 1930s. Entering service in 1933–1934, the sister ships spent most of their careers in the Mediterranean. During the Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939, they helped to enforce the non-intervention agreement. When France declared war on Germany in September 1939, all of the Vauquelins were assigned to the High Sea Forces ( (FHM)) which was tasked to escort French convoys and support the other commands as needed. Three of the sisters briefly deployed to Scotland in early 1940 to support the Allied forces in the Norwegian Campaign and  was lost to an accidental explosion. The others returned to the Mediterranean in time to participate in Operation Vado, a bombardment of Italian coastal facilities after Italy entered the war in June.

The Vichy French reformed the FHM after the French surrender in late June. After the Allies invaded French Lebanon and Syria in June 1941,  was ordered to ferry ammunition there. Sunk en route, the ship was replaced by her sister  which successfully delivered the ammunition and then attempted to transport reinforcements and supplies to Lebanon. The four surviving ships were scuttled in Toulon when the Germans occupied Vichy France in November 1942. They were not successfully salvaged during the war and their wrecks were broken up well after the war.

Design and description

Like their predecessors, the s of the Vauquelin class were designed as fleet scouts, intended to fight their way through the enemy's screen. The design was virtually identical to the preceding s, although the stern was reshaped to improve minelaying and the torpedo armament was revised. To reduce topweight, the use of electric welding for non-strength parts of the hull and superstructure was increased as was the use of duralumin for internal partitions and parts of the superstructure. This improved their metacentric height at deep load to  and made them much more stable than the Aigles. The Vauquelins were considered to be good seaboats, although the small rudder, carried over from the earlier ships, made them not very maneuverable. In service the use of duralumin was much criticized as it was corrosion prone and required much maintenance.

The Vauquelin-class ships had an overall length of , a beam of , and a draft of . The ships displaced  at standard and  at deep load. Their hull was subdivided by a dozen traverse bulkheads into 13 watertight compartments. Their crew consisted of 10 officers and 201 crewmen in peacetime and 12 officers and 220 enlisted men in wartime.

The Vauquelins were powered by two geared Rateau-Breguet or Parsons steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by four du Temple boilers that operated at a pressure of  and a temperature of . The turbines were designed to produce  which was intended give the ships a speed of . During their sea trials, each of the ships comfortably exceeded their designed speed, ranging from  from . They carried a maximum of  of fuel oil which give them a range of  at . The ships were fitted with two  turbo generators in the engine rooms. In addition, a pair of  diesel generators were located in the central superstructure.

Armament and fire control

The main armament of the Vauquelin-class ships consisted of five 40-caliber  Modèle 1927 guns in single shielded mounts, one superfiring pair fore and aft of the superstructure and the fifth gun abaft the aft funnel. The guns were numbered '1' to '5' from front to rear. Their mounts had a range of elevation from −10° to +28°, which gave the guns a range of  at maximum elevation. They fired  projectiles at a muzzle velocity of  at a rate of 8 to 12 rounds per minute. The Vauquelins could stow 200 rounds for each gun, plus 75 star shells for No. 2 gun.

Their secondary armament consisted of four 50-caliber semi-automatic  Modèle 1925 anti-aircraft (AA) guns in single mounts positioned amidships. Their mounts could elevate from −15° to +80° and the guns had a maximum effective range of . Firing  projectiles at a muzzle velocity of  the guns had a rate of fire of 20 rounds per minute. In addition there were two twin mounts for Hotchkiss Mitrailleuse de  CA Modèle 1929 AA machine guns on the forecastle deck abreast the bridge.