[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Webroot

broot acquired the assets of CyberFlow Analytics, a company applying data science to network anomaly detection.

In February 2019 Webroot announced that it would be acquired by Carbonite. In March 2019, Carbonite confirmed the purchase.

In December 2019 Carbonite was acquired by OpenText.

Reviews 

AV-Comparatives gave nine vendors, including Webroot, its highest award in its July 2012 Anti-Phishing Test, in which Webroot took ninth place among 18 products tested for efficacy in blocking phishing websites. In AV-Comparatives's Performance Test for October 2012, Webroot had the best PCMark score, having the lightest impact out of 20 products tested on a Windows 7 64-bit machine.

Webroot had the worst results out of 20 products tested by AV-Comparatives in the September 2012 File Detection Test of Malicious Software, both in terms of malware detection rates and false alarms. Webroot detected less than 80 percent of viral samples, much worse than the 94.4 percent rate of the second-lowest detecting product. Webroot inappropriately flagged 210 clean files, raising as many false positives as the other 19 products tested combined. According to AV-comparatives, the "results and misses have been confirmed with several tests and also by the vendor."

PC Magazine has awarded Webroot SecureAnywhere 19 times with Editor's Choice and Security Product of the Year, its highest award given to security and software programs. In PC Magazine's test for 2013, Webroot was found by PC Magazine staff to have the best score in malware blocking tests, malware removal tests, speed of scans, and installation speed. In the 2014 test, PCMag found "Webroot's detection rate of 89 percent and overall malware cleanup score of 6.6 points are both tops among products tested using this same malware collection."

Gartner listed Webroot in its Visionary Quadrant in its 2014 assessment of Endpoint Protection Platforms.

In 2014, PassMark Software, a software and hardware performance benchmarking company, benchmarked Webroot SecureAnywhere Business Endpoint Protection and Webroot SecureAnywhere AntiVirus using 13 performance metrics. In both tests, Webroot products were found to outperform competitors in a variety of metrics, including scan times, CPU usage, and others, earning the highest overall score in both tests.

During November 2016's evaluation of mobile security products for Android AV-TEST has given Webroot's SecureAnywhere Mobile product a "Protection Score" of 3.5 out of 6, placing it near the bottom of all 26 products evaluated in this test in terms of protection against malware. Both the "Detection of the latest Android malware in real-time" and "Detection of the latest Android malware discovered in the last 4 weeks" scores were below the "Industry Average" score.

WebRoot's web browser extension will flag any web site that WebRoot has not reviewed as suspicious.  The browser extension will inject an exclamation mark icon along with a warning into search engine results for all unreviewed sites, making it look like the warning is a product of the search engine being used.  On February 22, 2017, in response to a customer complaint on WebRoot's community forum about this behavior, a WebRoot company representative replied, "...a site will automatically show as potentially suspicious if it hasn't garnered a large enough audience for our Team to review it." This has resulted in multiple false positive complaints in the WebRoot Community Fourm.

In October 2017, AV-Comparatives performed a "Head-to-Head Comparison" between products from VIPRE and Webroot, the Webroot SecureAnywhere product was only able to achieve 86.4% "Protection Rate", compared to VIPRE Cloud's 100% rate. The test was performed using a test set of 316 live malicious URLs found in the field.

During the January 2018 test of 84 various Android antimalware apps by AV-Comparatives, Webroot Security Premier has detected 99.7% of all antimalware samples, placing it below 30 other tested apps which showed better detection rates.

See also 

 AntiVirus
 Comparison of antivirus software
 Comparison of computer viruses
 Software as a Service

References

External links
  

Computer security software companies
Software companies based in Colorado
Companies based in Broomfield, Colorado
Software companies of the United States
Content-control software
Antivirus software
Software companies established in 1997
American subsidiaries of foreign companies
2019 mergers and acquisitions