[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USCGC Onondaga

both the Pacific and Bering Sea approaches to Dutch Harbor.  In view of his expectation of an attack on Dutch Harbor, Admiral Theobald's operating area south of Kodiak was well chosen.  But because he guessed incorrectly, the main body of his cruiser task force was removed from the scene of action.

Japanese carrier planes launched two attacks against Dutch Harbor on 3 June, inflicting considerable damage and killing about twenty-five American soldiers and sailors.  Cutter Onondaga and destroyers King and Talbot, seaplane tender Gillis, army transports President Fillmore and Morlen, and submarine S-27 went to general quarters and made haste to get underway and stand out to sea, but none cleared the harbor until the attack was over.  One Japanese plane was shot down.

The next day, another Japanese carrier-based attack was launched against Dutch Harbor.  About eighteen more Americans died in this attack, but at least five Japanese aircraft were shot down.  The Aleutian part of the Midway operation ended in mid-June.  The Japanese occupied Attu and Kiska, two islands of little except nuisance value.  A phase began on 11 June which witnessed Japanese attempts to hold what they had, while the American forces prepared to blast them out.

Essentially, the Aleutian battle was a contest of air power, as was Midway.  Weather consistently aided the offensive by shrouding ships in protective mist, while sweeping land targets clear.  In May 1943, Attu was in American hands, and on 15 August U.S. Forces found that the Japanese had completely abandoned Kiska.

Cutter Onondaga and the other ships assigned to the Northern Pacific Force remained on patrol in northern waters through the end of the war.  She returned to the United States Treasury Department on 1 January 1946, and resumed patrol duties out of Astoria.

The Onondaga also gained fame for having rescued the survivors of the liner S S Yukon wrecked near Seward, Alaska on February 4, 1946.

Onondaga was decommissioned on 24 July 1947, she was sold on 7 December 1954 to Foss Launch and Tug Company of Seattle, Washington.

Update

April, 2011, Environmental Protection Agency divers surveyed the Onondaga's hull, which had been shorn of its superstructure, sunk at a pier in the Lake Washington Ship Canal near Seattle.  They found no pollutants, but a recently passed state law calling for the removal of abandoned boats and barges in Washington State waters may herald her demise.

Two of Onondagas sisters ships became museum ships.  The Comanche (WPG-76) served as a museum ship at Patriot's Point, South Carolina before being sunk as an artificial reef. The Mohawk (WPG-78) served as of museum ship in Key West, Florida before being sunk as an artificial reef in July 2012.

A letter appeared in the June 2, 2011 Nome Nugget noting the dearth of WW II museum and/or memorial ships preserved in Alaska even through both it and Hawaii were the front-lines of the conflict.  Four ships have been set aside in Hawaii as memorial and/or museum ships.  They are the USS Arizona, the USS Utah, the USS Missouri and the USS Bowfin. The letter called for the Onondaga to be retrieved for such a purpose, using the salvage and restoration of the WW I Turkish mine-layer Nusret as a precedent.  The TGC Nusret N-16 was in a similar decrepit condition as the Onondaga at this writing.

References

External links
 uscg:mil: U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Onondaga WPG-79
 history.navy.mil: U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Onondaga (CG-59, later WPG-79), 1934-1954 
 history.navy.mil: DANFS entry on USS Onondaga 
Alaskan Ship Breaks Up, Rescue Work Continues
EPA divers to survey sunken vessel in Lake Washington Ship Canal

Algonquin-class cutters
Ships built in Bay City, Michigan
1934 ships
Ships of the Aleutian Islands campaign