[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Confederate War Memorial (Dallas)

ededicated on April 29, 1962, with Earle Cabell scheduled to be in attendance. The Dallas chapter of the UDC initiated a restoration project in 1992, culminating in the monument's second rededication on October 12, 1997. Prior to its removal, it was believed to be the city's oldest public sculpture.

In 2017, the controversial Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, prompted the removal of Confederate monuments in various southern cities, and then-Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings called for a task force to decide what to do with the memorial. In April 2018, a local group calling itself Return to Lee Park was formed, and the group filed lawsuits to block the removal of both the War Memorial and the Robert E. Lee on Traveller statue in Lee Park. In an 11–4 vote on February 13, 2019, the Dallas City Council approved removal of the War Memorial. Although Pioneer Park Cemetery is considered a historical area, the city's Landmark Commission and the City Plan Commission subsequently, and independently, deemed that the War Memorial has no historical connection to the cemetery, having been moved to the location decades after the last person was interred there in 1921. Soon after the council's vote to remove the monument, it was covered with tarps and surrounded with barricades.  On July 1, 2019, Appeals Court Justice Bill Whitehall sided with Return to Lee Park and issued an order indefinitely blocking the memorial's removal until the dispute is resolved. 

Robert E. Lee on Traveller was later removed and sold at auction for $1.4 million, and the city earmarked the funds to cover the estimated $500,000 cost to remove the War Memorial; however, in June 2019, Return to Lee Park filed an emergency stay with the Fifth Court of Appeals of Texas to block its removal, arguing that the city had violated the Texas Open Meetings Act and the Texas Antiquities Act in its earlier actions. In June 2019, the Dallas statue was sold at an online auction for $1.44 million to the city-based law firm Holmes Firm PC.  The statue is displayed at the Lajitas Golf Resort in Lajitas, Texas, a resort owned by Kelcy Warren, co-founder of Energy Transfer Partners.

In late May 2020, the murder of George Floyd prompted massive protests across the United States, and mobs of protesters committed widespread acts of vandalism in downtown Dallas. Protests in other cities focused on destroying or defacing Confederate monuments, and on June 11, 2020, the city filed an emergency motion with the Court of Appeals asking for immediate permission to remove the War Memorial, citing the possibility of serious injury to protesters if the monument were to be toppled during a planned rally at the site. The following day, the court approved immediate removal of the monument “for archival storage pending resolution of the appeal.” By the morning of June 24, 2020, the statues and most other pieces of the monument had been removed for storage at the Grand Prairie Armed Forces Reserve Complex. The central pillar was completely removed later that same week.

See also
 List of Confederate monuments and memorials
 List of monument and memorial controversies in the United States
 One Riot, One Ranger – another Dallas monument removed the same month
 Veterans War Memorial of Texas

References

1896 establishments in Texas
1896 sculptures
Monuments and memorials in the United States removed during the George Floyd protests
Confederate States of America monuments and memorials in Texas
Granite sculptures in Texas
History of Dallas
Marble sculptures in Texas
Statues of Jefferson Davis
Outdoor sculptures in Dallas
Sculptures of men in Texas
Statues of Robert E. Lee
Stonewall Jackson
United Daughters of the Confederacy monuments and memorials
Removed Confederate States of America monuments and memorials
Statues removed in 2020