[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ianis Zicu

Ianis Alin Zicu (born 23 October 1983) is a Romanian former professional footballer who played as a midfielder and a current coach.

Club career

Early career, Dinamo București and loans
Ianis Zicu was born on 23 October 1983 in Constanța, Romania, starting to play football at the youth center of local club Farul, under the guidance of coach Iosif Bükössy. In 2000, Zicu went to play for Dinamo București, making his Divizia A debut under coach Cornel Dinu on 14 April 2001, at the age of 17 in a 4–2 win over Gaz Metan Mediaș, scoring his first goal in a 4–3 loss to Astra Ploiești in the same season, at the end of which he won the first trophy of his career, being sent by Dinu in the 90th minute in order to replace Marius Niculae in the 4–2 victory against Rocar București from the 2001 Cupa României final. In the following season, Zicu helped the team win the title by scoring two goals in the 16 appearances given to him by coaches Dinu and Marin Ion, while also playing a few games in Divizia B for the club's then satellite team, Poiana Câmpina and he made his debut in European competitions when he replaced Claudiu Niculescu in the 63rd minute of a 3–1 home loss in front of Grasshopper Zürich from the first round of the 2001–02 UEFA Cup. He returned at Farul to play in the 2002–03 Divizia A season, being loaned by Dinamo so he would have the chance to play more and gain experience. He returned to The Red Dogs for the first half of the 2003–04 season, having a good performance by scoring 6 goals in the 13 league matches coach Ioan Andone used him, also helping the team eliminate Liepājas Metalurgs and Shakhtar Donetsk in the UEFA Cup by scoring his first two goals in European competitions against each of them, then transferring in the middle of the season at Inter Milan, but Dinamo still managed to win the Double at the end of the season without him.

Inter Milan and loans
In January 2004 Zicu joined Inter Milan from Dinamo for €2.5 million, but the club immediately loaned him to Parma, as part of the Adriano Leite Ribeiro deal. He made his Serie A debut for The Crusaders under coach Cesare Prandelli on 21 February 2004 in a 2–1 win against Sampdoria, making a total of seven appearances in the competition by the end of the season. In the next season, as Prandelli left the club, Zicu was used rarely, but one of his appearances was in the group stage of the 2004–05 UEFA Cup in a 1–0 victory against Steaua București, then leaving in the middle of the season to go on loan at Dinamo for one year and a half.

Upon his return, Zicu helped The Red Dogs win the 2004–05 Cupa României, being sent on the field by Ioan Andone in the 56th minute to replace Ovidiu Burcă in the 1–0 victory against Farul from the final. He started the following season by coming as a substitute to replace Vlad Munteanu in the 69th minute of the 3–2 victory against rivals Steaua which helped the team earn for the first time in its history the Supercupa României, also Andone used him in the 2005–06 UEFA Cup campaign when team reached the group stage after eliminating Omonia Nicosia against whom he scored a brace in the first leg and Everton against whom he scored a goal in a historical 5–2 on aggregate, after which the British newspaper Daily Mirror wrote about Zicu:"There is no doubt. The Romanian has class". In August 2005, Zicu gained negative attention upon himself when during a 1–0 loss in front of Farul, in the 22nd minute of the game, after he got pass the goalkeeper and was alone in central position, without any opponents, he missed, kicking the ball beyond the goalpost, saying after the game:"I lost the match. It's my fault and I take full responsibility. I don't know if I'll have nightmares, but I'll definitely think a lot about this miss".

For the 2006–07 season he remained in his country, Inter loaning him this time to Rapid București. He had a remarkable spell with The Railwaymen, as under the guidance of coach Răzvan Lucescu he scored 12 league goals, helped the club reach the UEFA Cup group stage and win the Cupa României, scoring the second goal of the 2–0 victory against Politehnica Timișoara from the final when he was also named "The man of the match".