[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Uranium mining

in breeder reactor technology. The thorium fuel cycle is a further alternative if and when uranium prices remain at a sustained high level and consequently interest in this alternative to current "mainstream" light water reactor technology is dependent in no small part on uranium prices.

Politics 

In March 1951, the United States Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) set a high price for uranium ore. The resultant uranium rush attracted many prospectors to the Southwest. Charles Steen made a significant discover near Moab, Utah, while Paddy Martinez made another near Grants, New Mexico. However, by the 1960s, the United States, USSR, France and China were reducing their acquisitions of uranium. The United States started enriching only uranium mined within its country, but by 1965, production had dropped by 40 percent. By 1971, in an attempt to stop further reductions in prices, mining executives from UCAN, Nufcor, Rio Tinto, and government representatives agreed to share the market with Canadians getting 33.5 percent, South Africa 23.75 percent, France 21.75 percent, Australia 17 percent, and Rio Tinto Zinc 4 percent. By 1974, this market share agreement ended as uranium prices rose in concert with energy prices due to OPEC boycotts, and the United States ending its trade ban of foreign uranium.

In Europe a mixed situation exists. Considerable nuclear power capacities have been developed, notably in Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the UK. In many countries development of nuclear power has been stopped and phased out by legal actions. In Italy the use of nuclear power was barred by a referendum in 1987; this is now under revision. Ireland in 2008 also had no plans to change its non-nuclear stance.

The years 1976 and 1977 saw uranium mining become a major political issue in Australia, with the Ranger Inquiry (Fox) report opening up a public debate about uranium mining. The Movement Against Uranium Mining group was formed in 1976, and many protests and demonstrations against uranium mining were held. Concerns relate to the health risks and environmental damage from uranium mining. Notable Australian anti-uranium activists have included Kevin Buzzacott, Jacqui Katona, Yvonne Margarula, and Jillian Marsh.

The World Uranium Hearing was held in Salzburg, Austria in September 1992. Anti-nuclear speakers from all continents, including indigenous speakers and scientists, testified to the health and environmental problems of uranium mining and processing, nuclear power, nuclear weapons, nuclear tests, and radioactive waste disposal. People who spoke at the 1992 Hearing include: Thomas Banyacya, Katsumi Furitsu, Manuel Pino and Floyd Red Crow Westerman. They highlighted the threat of radioactive contamination to all peoples, especially indigenous communities and said that their survival requires self-determination and emphasis on spiritual and cultural values. Increased renewable energy commercialization was advocated.

The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with the help of China has built an extraction facility to obtain uranium yellowcake from uranium ore. According to Western officials with information regarding the extraction site, the process is conducted by the oil-rich kingdom to champion nuclear technology. However, Saudi Energy Minister denied having built a uranium ore facility and claimed that the extraction of minerals is a fundamental part of the kingdom's strategy to diversify its economy.

Despite sanctions on Russia some countries still buy its uranium in 2022, and some argue the EU should stop.  S&P Global say non-Russian miners await more certainty before deciding whether to invest in new mines.

Health risks 
Uranium ore emits radon gas. The health effects of high exposure to radon are a particular problem in the mining of uranium; significant excess lung cancer deaths have been identified in epidemiological studies of uranium miners employed in the 1940s and 1950s.