[Source: PubMed]

45. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2014 Jan 31;63(4):77-80.

Strengthening global health security capacity--Vietnam demonstration project, 
2013.

Tran PD, Vu LN, Nguyen HT, Phan LT, Lowe W, McConnell MS, Iademarco MF, 
Partridge JM, Kile JC, Do T, Nadol PJ, Bui H, Vu D, Bond K, Nelson DB, Anderson 
L, Hunt KV, Smith N, Giannone P, Klena J, Beauvais D, Becknell K, Tappero JW, 
Dowell SF, Rzeszotarski P, Chu M, Kinkade C; Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC).

Over the past decade, Vietnam has successfully responded to global health 
security (GHS) challenges, including domestic elimination of severe acute 
respiratory syndrome (SARS) and rapid public health responses to human 
infections with influenza A(H5N1) virus. However, new threats such as Middle 
East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and influenza A(H7N9) present 
continued challenges, reinforcing the need to improve the global capacity to 
prevent, detect, and respond to public health threats. In June 2012, Vietnam, 
along with many other nations, obtained a 2-year extension for meeting core 
surveillance and response requirements of the 2005 International Health 
Regulations (IHR). During March-September 2013, CDC and the Vietnamese Ministry 
of Health (MoH) collaborated on a GHS demonstration project to improve public 
health emergency detection and response capacity. The project aimed to 
demonstrate, in a short period, that enhancements to Vietnam's health system in 
surveillance and early detection of and response to diseases and outbreaks could 
contribute to meeting the IHR core capacities, consistent with the Asia Pacific 
Strategy for Emerging Diseases. Work focused on enhancements to three 
interrelated priority areas and included achievements in 1) establishing an 
emergency operations center (EOC) at the General Department of Preventive 
Medicine with training of personnel for public health emergency management; 2) 
improving the nationwide laboratory system, including enhanced testing 
capability for several priority pathogens (i.e., those in Vietnam most likely to 
contribute to public health emergencies of international concern); and 3) 
creating an emergency response information systems platform, including a 
demonstration of real-time reporting capability. Lessons learned included 
awareness that integrated functions within the health system for GHS require 
careful planning, stakeholder buy-in, and intradepartmental and 
interdepartmental coordination and communication.

PMCID: PMC4584898
PMID: 24476979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]