[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Constructive set theory

rapositive, which is common practice in classical mathematics. The version without negations is sometimes called weakly injective. The existence of value collisions is a strong notion of non-injectivity. And regarding surjectivity, similar considerations exist for outlier-production in the codomain.

Whether a subclass (or predicate for that matter) can be judged to be a function set, or even total functional to begin with, will depend on the strength of the theory, which is to say the axioms one adopts. And notably, a general class could also fulfill the above defining predicate without being a subclass of the product , i.e. the property is expressing not more or less than functionality w.r.t. the inputs from .
Now if the domain is a set, the function comprehension principle, also called axiom of unique choice  or non-choice, says that a function as a set, with some codomain, exists well. (And this principle is valid in a theory like . Also compare with the Replacement axiom.) That is, the mapping information exists as set and it has a pair for each element in the domain. Of course, for any set from some class, one may always associate unique element of the singleton , which shows that merely a chosen range being a set does not suffice to be granted a function set.
It is a metatheorem for theories containing  that adding a function symbol for a provenly total class function is a conservative extension, despite this formally changing the scope of bounded Separation.
In summary, in the set theory context the focus is on capturing particular total relations that are functional. To delineate the notion of function in the theories of the previous subsection (a 2-ary logical predicate defined to express a functions graph, together with a proposition that it is total and functional) from the "material" set theoretical notion here, one may explicitly call the latter graph of a function, anafunction or set function. The axiom schema of Replacement can also be formulated in terms of the ranges of such set functions.

Finitude 
One defines three distinct notions involving surjections. For a general set to be (Bishop-)finite shall mean there is a bijective function to a natural. If the existence of such a bijection is proven impossible, the set is called non-finite. Secondly, for a notion weaker than finite, to be finitely indexed (or Kuratowski-finite) shall mean that there is a surjection from a von Neumann natural number onto it. Call a set subfinite if it is the subset of a finite set, which thus injects into that finite set. Thirdly, for a notion even weaker than finitely indexed, to be subfinitely indexed means to be in the surjective image of a subfinite set, and in  this just means to be the subset of a finitely indexed set, meaning the subset can also be taken on the image side instead of the domain side. A set exhibiting either of those three notions can be understood to be majorized by a finite set, but in the second case the relation between the sets members is not necessarily fully understood, and in the third not even membership with respect to some superset it is necessary fully understood.
The claim that being finite is equivalent to being subfinite, for all sets, is equivalent to .
More finiteness properties for a set  can be defined, e.g. expressing the existence of some large enough natural such that a certain class of functions on the naturals always fail to map to distinct elements in . One definition considers some notion of non-injectivity into . Other definitions consider functions to a fixed superset of  with more elements.

Terminology for conditions of finiteness and infinitude may vary. Notably, subfinitely indexed sets (a notion necessarily involving surjections) are sometimes called subfinite (which can be defined without functions). The property of being finitely indexed could also be denoted "finitely countable", to fit the naming logic, but is by some authors also called finitely enumerable (which might be confusing as this suggest an injection in the other direction). Relatedly, the existence of a bijection with a finite set has not established, one may say a set is not finite, but this use of language is then weaker than to claim the set to be non-finite. The same issue applies to countable sets (not proven countable vs. proven non-countable), et cetera. A surjective map may also be called an enumeration.