[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 state of emergency in the Philippines

ing the Armed Forces of the Philippines to "maintain the peace and order of the country and to protect it from terrorism or chaos."

The Proclamation effectively cancelled all rally permits everywhere, and according to interpretations by the Arroyo administration, legalized arrest without a warrant.

Events after the proclamation
The EDSA Shrine protesters were dispersed by the police by noontime. Some made their way to La Salle Green Hills while others went to the annual wreath-laying ceremony at Ninoy Aquino's monument on Ayala Avenue in Makati, the metro's central business district.

On the other side of EDSA, protesters led by University of the Philippines Professor Randy David were violently dispersed by the security forces at the EDSA-Kamuning intersection. David and Argee Guevarra were arrested and was charged with inciting to sedition in Camp Karingal in Quezon City. He was later released by nighttime, with all of the charges dropped. Ronald Llamas, a leader of the center-left Akbayan party, was arrested as well.

Around 3:30 p.m. demonstrators from different sectors gathered around at the Ninoy Aquino Monument in Makati to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the 1986 People Power Revolution. Prominent personalities like former President Corazon Aquino and her daughter Kris Aquino, Senate President Franklin Drilon, former Vice President Teofisto Guingona, Bishop Teodoro Bacani and Bishop Oscar Cruz, as well as other senators like Aquilino Pimentel, Jr. took part. Protesters believed that Makati would be a safe gathering place because it was governed by oppositionist Mayor Jejomar Binay. However, numerous police personnel were deployed in the area. The traditional throwing of confetti was carried out by some building occupants and a helicopter. The rally was dispersed by the Philippine National Police around 7:30 p.m., contrary to the statement of the police which said that the protesters "voluntarily" left the site.

Military movements
On the morning of February 26, the Armed Forces denied the text messages stating that there would be unusual military movements. Malacañang said that those statements who came from Mayor J. V. Ejercito of San Juan, Metro Manila are not true. Mayor Ejercito denied the information that came from Malacañang. Malacañang also said that there are no unauthorized troop movements.

Fort Bonifacio crisis
At around 6:00 p.m. on February 26 Maj. Gen. Renato Miranda was either relieved from his position as Commandant of the Philippine Marines or was requested to resign. Philippine Navy Chief Vice Admiral Mateo Mayuga and Malacañang said that Miranda asked to be relieved for personal reasons, while others perceived it as his termination. He was replaced by Brig. Gen. Nelson Allaga as Acting Commandant of Philippine Marines. Colonel Ariel Querubin protested these moves  by the Navy, and some marines went to the camp chapel of Fort Bonifacio to start a prayer vigil in protest that could have led to a "withdrawal of support." Presidential Chief-of-Staff Mike Defensor said the decision was within the military, thus Malacañang had no influence on the matter. He also said that media should not cover the events happening at Fort Bonifacio; major privately owned stations defied the suggestion and covered the situation.

The Armed Forces implemented countermeasures, such as blocking Lawton Avenue (the main road to the Fort) from possible protesters, turning off the lights in the Fort, and deploying loyalist troops. However, former President Corazon Aquino, former Vice President Teofisto Guingona, Jr., Senator Ramon Magsaysay, Jr., Representatives Benigno Aquino III and Imee Marcos, and De La Salle University President Bro. Armin Luistro, FSC, went to Fort Bonifacio with other prominent opposition members, but the Civil Disturbance Team arrived at 7:05 pm to control civilians. Civil society held their prayer vigils in front of the Fort, led by the La Salle Brothers.

That evening, Capt. Geronimo said that the crisis was over. The newly appointed Commandant of Philippine Marine Corps, Brig. Gen. Nelson Allaga, assumed control of all the marines, and Querubin was later discharged from the services, bidding his comrades goodbye in Marawi City. Brig. Gen. Allaga also announced their situation was over  and that the whole Philippine Marine Corps will still will follow the "chain of command"  despite earlier events. This decision came from a gentleman's agreement by officers to vote on whether or not to follow the chain of command, with a result of nine against six.

After the crisis, most people in front of Fort Bonifacio left, and as a response Malacañang suspended classes on all levels the following day,. Col. Querubin was relieved from his position as commander of the 1st Marine Brigade, with Lt. Col. Luisito Marcelino as his temporary replacement.