[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Palliser novels

liation to it forms much of the plot of The Duke's Children.
Plantagenet Palliser (father). See main article.
Plantagenet Palliser (son), holds the courtesy title Earl of Silverbridge. See under "Earl of Silverbridge".
Sexty Parker. Partner of Ferdinand Lopez in The Prime Minister and ruined by him.

S
Duke of St  Bungay. Liberal politician, who offers Palliser the post of Chancellor of the Exchequer in Can You Forgive Her? Is spoken of as a possible prime minister in Phineas Finn. Serves in a variety of Cabinet posts, and is a close friend and confidant of Palliser.
Plantagenet Palliser, Earl of Silverbridge Eldest child of Plantagenet and Glencora Palliser. His love initially for Lady Mabel Grex and later for Isabel Boncassen forms much of the plot of The Duke's Children. Involved in a betting scandal. He serves initially as a Conservative, but later as a Liberal Member of Parliament.
Lady Laura Standish. Friend and love interest of Phineas Finn in Phineas Finn.

T
Frank Tregear. Falls in love with Lady Mary Palliser. Her father's objections to the match are gradually worn down, especially once Tregear is elected as a member of Parliament.

V
Alice Vavasor. A friend and cousin of Lady Glencora's; eventually marries John Grey after long rejecting him.
Arabella Vavasor. Daughter of Squire Vavasor. See under Greenow, Mrs Arabella.
George Adam St George Vavasor. A ne'er do well, who takes money from his cousin Alice to finance ruinously expensive runs for Parliament.  Briefly sits in the Commons, but is disinherited by his grandfather and eventually flees to America.
John Vavasor. Alice's father and George's uncle. Heir to the Vavasor fortune after George is disinherited.
Kate Vavasor. Sister of George Vavasor and cousin of Alice Vavasor.
Squire Vavasor. Strong-willed father of John and grandfather of George, Kate and Alice. Though a strong believer in primogeniture, he eventually disinherits George shortly before his own death.

W
Emily Wharton. Marries Ferdinand Lopez and is widowed when he kills himself.  Later marries Arthur Fletcher.
Everett Wharton. Emily's brother.
Mr. Abel Wharton. Emily's father, an attorney in commercial law.

Adaptations 
In 1974 the BBC adapted the Palliser novels as a twenty-six part serial The Pallisers, using some material from Trollope's Barsetshire novel The Small House at Allington (1864). This was in turn novelised in a single volume by John Garforth under the alias Tony Hussey.

There was also a 12-part BBC Radio 4 "Classic Serial" dramatisation in 2004, which has been re-broadcast a number of times on BBC Radio 4 Extra. The serial was narrated by David Troughton as Trollope, with Ben Miles as Plantagenet Palliser and Sophie Thompson as Lady Glencora. A new six-part adaptation by Mike Harris under the title The Pallisers began on BBC Radio 4 on 10 November 2019.

The 2017 novel Rich People Problems by Kevin Kwan makes numerous references to the Palliser novels. A secondary character, Colette Bing, marries Lucien Plantagenet Montagu-Scott, Earl of Palliser, son of the Duke of Glencora, whose family seat is located in Barchester in the county of Barsetshire.

References

External links
 

 
Book series introduced in 1864
Hexalogies
 
Novel series
British novels adapted into television shows