[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 61]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

t was impossible to disguise the leading motive; or
what Mrs. Temperley passionately described as its brutal vulgarity. The
library alone had been subjected to _peine forte et dure_. Mrs.
Temperley said that it had been purified by suffering. By dint of
tearing down and dragging out offending objects ("such a pity!" cried
the neighbours) its prosperous and complacent absurdity had been
humbled. Mrs. Temperley retired to this refuge after her encounter with
Sophia. That perennially aggrieved young person entered almost
immediately afterwards and announced a visitor, with an air that
implied--"She'll stay to lunch; see if she don't, and what'll you do
then? Yah!"

The pronunciation of the visitor's name was such, that, for the moment,
Mrs. Temperley did not recognize it as that of Miss Valeria Du Prel.

She jumped up joyfully. "Ah, Valeria, this _is_ delightful!"

The visit was explained after a characteristic fashion. Miss Du Prel
realized that over two years had passed since she had seen Hadria, and
moreover she had been seized with an overwhelming longing for a sight of
country fields and a whiff of country air, so she had put a few things
together in a handbag, which she had left at Craddock station by
accident, and come down. Was there anyone who could go and fetch her
handbag? It was such a nuisance; she laid it down for a moment to get at
her ticket--she never could find her pocket, dressmakers always hid them
in such an absurd way; could Hadria recommend any dressmaker who did not
hide pockets? Wasn't it tiresome? She had no time-table, and so she had
gone to the station that morning and waited till a Craddock train
started, and by this arrangement it had come to pass that she had spent
an hour and a half on the platform: she did not think she ever had such
an unpleasant time; why didn't they have trains oftener? They did to
Putney.

Mrs. Temperley sat down and laughed. Whereupon the other's face
lightened and she joined in the laugh at her own expense, settling into
the easy chair that her hostess had prepared for her, with a gesture of
helplessness and comfort.

"Well, in spite of that time at the station, I'm glad I came. It seems
so long since I have seen you, dear Hadria, and the last time you know
you were very unhappy, almost mad----"

"Yes, yes; never mind about that," interposed Mrs. Temperley hastily,
setting her teeth together.

"You take things too hard, too hard," said Miss Du Prel. "I used to
think _I_ was bad in that way, but I am phlegmatic compared with you.
One would suppose that----"

"Valeria, don't, don't, don't," cried Mrs. Temperley. "I can't stand
it." Her teeth were still set tight and hard, her hands were clenched.

"Very well, very well. Tell me what you have been making of this
ridiculous old world, where everything goes wrong and everybody is
stupid or wicked, or both."

Mrs. Temperley's face relaxed a little, though the signs of some strong
emotion were still visible.

"Well, to answer the general by the particular, I have spent the
morning, accompanied by a nice young brood of Cochin-China fowls, in
Craddock churchyard."

"Oh, I hate a churchyard," exclaimed Miss Du Prel, with a shudder. "It
makes one think of the hideous mockery of life, and the more one would
like to die, the worse seems the brutality of death and his hideous
accompaniments. It is such a savage denial of all human aspirations and
affections and hopes. Ah, it is horrible!" The sharply-outlined face
grew haggard and white, as its owner crouched over the fire.

"Heaven knows! but it was very serene and very lovely up there this
morning."

"Ah!" exclaimed Valeria with a burst of strange enthusiasm and sadness,
that revealed all the fire and yearning and power that had raised her
above her fellows in the scale of consciousness, with the penalty of a
life of solitude and of sorrow.

"Surely it is not without meaning that the places of the dead are the
serenest spots on earth," said Mrs. Temperley. "If I could keep myself
in the mood that the place induces, I think I should not mind anything
very much any more. The sunshine seems to rest more tenderly there than
elsewhere, and the winds have a reverence for the graves, as if they
felt it time that the dead were left in peace--the 'happier dead,' as
poor immortal Tithonius calls them, who has not the gift of death. And
the grey old tower and the weather stains on the stones; there is a
conspiracy of beauty in the place, that holds one as one is held by
music."

"Ah! I know the magic of these things; it tempts one to believe at times
that Nature is _not_ all blind and unpitying. But that is a delusion: if
there were any pity in Nature, the human spirit would not be dowered
with such infinite and terrible longings and such capacities and dreams
and prayers and then--then insulted with the mockery of death and
annihilation."

"If there should be no Beyond," muttered Mr