[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hamilton Police Service

The Hamilton Police Service (HPS) is the police service of the city of Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. As of 2021, the service employed 829 sworn officers and 414 non-sworn staff, serving a population of about 570 000 residents. The service's headquarters are located at 155 King William St., Hamilton, Ontario. As of 2022, the service's budget is $183 542 539, roughly 18.5% of the City's overall budget. It is one of the oldest police forces in Ontario.

History

The Town of Hamilton was incorporated by Upper Canadian Parliament on February 13, 1833. On March 11 of that year, High Bailiff John Ryckman was appointed as Hamilton's first police officer.

In 1848, neighbouring Dundas raised its own municipal police force, followed two years later by Ancaster. The Township of Saltfleet and Town of Stoney Creek followed suit in 1940 and 1949, respectively.

On January 1, 1974, Wentworth County was reorganized to form the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Municipality, and these police forces, along with the Ontario Provincial Police detachments covering the remainder of the county, were amalgamated to form the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police Force.

In 1986, the Hamilton Harbour Police, an unarmed special constabulary maintained by the Hamilton Harbour Commission, was folded into the Hamilton Wentworth Regional Police Force.

In 1999, Lincoln Alexander, Ontario's lieutenant governor from 1985 to 1991 and Canada's first Black Member of Parliament, was named honorary chief of police of the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police Force. When Alexander passed in 2012, his casket was carried by members of the Hamilton Police Honour Guard.

On January 1, 2001, the communities of Ancaster, Dundas, Flamborough, Glanbrook, Stoney Creek and Hamilton were amalgamated to form the new single-tier City of Hamilton. At the same time, the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police Force was renamed and reorganized to become the Hamilton Police Service.

Coat of arms, flag and logo

Hamilton Police Service coat of arms
The Hamilton Police Service coat of arms and colours, standards and guidons were granted by the Canadian Heraldic Authority (created by Her Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II on the recommendation of His Excellency the Governor General of Canada) November 15, 2007.  The coat of arms is a version of the national coat of arms for municipal police services. It may be granted to any municipal police service which is part of a municipal corporation that possesses a coat of arms by lawful grant from the Crown. All such badges share a frame of gold maple leaves rising up from a representation of the provincial flower from the province in which the service is sited, all ensigned by the Royal Crown - St. Edward’s Crown.

"On a hurt a maple leaf gules fimbriated or, all within a wreath of maple leaves or issuant from a trillium flower proper between two cinquefoils gules, the whole ensigned by the Royal Crown proper and in base a ribbon sable edged or inscribed Hamilton Police Service in letters argent;"

Symbolism

There are many symbolic meanings to various parts of the Hamilton Police Service coat of arms. The exterior frame of maple leaves, the trillium, and St. Edward’s Crown follow the traditional style of police coats of arms for a municipal police service in Canada.  The police service has the responsibility of upholding the peace and the administration of justice under the Canadian Crown.  The Royal Crown, at the top of the coat of arms, symbolizes the administration of Crown’s justice, while the laurel of maple leaves and trillium refer to Canada and Ontario respectively.  The blue field represents the harbour of the City of Hamilton and the gold edges represent the city’s industry and wealth. The red maple leaf represents Canada.  The two cinquefoils allude to the arms of the City of Hamilton in which such a cinquefoil also appears. The cinquefoil is taken from the arms of the Chief of Clan Hamilton, and it thus refers to the city's namesake.  The coat of arms is included in the Public Register of Arms, Flags and Badges of Canada.

Flag

"Per bend sinister azure and gules a bend sinister or overall the badge;"
The symbolism of this emblem is found in other elements of this record