[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

al resource. Largely agricultural, Bessarabian Jews were also committed to Labor Zionism, and as such had a "very vivid political struggle" with the other Zionists. This ideology became dominant within the HeHalutz—a youth movement that offered Jews training for life on farms in Mandatory Palestine.

The spread of socialism and communism in Bessarabia became a contentious issue, opposing the Jewish left to the conservative establishment of Greater Romania. The PER, and especially deputy Landau, sought to mediate, noting that, by May 1932, the authorities were persecuting and even torturing Bessarabian Jews, including those on the political right, "based on simple hunches". In October 1932, Weissman and Sami Stern successfully petitioned Armand Călinescu, PNȚ Minister of the Interior, into ordering a relaxation of measures against the HeHalutz—after young Zionists had been harassed by agents of the Siguranța. The PER delegation argued that Zionism was successfully countering "youthful radicalization"; Călinescu agreed, expressing "his full sympathy for Zionism, with which he is familiarized, and whose deeds he appreciates". By mid 1933, Landau and his Unser Zeit created a national controversy by taking up the cause of Bessarabian communists who had been arrested for agitation in favor of the Soviet Union (which had stated a claim to Bessarabia and Bukovina as Soviet irredenta). Elefterie Negel of Universul paper noted the "audacity of this agitator [Landau]" in claiming that prisoners had been tortured, without material evidence to back his allegation.

Revisionist and antifascist turn
The parliamentary period refined the PER's program, adopted at a general congress in November 1933, into a doctrine. It sought to raise awareness among Romanian Jews that they belonged to a larger Jewish people, while at the same time re-affirming their devotion to the country in which they lived. The party fought for legal, moral and material rights, with a view toward the spiritual development of the Jewish minority (including state support for primary and professional schools, as well as for Jewish worship). Additionally, the PER program noted the need to promote collaboration with the political groups representing Romania's other nationalities. Over these years, the PER became more supportive of Revisionist Zionism, its radicalism on this topic being spurred on by the steady growth of antisemitic intolerance in Romania, represented by groups such as the LANC and the Iron Guard. Weissman had seconded the Revisionist ideologue Ze'ev Jabotinsky during the elections for the Seventeenth Zionist Congress in June 1931, against Singer, who ran on a Renașterea Noastră list. Through the EZNSz/UNET, which continued to exist as a cultural extension, the PER gathered funds for the colonization of destitute Maramureș Jews into Palestine, founding there the settlement Tzur Shalom. It also initiated sociological research into the impoverished communities, sponsoring a survey team headed by István Barzilay, and organized a chapter for traders and artisans.

After the Nazi regime was established in Germany, the PER stood in solidarity with the parties that defended liberal democracy. It organized meetings to condemn the antisemitic actions in Germany and the manifestations of extreme-right sentiment then gaining currency in Romanian political life. In May 1933, at a time when Romanian territorial integrity was seemingly threatened by Hungarian irredentism, the PER chapter in Bihor, under Ernő Klein, protested alongside groups such as the Romanian National Home, declaring its loyalism. The message was also carried on behalf of the PER by A. Rizel, during a loyalist rally in Sulița. In August 1933, Weissman spoke in parliament about how the PER was reconciling "objective patriotism" with a "solidarity of the Jews". His speech was interrupted by the LANC's A. C. Cuza, but also by the PNȚ's Jewish parliamentarian, Aureliu Weiss—the latter objected to Weissman's cultural separatism.

The PER's antifascism also created a rift with the major parties of the establishment: the PNL called it a party of "provocateurs", whose activity actually "stokes the right-wing extremist reaction". In the Assembly, LANC deputy Nichifor Robu was suspended in 1932 for having hit Landau with a chair. PER deputies issued a protest letter of protest against another LANC deputy, Corneliu Șumuleanu, whom they accused of having tolerated antisemitic discrimination in his professional life. Șumuleanu sued them for defamation. Among the former PER deputies, Reiffer split with his party and his community over such issues: in September 1933, he opined that "the German movement for the destruction of Jews is nothing if not the natural reaction of Germans against the current attitude of Jews in Germany." As he put it: "We Jews toyed with the leading virtues of the German people and made fun of what that nation holds as sacred."