[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ahmat Acyl

at his rival Goukouni, probably persuaded by Acyl, on June 15 signed a defense pact with Libya; as a result 7,000 Libyan troops and 7,000 members of the Libyan-raised Islamic Legion were in Chad by the end of 1980, and helped expel Habré from N'Djamena on December 16, after a week of harsh fighting.

This was followed on January 6, 1981, by a joint communiqué issued by Goukouni and Gaddafi, that stated that Chad and Libya had agreed to "work for the realization of complete unity between the two countries". The comuniqué, while strongly supported by Acyl and his faction, had a negative international response, and was also unpopular in Chad; Goukouni was now seen as a Libyan puppet. Relations between Goukouni and Gaddafi became strained, possibly because of rumors that Gaddafi was instigating a coup d'état against Goukouni, to replace him with Acyl. Goukouni's suspicions of plans to replace him with Acyl had been fueled previously by the assassination by Libyans of two senior FROLINAT officials, and the clashes between the First Army and Acyl's CDR.

Consequently, when, on October 22, French president François Mitterrand proposed to send an Organisation of African Unity peace contingent into Chad to replace the Libyans. Goukouni and the GUNT asked the Libyans to immediately leave Chad, but not without debate: four ministers, among them Acyl, had voted against the decision. Gaddafi rapidly complied, and the OAU troops arrived; but these proved ineffectual.

Taking advantage of the Libyans' departure, Habré in 1982 attacked the GUNT, advancing across central Chad from his bases in Darfur, and occupied N'Djamena with hardly any opposition on June 7, forcing the GUNT to flee. A month later, on July 19, Acyl died in the southwestern town of Laï when he inadvertently stepped backwards into the spinning propellers of his Cessna airplane, a gift from Gaddafi. He was buried in Moundou, in front of the lycée Adoum Dallah.

He was succeeded as leader of the CDR militia by the former Defense Minister Acheikh ibn Oumar.

Notes

References 

1944 births
1982 deaths
Baggara Arabs
Chadian rebels
Chadian expatriates in Libya
People of the Chadian–Libyan War
Members of the National Assembly (Chad)
Foreign ministers of Chad
People from Batha Region