[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Milorad Dodik

munity of 55 countries, for referring to the Srebrenica massacre as genocide.

He used variety of claims, espoused by other deniers and conspiracy theorists, such as that Srebrenica was, in fact, revenge for the 1993 Kravica attack and other Bosnian Muslim crimes against Serbs, confirmed or alleged.

In 2017, Dodik introduced legislation, effectively banning the teaching of the Srebrenica genocide and Sarajevo siege in Republika Srpska's schools, stating that it was "impossible to use here the textbooks … which say the Serbs have committed genocide and kept Sarajevo under siege. This is not correct and this will not be taught here".

On 14 August 2018, again initiated by Dodik after his previous attempt in 2010, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska dismissed the 2004 report and decided for a new commission to be assembled to revise report surrounding events in Srebrenica and area around the town in July 1995. This move was immediately criticized by the international community.

The Humanitarian Law Center, in their report signed by 31 high-profile signatories, described this new development as "the culmination of more than a decade of genocide denial and historical revisionism by the SNSD government in Republika Srpska". The United States State Department issued a communique in which they criticized the move, describing it as "(a)ttempts to reject or amend the report on Srebrenica are part of wider efforts to revise the facts of the past war, to deny history, and to politicize tragedy".

Radovan Karadžić
In March 2016, a student dormitory in Pale was named in honor of the wartime Serb leader Radovan Karadžić, an act which was supported by Dodik. The event took place only a few days before Karadžić was convicted for war crimes by the ICTY.

In December 2020, the plaque honoring Karadžić had to be removed after High Representative Inzko, with the help of Karadžić's daughter Sonja Karadžić-Jovičević, publicly called for its removal.

Personal life
Milorad is married to Snježana Dodik, with whom he has two children. His nephew is Bosnian businessman and football administrator Vico Zeljković.

Honours
Order of the Republic of Serbia
Order of the Republika Srpska
Order of Friendship
Award of the International Foundation for the Unity of Orthodox Christian Nations
Order of Peter the Great with Sash – awarded by the National Committee for Social Awards of the Russian Federation for extraordinary contribution to enhancement of the Russian – Serbian cooperation
Order of the Nemanjić dynasty
Order of St. Sava
Order of Saint Simeon the Myrrh-streaming
Order of the Saint bishop Nikolaj
Holy Cross of the Holy Sepulchre Guardians, awarded by Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem
Order of Alexander Nevsky

Honorary awards
Honorary president of KK Partizan
Honorary citizen of Drvar
Honorary citizen of Gradiška
Honorary citizen of Trebinje

References

Bibliography

External links

Official biography
SNSD Official Website
President of the Republic Milorad Dodik

1959 births
Living people
People from Banja Luka
Serbs of Bosnia and Herzegovina
University of Belgrade Faculty of Political Science alumni
Bosnia and Herzegovina politicians
Alliance of Independent Social Democrats politicians
Prime ministers of Republika Srpska
Members of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Chairmen of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Serbian nationalists
Deniers of the Bosnian genocide
Yugoslav men's basketball players
KK Igokea
Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List
Recipients of the Order of Alexander Nevsky