[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pedro Bordaberry

and Luis Lacalle Pou; however, he was re-elected to the Senate.

Senate career
Bordaberry was elected to the Uruguayan Senate in 2009. In early 2010 Bordaberry called for the establishment of a new university in the interior city of Durazno, with a view to assisting disadvantaged potential students.

In 2017 Bordaberry said he would not run again for president or senator in 2019. After the 2019 presidential primaries in which Ernesto Talvi was confirmed as the presidential candidate of the Colorado Party, and in which the newly created Open Cabildo party obtained a high percentage of right-wing votes, several politicians and the media began to speculate on a possible new candidacy of Bordaberry for the Senate, to avoid a drain of Colorado votes in the general election. However, he withdrew after much opposition from party authorities.

Political positions

Economic issues 
Following the inauguration of the Obama administration in the U.S., Bordaberry said that Uruguayan business leaders seeking to export their goods to the U.S. would encounter greater protectionism from U.S. officials. In August 2009, during difficult relations with Argentina over trade issues, Bordaberry expressed strong reservations about the Mercosur trade pact, arguing that the Chilean model of pursuing bilateral trade pacts would be preferable for Uruguay.

Political image

Pedro Bordaberry's decision to seek a political base in Montevideo contrasts with his father, dictator Juan Maria Bordaberry, who had a long association with rural affairs. Juan Maria Bordaberry was arrested in 2006 in connection with the 1976 assassination of two legislators, Senator Zelmar Michelini and House Leader Héctor Gutiérrez. Pedro Bordaberry has since been vocal in his support. Despite his own family history of dictatorship, Bordaberry has on several occasions accused former president José Mujica of being or striving to become a dictator.

Bordaberry sometimes participates in outdoor public meetings on horseback, or in traditional "gaucho" horseriding attire. He has also contributed to literary criticism of the Argentinian writer Jorge Luis Borges, writing on Borges's theme of the complexity of memory.

Sport activity 
Bordaberry is also known as a major figure in the sports of Uruguay, having played soccer for his university, basketball for Club Trouville, and rugby for the Old Boys & Old Girls Club. In fact, in 1998, Bordaberry, along with Richard Van Rompaey and Jorge Villa, was the president of the Uruguayan Rugby Union. On 21 August 2018, FIFA appointed a "normalisation committee" for the Uruguayan Football Association (AUF). Bordaberry was put in charge, alongside politician Armando Castaingdebat, and former professional association football player Andrés Scotti.

Personal life 
He married psychologist and psychotherapist María José Oribe in 1985. The couple have three children: Pedro, Agustín, and Matías. On 15 March 2020, Bordaberry announced that he had contacted COVID-19, making him one of the first people in Uruguay to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. He is the author of a number of publications, including his books The Principle of Irretroactivity of the Rules in the Jurisprudence of the Supreme Court of Justice (1991), Ten Years of Seven (1998), Stories from Pueblo Faro by José Ignacio (1999) and Let Them Deny Me (2006).

References

External links
Photograph of Pedro Bordaberry's motorcade, Carpinteria, Durazno, 20 September 2008

1960 births
Candidates for President of Uruguay
Children of presidents of Uruguay
Colorado Party (Uruguay) politicians
Living people
Members of the Senate of Uruguay
Ministers of Industries, Energy and Mining of Uruguay
Ministers of Tourism and Sport of Uruguay
Politicians from Montevideo
Rugby union in Uruguay
20th-century Uruguayan lawyers
Uruguayan people of Basque descent
Uruguayan male writers
People named in the Panama Papers
People educated at The British Schools of Montevideo