[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Democratic Party (United States)

f every creed and condition; to the largest freedom of individual consistent with good government; to the preservation of the Federal Government in its constitutional vigor and support of the maintenance of the public faith and sound money; and it is opposed to paternalism and all class legislation.

The declarations of the Chicago Convention attack individual freedom, the right of private contract, the independence of the judiciary, and the authority of the President to enforce Federal laws.  They advocate a reckless attempt to increase the price of silver by legislation to the debasement of our monetary standard, and threaten unlimited issues of paper money by Government.  They abandon for Republican allies the Democratic cause of tariff reform to court the favor of protectionists to the fiscal heresy.

In view of these and other grave departures from Democratic principles, we cannot support the candidates of that convention, nor be bound by its acts.  The Democratic party has survived a victory won in behalf of the doctrine and the policy proclaimed in its name at Chicago.

The conditions, however, which make possible such utterances from a national convention are a result of class legislation by the Republican party.  It still proclaims, as it has for many years, the power and duty of the Government to raise and maintain prices by law; and it proposes no remedy for existing evils except oppressive and unjust taxation.

See also 
 Silver Republican Party

References

Further reading
 Beito, David T. and Linda Royster Beito. "Gold Democrats and the Decline of Classical Liberalism, 1896-1900". Independent Review 4 (Spring 2000). 555–575.
 Harpine, William D. "Bryan's “a cross of gold:” The rhetoric of polarization at the 1896 democratic convention." Quarterly Journal of Speech 87.3 (2001): 291-304. online

 Jones, Stanley L. The Presidential Election of 1896. University of Wisconsin Press. 1964.
 Ritter, Gretchen. Goldbugs and greenbacks: The antimonopoly tradition and the politics of finance in America, 1865-1896 (Cambridge University Press, 1999).

 Campaign Text-book of the National Democratic Party (1896) by Democratic Party (U.S.) National committee. This is the Gold Democrats handbook and it strongly opposed Bryan.

1896 establishments in the United States
1900 disestablishments in the United States
Defunct liberal parties in the United States
Political parties disestablished in 1900
Political parties established in 1896
Anti-imperialist organizations
Centre-right parties
Classical liberal parties in the United States
Economic liberalism
Factions in the Democratic Party (United States)
Gold standard
Liberalism in the United States
National liberal parties
Progressive Era in the United States