[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ghada Karmi

religions but we do not allow one group to take over this wonderful city." According to Karmi, Israel does not deserve to continue as a state and that "We have no alternative but to act. The only way we can stop Israel is to act against it, against its interests, against its apartheid and policies."

In 2012, Karmi was criticized by Shai Afsai as an example of authors who treat the Zionist story "The bride is beautiful, but she is married to another man" as historical fact, which Karmi was said to have done in her book Married to Another Man and in other writings, although the story lacks a primary source. Other examples of authors given included Avi Shlaim and Anthony Pagden.

In 2017, The Jewish Chronicle reported Karmi had said the word "untermensch", originally used as a description of Jews by the Nazis, could be legitimately used as a description of the relationship of Israel to the Palestinians at a conference held in Cork in the Republic of Ireland. Referring to an objection made against the use of the word, she said "about the use of the word 'untermesch'. Untermensch's equivalent in English is sub-human. And sub-human is how people in Gaza feel they are being treated by the Israeli army." According to her, the Jewish population in Palestine were "groups of foreign immigrants trying to behave as though they were indigenous" and "It is a foreign community who just turned up." The creation of Israel was a "a stitch up from beginning to end" by the United Nations.

Selected bibliography

Books
Al-Hassan, Ahmad Y.; Ghada Karmi & Nizar Namnum (eds.) Proceedings of the First International Symposium for the History of Arabic Science 5–12 April 1976. Volume II. Papers in European Languages. Aleppo: University of Aleppo, Institute for the History of Arabic Science, 1978.
Karmi, Ghada: Multicultural Health Care: Current Practice and Future Policy in Medical Education  British Medical Association, London, 1995,
Karmi, Ghada (Ed.) with a contribution by Edward Said: Jerusalem Today: What Future for the Peace Process?  Ithaca Press, 1996
Review of Jerusalem Today: What Future for the Peace Process?, by Andrej Kreutz, in Arab Studies Quarterly (ASQ), Fall, 1999.
Karmi, Ghada: The Palestinian Exodus 1948-1998. Ithaca Press 1999
Karmi, Ghada: In Search of Fatima: A Palestinian Story  Verso 2002
A country of the mind Guardian, Saturday 19 October 2002 (from Dr Ghada Karmi's memoir, In Search of Fatima)
In Search of Fatima Fateful Days in 1948 from Jerusalem Quarterly (from Dr Ghada Karmi's memoir, In Search of Fatima)
Review of In Search of Fatima, the Guardian
Review of In Search of Fatima by Sara Powell Washington Report on Middle East Affairs, December 2004, page 68
Karmi, Ghada: Married to another man: Israel's dilemma in Palestine, Pluto Press, 2007, 
Review, by Sonja Karkar, IMEU, 10 October 2007
The Times Literary Supplement Review by Trevor Mostyn 15 February 2008 p. 5