[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Von Steigers

the NWA Austra-Asian Tag Team Championship. In 1972 Kurt Von Steiger bought a share of a wrestling promotion in Phoenix, Arizona, and decided to settle down there. Karl Von Steiger, on the other hand, decided to keep on traveling the world while wrestling, which led to the Von Steigers splitting up.

Singles career - Kurt Von Steiger
Kurt Von Steiger remained in Phoenix and took part in running the local wrestling promotion called "Universal Wrestling Federation" (later changed to "Universal Wrestling Alliance") and also training people to become professional wrestlers. In 1973 Von Steiger defeated Chris Colt to win the UWF Arizona Heavyweight Championship. In Arizona Von Steiger trained several notable wrestlers; Bobby Jaggers, "Big" Bill Anderson and Afa Anoa'i of The Wild Samoans. After the Phoenix promotion folded Kurt Von Steiger returned to the NWA Pacific Northwest promotion where he held the NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship two more times, with Killer Karl Krupp and Mati Suzuki. He later retired from wrestling and started up a septic tank business in Oregon.

Singles career - Karl Von Steiger
Karl briefly worked in Phoenix and held the UWA Western States Tag Team Championship with Tito Montez, losing it to Chris Colt and one of Kurt Von Steiger's students Bobby Jaggers, who worked as Bobby Mayne at the time. After leaving the Phoenix Territory he started working in Dory Funk's NWA Western States territory based out of Amarillo, Texas. In 1972 Von Steiger teamed up with Ciclón Negro to win the NWA Western States Tag Team Championship, a title he would also hold in 1974, this time with Siegfried Stanke. Karl also won the NWA Western States Heavyweight Championship from Terry Funk and held it for six months before losing it to Ricky Romero. In April 1973 Killer Karl Krupp chose Kurt Von Steiger to replace Fritz Von Erich as one half of the NWA International Tag Team Championship in Japan Wrestling Association. When the promotion closed shortly after Von Steiger and Krupp took the belts with them to Texas and gave them to Dory Funk to use. In 1974 Karl Von Steiger engaged in a prolonged storyline with future World Champion Bob Backlund centering on the Western States Heavyweight Championship. Von Steiger would win the title from Backlund on two occasions in 1974.

In 1975 Von Steiger moved on to Alabama, where he began to work for Nick Gulas' NWA Mid-America territory. In NWA Mid-America Von Steiger would team with another "German", Otto Von Heller, like Steiger he too was only pretending to be German. The team defeated George Gulas and Jackie Fargo to win the NWA Mid-America Tag Team Championship on May 26, 1975. Soon after, the team of Von Steiger and Von Heller defeated Fargo and Gulas once again, this time for the NWA Mid-America U.S. Tag Team Championship and held it until August 1975 when they lost to the team of Tojo Yamamoto and Tommy Rich. The team's biggest success came when they won NWA Mid-America's main tag team title, the NWA Mid-America Southern Tag Team Championship from the team of Jimmy Golden and Tojo Yamamoto, a title they would win once more in 1975. After breaking up with Von Heller Karl worked various other southern territories, never settling down in one particular place long enough.

Von Steiger reunion
In 1977 the Von Steigers reunited for one more run as a tag team. They worked in the NWA San Francisco territory where they won the vacant San Francisco version of the NWA World Tag Team Championship in a tournament. They would lose the titles to longtime rival  Moondog Mayne and local star Ray Stevens but quickly regained the titles. On January 12, 1978, the Von Steigers lost the titles for good as the team of Black Gordman and Goliath defeated them. Following the loss Kurt Von Steiger retired while Karl wrestled for another couple of years, semi-retiring at the end of 1979, but would return for tours of All Japan during 1980, 1981, 1984, 1986, and 1987.

Championships and accomplishments

Kurt and Karl Von Steiger
Big Time Wrestling (San Francisco)
NWA World Tag Team Championship (San Francisco version) (2 times)
NWA Mid-Pacific
NWA Hawaii Tag Team Championship (1 time)
Pacific Northwest Wrestling
NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship (7 times)
Stampede Wrestling
Stampede International Tag Team Championship (1 time)
World Championship Wrestling (Australia)
IWA World Tag Team Championship (3 times)

Kurt Von Steiger and Arnold Pastrick

Eastern Sports Association
ESA International Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Fred Sweetan

NWA Western States Sports
NWA Western States Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Tito Montez

Pacific Northwest Wrestling
NWA Pacific Northwest Heavyweight Championship (2 times)
NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship (2 times) - with Killer Karl Krupp (1), and Mati Suzuki (1)

Universal Wrestling Federation (Arizona)
UWF Arizona Heavyweight Championship (1 time)