[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Joshua Prawer

. In his last years, he published a book on a topic of especial interest to him, The History of the Jews in the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem, which examined the tightly knit isolated Jewish communities of the Levant, the Jewish philosophical feuds they engaged in, and their dreams of restoring Israel.

Comparison of Zionism to the Crusades
An analogy has frequently been drawn between the European Crusades of the Middle Ages and the modern day Zionist movement. This view, which has been espoused by Arab media and political leaders, has also been discussed in Israeli academia. Prawer was often asked to comment on this analogy, and claimed that a major difference was that the Jews settled the land and worked it, whereas the Crusaders lorded over a conquered land worked by the natives.  Ronnie Ellenblum, a lecturer at Hebrew University, identifies a subliminal objective in Prawer's work to draw a distinction between the two: "He's always writing about the Crusaders' manpower shortage and about their not settling the land...He claims that their presence here was principally urban, consisting of nobility and merchants. This is why they lost in the end. The implications are obvious: If we bring enough immigrants, and if we settle the land, we are bound to succeed." (Ellenblum himself has shown that Crusader settlement in the Holy Land was much more widespread than previously thought and has found evidence of hundreds of Crusader farms.) But he also notes that "if Joshua Prawer were alive today he would no doubt deny any linkage between his Zionist political beliefs and the model of segregation that he developed."

Ziad J. Asali, who considers Zionism "the heir—albeit illegitimate—of the Crusader movement," goes further and writes that Prawer "recognized the extent of the similarity in the individual and social experience of Crusaders and Zionists. Rather than studying the comparison and denying its validity, he chose to study the Crusader's experience as if it were a historical model which could be completely analyzed and dissected in order to benefit from its experience and avoid its mistakes."  To Zionist author Yoram Hazony, however, it is exactly because of Prawer's readiness to draw the analogy that he considers him a subverter of Zionism and a progenitor of post-Zionist thought. David Ohana, a professor of history at Ben Gurion University who rejects the Zionist-Crusader analogy, writes that the subject has now become a litmus test for clarifying one's views on Zionism, with post-Zionists freely making the analogy and sympathizers with the Zionist viewpoint rejecting it.

Selected publications
 (1969–70). Histoire du royaume Latin de Jérusalem. Le Monde byzantin. Paris: Éditions du Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique.
 (1972). The Latin kingdom of Jerusalem: European Colonialism in the Middle Ages. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson (later editions The Crusader's Kingdom: European Colonialism in the Middle Ages).
 (1972). The world of the Crusaders. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson.
 (1980). Crusader institutions. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
 (1988). The History of the Jews in the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem. Oxford: Clarendon Press.

See also
First Crusade
History of Jerusalem
History of the Jews and the Crusades
History of the Jews and Judaism in the Land of Israel
List of Israel Prize recipients

References

External links
 Joshua Prawer (1917–1990) - Resources for studying the Crusades
 Crusader Shadows, by James Pinkerton
 Mediterraneans or Crusaders? Israel Geopolitical Images between East and West, by David Ohana. Contains excerpts from Prawer's statements about the Zionist-Crusader analogy.

Jewish historians
Historians of the Crusades
Israel Prize in humanities recipients
Israel Prize in humanities recipients who were historians
Academic staff of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Fellows of All Souls College, Oxford
Members of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities
1917 births
1990 deaths
People from Będzin
Knights of the Ordre national du Mérite
People from the Province of Silesia
20th-century Israeli  historians
Israeli medievalists
Corresponding Fellows of the Medieval Academy of America
Polish emigrants to Mandatory Palestine
Burials at Har HaMenuchot