[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Landfill liner

liquids in gases within the waste. The geocomposites which are a combination of the geomembranes and geosynthetic liner material also include a layer of bentonite between the middle of the layers of geotextile; however, airspace is allowed to be implemented. It is then topped off with a final cover.

Mechanism
The main role a composite liner performs in a municipal solid waste system for landfills is reducing the amount of leakage through small seep holes that sometimes form in the geomembrane part of the composite liner. The protection layer part serves as a preventer from these holes from forming inside the geomembrane which would allow the waste to leak through the entire liner. It also takes away the pressure and stress which can cause cracking and holes from forming in the membrane as well. An effective liner in a landfill system should be able to control water in terms of movement and protection on the environment. It should be able to regulate the flow away from the waste area and withhold the waste contents as it enters the actual landfill. Due to the effectiveness on how landfills are placed on top of slopes in order for the water to stream downhill and in an emergency, into the actual landfill. Water moves through the landfill and downward through the composite liner. The main purpose for all of this is so that the movement is lateral which lessens the probability for slope catastrophe and  the waste leaking down and freely contaminating whatever is in its path. The final cover functions as a way to keep the water out of the contaminate and to control the runoff from entering the system. This helps prevent plants and animals from being harmed by the waste contaminated water, leachate. Using gravity and pumps the leachate is able to be pushed to a sump where it is removed by a pump. When developing composite liners it is extremely important to take in risk factors such as earthquakes and other slope failure problems that could occur. Composite liners are used in municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills to reduce water pollution.  A composite liner is made of a geomembrane along with a geosynthetic clay liner.  Composite-liner systems are better at reducing leachate migration into the subsoil than either a clay liner or a single geomembrane layer.

Mechanical properties 
The primary forms of mechanical degradation associated with geomembranes result from insufficient tensile strength, tear resistance, impact resistance, puncture resistance, and susceptibility to environmental stress cracking (ESC).  The ideal method of assessing the amount of liner degradation would be by examining field samples over their service life.  Due to the lengths of time required for field sampling tests, various laboratory-accelerated ageing tests have been developed to measure the important mechanical properties.

Tensile strength 
Tensile strength represents the ability for a geomembrane to resist tensile stress.  Geomembranes are most commonly tested for tensile strength using one of three methods; the uniaxial tensile test described in ASTM D639-94, the wide-strip tensile test described in ASTM D4885-88, and the multiaxial tension test described in ASTM D5617-94.  The difference in these three methods lies in the boundaries imposed into the test specimens.  Uniaxial tests do not provide lateral restraint during testing and thus tests the sample under uniaxial stress conditions.  During the wide-strip test the sample is restrained laterally while the middle portion is unrestrained.  The multiaxial tensile test provides a plane stress boundary condition at the edges of the sample.  A typical range of tensile strengths in the machine direction are from 225 to 245 lb/in for 60-mil HDPE to 280 to 325 lb/in for 80-mil HDPE.

Tear resistance 
Tear resistance of a geomembrane becomes important when it is exposed to high winds or handling stress during installation.  There are various ASTM methods for measuring tear resistance of geomembranes, with most common reports using ASTM D1004.  Typical tear resistances show a value of 40 to 45 lb for 60-mil HDPE and 50 to 60 lb for 80-mil HDPE.

Impact resistance 
Impact resistance provides an assessment of the effects of impacts from falling objects which can either tear or weaken the geomembrane.  As with the previous mechanical properties, there are various ASTM methods for assessment.  Significantly higher impact resistances are realized when geotextiles are placed above or below the geomembrane.  Thicker geomembranes also display higher impact resistances.