[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tiruchengode

d 1,174 other marginal workers. As per the religious census of 2011, Tiruchengode had 95.88% Hindus, 2.95% Muslims, 1.05% Christians, 0.02% Sikhs, 0.0% Buddhists, 0.0% Jains, 0.1% following other religions and 0.0% following no religion or did not indicate any religious preference.

District profile

 This city has various other names like Nagasalam, Panimalai, Kodhai Malai, Aravakiri, Vayu Malai, Kongumalai, Nagagiri, Vandhimalai, Siddharmalai, Didya and still more.
 It is a part of Kongu Nadu region of Tamil Nadu. Kongu Nadu includes in it 24 villages, out of which Poondhurai, a suburb of Erode city is one of the important pilgrimage centre. West of Cauvery is Melakarai Pundhurai and East of Cauvery is Kilakarai Pundhurai. Kilakarai Pundhurai is famously known as Thiruchengodu.
 The word "Thiruchengodu" means beautiful, steeped hill in Tamil Language.
 Thiruchengodu is famous for its reference in Kandhar Anuboothi sung by Arunagirinathar for Lord Murugan -as "Nagasala velava nalu kavi".
 Tiruchengodu is famous for its hill and the temple on the top.
 Ancient and historical Thiruchengodu is crowned with Mummurthies named Arthanareeswar, Chengodu Velan and Athikesava Perumal.
 The average annual rainfall is around 950 mm. The altitude is about 150–200 metres asl.
 Around Tiruchengode many schools and colleges are there.

The Temples
Ardhanareeswarar, one of the 64 manifestations of Shiva, representing the unity of Shiva and Parvati, is enshrined in this revered hill temple of great significance, accessible by a motorable road.  This temple is regarded as the 4th of the 7 Tevara Stalams in the Kongu Region of Tamil Nadu.

Ancient walls, mandapams and sculptured pillars (now in a state of disrepair) add to the awe that this temple perpetuates, on top of the hill. The motorway and the renovated Rajagopuram are of recent origin. True to the name Nagagiri, there is a 60 ft long snake carved on the hill.

Although the sanctum faces the West, entrance to it is from the South. A majestic image of Ardanareeswarar adorns the sanctum. There is a water spring at the foot of the image which is said to have been divinely manifested (Uli Padaa Uruvam). There are inscriptions here from the times of Parantaka Chola, Gangaikonda Chola, the Vijayanagar and Mysore Kings and the Nayaks.

 kannagi after burning madurai finally reached Tiruchengode hill and she was taken by pushpak viman and went to heaven. Kannagi vizhla is celebrated with pomp and glory every year.

Uttsavamurti of this temple is in the Cleveland Museum of Art, Cleveland, USA.

The Tiruchengottuvelavar shrine (to Subramanyar) attracts a number of pilgrims.

Sambandar composed the Tiruneelakandapatikam here, to help rid fellow travellers of an affliction. Muthuswamy Dikshitar has sung of this shrine in Ardhanareeswaram in Kumudakriya.
Kailasanathar Temple, another famous temple of Tiruchengode is located at the foothills, at Kamalar.
Tiruchengode also has an Anjaneya swamy temple renovated three years before, Bathrakaliamman temple which had Kumbabishekam on 21-04-2010 and an Ayyappan temple which are very famous among the residents.
Sri Dhevi Bhudevi Sametha Sundhara Raja Perumal
The Sri Sundararaja Perumal Temple is located in the Kanakapatti village. The temple is dedicated to Lord Vishnu in the form of Sundararajan, a synonym of love and beauty.
soothaga kulam(thoorankootam in tamil) periyandavar(gods god) and perumal temple at panneerkuthi palayam

 soothaga kulam (thoorangkootam in tamil) perumal and periyandavar temple located in panneerkuthipalayam village from 8 km from Tiruchengode bus stand.
 In earlier time this village was called as pirithi kumarapalayam. But now changed that name into pannikuthipalayam in the remembrance of one big festivel is conducting every five years once in this temple. At that time sacrifice the pig (in tamil panni) to the god periyandavar.

Arulmigu Muthu Mariamman Temple-Sattaiyampudur

Arulmigu Muthu Muniyappan Temple, Arulmigu Muthu Kumaraswamy Temple and Arulmigu Muthu Mariamman Temple located in Sattaiyampudur, Tiruchengode Taluk,Namakkal DT.

Kandaswami (Murugan) Temple
Kalippatti Kandaswami Temple. This Temple is located in Kalippatti, Thiruchengode Taluk, Namakkal DT.

Festivals
Tiruchengode's major Festival is the Arthanareeswarar Car Festival known as Vaigasi Visakam (Celebrated during the Tamil month of Vaikasi). The Festival is celebrated for 15 days, with separate cars carrying sengottuvelavar, arthanareeswarar and many small lords. This festival is very famous among the nearby surrounding towns and villages.

Three worship services are offered each day. The late night worship service (Artha Jaama Pooja) is considered to be of importance here. New moon days are also considered to be special.
Moliapalli annamar swamy temple is located 15 km from thiruchengodu.