[Source: PubMed]

73. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2020 Jul 22;17(15):5270. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph17155270.

DANGER! Crisis Health Workers at Risk.

Harrell M(1), Selvaraj SA(2), Edgar M(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02138, USA.
(2)Independent Researcher, Woodstock, GA 20742, USA.
(3)Independent Researcher, Honolulu, HI 96795, USA.

The occupational hazards of health workers (HWs) in standard work environments 
have been well defined in both the developed and developing world during routine 
working conditions. Less defined are the hazards to HWs during pandemics, 
epidemics, natural disasters, wars, conflicts, and other crises. How do crises 
affect the infrastructure of medical systems? What are the distinct needs of the 
patient population during crises? What are the peculiarities of the Crisis 
Health Worker (CHW)? What are the known CHWs' occupational risks? What are the 
protective factors? By means of a PubMed search, we synthesized the most 
relevant publications to try to answer these questions. Failures of healthcare 
infrastructure and institutions include CHW shortages, insufficient medical 
supplies, medications, transportation, poorly paid health workers, security 
concerns, and the absence of firm guidance in health policy. Healthcare needs 
affecting the patient population and CHWs include crisis-induced injury and 
illness, hazardous exposures, communicable diseases, mental healthcare, and 
continuity of care for pre-crisis medical conditions. CHWs' occupational hazards 
include supply deficiencies, infectious disease transmission, long working 
hours, staff shortages, financial reimbursements, mental fatigue, physical 
exhaustion, and inconsistent access to clean water, electricity, and Internet. 
CHWs suffer from injuries and illnesses that range from immediate, debilitating 
injuries to chronic, unforeseen effects like mental fatigue, physical 
exhaustion, anxiety, burnout, and even post-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSD). 
Protective factors include personal traits such as adaptability and resilience 
as well as skills learned through structured education and training. Success 
will be achieved by constructively collaborating with local authorities, local 
health workers, national military, foreign military, and aid organizations.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph17155270
PMCID: PMC7432711
PMID: 32707800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.