[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Computer Arts Society

ation. From 1979 to 1982, PAGE was edited by artist Dominic Boreham, whose work was also featured in Page 42.

In 1969, CAS organised Event One, an early digital art exhibition held at the Royal College of Art (RCA) in London. In 2019, Event Two was held at the RCA to celebrate the 50th anniversary.

CAS had international input early on in its history. A Dutch Branch (CASH) was formed in 1970 in Amsterdam and CAS US, formed in 1971 was based in the Mathematics Department of Eastern Michigan University. An early issue was devoted to the American branch activities and included ‘A proposal and manifesto’ by Stan Vanderbeek, pioneer of light shows and computer animation. By 1970, the CAS membership list listed three hundred and seventy-seven members in seventeen countries, including fifteen libraries and institutional members.

During the early years of its existence, the Society acquired a large number of works by pioneers in the field, including Manuel Barbadillo, Charles Csuri, Herbert W. Franke, Edward Ihnatowicz, Ken Knowlton, Manfred Mohr, Georg Nees, Frieder Nake, Lillian Schwartz and Alan Sutcliffe. The artworks, and the archives of the Society itself, were acquired by the Victoria and Albert Museum in 2007. Works by Sutcliffe are also held by the Kunsthalle Bremen, which included them in an exhibition entitled Ex machina: early computer graphics up to 1979.

Current status
The Computer Arts Society is now a Specialist Group of the British Computer Society. It holds its own meetings in London and online, and supports the EVA Conferences in London too. It is now associated with the Computer Arts Archive, founded by Dr Sean Clark in 2020 as a not-for-profit Community Interest Company (CIC).

CAS collaborates with the Lumen Prize for digital art. It also supports the EVA Conferences held annually in central London at the BCS offices.

References

Bibliography
 Catherine Mason, A Computer in the Art Room: The origins of British computer art 1950–1980. JJG Publishing, 2008. .
 Paul Brown, Charlie Gere, Nicholas Lambert, and Catherine Mason (editors), White Heat Cold Logic: British Computer Art 1960–1980. The MIT Press, Leonardo Book Series, 2008. .

External links
Computer Arts Society website
Computer Arts Archive website

1968 establishments in the United Kingdom
Organizations established in 1968
Computer clubs
Cultural organisations based in London
BCS Specialist Groups
Arts in London
Computer art
British contemporary art