[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Doris Stevens

t administration, hoping to get rid of Stevens, then argued that the women's task was completed and the CIM should be abandoned. Not wanting to bow to US pressure, the Conference did not vote to continue the CIM, but instead voted as a unit, with the exception of Argentina, to block the US proposal.

Later career
It would take FDR another five years, with the help of the League of Women Voters to replace Stevens. Making the argument that Stevens was appointed by the Conference of the Pan-American States and not as a U.S. delegate, FDR agreed to give permanent status to the CIM, if each state was allowed to appoint their own delegates. Securing approval, he then immediately replaced Stevens with Mary Nelson Winslow. Stevens did not go quietly and the clash continued throughout 1939 with Eleanor Roosevelt backing Winslow and suffragists backing Stevens. Eleanor's objection to Stevens was multi-faced, in that she did not think that the Equal Rights Amendment would protect women and on a personal level, she believed Stevens behaved in an unladylike manner.
 
In 1940, Stevens was elected to serve on the National Council of the National Woman's Party. The following year, when Alice Paul returned from a two-year trip to Switzerland to establish the World Woman’s Party (WWP), difficulties arose. Paul experienced both challenges to the direction she was taking the NWP and had personality conflicts with members, including Stevens. When Alva Belmont died in 1933, the bequest she had promised Stevens for years of personal service was instead directed to the NWP. Stevens sued the estate, eventually receiving US$12,000, but she believed that Paul had sabotaged her relationship with Belmont. After Paul's resignation in 1945, Stevens did not support Paul's hand-selected replacement, Anita Pollitzer and led an unsuccessful attempt to challenge her leadership. Pollitzer was seen as a figurehead for Paul and an internal dispute arose over the NWP’s emphasis on the WWP and international rights rather than domestic organizing. During these tensions, a dissenting faction of NWP members tried to take over party headquarters and elect their own slate of officers, but Pollitzer’s claim to leadership was supported by a ruling of a federal district judge.

Stevens parted ways with the NWP in 1947 and turned instead to activity in the Lucy Stone League, a women’s rights organization based on Lucy Stone's retention of her maiden name after marriage. After World War II ended, the organization was revived in 1950 because the rights women had seen surge during the war were reverting to their pre-war state. Stevens was one of the reorganizers along with Freda Kirchwey, Frances Perkins and others. Stevens had long been a proponent of a woman retaining her own name and did not take her husband's name in either of her marriages. She had remarried to Jonathan Mitchell on August 31, 1935, in Portland, Maine. Mitchell was a reporter for The New Republic during the Roosevelt years and later for the National Review, and was an anti-communist. He took part in the McCarthy hearings and Stevens, after her marriage to him, moved politically to the right, from her previously socialist leanings.

From 1951 to 1963, Stevens served as vice-president of the Lucy Stone League, though she struggled with maintaining militancy. Stevens was not anti-male, rather pro-female. She did not follow a belief that for women to succeed, men had to be omitted; rather, she believed that collaboration with men was essential. In her last years, Stevens supported the establishment of feminist studies as a legitimate field of academic inquiry in American universities and tried to establish a Lucy Stone Chair of Feminism at Radcliffe College.

Stevens died on March 22, 1963, in New York City, two weeks after having a stroke. Princeton University has an endowed chair in women's studies created by the Doris Stevens Foundation in 1986.

Legacy
In 1986, Princeton University established an endowed chair through the Doris Stevens Foundation in women’s studies. In 2004 the HBO film Iron Jawed Angels was made about the early days of the suffrage movement. Doris Stevens was portrayed by Laura Fraser.

Selected works

See also
List of suffragists and suffragettes
List of women's rights activists
Timeline of women's suffrage
Women's suffrage organizations

References

Citations

Sources

 

  and  

 

 
 contained in 

 

 

 

 

  and

External links 

 
 
 
 Doris Stevens Papers. Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University.
passport photo 1921, Doris Stevens

1888 births
1963 deaths
American suffragists
American people of Russian descent
Writers from Omaha, Nebraska
Oberlin College alumni
American political activists
American feminists
National Woman's Party activists
20th-century American writers
American women's rights activists
20th-century American women writers
Omaha Central High School alumni