[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David Goodwillie

sent in January 2017, after a civil case concluded that he had raped a woman. A club statement said that Goodwillie had requested to leave as he was considering an appeal. In 22 appearances for Plymouth, he scored once, in his final appearance, concluding a 4–2 home win over Stevenage on 17 January.

Clyde
Returning to Scotland, Goodwillie briefly played for Caledonian Amateur League team Doune Castle. In March 2017, he joined Scottish League Two side Clyde on a short-term contract until the end of the 2016–17 season. Clyde's decision to sign Goodwillie attracted criticism, as politician John Mason said he would no longer attend their games for the rest of the season. Goodwillie made his debut for Clyde against Cowdenbeath on 1 April, coming on as a 66th-minute substitute for Peter MacDonald. On 15 April, Goodwillie scored a hat-trick for Clyde in a 3–2 win against Elgin City.

He received a hat-trick of personal accolades at the club's Player of the Year awards for 2017–18, winning another award the season after. The team then won promotion to League One in 2018–19. At the PFA Scotland awards, he was shortlisted for Player of the Year and named in the Team of the Year for League Two for 2018–19.

Named club captain ahead of season 2019–20, Goodwillie became the first Clyde player to score five goals in a single match in 68 years and the first to score a hat-trick of penalties in one match. Both feats came in a 6–1 win over Stranraer. In April 2020, Goodwillie (with his 78th goal) moved in to the top ten of the club's all-time leading goalscorers.

With two goals in a 3–2 loss at Peterhead on 11 September 2021, Goodwillie achieved 100 goals for Clyde.

Raith Rovers
Goodwillie rejoined Scottish Championship club Raith Rovers in January 2022. The move caused controversy due to Goodwillie's civil responsibility for rape. Two club directors, several staff members, the women's team captain and most club volunteers resigned and shirt sponsor Val McDermid withdrew her support of the club due to the signing, which was also criticised by First Minister Nicola Sturgeon and former Prime Minister Gordon Brown. The women's team cut ties with Raith Rovers. A few days after signing Goodwillie, Raith Rovers said he would not be selected to play for the club and that discussions would be held over his contract. 

On 1 March 2022, Goodwillie was loaned back to former club Clyde for the remainder of the 2021–22 season. After the club's women's team resigned en masse and North Lanarkshire Council announced that their lease on Broadwood Stadium would be terminated early if Goodwillie was allowed entry, Clyde cancelled the loan deal and returned him to Raith. Goodwillie was released from his Raith Rovers contract on 30 September 2022.

Later career
Goodwillie played one game for Livingston United in November 2022 as a trialist, scoring twice in a 3–1 victory over Fauldhouse United. Following media and public disapproval, Livingston United announced that Goodwillie would not train or play with the club again.

On 7 February 2023, Goodwillie played for Northern Premier League club Radcliffe, who had not announced his signing before his appearance. He scored a hat-trick in a 4–2 win against Belper Town. A day later, Radcliffe announced that Goodwillie had left the club and admitted they had made a "significant misstep" in signing him.

On 28 June 2023, NPL Western Australia club Sorrento FC announced that they had signed three players, including Goodwillie. However, hours later, his contract was rescinded, with the Football West governing body saying that after discussions with the club Goodwillie's signing would not go ahead. In a statement, Sorrento apologised to "anyone in our football and broader community that may have been caused offence by his signing".

In July 2023, Goodwillie made an appearance for Glasgow United in a friendly against Pollok. Following the game, Glasgow City Council leader Susan Aitken warned Glasgow United could lose the right to play at the Greenfield Football Centre if they signed Goodwillie, but the club said they would stand by the player, suggesting he had been the subject of a "witch hunt". He continues to play for Glasgow United.

International career
Goodwillie made his debut for the Scotland national under-21 football team in November 2008. He received his first call-up for the senior side in November 2010 for a friendly against the Faroe Islands. He made his debut in that match, coming on as a 76th-minute substitute for Kris Commons.

His international career stalled after that, however, because the SFA were reluctant to select Goodwillie while he underwent a legal process. Goodwillie was charged with sexual assault, but the case did not come to trial at that time due to there being insufficient evidence to proceed in a criminal court. After it was announced that Goodwillie would not be prosecuted, Scotland manager Craig Levein recalled Goodwillie to the national squad.