[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Democracy (video game)

riendly.

Democracy 4 uses an in-house developed game engine coded in C++ using Visual Studio by two programmers in the UK, Cliff Harris and Jeff Sheen. Artwork, SFX and Music was provided by third parties. Uses some middleware for sound playback, and also to render vector artwork and Unicode fonts.

Release and reception
The original game was released in 2007 in the United States by Tri-Synergy, with added events and policies, and a special mode in which the player controls a fictional nation. The game received "mixed" reviews, according to game aggregator Metacritic. Website Game Tunnel scored the game 8/10 overall, stating "losing a game of Democracy is almost as rewarding as winning your next election" and "there is always the motivation to do better next time". The website also awarded Democracy its own 2005 'Simulation Game of the Year' award. About.com rated the game 3.5/5 and said "Democracy does exactly what it sets out to do - get you thinking about how even small changes effect [sic] different groups of people".

Democracy 3 also received "mixed" reviews, according to Metacritic. While Polish magazine CD-Action stated that the game "does much more for understanding democracy than any citizenship lesson," Daniel Schindel's critical review for Unwinnable noted several inaccuracies concerning the in-game effects of imposing death penalty, legalizing drugs, and strong labor laws. A spin-off game, titled Democracy 3: Africa, was quietly released in early 2016. The game focused entirely on nations on the continent of Africa and added features to address the corruption, authoritarianism, military dictatorships, and female genital mutilation that is abundant on the continent. Players are tasked with fixing these issues, or regressing further into a dictatorship.

In September 2018, Positech Games announced an updated version of the game, in the form of Democracy 4, which was released in early access in 2020. This title, as with the spin-off, Democracy: Africa, was produced by a joint venture between Positech Games and Stargazy Studios. In addition to Democracy: Africa, Stargazy previously provided translation and localization services for Democracy 3. New features added to Democracy 4 included simulated corruption, crackdowns on political freedoms and free speech, and authoritarianism. Events and decisions in the game were updated to reflect the passage of time between the release of Democracy 3 and Democracy 4.

References

External links
 Democracy game homepage
 Developers homepage
 Red Marble Games homepage (Mac version)
 Tri-Synergy homepage

2005 video games
Government simulation video games
Indie games
Linux games
MacOS games
Windows games
Video games developed in the United Kingdom
Video games with Steam Workshop support
Single-player video games
Tri Synergy games
Positech Games games
Red Marble Games games