[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Cinema of Lebanon

and financial institutions to support film, television and theatrical productions

In 2016, Solitaire, Sophie Boutros's first feature film, premiered at the 13th Dubai International Film Festival and Philippe Aractingi's feature film, Listen was also screened at Dubai Film Festival's Arabian Nights.

A Maid for Each, a documentary by Maher Abi Samra about domestic servants in Lebanon, won the Peace Film Prize at Berlin Film Festival and Post-Production Awards at Final Cut in Venice 2014.

One of the biggest hits of 2016 was the film, What About Tomorrow? a restoration of old 8mm footage of Ziad Rahbani's 1978 play. The film chattered box office records in Lebanon.

2017
In February 2017, Mary Jirmanus Saba's debut feature A Feeling Greater Than Love received the FIPRESCI International Critics Prize at the Berlin International Film Festival Forum. Later that year, December 2017, Lucien Bourjeily's debut feature film Heaven Without People won the Special Jury Prize award at the Dubai International Film Festival while Vatche Boulghourjian's Tramontane was selected for Cannes' Critics' Week.

After being supported by the Venice Biennale College - Cinema Program, Martyr (2017) by Mazen Khaled premiered at the Venice Film Festival on 2 September 2017 where it was nominated for the Queer Lion Award. The film also screened at the SXSW Film Festival, where it was included in the festival's Global section.  Breaking Glass Pictures acquired the film for American theatrical distribution and Peccadillo Pictures launched it in the UK.

The documentary, Taste of Cement (2017) by Syrian filmmaker Ziad Kalthoum was filmed in Lebanon with Lebanese director of photography Talal Khoury. It was nominated for many awards and won a few, including The Golden Key award at the Kassel Documentary Film and Video Festival, the International Competition at Visions du Réel, and the International Documentary Award at the Adelaide Film Festival. It also received a Cinema Eye Honors nomination.

Rana Eid's documentary, Panoptic, released in cinemas in 2018, premiered at the 2017 Locarno Film Festival and received a First Lights from the Jihlava Film Festival in the Czech Republic.

Among the 13 participating Arab countries, Lebanon had the most nominations at the Arab Film Institute's first edition of the Arab Film Awards.  The films were: The Traveller by Hadi Ghandour, Jihane Chouaib's Go Home, Listen by Philippe Aractangi, Single, Married Divorced, a comedy by Shady Hanna, the romantic comedy Solitaire by Sophie Boutros, Roy Dib's The Beach House, and Tramontane by Vatché Boulghouroujian.

2018
With Oscar and Palme D'or nominations, 2018 marked a pivotal point for Lebanese cinema on the international stage.

In March, Ziad Doueiry's The Insult was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, the first for Lebanon.

Nadine Labaki's Capernaum, which was selected to compete for the Palme d'Or, earned a 15-minute standing ovation following its premiere on 17 May 2018 at the Cannes Film Festival. The film won the Jury Prize.

Tony Farjallah's Morine, a film about a 7th-century woman who disguises herself as a man in order to live in a monastery, is considered the first historical film set in Lebanon. Other films made were Michel Kammoun's Beirut Hold'em, Nadim Tabet's One of These Days, Rana Eid's documentary Panoptic and Joanna and Khalil Joreige's The Notebooks a co-production of Abbout Productions and France's Haut et Court.

2019
Nadine Labaki's Capernaum was nominated for a Best Foreign Language Film at the 76th Golden Globe Awards,  making it the second Lebanese film in two years to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film and earning Lebanon back-to-back nominations in the category.  The film was also nominated for Best Film Not in the English Language by the British Academy of Film and Television Arts and César Award for Best Foreign Film. Oualid Mouaness's debut fiction feature, 1982 accrued several awards around the world since its Toronto International Film Festival premiere. 1982 was selected as Lebanon's submission for consideration in the best international feature film Oscar category, but it was not nominated. Ahmad Ghossein's first fiction feature, All This Victory won the top prize of the Critics' Week at the Venice Film Festival.

2020s

2020
Jimmy Keyrouz's Broken Keys, his first feature film and Danielle Arbid's Passion Simple were part of the 2020 Official Selection of the Cannes Film Festival. Brokey Keys was submitted to represent Lebanon in the Best International Feature Film category at the 93rd Academy Awards. The Franco-Lebanese film, Skies of Lebanon by Chloé Mazlo was selected in the Cannes' Critics' Week.