[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yank Levy

wis gun. He left after 6 months when some trainees used their guns on prisoners. Levy also claimed to have participated in "troubles" in countries to the south of Mexico, and to have been sentenced to thirty years imprisonment for gun running. The Levys were now broke, and living in marital discord.

During the Spanish Civil War Levy served with the International Brigade as an officer in the British Battalion, under Tom Wintringham, from 1937.  The brigade fought against the rightist Falangists. He was captured at the Battle of Jarama where he had manned a heavy machine gun. He was captured on the second day and there is a photo of him and other British machine gunners in the custody of the Guardia Civil. He spent six months in a Francoist gaol. A protest from the Canadian government led to Levy's release in a prisoner exchange for two Italian officers  something he characterized as "a fair deal." Even after all that, he still had to be prevented by friends from re-enlisting and returning to the fray. Upon his release, he went back to Canada and personally recruited 1,200 volunteers for the Republican cause.

In 1940, with the outbreak of World War II he tried to enlist with the Canadian Army, but was refused on medical grounds.  "He volunteered to join the Canadian Army as soon as this war broke out, and was turned down for flat feet or hammer toes  or perhaps, more seriously, for his reputation as one of the most obstreperous leaders of Canada's unemployed."

Training officer and consultant

United Kingdom 
Following this refusal, Levy worked his passage to Britain as a stoker on a steamer.  After arriving in the United Kingdom, he rejoined Wintringham and other International Brigade veterans.
Levy worked alongside these other veterans on Home Guard training, and was involved in the establishment of an unofficial training school for the Home Guard at Osterley Park. The school was funded in part by Wendell Endicott (shoe magnate of Endicott-Johnson Shoes), a Home Guard. There Levy's lectures were well received.  Nazi propagandist Lord Haw-Haw dubbed the Osterley trainees to be "Osterley cut throats" because of their hardened approach to guerrilla warfare.  This was "Home Guard School #1."  Although the school became famous through its appearance in newsreels and newspaper articles around the world (particularly in the US), the socialism espoused by the school's instructors met with disapproval by the War Office (WO) and Winston Churchill. The WO took it over in September 1940. Closed in 1941, its staff and courses were reallocated to other newly opened WO-approved Home Guard schools.

While lecturing there, Wintringham helped Levy write his book  described by some as a "war pamphlet"  Guerrilla Warfare as a practical manual. It originated in the lectures given at Osterley Park, and had much to say about close quarters combat. This was published in mass market paperback in Britain and the U.S. and ran to several editions.  Levy advocated guerrilla warfare as a democratic means of combating fascism, frequently attacking the military establishment who overlooked the lessons of such commanders as T. E. Lawrence and their experience in irregular war.  He also recounts some of his adventures as a guerrilla, such as when he and his companions trapped cats' tails in mouse traps to distract sentries.  Wintringham said that Levy was the most effective communicator in Great Britain on the tactics of commando and guerrilla warfare.  His primary lecture subject was knife fighting and hand-to-hand combat.

Levy was not just a soldier and an efficient killer, but was a committed Socialist with a socialist's set of values and approach, which influenced his analysis and his goals and presentations. It wasn't just all technical stuff, but was an attempt to incite the local populace to provide for the common defense.  Thus, there was an attempt to harness "the enduring patriotism of the population." Metaphors were made of Home Guard guerrilla defence against Adolf Hitler to historical antecedents, such as Hereward the Wake resistance to the 'heavily armoured forces' of William the Conqueror.  Levy admitted that Hereward was not triumphant.  Seeking to mobilize popular sentiment, he urged readers to look at the Arab Revolt and Orde Wingate's part in organising 'Jewish irregulars in Palestine'.  He counseled that reading fictional accounts of guerrilla warfare would provide guidance, including those describing campaigns in Ireland, Spain and China, such as: Ernie O'Malley's On Another Man's Wound; Ernest Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls; and Edgar Snow's Scorched Earth, respectively.

The book had significant impact and it received favorable press. Time magazine wrote:
Anyone who thinks his country will be invaded  which includes anyone now alive  would do well to read "Yank" Levi's Guerrilla Warfare for instruction on to harass invaders.