[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of Acts of the Parliament of England, 1603–1641

oncerning Hostlers and Inn-holders.
 (Butter and cheese) c. 22 An Act for the explanation of the statutes made in the third, fourth and fifth years of King Edward the Sixth, concerning the traders of butter and cheese. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Inferior courts) c. 23 An Act for avoiding of vexations delays caused by removing actions and suits out of inferior courts. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Execution) c. 24 An Act for the relief of creditors against such persons as die in execution. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 Crown Lands Act 1623 c. 25 An Act for the relief of patentees, tenants and farmers of crown-lands and duchy-lands, or of lands within the survey of the court of wards and liveries, in cases of forfeiture for not payment of their rents, or other service or duty. — still in force
 (Fines and recoveries) c. 26
 (Concealment of birth of bastards) c. 27 An Act to prevent the destroying and murthering of bastard children.
 (Continuance of Acts, etc.) c. 28 An Act for continuing and reviving divers statutes, and repeal of divers others.
 Duchy of Cornwall Act 1623 c. 29 An Act to enable the most excellent prince Charles to make leases of lands, parcel of his Highness duchy of Cornwall, or annexed to the same. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Exchange of lands, King and Archbishop of York) c. 30
 Hallamshire Cutlers Act 1623 c. 31
 Thames Navigation Act 1623 c. 32 An Act for making the river of Thames navigable for barges, boats and lighters, from the village of Bercot, in the county of Oxon, unto the university and city of Oxon.
 (Taxation) c. 33 — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Taxation) c. 34 — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (General pardon) c. 35 — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863

Private Acts

Confirmation of Wadham College, Oxford, and its possessions. c. 1
Naturalization of Philip Burlemacchi. c. 2
Naturalization of Giles Vandeputt. c. 3
Earl of Hertford and Sir Francis Seymour: sale of lands for payment of debts, and establishment of others in lieu and of better value. c. 4
Naturalization of Sir Robert Anstrother, Sir George Abercromy and John Cragge. c. 5
Manors of Stepney and Hackney, confirmation of copyholders' rights. c. 6
Confirmation of sale of lands by Sir Thomas and Dame Elizabeth Beamond to Sir Thomas Checke. c. 7
Erection of free school, almshouses and house of correction in Lincolnshire. c. 8
Martin Calthrope's estate: sale of lands for preferment of children and payment of debts. c. 9
Assurance of manor of Goodneston and other lands of Sir Edward Engham. c. 10
Naturalization of Elizabeth and Mary Vere. c. 11
Alice Dudley's estate: enabling her to assure her estate in manor of Killingworth and other lands in Warwickshire to the Prince. c. 12
Confirmation of exchange of lands between Prince Charles and Sir Lewis Watson. c. 13
Viscount Montagu's estate: payment of debts and raising daughters' portions. c. 14
Sir Richard Lumley's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts and preferment of children. c. 15
Manor of Painswick (Gloucestershire): confirmation of Chancery decree between lord of the manor and customary tenants. c. 16
Naturalization of Sir Francis Stewart, Walter Maxwell, William Carr and James Levingston. c. 17
Naturalization of John Young. c. 18
Conveyance of manor of Little Munden (Hertfordshire) by Sir Peter Vanlore and Sir Charles and Dame Anne Cesar to Edmund Woodhall. c. 19
Naturalization of Jane Murrey and William Murrey. c. 20
Vincent Lowe's estate (Derbyshire): sale of lands for payment of debts. c. 21
Toby Pallavicine's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts and preferment of family. c. 22
Naturalization of Sir Robert Carre. c. 23
Assurance of manors of Newlangport and Sevans or Sephans and other lands in Kent, late the inheritance of Sir Henry James, convicted in a praemunire, to Martin Lumley, Alice Woodroffe and Edward Cropley. c. 24
Naturalization of Stephen Leisure. c. 25
Naturalization of the Marquis of Hamilton. c. 26
Naturalization of Sir William Anstrother, Walter Bellcanquall and Patrick Abercromy. c. 27
Sir Edward Heron's estate: confirmation of sale of lands to Bevell Molesworth, enabling sale of others for payment of debts and settlement of others upon Robert and Edward Heron in lieu. c. 28
Naturalization of Abigail and William Little. c. 29
Establishment of manors and lands in Cornwall, Devon and Dorset on John Mohun. c. 30
Edward Alcocke's estate: enabling the sale of the manor of Rampton, and lands in Rampton, Wivelingham and Cottenham (Cambridgeshire). c. 31
Estates of Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield, and Fisher: explanation of the Act of 1580 [c. 5] [assurance of a rent of £82 10s. to the Bishop of Coventry and Lichfield]. c. 32
Establishment of Thomas Whetenhall's lectures in divinity. c. 33
Colchester: repair and maintenance of the haven river and channel, and provision of paving. c. 34
Sir Francis Clerke's estate: sale of lands for payment of