[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Turkey–United States relations

16, after the failed coup attempt, Turkey demanded that the United States government extradite Fethullah Gülen, a cleric and Turkish national living in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. However, the US government demanded that Turkey first produce evidence that he was connected with the coup attempt. 

On November 8, 2016, The Hill published an op-ed by Flynn stating that US ally Turkey was in crisis and needed US support on the day of the  2016 United States presidential election. Flynn called for the US to back Erdoğan's government and alleged that the regime's opponent Fethullah Gülen, who is a Pennsylvania-based opposition cleric and the leader of the gulen movement whose members were purged in Turkey because of the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt, headed a "vast global network" that fit "the description of a dangerous sleeper terror network". Flynn, who was specialized in US counterterrorism strategy and dismantling insurgent networks, argued Gulen falls into radical Islamist groups aligned with Seyed Qutb and Hasan al Bana and he finished his article stating "running a scam". On March 8, 2017, four months after the publication, General Flynn filed documents with the Federal government indicating consulting work that might have aided the government of Turkey. The Crossfire Hurricane (FBI investigation) ("Crossfire Razor" - a counterintelligence investigation on Flynn) was taken over by the Mueller special counsel investigation (May 17, 2017). Flynn was part of Mueller's special counsel investigation. 
 
{{Multiple image
| align    = center 
| total_width = 480 
| header   = (alleged plot:) Flynn delivering Gulen to Turkey
| image1   = Director Robert S. Mueller- III.jpg
| caption1 = Robert Mueller. Reza Zarrab, a witness at Halkbank exchange gold for Iranian oil (Turkey oil trading controversy), offered evidence and became Mueller's key for Flynn in the investigation.
| image2 = Report On The Investigation Into Russian Interference In The 2016 Presidential Election.pdf
| caption2 = Mueller report'''s conclusion on the issue ("concerned a country other than Russia (i.e., Turkey)") on page 183. 
| image3 = Bijan R. Kian.jpg
| caption3 = Bijan Kian. Trial testimony indicated foreign customer was interested in classified government information on Gülen, surveillance of supporters, and likely terrorist links that might be turned up by Turkey's investigations of the cleric. 
| image4   = Flynn_statement_of_offense.pdf
| caption4 = "Turkey Project:" Flynn's materially false statements and omissions tried at United States v. Flynn. 
| width = upright
| direction = 
}}In 2017, the special counsel, Robert Mueller, began probing whether Michael Flynn was part of an alleged plot to kidnap the cleric for Turkey. Michael Flynn's consulting company was hired by Inovo BV, a company owned by Kamil Ekim Alptekin. Alptekin also chairs the Turkish-American Business Council, an arm of the Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey (DEIK). Trump transition aide Bijan Kian played key role in Flynn's connection to the case Federal investigators probing the lobbying work of  national security adviser Michael Flynn are focused in part on the role of Bijan Kian. In 2017, FBI investigated whether Fethullah Gulen skimmed money from charter schools in the US. Gülen movement schools is a network of more than 150 U.S. charter schools (as of 2017). Gulen-linked educational institutions (schools in varying categories, and classifications) are sizable with 300 in Turkey and over 1,000 worldwide.

Pastor Andrew Brunson was charged with terrorism and espionage during the purges that followed the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt against Erdoğan. Serkan Golge, a naturalized US citizen, was jailed in Turkey for three years on charges of participating in terrorism and conspiring against the government as a member of the Gülen movement. Metin Topuz, a US consulate employee, was charged with having links to Gülen and was arrested under "terror charges" by an Istanbul court. Topuz was the second US government employee in Turkey to be arrested in 2017. The United States suspended all non-immigrant visas from Turkey "indefinitely" due to Topuz's arrest. Turkey retaliated against the US with suspensions of all US visas, including tourist visas, shortly after the US State Department made their announcement.