[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Censorship in the United States

case led to the "clear and present danger" test. In 1969, Brandenburg v. Ohio established the "imminent lawless action" test. State sedition acts, if in place, are likely unconstitutional under the Brandenburg doctrine of "imminent lawless action" or the older doctrine of "clear and present danger."

Smith Act

The Alien Registration Act or Smith Act () of 1940 is a United States federal statute that made it a criminal offense for anyone to

It also required all non-citizen adult residents to register with the government; within four months, 4,741,971 non-citizens had registered under the Act's provisions.

The Act is best known for its use against political organizations and figures, mostly on the left. From 1941 to 1957, hundreds of socialists were prosecuted under the Smith Act. The first trial, in 1941, focused on Trotskyists, the second trial in 1944 prosecuted alleged fascists and, beginning in 1949, leaders and members of the Communist Party USA were targeted. Prosecutions continued until a series of Supreme Court decisions in 1957 threw out numerous convictions under the Smith Act as unconstitutional. The statute itself, often amended, has not been repealed.

See also

Civil liberties in the United States
First Amendment to the United States Constitution
Freedom of speech in the United States
Press freedom in the United States
List of cases argued by Floyd Abrams
List of most commonly challenged books in the United States
Mass surveillance in the United States
Media coverage of climate change
Media bias in the United States
Political correctness
Prior restraint
Surveillance
Computer surveillance
United States defamation law
United States obscenity law
Westmoreland v. CBS

Documentary films
This Film Is Not Yet Rated (2006)

Censorship in the past
Alien and Sedition Acts
Comics Code Authority
Hays Code (Production Code)
Red Scare

Rating systems and industry self-regulation
Comics Code Authority
Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB)
MPAA film rating system
Parental Advisory (music)
TV Parental Guidelines

Related techniques of suppression
Media manipulation
Propaganda
Slander and libel

Free speech advocates
American Civil Liberties Union
American Library Association
Center for Democracy and Technology
Electronic Frontier Foundation
Fans of X-Rated Entertainment
Free Speech Coalition
Index on Censorship
International Freedom of Expression Exchange
National Coalition Against Censorship

Organizations advocating censorship
New York Society for the Suppression of Vice
National Center on Sexual Exploitation, formerly Morality in Media

Surveillance by the United States government
 2013 mass surveillance disclosures, reports about NSA and its international partners' mass surveillance of foreign nationals and U.S. citizens
 Carnivore, a U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation system to monitor email and electronic communications
 Computer and Internet Protocol Address Verifier (CIPAV), a data gathering tool used by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) 
 Dropmire, a secret surveillance program by the NSA aimed at surveillance of foreign embassies and diplomatic staff, including those of NATO allies
 Magic Lantern, keystroke logging software developed by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation 
 NSA call database, a database containing metadata for hundreds of billions of telephone calls made in the U.S. 
 NSA warrantless surveillance (2001–07)
 NSA whistleblowers: William Binney, Thomas Andrews Drake, Mark Klein, Thomas Tamm, Russ Tice, Edward Snowden
 Spying on United Nations leaders by United States diplomats
 Stellar Wind, code name for information collected under the President's Surveillance Program
 Terrorist Surveillance Program, an NSA electronic surveillance program 
 Total Information Awareness, a project of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)

References

External links
Administration of the Invention Secrecy Act
Smyth, Daniel. Avoiding Bloodshed? US Journalists and Censorship in Wartime, War & Society, Volume 32, Issue 1, 2013.

 
First Amendment to the United States Constitution
Law of the United States