[Source: PubMed]

50. Ig Sanita Pubbl. 2013 Jul-Aug;69(4):427-44.

Building successful collaborations between Public Health and Primary Health 
Care.

Specchia ML(1), de Belvis AG, Capizzi S, Veneziano MA, Kheiraoui F, Morelli L, 
Ferriero AM, Cadeddu C, Ricciardi W.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Sanità Pubblica, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Roma.

Public Health (PH) and Primary Health Care (PHC) need to be better integrated, 
at different levels of the healthcare system, in order to improve health and 
social outcomes. The aim of this study was to review international models and 
approaches supporting the integration of PH and PHC and to classify these 
according to their main focus. A literature search was performed using the main 
scientific databases, to identify national and international journal 
publications regarding models to support integration between PH and PHC. The 
final set of the documents provided a broad coverage of the topic. Four models 
of integration were identified: general integration, chronic disease prevention, 
targeted prevention or care delivery and infection control. Models differed in 
their levels of implementation, stages of development and focus. This review, by 
classifying the main characteristics and results of the experiences retrieved, 
indicates a relatively scarce use of integration models in the global health 
care landscape, with the exception of Canada. In fact, Canada has been a leader 
in developing models of integrated health systems that combine tailored 
approaches to influence personal health behaviour and community-oriented 
approaches to influence the health of the population. The review also revealed a 
general lack of experience in evaluating the sustainability of integration 
between PH and PHC, not only in terms of cost-effectiveness, but also in terms 
of better health and work conditions and self-perceived quality of care in the 
population. Collaboration between PH and PHC seems to be an important strategy 
for achieving principles of equity and access in health care and for ensuring a 
more equal distribution of health care services.

PMID: 24091844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]