[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Washington Bridges

ille for most of 1864, and was tasked primarily with scouting and guarding railroads.  The unit took part in operations against General Joseph Wheeler in the Murfreesboro area in August 1864, and engaged in counter-operations against a raid into the region led by Nathan B. Forrest in September 1864.

In November 1864, General Edward Hatch's 5th division, which included Bridges' regiment, marched from Nashville to Pulaski.  Bridges and several soldiers in his regiment failed to make the march, however, due to drunkenness. The division's adjutant, Major E.B. Beaumont, reported that Bridges "has been very neglectful of his duty and it would be well to get rid of him."  General James H. Wilson, the cavalry commander of the Army of the Ohio, suggested Beaumont arrest Bridges for neglect of duty and make the whole incident a public affair to set an example.  Bridges was relieved of his command and discharged shortly afterward.

Later life

In 1865, Bridges was elected judge of the state's fourth circuit court.  He served in this capacity until the following year.  After leaving the bench, he practiced law and established a real estate brokerage in Athens.  In 1869, he campaigned to become McMinn County's delegate to the 1870 constitutional convention that would create the present state constitution, but the county chose Colonel Archibald Blizard.

Bridges died in Athens on March 16, 1873, following an illness that had lasted for several months.  He is interred at Cedar Grove Cemetery in Athens.

References

1825 births
1873 deaths
People from Athens, Tennessee
Tennessee Democrats
Unionist Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Tennessee
Tennessee state court judges
People from Bradley County, Tennessee
19th-century American politicians
University of Tennessee alumni
19th-century American judges
Southern Unionists in the American Civil War
Union Army officers
People of Tennessee in the American Civil War
Members of the United States House of Representatives who owned slaves