[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Prison Six

tali – one bulldozer
Medical Corps headquarters – five medical squads
Ba'ah Adam – stretcher squads
Ramat David Airbase – fire engine
Hospital 10 (Haifa) – battalion aid station

Civilian reinforcements:
Israel Police – 2 policemen from the negotiations department
Atlit Fire Department – fire engine

Structure
Prison Six comprises four main companies, and two assisting companies:
Company Alef (א) - for prisoners serving sentences of 28 days or less, or those who have less than 28 days till their release. This is an open company, i.e. prisoners sleep in an open (but guarded) area, and not in jail cells.
Company Bet (ב) - for new prisoners and those serving medium sentences (1–6 months).
Officers' prison ( ktziniya) - a designated area for officers, civilians working for the army, and most military policemen, who committed crimes during their service.
Company Gimel (ג) - for havushim between 28 and 70 days and other prisoners with sentences higher than 6 months. It also contains detainees awaiting trial and the isolation wing (agaf habodedim).
Company 600 - for all female prisoners, regardless of the severity of their crime or the length of their sentence.
Conveyance company - assists the Yamlat'''s conveyance company in moving prisoners to and from Prison Six.
Headquarters company - provides adjutant and similar services to the prison's staff and prisoners.

In popular culture
HaGashash HaHiver released a skit about Prison Six, where they sang the popular song Uzi Uzi.
An Israeli rap band active since 1998 was named Kele Shesh (Hebrew for Prison Six).
Several Israeli songs mention Prison Six, notably the Mizrahi music single BaKele HaTzva'i (In the Military Prison) by Nuriel, where the protagonist of the song serves a 28-day sentence in Prison Six.
The 2009 Israeli film HaBodedim'' by director Renen Schorr is based on the Prison Six rebellion.

References

Israel Defense Forces
Prisons in Israel
Military prisons
Buildings and structures in Haifa District