[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Izzie Stevens

led she did not know if Izzie would survive, as no one on the production team would disclose her character's fate to her. It was confirmed in June 2009 that Heigl would return as Izzie for the show's sixth season. Heigl's appearances in the season were sporadic, seeing Izzie depart and return twice.

Film project leave and maternity leave
Beginning in September 2009, Heigl was granted an extended leave for five episodes of the sixth season (from episode six's "I Saw What I Saw" to episode eleven's "Blink") to shoot the romantic comedy film Life As We Know It (2010), her first executive producer project as an actress. It was confirmed her exit would coincide with lead actress Ellen Pompeo's own maternity leave, and also shortly following T.R. Knight's departure from the series. Showrunner Shonda Rhimes admitted, "Eventually, everybody is going to leave the show,” admitted the exec, citing T.R. Knight’s exit and the temporary loss of Pompeo. ”So we’re looking at [ways] we can mess with the structure now. Season 6 is about finding the longevity of the show and figuring out if there is a future for this show beyond these characters.”

Pompeo's titular character, Meredith Grey was given reduced screentime, with scenes filmed in advance for future episodes. Heigl's character, however, was given a purposeful exit storyline. The character is fired in the fifth episode of the season "Invasion" and leaves her husband, Alex with a Dear John note. She is subsequently absent for the following three episodes. Stevens briefly returns for the ninth episode "New History", before departing again. After the release of the eleventh episode "Blink", Heigl wrapped up shooting Life As We Know It and returned for the twelfth episode, "I Like You So Much Better When You're Naked", set to air in January 2010.

In November 2009, it was announced, however, Heigl had taken an indefinite, extended maternity leave to care of her adopted daughter, and the twelfth episode would serve as a further phasing out. It was later revealed to be a three-month maternity leave and Rhimes confirmed Heigl would not shoot scenes in advance for her character like Pompeo.

Decision to leave
On March 1, 2010, Katherine Heigl was scheduled to return to the Grey's set to shoot the twentieth episode of the sixth season, and the subsequent four episodes. Negotiations had been ongoing "for months" between Heigl and ABC regarding her commitment to the series. In the same week, both sides mutually agreed that the best solution would be to "part ways now as opposed to at the end of the season", which became public news on March 11. Heigl further stated she "spoke again" to Rhimes about leaving before she was due back, and then waited at home in Utah until she was given the "formal okay" notice that she would no longer be a part of the series.

Heigl requested to be released from her contract 18 months early, and to retroactively make her final appearance be the twelfth episode of the season (her maternity leave departure episode), "I Like You So Much Better When You're Naked" which aired on January 21, 2010. In April 2010, she stated that the episode — while not intended to be her final episode — "oddly works as a bookend to Izzie's story". She further commented:
 "Even though there's a part of me that would like to go back and do the quick Izzie farewell, I also think that my last scene — where Meredith says to Izzie, 'Please don't go, This is your home,' and Izzie's response was, 'No it’s not, not anymore it’s just a place I worked and I can do that anywhere' — was kind of tragic and appropriate all at the same time. When I was playing the scene, I was really trying to convey that, for Izzie, that was a lie that she had to tell herself to have the courage to have to move on."

While a source within the actress’ camp claimed Heigl “was at home and ready to return to work" on March 1, another stated it was "much more complicated than that". Headwriter Krista Vernoff (who later became sole showrunner) revealed in 2020 that she penned one late-season six farewell episode "entirely centered on [Izzie] and the completion of her story arc", as well as her relationship with Alex, describing it as "beautiful"; it was subsequently canned and heavily re-written after the production received a call that "Katie wasn't coming" and "Wasn't going to do it". However, a source within Heigl's camp disputed this claim, responding that she had returned to LA from Utah waiting to be called to set. Heigl had also previously stated in March 2010 that the rumors that she refused to return were untrue. She instead simply waited to be formally approved to be legally released from her contract, which she was subsequently approved for.