[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Frozen conflict

In international relations, a frozen conflict is a situation in which active armed conflict has been brought to an end, but no peace treaty or other political framework resolves the conflict to the satisfaction of the combatants. Therefore, legally the conflict can start again at any moment, creating an environment of insecurity and instability.

The term has been commonly used for post-Soviet conflicts, but it has also often been applied to other extended and unresolved territorial disputes. The de facto situation that emerges may or may not match the official position asserted by either party to the conflict. For example, in the division of Korea both South Korea and North Korea officially assert claims to the entire peninsula; however, there exists a well-defined border between the two countries' areas of control.

Frozen conflicts sometimes result in partially recognized states. For example, the Republic of South Ossetia, a product of the frozen Georgian–Ossetian conflict, is recognized by eight other states, including five UN members; the other three of these entities are partially recognized states themselves.

In post-Soviet territories

Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, a number of conflicts arose in areas of some of the post-Soviet states, usually where the new international borders did not match the ethnic affiliations of local populations. These conflicts have largely remained "frozen", with disputed areas under the de facto control of entities other than the countries to which they are internationally recognized as belonging, and which still consider those areas to be part of their territory. Most of the separatist states in the region are Russian state-backed. These interventions have been interpreted as a Kremlin strategy to destabilize other post-Soviet states and extend Russia's sphere of influence.

Transnistria 

Since the ceasefire which ended the Transnistria War (1990–1992), the Russian-influenced breakaway republic of Transnistria has controlled the easternmost strip of the territory of Moldova. The republic is internationally unrecognized, and Moldova continues to claim the territory.

Nagorno-Karabakh 

Nagorno-Karabakh is internationally recognized as part of Azerbaijan, but most of the region was governed by a de facto independent state, the Republic of Artsakh, from 1991 to 2023. Artsakh had an Armenian ethnic majority and was established on the basis of the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic. Since 1988, the Karabakh movement strove for the transfer of the region to Armenia. In 1991 Nagorno-Karabakh declared its independence from Azerbaijan. During the subsequent First Nagorno-Karabakh War, which lasted until 1994, the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, together with Armenia, was able to drive out Azerbaijani forces from the region. Furthermore, it also annexed surrounding Azerbaijani districts, allowing the republic to significantly enlarge its territory and crucially establish a land border with Armenia. After 1994, the conflict remained practically frozen in this situation; in 2017 Nagorno-Karabakh Republic was renamed as the Republic of Artsakh. In 2020, the conflict escalated again, and following the signing of a ceasefire, it was agreed that Azerbaijan would regain the territories surrounding the borders of the original Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast, as well as any parts of Nagorno-Karabakh it had advanced into as a result of its military actions. In 2023, Azerbaijan launched a renewed offensive into what remained of Artsakh,  resulting in the latter's surrender and a mass exodus of Armenians from the region. Artsakh subsequently agreed to formally dissolve itself on 1 January 2024. The government of Armenia refused to intervene in favor of Artsakh, resulting in mass protests.

The pending dissolution of Artsakh and demographic changes would notably result in the first definitive end to a post-Soviet conflict.

South Ossetia and Abkhazia 

The Abkhaz–Georgian conflict and Georgian–Ossetian conflict have led to the creation of two largely unrecognized states within the internationally recognized territory of Georgia. The 1991–92 South Ossetia War and the 1992–93 War in Abkhazia, followed by the Russo-Georgian War of August 2008, have left the Russian-backed republics of South Ossetia and Abkhazia in de facto control of the South Ossetia and Abkhazia regions in north and northwest Georgia.

In Asia

Kashmir