[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

approved before allowing smoking. As a result, most bars are not exempt and smoking is banned in most bars and restaurants in Pennsylvania and almost all bars in Philadelphia by local ordinance. From 2009 to 2019, the number of exempt drinking establishments in the state dropped from 2,900 to 1,200.

Philadelphia's smoking ordinance, which went into effect on January 8, 2007, bans smoking in all restaurants, exempting bars where food accounts for less than 10% of sales and alcohol accounts for more than 90% of sales, and persons under 18 are prohibited. As with the state ban, to receive exemption bars must apply for and receive the exemption. Philadelphia's ordinance is the only local smoking ban in Pennsylvania. On April 29, 2014, Mayor Michael Nutter passed an executive order banning smoking in all city parks.
 'Smoke-Free Beaches' Program: Pennsylvania's 'Smoke-Free Beaches' program was initiated by the Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources. This program places smoking constraints at designated parks to eliminate smoking on beaches and swimming areas. For visitors who smoke and still want to use these beaches, designated areas adjacent to the beach are provided. The restriction includes cigarettes, pipes, cigars and the increasingly popular e-cigarettes. Staff at newly affected parks have been preparing for the change by purchasing and installing butt disposal units; installing new signage; establishing designated smoking areas with seating; and informing park user and support groups. 
 In 2016, 12 state parks initiated new "Smoke Free Beaches". They were: Hills Creek, Tioga County; Lyman Run, Potter County; R.B. Winter, Union; Presque Isle, Erie; Pymatuning, Crawford, Laurel Hill, Somerset County; Whipple Dam, Huntingdon County; Gifford Pinchot, York County; Cowans Gap, Fulton County; Gouldsboro, Monroe County; Ricketts Glen, Luzerne County; and Worlds End, Sullivan.

Puerto Rico
Territory-wide smoking ban: Effective March 2, 2007, smoking is banned territory-wide in all enclosed workplaces in Puerto Rico, including bars and restaurants, as well as private vehicles when either a minor in a car seat or a child under 13 is present. The law exempts (1) retail tobacco stores, (2) theater and film productions and presentations in which actors smoke as part of their character, (3) private homes except when serving as a workplace, and (4) designated hotel/motel smoking rooms.

Rhode Island
Statewide smoking ban: On March 1, 2005, the Public Health and Workplace Safety Act went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in Rhode Island, including bars and restaurants. The Act exempts (1) smoking bars (income over 50% tobacco products), (2) outdoor areas, (3) private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes, (4) retail tobacco stores, (5) stage performances involving smoking, (6) hotel and motel rooms designated as smoking rooms, (7) private residences, except used as a licensed child care, adult daycare, or healthcare facility, and (8) the two state-licensed gambling facilities, Newport Grand and Twin River Casino. Local governments may regulate smoking more strictly than the Act, though as of April 2009 none have chosen to do so.