[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Palestinian art

that room during her period of retreat have won her international recognition. Alia Rayyan, director of the Al Hoash Gallery has said that Badwan is "talking about her own creation of the space, a dream actually, how life could be there, but this only works in combination with what happens outside".

Symbols
Key iconic symbols are keys and doors. Likewise the cactus tree plays a prominent role. According to Palestinian artist and art historian Samia Halaby, "Liberation Art," or the art that resulted from the revolutionary period of Palestinian resistance that began in the late 1960s and continued through the First Intifada, "is symbolist, using images of things known to popular Palestinian culture – things that anyone experiencing Palestinian life could identify. The horse came to mean revolution. The flute came to mean the tune of the ongoing resistance. The wedding came to mean the entire Palestinian cause. The key came to mean the right of return. The sun came to mean freedom. The gun with a dove came to mean that peace would come after the struggle for liberation. Artists used the colors of the flag, patterns from embroidery, chains, etc. Village scenes, village dress, the prisoner, prison bars. There were special themes regarding the martyr. First there were generalized pictures of the martyr as well as pictures of specific individuals who had been killed by the Israelis. The second form was based on a popular practice of framing a collage of symbols representing the deceased's life then hanging it at their home or grave."

Cactus
The Cactus () has been a motif in Palestinian art since the birth of Israel.  For Zionists, the indigenous plant became a national symbol of their attachment to the land, while Palestinians saw it as an incarnation of their national dispossession (see, for example, the Arabic version of Sahar Khalifa's Wild Thorns, the Arabic title of which translates literally as Cactus).  The plant served the practical function to designate territorial borders in peasant villages. In summer, the prickly pear was a common fruit eaten by people in the region. During the 1920s, the thorny tree was incorporated as a symbol of Israeli identity. Nicolas Saig painted the prickly pear as one of the pleasures of the era.  The cactus has also become a symbol of Palestinian defiance and sumud. Villagers incorporated it into a dance song protesting the 1917 Balfour Declaration with the phrase "Ya'ayn kuni subbara - O eye, be a cactus tree!".

Contemporary

Modernism
Although the Palestinian struggle stands as a great source of inspiration for many artists, Palestinian art is not solely defined by the political character of Palestine. Palestinian modern art has become part of a successive process in which Palestinian culture and heritage play an essential role. The post Nakbah period has affected a great deal of art work, however, new generations of Palestinian artists redefined new boundaries of representation and creativity. The new generations of Palestinian artists have presented their work in a new manner reshaping the traditional representation of Palestinian art, and challenged the understanding of international audiences of the Palestinian Art and narrative.

The Palestinian narrative through Art
The Palestinian Israeli conflict and the narratives surrounding it gives Palestinian art a unique character. Palestinian art often touches on two major themes, one is the potential for contemporary art to affect people's understanding of the social, cultural, and political elements of the Palestinian narrative; and the contribution this art can make in the field of art history. The narrative of Palestinian art can be better understood by using the unique perspectives of the multiple Palestinian artist whose interpretation is often a first hand account.

The vivid political message in Palestinian contemporary art led to the realization of the so-called "liberation art of Palestine" where Palestinian artists use art to communicate their narrative beyond the level of straightforwardness that is presented by media. There is a deep connection between the visual production of Palestinian art and the physical makeup of the land of historical Palestine.