[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Queen Elizabeth School, Hong Kong

992–1996)
 Yeung Chi-hung (楊志雄, 1996–1997)
 Sin Chow Dick-yee (冼周的兒, 1997–1998)
 Yeung Chi-hung (楊志雄, 1998–2001)
 Pang Cheung Yee-fan (彭張怡芬, 2001–2008)
 Tong Kwok-keung (唐國強, 2008–2012)
 Chan Ka-wai (陳家偉, 2012 -2015 )
 Yuen Kwong-yip (袁廣業, 2015–2018)
 Eric Chan Cheung-wai (陳祥偉,2018–)

Notable alumni

Science, culture and art
Ken P. Chong (張建平), Professor and researcher at the George Washington University and the National Institute of Science and Technology, https://www.nist.gov/, Fellow of ASME, cited in the American Men & Women of Science. Former Director of Mechanics and Materials at the U.S. National Science Foundation [www.nsf.gov].
Manying Ip (葉宋曼瑛): Professor of Asian Studies at Auckland University, expert on multicultural & transnational research. Fellow of the New Zealand Academy of Humanities and Royal Society of NZ.(Ref Ip)
Dorothy Y. Ko, (高彦頤) Professor of History and Women's Studies, Barnard College, Columbia University.
 Hon-Yim Ko (高漢棪), Glenn L. Murphy Professor and Chair of Engineering, University of Colorado; Outstanding Educator of America, honored by the American Society of Engineering Education, Fellow of ASCE, cited in the American Men & Women of Science.
 Fuk Kwok Li (李復國) Director of Mars Projects, awarded NASA highest honours of Outstanding Leadership Medal and Distinguished Service Medal, cited in the American Men & Women of Science.
 Edward W Ng (伍煒國), mathematical scientist, California Institute of Technology, and NASA, Fellow of AAAS, cited in the American Men & Women of Science.
Man-Chiu Poon (潘文釗), Professor, Departments of Medicine, Pediatrics and Oncology, University of Calgary; Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (Ref. MC Poon)
Peter T. Poon (潘天佑), Telecommunications manager and space technologist on NASA projects to Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, the Sun and Outer Solar System., profiled in Marquis Who's Who
Patrick Tam, (譚秉亮) Deputy Director and Head of Embryology Unit, Children's Medical Research Institute; Professor, Discipline of Medicine, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney; Foreign Fellow of British Royal Society. (Ref Tam)
 Benjamin Wah (華雲生), world-class computer scientist, Provost of CUHK, Fellow of AAAS & IEEE, cited in the American Men & Women of Science.
Kon Max Wong (黄榦), Director, Communications Technology Research Centre, Canada Research Chair Professor in Signal Processing, McMaster University; Honorary Professor of Electrical Engineering, Imperial College, London; Fellow IEEE; Fellow Canadian Academy of Engineering; Fellow Royal Society of Canada. (Ref. Wong)
Angelina K.Y. Chin (司徒娟兒), CIA, CRMA, is a retired executive of General Motors Co. and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago who has been extensively involved with The IIA, holding numerous volunteer roles, including chair of the Global Ethics Committee and the Audit Committee, and member of the North American Nominating Committee, Board of Regents, Professional Issues, and Education Products committees. She currently serves on the Internal Audit Foundation's Committee of Research and Education Advisors (CREA) and has co-authored and reviewed several Foundation publications, including Sawyer's Internal Auditing, 7th Edition – Enhancing and Protecting Organizational Value (2019).

Politics, economics and law
 Li Kwan-ha (李君夏): Former Commissioner of Hong Kong Police Force
 Pansy Wong (黃徐毓芳): New Zealand's first Asian Member of Parliament and Cabinet Minister
 Rimsky Yuen Kwok-keung (袁國強): Secretary for Justice of Hong Kong

Engineering
Wun, Ho-kit (溫皓傑), Researcher in Transport Engineering at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
Fu, Ho-yu (傅浩宇), Soil Mechanics Expert at the Imperial College London

References

External links

Education and Manpower Bureau of the Government of the HKSAR
Professor P. Tam elected Foreign Fellow of BRS.

Secondary schools in Hong Kong
Government schools in Hong Kong
Educational institutions established in 1954
Mong Kok
1954 establishments in Hong Kong