[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Urbicide

on of cities in legal terms on the international level makes it unlikely that the international courts will take the issue more seriously. The problem is also with the enforcement of these laws on the international level, which have previously unenforced, even the human rights laws already in place.

Decisions of the International court, such as the case of reparations to Bosnia by the Serbian government for crimes against humanity, in which the court, in February 2007, acquitted Serbia of the duty to give reparations, perhaps demonstrate the further need to distinguish between urbicide and genocide. In the case of Sarajevo, where the case of genocide, as legally understood, could not be unequivocally applied to cases such as the Siege of Sarajevo, the concept of urbicide might provide a better interpretive framework for the violence inflicted upon the Sarajevo populace and their urban environment, such as the shared public space and the architecture of the city. The goal of such violence may have not been to destroy a minority population and their cultural and symbolic space, as in cases of genocide but to fragment the heterogeneous population of the city into homogeneous enclaves based on the ethnicity of the population. Thus, the violence is not directed towards an ethnicity per se, but towards the city as a heterogeneous space where different cultural identities can live and interact without antagonism.

See also

Counterurbanization
Ghost town
Structural violence
Urban decay

References

Abujidi Nurhan and Verschure Han, “Military Occupation as Urbicide by ‘Construction & Destruction’:the Case of Nablus, Palestine”, The Arab World Geographer/Le Géographe du mond arabe, Vol.9, No.2:2006
 Moorcock, Michael. "Dead God's Homecoming", in Science Fantasy #59, Nova Publishing, (June 1963)
 Berman, Marshall. "Falling Towers: City Life After Urbicide," in Dennis Crow, ed., Geography and Identity. (Washington, 1996): 172-192.
 Bevan, Robert. The Destruction of Memory.  London: Reaktion Books, 2006.
 Coward, Martin. "Urbicide in Bosnia," in Stephen Graham, ed., Cities, War, and Terrorism: Towards an Urban Geopolitics. (London: Blackwell, 2004): 154-171.
 Graham, Stephen.  "Cities, Warfare, and States of Emergency," in Stephen Graham, ed., Cities, War, and Terrorism: Towards an Urban Geopolitics.  (London: Blackwell, 2004): 1-25.
 
 Kanishka Goonewardena, "Colonization and the New Imperialism:  On the Meaning of Urbicide Today": 1-26.
 Shaw, Martin.  "New Wars of the City: ‘Urbicide' and ‘Genocide,'" in Stephen Graham, ed., Cities, War, and Terrorism: Towards an Urban Geopolitics.  (London: Blackwell, 2004): 141-153.

Further reading
 
 "Dead God's Homecoming", Science Fantasy #59, Michael Moorcock
 "Falling Towers: City Life After Urbicide," Marshall Berman
 "Colonization and the new imperialism: on the meaning of urbicide today," Kanishka Goonewardena
 "New Wars of the City: Urbicide and Genocide," Martin Shaw
 "The Pentagon as global slumlord," Mike Davis
 "City and Death," Bogdan Bogdanovic
 "On the natural history of destruction," W.G. Sebald
 "Planet of Slums," Mike Davis.
 Abujidi Nurhan and Verschure, Han (2006) Military Occupation as Urbicide by “Construction and Destruction”: The Case of Nablus, Palestine.
 "American Urbicide," Andrew Herscher.  Journal of Architectural Education, 60:1 (September 2006).
 "The Destruction of Memory," Robert Bevan
 "Cities, War, and Terrorism: Towards an Urban Geopolitics," Stephen Graham
 "Urbicide: The politics of urban destruction", Martin Coward (2008)

External  links

 'Urbicide' Overview & Conference Information
 'Urbicide' in the West Bank-an article by Stephen Graham
 Final Report of the UN Commission of Experts on the Siege of Sarajevo
 Survival Map of Sarajevo
 Photos of the Siege of Sarajevo
 James Carrol, "Katrina's Truths."
 Alan Berube and Bruce Katz, "Katrina's Window: Confronting Concentrated Poverty Across America"
 Martin Shaw, "New Wars of the City: 'urbicide' and 'genocide'" - cities in warfare past and present.
 Marshall Berman, "Among the Ruins." - urbicide in New York's Bronx district
 Martin Coward, Community as heterogeneous ensemble: Mostar and multiculturalism. - paper on war in Bosnia and urbicide
 The Meanings of Violence and the Violence of Meanings - various discussions of violence
 Robert Gilman, "Structural Violence"-unequal distribution of wealth and violence
  Eyal Weizman's "The Politics of Verticality"
 Robert Moses' Plan for New York
  
 Down with the Cities! The case for universal urbicide

Urban studies and planning terminology