[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bolivian Socialist Falange

t-endorsed candidate, Hernán Siles Zuazo. FSB lost momentum after the 1959 assassination of Únzaga. The party was at this point strongly suppressed politically, and new parties began to appeal to similar sections of society. The party's vote share fell to 8% in the 1960 elections partly as a result.

Later development
Following the death of Únzaga, the mainstream of the FSB came under the leadership of Mario Gutiérrez. the party's candidate in the 1960 elections. Following the return of the military to power in the aftermath of the 1964 coup d'état, it was the MNR's turn to be repressed, and FSB's fortunes seemed to be on the rise again. The FSB now sought to ally itself with an emerging Christian democratic tendency and focused its attentions on organising in the Santa Cruz Department. As aprt of the Christian Democratic Community it endorsed General Bernardino Bilbao Rioja's candidacy in the 1966 presidential election although René Barrientos of the ruling faction won easily. With Congress closed in 1969 the FSB descended into in-fighting, with a leftist FSB-Izquierda (FBSI) splitting off in 1970.

Bolivia did not have another election until the late 1970s. With its leadership back in the hands of Mario Gutiérrez, FSB supported (as did the MNR) the 1971 military coup that brought to power General Hugo Banzer. Indeed, Gutiérrez served Banzer as his Minister of Foreign Relations for many years. At this point FSB shifted its position somewhat, becoming more of a pro-military conservative party. The party was excluded from government in 1974, however, when Banzer decided to establish a purely military regime without political parties. The FBSI, meanwhile, which had opposed Banzer's coup, was repressed by the new government.

The FSB's ranks were further diluted when various factions split off from it in the aftermath of the Banzer dictatorship and the electoral upheavals of the 1978-80 period. Carlos Valverde Barberry eventually emerged as leader and was presidential candidate in 1980, but results were poor. Factionalism again dogged the movement and much of it was absorbed into the conservative Nationalist Democratic Action (founded by Banzer himself). The rump FSB again came to adopt more left-wing rhetoric as a party of opposition although it was eliminated from Congress at the 1989 election and gained no seats at the 1993 election.

The FSB have returned to politics sporadically since then, and in 2002 Johnny Fernández's failed bid for the presidency was jointly endorsed by Solidarity Civic Unity and the FSB. In the 2014 presidential election they endorsed the candidacy of Christian Democratic Party representative Jorge Quiroga.

See also
Falangism in Latin America

Bibliography
Bernard, Jean-Pierre, "Bolivia", in J-P Bernard, S Cerqueira, H Neira, H Graillot, L F Manigat & P Gilhodès. 1973. Guide to the Political Parties of South America, Penguin Books, 1973
Laqueur, Walter. 1976. Fascism: A Reader's Guide, Penguin Books, 1976
Linklater, Magnus, Hilton, Isabel and Ascherson, Neal, The Fourth Reich: Klaus Barbie and the Neo-Fascist Connection, Hodder & Stoughton, 1984

References

1937 establishments in Bolivia
Anti-communist parties
Bolivian nationalism
Conservative parties in Bolivia
Falangist parties
Far-right politics in Bolivia
Nationalist parties in Bolivia
Political parties established in 1937
Political parties in Bolivia
Statism