[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of the Jews in Argentina

and Córdoba during November. One of the graffiti was "Be a patriot, kill a Jew", and one another had swastika sprayed on the passage leading to the house of the Córdoba rabbi. On December there was also an antisemitic graffiti incident- swastikas were sprayed at the headquarters of the Labor Party.

In January 2015, ten Israeli tourists were wounded in an antisemitic attack at a hostel in a small village of Chubut Province. In the next month, antisemitic posters were found in a Jewish neighborhood in Buenos Aires. On the beginning of March a Jewish center and a cemetery was desecrated with antisemitic graffiti in Rosario. Two more incidents of antisemitic graffiti occurred on August in Buenos Aires and Sauce Viejo. Towards the end of the year, a young Jewish man was violently attacked by a student in the private University of San Andrés who also shouted "long live the Holocaust".

In April 2016 it was announced that Jewish community center and Temple NCI-Emanu El, which serves both Conservative and Reform branches, unanimously agreed to hold a same-sex wedding at the site, the first official same-sex Jewish wedding at a religious setting in Latin America.

Buenos Aires Jewish community

The Buenos Aires Jewish community was established in 1862 and held its first traditional Jewish wedding in 1868. The first synagogue was inaugurated in 1875. 
The Ashkenazi Jews from Eastern Europe who settled in Argentina were called rusos (Russians) by the local population.

In January 1919 in Buenos Aires, during a general strike, the police fomented pogroms that targeted Jews and destroyed their property. In the strike's aftermath, civilian vigilante gangs (the Argentine Patriotic League) went after so-called agitators (agitadores), and killed or wounded "scores of victims", including "numerous Russian Jews who were falsely accused of masterminding a Communist conspiracy".

European Jews continued to immigrate to Argentina, including during the Great Depression of the 1930s and to escape increasing Nazi persecution. "In 1939 half the owners and workers of small manufacturing plants were foreigners, many of them newly arrived Jewish refugees from Central Europe".

Jewish cultural and religious organizations flourished in the cities; a Yiddish press and theatre opened in Buenos Aires, as well as a Jewish hospital and a number of Zionist organizations.
The Zwi Migdal organization established in the 1860s in Buenos Aires operated an international network of pimps exploiting Jewish girls from Eastern Europe.

The largest Jewish cemetery in Latin America, La Tablada Israelite Cemetery, is located in the outskirts of Buenos Aires. It was established in 1936 and houses over 150,000 graves.

Status
Today, approximately 180,500 Jews live in Argentina, down from 310,000 in the early 1960s. Most of Argentina's Jews live in Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Rosario. Argentina's Jewish population is the largest in Latin America, and the third-largest in the Americas (after that of the United States and Canada). It is the sixth-largest in the world. (See Jewish population) Additionally, Buenos Aires is the sixteenth largest Jewish city in the world by population. The government has recognized major Jewish holidays: it authorizes Jews to have two days of vacation each for Rosh Hashanah, Yom Kippur, and the first two and last two days of Passover.

Historic Jewish colonies in Argentina

Buenos Aires Province
Carlos Casares
Colonia Lapin
Mauricio Hirsch
Delfin Huergo
Moctezuma
Rivera
Smith

Entre Ríos Province
Colonia Avigdor
Basavilbaso (Lucienville)
Bovril
Carmel
Clara
Cohen
General Campos
Ingeniero Sajaroff
La Clarita
Pedernal
Pueblo Arrua
San Gregorio (Colonia Sonnenfeld)
San Salvador
Santa Isabel
Ubajay
Villa Dominguez
Villaguay
Wulfshon

Santa Fe Province
Capivara
Ceres
Las Palmeras
Palacios
Moisés Ville
Virginia

La Pampa Province
Bernasconi
General Acha
Rolon

Santiago del Estero Province
Colonia Dora

See also

Andinia Plan
Argentina–Israel relations
Asociación Mutual Israelita Argentina
Benei Sión
Colegio Tarbut
Colonia Lapin
History of the Jews in Latin America
Immigration to Argentina
Jewish Agency for Israel
List of Argentine Jews
Moisés VilleNext Year in Argentina – a documentary about Jews in Argentina
Religion in Argentina
The Jewish Gauchos

Further reading
Israel, Jonathan I. "Buenos Aires, Tucumán, and the River Plate Route: Portuguese conversos and the 'commercial subversion' of the Spanish Indies (1580-1640)" in Diasporas within a Diaspora: Jews, Crypto-Jews and the World Maritime Empires (1540-1740)''. Leiden: Brill 2002, pp. 125–150.

References

External links