[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# History of the Dunedin urban area

. The first computer arrived in Dunedin in 1963 for the Casbury Fry Hudson ltd manufacturing company.

The Green Island landfill opened in 1981 Fluoride started to be added to Dunedin's drinking water in 1966, and is currently used in 85% of homes. Storm water was separated from sewage in the 1980s.

Reinvention 
Population decline steadied and by 1990 Dunedin had re-invented itself as the 'heritage city' with its main streets refurbished in Victorian style and R.A Lawson's Municipal Chambers in the Octagon restored. The university's growth accelerated. North Dunedin became New Zealand's largest and most exuberant residential campus. In 1989 local body reform saw the creation of the present huge territorial Dunedin—the country's largest city by area until the creation of Auckland Council in 2010. The city continued to refurbish itself, rehousing the Dunedin Public Art Gallery in the Octagon in 1996 and buying and restoring the Railway Station, a new stadium and recently completed a large development of the Otago Settlers Museum. New cycle lanes are being built throughout the city and along the western side of the harbour. The Ngai Tahu treaty claim of 1849 was resolved in 1998 creating a new economic power in the South island. The Dunedin Police Station building was constructed in the 1990s and is occupied by New Zealand Police on a long-term basis.

In 1995 David Bain was convicted of murdering five members of his family in Dunedin; he was later acquitted at a retrial in 2009. Speculation about the case continued long after Bain was acquitted, including whether or not he should receive compensation for the years he spent in prison.

In 2014 Dunedin won the "Gigatown" competition, giving residents a 1Gbit/s connection at the normal internet price. The fiber cable rollout reached 11,615 homes and companies, saving Dunedin an estimated 15 million dollars.

In June 2015, South Dunedin experienced heavy flooding after a low weather system brought heavy rain to the coastal Otago region. Flood damage was exacerbated by the suburb's high water table and the breakdown of the Portobello pumping station. 1,200 homes and businesses were damaged by flood damage, with total flood damage reaching $138,000,000.

Vanished Dunedin

Timelines

See also 

History of New Zealand
History of the Otago Region
List of historic hotels in Otago
List of historic places in Dunedin

References

Bibliography

External links
 History of our City – article published by Dunedin City Council
 Built in Dunedin – a blog about historic buildings of Dunedin
Map of Dunedin in 1872 and today

History of Dunedin