[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Collaboration with Nazi Germany and Fascist Italy

laboration with the Soviet Union and on Soviet territory

1939–1941 

.

After 1941 

Operation Barbarossa began on 22 June 1941 and, by November 1942, Nazi Germany occupied around  of the Soviet Union. By November 1944, the German forces had been forced out of the pre-World War II Soviet territory.

According to the American historian Jeffrey Burds, out of the 3 million armed collaborators with Nazi Germany in Europe, as many as 2.5 millions originated from the Soviet Union, and that by 1945, every eighth German soldier was a pre-war Soviet citizen. Antony Beevor writes that 1 to 1.5 million men from the territory of the USSR served militarily under the Germans. Regardless, the precise number will never be known. The people from the Soviet Union served in the Wehrmacht under a wide array of units: Hiwi, Security units, Russian Liberation Army (ROA), KONR, Ukrainian Liberation Army, various independent Russian units (, RNNA, RONA, 1st Russian National Army) and the Eastern Legions.
Toward's the war's end, the SS Main Office and the Ostministerium began conflicting over the Eastern Legions and Cossack units. The former tried to control all non-German troops fighting in the Wehrmacht, while the latter had its own policy towards the military units, which was helped by the national committees whose patron it was. Most national committees refused to subordinate themselves and the associated military units to Andrey Vlasov's Committee for the Liberation of the Peoples of Russia (KONR) and its armed forces (ROA), instead choosing to declare national armies, e.g. Caucasian Liberation Army and National Army of Turkestan. However, through the help of his patrons in the SS Main Office, Vlasov became their ostensibly leader by April 1945 and all national committees and related troops were nominally subordinated to him.According to Antony Beevor, the vast majority of those serving the Germans were "often extraordinarily naïve and ill-informed." Many viewed their service under the Germans as just serving in another army and a way to ensure food for themselves, which they preferred to being maltreated and starved in a prisoner-of-war camp. Nevertheless, there were ideologically motivated collaborators.

The Waffen-SS recruited from many nationalities living in the Soviet Union, and the German government attempted to enroll Soviet citizens voluntarily for the Ostarbeiter program. Originally this effort worked well, but the news of the terrible conditions faced by workers dried up the flow of new volunteers and the program became forcible.

Hiwis 
Already from the very first days, individual deserters and prisoners from the Red Army were offering their help to the Germans in auxiliary duties such as, but not limited to, cooking, driving, and medical assistance. There were also Soviet civilians that joined supply units and construction battalions. Both military and civilian auxiliaries were called Hiwis (German abbreviation for auxiliary volunteer) with the former Soviets soldiers frequently wearing their Red Army uniforms without any Soviet insignia. After two months service, they were permitted to wear German uniforms with insignia and ranks, which made veteran Hiwis almost indistinguishable from the regular German soldiers, although their promotion up the ranks was very limited.

Although Hitler reluctantly permitted in September 1941 to recruit people from the Soviet Union as unarmed voluntary assistants, but in practice this was frequently ignored and many of them served in frontline units. Sometimes large parts of German units consisted of the Hiwis, for example, half of the 134th Infantry Division and a quarter of the 6th Army consisted of Hiwis in late 1942. The Red Army authorities estimated that more than a million served in the Wehrmacht as Hiwis.

Eastern Legions 

The failure of the Axis powers to immediately defeat the Soviet Union in late 1941 led the Wehrmacht to resort to new sources of manpower necessary for a protracted war. In November–December 1941, Hitler ordered the formation of four Eastern Legions: Turkestan, Georgian, Armenian and Caucasian Mohammedan. In August 1942, the "Regulations on Local Auxiliary Formations in the East" singled out the Turkic peoples and the Cossacks as "equal allies fighting shoulder to shoulder with German soldiers against Bolshevism in composition of special combat units." The incorporation of eastern battalions into German divisions guarding the Atlantic Wall in Western Europe caused problems as they were totally unfit to fight against the Western Allies and the battalions were actually a burden on the weakened divisions that they were supposed to replenish. Between 275,000 and 350,000 "Muslim and Caucasian" volunteers and conscripts served in the Wehrmacht.

Between early 1942 and late 1943, the  formed a total of 54 battalions, but this was not the only place where such units were being created:

Russia