[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ramya (actress)

st feature film in Tamil. She was credited as Divya in Vaaranam Aayiram. She dubbed her own voice for this film, which became a critical and commercial success. She did not have any releases in 2009, since both her films, Bhimoos Bang Bang Kids and Jothegaara, were delayed due to financial problems.

Her first release of 2010, Just Math Mathalli, received rave reviews, with appreciation for her role. She had two more releases that year, the long-delayed Jothegaara and Kiccha Huccha. Her next release was the Tamil film Singam Puli, followed by the romantic drama Sanju Weds Geetha. This film opened to positive reviews, with Ramya being praised by critics for her performance, which was considered among the best in her career.

Her first release in 2012 was a comedy drama, Sidlingu, in which she portrayed the role of a school teacher. This was followed by a light-comedy movie, Lucky. She appeared in the semi-mythological movie Katari Veera Surasundarangi. In August 2013, Ramya announced that she was considering quitting acting to pursue a career in politics.

Following her brief political career, Ramya made her acting comeback in 2016 with Nagarahavu, a film which placed deceased actor Vishnuvardhan in the lead role through visual effects. The film received negative reviews upon the release and failed to attract an audience.

After nearly 7 years of sabbatical, the actress returned to the film industry with her own production company, AppleBox Studios. Her goal with this venture is to showcase powerful narratives centered around strong women.

Political career 
Ramya joined the Indian Youth Congress in 2012.
She became the Indian National Congress (INC) Member of Parliament from Mandya constituency in Karnataka by winning the by-election in 2013. In the 2014 Indian general election, she again contested from Mandya but was defeated by C. S. Puttaraju by a margin of 5,500 votes. In March 2017, there was speculation that she might follow her political mentor S M Krishna and join BJP, but she continued with Congress.

In May 2017 she was given the task of reviving INC's social media wing and was made national head of Congress's digital team at national level. She took over the social media team from Deepender Singh Hooda. According to various newspapers and media houses, she is instrumental in turning around Rahul Gandhi's and INC's social media image.

In August 2017, Ramya created the online campaign #AintNoCinderella to support Varnika Kundu, a woman who was "chased and almost kidnapped" one night in Chandigarh. Senior Haryana state BJP politician Ramveer Bhatti told press the attack was Kundu's fault for being out so late: "The girl should not have gone out at 12 in the night. Why was she driving so late in the night? The atmosphere is not right. We need to take care of ourselves."

The campaign started when Ramya and friends began posting photos of themselves out late at night with the hashtag #AintNoCinderella. "Why shouldn't women go out after midnight?" Ramya told the BBC. "I'm asking people like Mr Bhatti who are they to set curfew hours for us? I want to ask him who is he to question us? This is such a regressive mindset."

On 3 October 2018, there was a rumor that she was reportedly upset with Congress Party and there was a speculation that she had stepped down as its social media head.

Filmography

Awards and nominations

References

External links 

 
 Official Twitter

1982 births
Living people
Indian film actresses
Indian actor-politicians
Kannada people
Politicians from Bangalore
Filmfare Awards South winners
India MPs 2009–2014
Actresses in Tamil cinema
Actresses in Kannada cinema
Actresses in Telugu cinema
Indian National Congress politicians from Karnataka
Lok Sabha members from Karnataka
21st-century Indian actresses
Actresses from Bangalore
21st-century Indian women politicians
21st-century Indian politicians
Women members of the Lok Sabha
People from Mandya district
Women members of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly