[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles E. Apgar

e by Edison Manufacturing Company. His first recording was made October 12, 1913, of the New York Herald station, which by this time was using the call sign WHB. By October 1914, he had recorded other transmissions including the United States Navy station NAA sending time signals.

Sayville station 

Apgar then became interested in wireless station WSL in Sayville, New York, on the coast of Long Island. In the evenings, he spent time tuning his radio to the messages sent by Sayville to other stations, a practice known as "listening in." It was a high power commercial station designed for long distance communication. The station was operated by the Atlantic Communications Company which was primarily owned by the German company Telefunken. The station was built to establish two-way communication with the Nauen Transmitter Station POZ in Europe which was jointly owned by the Imperial German Army and Imperial Mail. Nauen was the only station in Europe capable of transmitting to North America at the time. It was mostly sending news that Sayville received and distributed by landline telegraph to American wire services.

During construction in August 1912, the US Navy began observing Sayville because it was reportedly controlled by a company that was under the influence of the government of the German Empire. The company claimed that it had no such connection. It had become operational in July 1913. These were the first regular transmissions between the United States and Germany. The equipment that Apgar built was sensitive enough that he also often clearly heard the Nauen station that was  distant. Apgar listened to Sayville and made his first recordings of it in November 1913. In February 1914, Apgar sent some of these cylinder recordings to the operators of Sayville, at their request.

At the start of World War I, the United States declared that it was neutral in the conflict. In August 1914, President Woodrow Wilson issued an executive order that prohibited radio communication of an "unneutral nature" from United States territory. Any communication that could aid military activities would have jeopardized neutrality. This was due to an article in the Hague Convention that stated: "belligerents are forbidden to erect on the territory of a neutral power a wireless telegraphy station or other apparatus for the purpose of communicating with belligerent forces on land or sea." The US Navy stationed personnel at the facility to inspect the messages before they were sent and enforce the order if needed. Sayville was considered one of the three most important stations to which this order applied.

During the war the German transatlantic telegraph cable was intentionally cut by the British which resulted in the German embassy becoming heavily reliant on the new wireless station. The summer residence of German ambassador Johann Heinrich von Bernstorff in Cedarhurst, New York, on Long Island had a direct telegraph line to Sayville to relay diplomatic communication to Germany by wireless. The US Navy began to have doubts about the legitimate operation of the station after they learned that a technical advisor there, physicist and engineer Jonathan Zenneck, was a captain in the German marines. The station was soon suspected of violating the presidential prohibition by including secret messages despite the government censorship.

During the summer months, reception of wireless signals was difficult due to adverse atmospheric conditions that increased static. Long distance communication was possible only during the night for brief intervals. To alleviate this limitation Sayville "quietly" (such that only a few government officials were aware of it) made major improvements to its equipment. In April 1915, the transmitter was upgraded from 35 to 100 kilowatts and three  tall antenna towers were installed, transforming it into one of the most powerful transatlantic stations in this part of the world. By May the Telefunken station at Sayville and another at Tuckerton, New Jersey, were accused of sending messages to a German U-boat providing information that allowed the submarine to "ambush" and sink the RMS Lusitania. This led to greater scrutiny of activity at the station.

Investigation