[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hitchin Boys' School

anied by their teachers, and listen to a large service. Nowadays only the Sixth Form and Year 11 students continue this tradition. Founders' Day also signalled the arrival of the School's Swimming Competition. This was terminated, then revived in 2006 to take place on the afternoon of Founders' Day.

Sports Day
The School Sports Day is also a popular attraction at the school. It began in 1890 when it was held at the Bedford Road football field, including the Hitchin Volunteers. When Jabez King came to the school he realised that it could be used as a fund-raiser on Whit Mondays. As a result, the Sports Day became enjoyed not only by the boys, but also by the townsfolk of Hitchin. Boys could enter as many races as they liked for a small fee, which went to the school. Early prizes included malacca canes, toast racks and cycle lamps, with third place's prize (a pen-knife) used as a way of encouraging competitors to strive for better placings. Alongside the serious athletic events there were also novelty events to keep spectators amused, such as the Fathers' Race. During the First World War prizes were often donated to the War Fund, and the event was kept going by the number of local soldiers who wished to take part. Medals were engraved with Hitchin Grammar School-The War 1915 and distributed by the Lieutenant Colonel of the Scottish Signals Service.

After the War inter-house competition became the main focus of the Sports Day, with the Times Shield becoming the main prize and prizes of small cups and medals awarded instead, bought by cash donations. In 1924 the Victor Ludorum Cup was first awarded, to the boy who gained the most points on Sports Day. In 1926 T.E. Jones changed Sports Day to the first Wednesday, and later a mid-June Saturday. The townsfolk of Hitchin were excluded from the event, with only parents and invited guests being spectators to the event. In 1931 the Junior Victor Ludorum award was first awarded and the Sports Day became Sports Days, with general races on the first days and inter-house events on a second day. This was reverted the following year. During the Second World War, the Sports Day was run as per normal. In 1948 the javelin and discus throwing were introduced to the event, followed by the shot put in 1952 and hop, step and jump in 1958. Even hammer throwing was tried, but the danger of the event (because of the lack of a cage) forced its stoppage. In 1955, after the arrival of M.G. Dolden in 1953, Sports Day was moved to May, a Victor Ludorum Cup was introduced for the intermediate years (14–16), the novelty races were scrapped completely, the tug-of-war was dropped as the finale and the Hitchin Town Band stopped playing at the event, making it school-only for the first time since 1899.

Notable former pupils

 Ben Hull, actor
 Ben Wilmot, footballer for Stoke City F.C.
 Ben Lawson (basketball), Pro basketball player for Rizing Zephyr Fukuoka
 Arvind Parmar, tennis player 
 Joe Worsley, rugby player
 Paul Van Carter, film producer
 James Bay, singer-songwriter
 Kevin Phillips, footballer
 Ian Poulter, golfer
 Robert Newman, comedian

Hitchin Boys' Grammar School
 Sir Peter Bonfield CBE, Chief executive from 1996 to 2002 of BT
 Frederic Chapman, publisher 
 D.G.E. Hall, South East Asia historian
 Dr Robin Holliday, molecular biologist
 John Holloway, Baroque violinist and conductor
 Paul Jesson, actor
 David Lambert, General President from 1975 to 1990 of the National Union of Hosiery and Knitwear Workers and from 1991–4 of the National Union of Knitwear, Footwear & Apparel Trades
 John Pratt, Canadian politician
 E. H. Visiak, writer
 Richard Whitmore, former BBC newsreader in the 1970s
Alfred Mendes, writer

References

 History of Hitchin Grammar School, Reginald Hines, 1931
 The John Mattocke Boys, Joyce Donald, 1989

External links 

 Hitchin Boys' School Old Boys' Association
 EduBase

Secondary schools in Hertfordshire
Boys' schools in Hertfordshire
Hitchin
Buildings and structures in Hitchin
Educational institutions established in the 1630s
1639 establishments in England
Academies in Hertfordshire