[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Lithgow railway station

on the western side of the residence. The orientation of the building's openings including the architectural detailing and embellishment provide evidence of the close relationship between the Station Master's residence and the Station as well as the importance given to the railway staff at the time.

Internal: The former Station Master's residence is still in use as guest accommodation and generally maintains its original layout and detailing despite the refurbishments over time. The main original features include timber board ceiling lining to the refurbished kitchen, timber moulded architraves throughout, decorative high wall vents, timber panelled ceilings with decorative ceiling roses to main ground floor rooms and upper floor bedrooms, an original light switch, timber decorative stair with turned balustrade and newel post and fireplaces with simple timber surround. There is only one fireplace with a cast iron grate, the remainder of the fireplaces having been blocked. The kitchen features an old-style Bega brand stove in the fireplace. The bathrooms and kitchen are relatively new fit-outs while the floor finishes are generally carpet to the rooms and tile to the wet areas. A small laundry and a toilet are located in the later skillion addition.

Moveable items
The following moveable items have been observed at Lithgow Railway Station Group:
 A Seth Thomas clock at overhead Station Master's office (no number).
 Wall-mounted clock on Platform 1 elevation of the Station Building next to the former Station Master's office door.
 Various early timber station signs depicting the station building room and platform names.
 Old Bega brand stove in the kitchen of the SM's residence.
 Early light switch on the upstairs main bedroom of the SM's residence.

Potential archaeological features
The former 1877 railway platform of the first Lithgow Station is the only known potential archaeological element at the Lithgow Railway Station Group.

Condition 

As of 25 August 2009, the station building is generally in good condition with minimal missing mortar joints that present no structural danger. The former Booking/Parcels office & Goods lift tower is generally in moderate condition. Rising damp and rotten timber is evident at the platform base of the out-of-shed and the lift tower. External repainting is required in near future. Internal spaces could not be inspected. The Station Master's Residence is generally in good condition externally with cracks on the rusticated render along the bottom portion of the railway elevation. However, this is not considered a structural issue. Natural wear and tear throughout the exterior is evident. Internally the residence is in very good condition. The island platform is in good condition. The Hayley Street Footbridge is in very good condition. Access was not available for close inspection of the Old Station platform, however, appears to be
in moderate condition due to overgrown grassed environment.

The overall integrity of the Railway Station Group including the station building, the residence, and the overhead booking /parcels office and goods lift tower is high. The buildings are relatively intact externally.

Modifications and dates 
Externally, the main platform building appears as it was constructed with the additional bay on the Up end.
1929an awning was erected over the footpath of Eskbank Street.
1948the overhead booking office on Eskbank Street was extended.
1977Office Building – air-condition units installed to the district engineer's, officer and clerk offices.
1983the Eskbank Street booking office was modernised.
199? a new "bus/rail interchange" was erected at the western end of the platform with the footbridge over tracks. The Eskbank Street access ramp was closed and a new booking office was opened on the footbridge.
1994–95a lift was installed at the new ramp.
N.d.The former brick subtype 1 through shed (goods shed) could not be located and appears to have since been demolished.
N.d.Foot warmer and out-of-shed removed.

Further information 

The Lithgow Coal Stage Signal Box, Eskbank Railway Station, and Lithgow (James Street) Underbridge all have separate listings.

The following items are located adjacent to the station but are excluded from the listing as they do not warrant listing on the SHR: