[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Topal Osman

gan robbing houses, but was driven off by a Turkish gangster called Yahya. 

Again in 1921, Topal Osman and his men traveled to Giresun and nearby Tirebolu. The same pattern repeated: They killed or deported the majority of local Pontian Greeks, but selected some women and girls for the troops' use.

A local Greek survivor recalled that when his village attacked in 1921 by Osman and his men, who were armed with guns and axes: "They gathered people in the middle of the village. They separated off the children. They stripped them and threw them into wells. Then they threw stones on top of them. The wells groaned. They filled the church, the school, and the barns with the old people and set fire to them."

In 1922, Osman led his men to Ordu. Few Christian men remained, but many women and children did. Osman and his men picked the women and girls they wanted from the crowd. They forced all the other Christians into two buildings, which they set on fire. Osman and his men raped the selected women throughout the night, then "butchered" them the next day. Osman's men did the same in nine nearby villages.

Foreign correspondents accused him as the principal organizer of the persecution against the Greeks at the Pontus region and also that he made a great fortune from the plundering of the churches. In addition, the Daily Telegraph's correspondent called him the "terror of the Pontus" adding that: "his career of crime and violence, for the equal of which one must go back to the Dark Ages".

His activities against the Greeks were so brutal that even Adnan Bey sent a letter to the government in Ankara asking to take measures against Topal Osman.

Turkish War of Independence

As the mayor of Giresun
After the First World War, Topal Osman Ağa continued his operations in the Black Sea region, this time targeting rebellious Christian Pontic Greeks during the Turkish War of Independence.

Osman Ağa declared himself mayor of Giresun in order to fight the Pontic paramilitary forces more easily. He wasn't prevented by anybody, as he was believed to be the only one who could protect Turks against these bands.

An Association for Defence of National Rights was formed in Giresun. On 27 May 1919, a death sentence issued for Topal Osman by the Ottoman government. He escaped for a while. While Osman Ağa was escaping, he ordered a meeting to be arranged in Giresun to protest the Occupation of İzmir. He met Mustafa Kemal in Havza. Mustafa Kemal ordered Osman Ağa to fight Pontic bands no matter what the Ottoman government orders. The death sentence abolished on 8 July 1919.

Osman Ağa's first notable act was tearing apart and walking over the Pontic flag raised by Pontic bands while he was escaping from Ottoman government. He executed the Greek man who raised the Pontic flag, as well as one of his collaborators. He continued his acts by raiding the Greek cinema for insulting Turks inside, attacking Mavridi Mansion to destroy the "Haçika gang", preventing Pontic irregulars coming from various places, including Batum and Ukraine, from entering Giresun. He made Coast Guards more organized to prevent other Pontics to enter. 

An assassination attempt against him was plotted by pro-Ottoman governor Badi Nedim, but Osman Ağa learned about this plan and had him out from Giresun. Badi Nedim was dismissed on 6 October.

Osman Ağa's activities included preventing the citizens from throwing away trash to keep the city clean, forbidding alcohol and prostitution, founding a worker's quarry to help orphans, building better roads and bringing electricity to some parts of the city. He was quite harsh towards prostitutes. He cut their hair off and forced them to leave Giresun. Those who couldn't would drown in the sea. 

In January 1920, Osman Ağa started publishing the newspaper Gedikkaya.

In February 1920, six British battle ships came close to Giresun, but prevented by Osman Ağa from landing. British commander invited him to ship to meet, but Osman Ağa understood that it was a trap and didn't go. British ships went off after a British soldier attacking a girl and getting wounded by his foot.
 
In March 1920, Osman Ağa captured a powerboat coming from Greece and took everything inside; which was 1800 Turkish liras, 700 Russian silvers, 600 American dollars and 400 jerry cans. All of these were sent to Association for Defence of National Rights. The powerboat was used during the Turkish War of Independence. He later executed a pro-Pontic agency clerk named Yorgi as well as two Greek doctors who malpracticed Turkish patients. He arranged a meeting and after the meeting; he, along with the people who joined the meeting, forced the Greek metropolitan to pray for Turks. Later, a postman named Atmacidi was also executed for spreading Greek propaganda.

He took part of shipping weapons from Soviet Union and sending these to the Western Front. He sold hazelnut and wine to Soviets and bought weapons from them.