[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shaparak Khorsandi

ought her wide media attention". Reflecting on her career to 2010, they considered that a key aspect of Khorsandi's comedy was that "her humour resonates with common experiences of racially marked prejudice and 'othering', but is rooted in the specificities of her own, lived, migratory experiences".

In 2007, Khorsandi travelled to Australia and performed at the Melbourne Comedy Festival. Later, she was nominated for the best breakthrough act at the 2007 Chortle Awards. Khorsandi was one of the acts at The Secret Policeman's Ball 2008 show for Amnesty International; writing in 2021, she reflected that this appearance "led to regular TV bookings, including Live at the Apollo, which meant I could tour. Being a touring comic meant that I made much more money than when I was on the circuit." In December 2008, she appeared on the BBC stand-up television show Live at the Apollo alongside Russell Kane and Al Murray. She performed her show, The Distracted Activist, at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe from 6 to 31 August 2009. The theme of the show was her involvement in campaigns, while being "distracted" by being a single mother. Aston and Harris noted that Khorsandi made a point of emphasising that she was Iranian and a woman, but by highlighting her skin tone and dark hair, "simultaneously defamiliarises the feminine and makes the foreign familiar: ethnicity and gender intersect to deterritorialise the category 'Woman' as a site of privileged white femininity". They remark that while her act seeks to expose the concept of the "exotic foreigner" as the construct of "a white imagination", her self-description as "exotic foreigner" as "foreign but not in a way that we hate" as potentially reinforcing "stranger fetishism". Brian Logan's review in The Guardian found the show lacking in direction, and described it as "conventional comment on geopolitics amid much directionless banter and biographical gossip". Reviewing a performance in Brighton, Sarah Lewis-Hammond wrote in The Argus that she found the show relatable, and that the audience clearly enjoyed it.

Khorsandi was a panellist on Question Time in 2006 and returned in 2010, 2015, and 2018. In a column for The Independent in 2019, she recounted that she was inappropriately touched by Boris Johnson during one of the shows and had included references to this in some of her stand-up routines.

Her BBC Radio 4 programme Shappi Talk (2009) had four themed episodes, each with comedy routines relating to her early life in the UK; the themes were racism, unconventional parents, religion, and growing up. Guests on the programme included Meera Syal. In The Times, Chris Campling praised Khorsandi as "very funny" but described the show as addressing issues in a way that was "no mere retread of her general stand-up routine". Trevor Lewis of The Sunday Times called it "A comedy treat." A second series, with themes of divorce, addiction, history, and politics, aired in 2010. She performed "Mickey" on the second episode of Let's Dance for Sport Relief 2010, and later was a guest alongside Noddy Holder on Genius, hosted by Dave Gorman. Khorsandi and Holder assessed concepts suggested by the audience, such as emory boards on escalators to file fingernails whilst moving between floors. 

Topics in her 2011 show Me and My Brother in Our Pants, Holding Hands included her relationship with her brother, divorce, flashers, and her mother's low self-esteem. Tim Richards of The Age gave a positive review, writing that it was "not wet-your-pants material, but it's an absorbing hour". For the Leicester Mercury reviewer, it was Khorsandi's best show to date, and "a skillfully polished skit, that nevertheless felt like it was being performed for the first time".

Khorsandi wrote a 2011 episode of Little Crackers, a series of short autobiographical programmes shown on Sky1, about meeting Todd Carty from Grange Hill. Lucy Mangan of The Guardian acclaimed it as "a sweet, sharp vision of her grandparents in terrifying few words and minutes. Genius." Her 2012 stand-up show Dirty Looks and Hopscotch was based around an account of a short-term relationship with a famous, un-named, musician. According to James Kettle in The Guardian, Khorsandi presented "perhaps too much information about her sex life, her hang-ups and her general mental health", although he added that the performance had the "merciful addition of an arsenal of great jokes". The show commended by Victoria Lee of The Daily Telegraph for Khorsandi being "more open than previously" in her routine, which contained "old-fashioned filth".