[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Operational transformation

al to the inverse of the transformed operation . IP3 precondition: IP3 is required only if the OT system allows an inverse operation  to be transformed against an operation  that is concurrent and defined on the same document state as (or context-equivalent to) .

OT control (integration) algorithms

Various OT control algorithms have been designed for OT systems with different capabilities and for different applications. The complexity of OT control algorithm design is determined by multiple factors. A key differentiating factor is whether an algorithm is capable of supporting concurrency control (do) and/or group undo. In addition, different OT control algorithm designs make different tradeoffs in:  
 assigning correctness responsibilities among the control algorithm and transformation functions, and
 time-space complexity of the OT system.

Most existing OT control algorithms for concurrency control adopt the theory of causality/concurrency as the theoretical basis: causally related operations must be executed in their causal order; concurrent operations must be transformed before their execution. However, it was well known that concurrency condition alone cannot capture all OT transformation conditions. In a recent work, the theory of operation context has been proposed to explicitly represent the notion of a document state, which can be used to formally express OT transformation conditions for supporting the design and verification of OT control algorithms.
 
The following table gives an overview of some existing OT control/integration algorithms

A continuous total order is a strict total order where it is possible to detect a missing element i.e. 1,2,3,4,... is a continuous total order, 1,2,3,5,... is not a continuous total order. 
 

The transformation-based algorithms proposed in  are based on the alternative consistency models "CSM" and "CA" as described above. Their approaches differ from those listed in the table. They use vector timestamps for causality preservation. The other correctness conditions are "single-"/"multi-" operation effects relation preservation or "admissibility" preservation. Those conditions are ensured by the control procedure and transformation functions synergistically. There is no need to discuss TP1/TP2 in their work. Hence they are not listed in the above table.

There exist some other optimistic consistency control algorithms that seek alternative ways to design transformation algorithms, but do not fit well with the above taxonomy and characterization. For example, Mark and Retrace

The correctness problems of OT led to introduction of transformationless post-OT schemes, such as WOOT, Logoot and Causal Trees (CT). "Post-OT" schemes decompose the document into atomic operations, but they workaround the need to transform operations by employing a combination of unique symbol identifiers, vector timestamps and/or tombstones.

Critique of OT
While the classic OT approach of defining operations through their offsets in the text seems to be simple and natural, real-world distributed systems raise serious issues. Namely, that operations propagate with finite speed, states of participants are often different, thus the resulting combinations of states and operations are extremely hard to foresee and understand. As Li and Li put it, "Due to the need to consider complicated case coverage, formal proofs are very complicated and error-prone, even for OT algorithms that only treat two characterwise primitives (insert and delete)".

Similarly, Joseph Gentle who is a former Google Wave engineer and an author of the Share.JS library wrote, "Unfortunately, implementing OT sucks. There's a million algorithms with different tradeoffs, mostly trapped in academic papers. […] Wave took 2 years to write and if we rewrote it today, it would take almost as long to write a second time." But later he amends his comment with "I no longer believe that wave would take 2 years to implement now - mostly because of advances in web frameworks and web browsers."

For OT to work, every single change to the data needs to be captured: "Obtaining a snapshot of the state is usually trivial, but capturing edits is a different matter altogether. […] The richness of modern user interfaces can make this problematic, especially within a browser-based environment." An alternative to OT is differential synchronization.

Another alternative to OT is using sequence types of conflict-free replicated data type.

See also

 Data synchronization
 Collaborative real-time editors
 Conflict-free replicated data types
 Consistency models
 Optimistic replication

References

External links
 OT FAQ: Operational Transformation Frequently Asked Questions and Answers
 SIGCE: Special Interest Group of Collaborative Editing
 International Workshop on Collaborative Editing Systems
   Distributed System Online - Collaborative editing
Simple explanation of OT in Google Docs
 Basics of OT in the Open Coweb Framework