[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Humanity: Hour I

isionary guy and knew if the vocalist is in good form, then he'll get what he wants from them". In the period between October 2006 and February 2007, band managed to record thirteen songs, of which twelve managed to make the album. Among the remaining 37 songs, several were recorded only as a demos.

Among those 37 songs one was co-written by Meine with Michael Nord Andersson and Martin Hansen. Child liked that song, but he did not like the lyrics, so he and Meine rewrote the lyrical part and the song became "The Game of Life".

After recording process was completed, the band immediately started the promotional tour. Since the album in that period was not mixed yet, the band had to collaborate with Desmond Child over the Internet in the mixing process. To do that, they had to download the whole album, get appropriate speaker system and later send comments to Child via Internet.

Lyrical themes and composition
Humanity: Hour I is a concept album based on a loose storyline by Desmond Child and futurist Liam Carl, which predicts a world torn apart by a civil war between humans and robots. It's a concept album where songs are connected under the global theme of humanity.

Speaking of the album sound, frontman Klaus Meine said: "We wanted to make an album that was up to date, with a more modern sound to it without losing the Scorpion signature and I think it's still there. A lot of people feel it's a very good connection between the typical Scorpions sound but in a new way. It wasn't so much that we were trying to experiment; we still wanted a Scorpions record but not so much a classic rock album like going back to the old days, the 80's. We really wanted a record that would sound like 2007". Guitars on songs on this album are in drop D, drop C and drop C sharp tunings and those tunings were chosen depending on the Meine's vocal ranges on the songs. Matthias Jabs explained: "Sometimes if you play the guitar riff dropped to a D, it will not only sound different but play different. But whatever was the best for the vocals is how we proceeded. It is no point in recording something if it is too stressful for the singer to sing properly".

Release and artwork
The album title and artwork were first released through the official French Scorpions fan club Crazyscorps in February 2007. The album artwork is featuring a human robot with the Scorpions logo on the back of its neck. However, after nearly two months since the fan club released the artwork on its website, they received information from the webmaster of the official Scorpions website about the illegal leak of that material and that the band disclaimed Crazyscorps for posting the artwork without authorization. The fan club website was closed soon after.

The album was released in May 2007 in Europe and in August 2007 in North America. Delay of the album release in North America happened because the band had changed their US management and also because Desmond Child was afraid of the album leaking on the Internet.

Reception

Humanity: Hour I generally received very good reviews. Dan Marsicano from 411mania.com wrote that the "album really shows the band on fire and as powerful as they were 35 years ago". Chad Bowar from About.com stated that "Humanity Hour 1 proves that even though Scorpions have been around for a long time, their creative juices, excellent songwriting and musicianship are fully intact". Thom Jurek from AllMusic wrote that the album "deserved an American issue, since radio needs the Scorpions more than the Scorpions need radio at this point". For Don Kaye of Blabbermouth.net "it's quite easy to say that Humanity – Hour 1 is probably the best Scorpions album since 1990's Crazy World and that "Scorpions recovered their sting". The Metal Storm review remarks how Humanity – Hour 1 "has a distinct sound that sets it aside from the rest. Hard-rock yes, but with a slightly different radio vibe that might not please the die-hard fans". Grigoris Chronis from Metal Temple concluded his review saying that Scorpions "have still enough to say and to give to the world of music". RockReport review added that "this is the first album that bridges the old and the new Scorpions the way it should have been done, thanks to Desmond Child who showed the band the right direction".

The album also received some negative critics. Ben McViker from Daily Vault rated album with C− stating that "it sounds more like an album written by two architects of latter-day Aerosmith, with the Scorpions performing the music". Andrew Blackie of PopMatters also rated the album poorly and stated that "if Humanity is an unremarkable album in itself, complete with a frankly laughable social slant, the band sound more confident stuck to their hammy hard-rock than anywhere else".

Track listing