[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Israel–Turkey relations

of condolences to Israeli President Reuven Rivlin, saying he was "very sorry" to hear that three Israelis were killed and 10 wounded in the attack. The letter stated: "I want to send my deepest condolences to the Israeli people and the families that lost their loved ones in this traitorous attack."

On 20 March, Dore Gold, the director-general of the Israeli Foreign Ministry, came to Istanbul to hold talks with the undersecretary of the Turkish Foreign Ministry Feridun Sinirlioğlu and the governor of Istanbul Vasip Şahin about the ISIL attack. On 21 March, Gold thanked the Turkish government for what it did in the aftermath of the attack and underlined the need for an alliance in the fight against terror. Furthermore, he said: "I want to thank first and foremost the government of Turkey, which did everything to its capacity and helped the families of Israelis that came to take care of beloved ones. It helped us to get through any bureaucracy in the Turkish hospitals and bring the wounded as well as deceased back home to Israel."

Reconciliation agreement 

A reconciliation agreement was announced on 27 June 2016 to end the six-year rift in the relation between both countries.
The Turkish Parliament will pass a law canceling all appeals against Israeli soldiers involved in the killing of nine Turkish citizens during the Gaza flotilla raid and will also block any future claims.
Commitment to stop terrorist or military activity against Israel on Turkish soil including funding and aid to such activities from Turkey. Palestinian movement Hamas will be allowed to operate on Turkish soil but only as a political movement.
Turkey will accept to send all aid to the Gaza Strip through Israel and then from Israel to Gaza on land.
Israel will allow Turkey to advance humanitarian projects in the Gaza Strip, such as building an hospital, power station and a desalination station, all subjected to Israeli security considerations
Israel will give $20 million as compensation for the families of those who died and were injured in the raid. The money will be transferred through a humanitarian fund in Turkey. An Israel official said the money will be transferred only after the Turkish parliament will pass the law renouncing all appealings against Israeli soldiers involved in the incident.
The two countries will start a process of renormalizing their relations, reappointing ambassadors to Ankara and Tel Aviv and ending all sanctions between the two.

The agreement was approved by the Israeli security cabinet by a vote of 7–3 on 29 June.

The agreement was then approved by the Turkish parliament on 20 August 2016. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan then signed the agreement on 31 August.

On 7 October, Turkey named foreign policy expert Kemal Okem as ambassador to Israel. Israel's decision to name an ambassador was later postponed.

On 15 November, Israel named Eitan Na'eh as ambassador to Turkey. In a reciprocal move, Erdogan confirmed on 16 November the nomination of Kemal Okem as Turkish ambassador to Israel. Na'eh arrived in Ankara on 31 November. Turkey also agreed to drop charges against four Israeli soldiers on 8 December. On 12 December, Okem arrived in Jerusalem.

U.S. recognition of Jerusalem as Israel's capital city
On 14 May 2018, after the United States recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and rioting broke out, Erdoğan accused Israel of carrying out a "genocide" and behaving like a "terrorist state". The Turkish government also declared a three-day national mourning. The next day Turkey expelled the Israeli ambassador and withdrew its ambassador in Tel Aviv for consultations. In response, Israel expelled Turkey's consul in Jerusalem. Israeli Agriculture Minister Uri Ariel ordered the freezing of import of agricultural produce from Turkey.

On Twitter, Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu described Erdogan as one of Hamas's biggest supporters and suggested that he not preach morality to Israel. Erdoğan called Israel an apartheid state which has occupied a defenseless people's lands for 60+ yrs in violation of UN resolutions. He said that Netanyahu had the blood of Palestinians on his hands and should not cover up his crimes by attacking Turkey.

In a joint news conference with British Prime Minister Theresa May in London, Erdoğan said Turkey would never accept Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and called on the international community and the U.N. "to act without wasting time and stop this oppression" in Palestine.