[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Malayan National Liberation Army

airplanes to destroy crops, and enforcing a striction rationing system for Malayan villagers so that they could not share food with MNLA members. In the New village of Tanjung Malim, the rice rations were halved after the population refused to give information on communist activities in the region.

The Briggs Plan and the New Village internment camps had succeeded in separating the civilian population from the MNLA guerrillas in the jungles and severely damaged their ability to continue fighting. The food denial campaign also put great pressure on the MNLA and damaged their ability to conduct assaults against British positions.

The Emergency officially came to an end in 1960, although the MNLA had already been defeated as an effective fighting force for years.

Communist insurgency in Malaysia (1968–1989)
Defeated in the first Malayan emergency and outwitted in Singapore politics by nationalist politician Lee Kuan Yew, the CPM by the mid-1960s was fragmented. However, in 1968 the MNLA reappeared and operated from across the Thai border and carried out ambushes, hit-and-run attacks, as well as laid traps for the Malaysian military. The MNLA fought in the highly forested area near the Thai border in the north of the Malay peninsula. The MNLA was not able to reform to its former size and the CPM began recruitment of Thai Malays as well as distributing pamphlets preaching the compatibility between Islam and Communism. The MNLA had some success early on in the insurgency, at one point killing 17 members of the security forces in a single attack. In 1989, the CPM came to the negotiating table and reached an agreement with the Malaysian government which would allow CPM/MNLA members to return to Malaysia if they laid down their arms. Some CPM/MNLA members settled in "peace villages" in Southern Thailand, while others returned to Malaysia. However, Secretary-General of the CPM Chin Peng was subsequently denied the right to return to Malaysia in spite of the agreement between the CPM and the government.

Name and mistranslation
Malayan Races Liberation Army is a translation from the Chinese "" where "" means "nationality" in the ethnic sense. The organization's leader Chin Peng has called this a mistranslation and corrected it to Malayan National Liberation Army (MNLA). The name of the MNLA in Malay () could also be translated as the Malayan People's Liberation Army although extant records show that the title Tentera Pembebasan Nasional Malaya or MNLA became the normal self-identity by the 1970s.

References

Communism in Malaysia
Defunct communist militant groups
Military history of Malaysia
Paramilitary organisations based in Malaysia
Malayan Emergency
Military wings of communist parties
1949 establishments in Malaya
1989 disestablishments in Malaysia
Military units and formations established in 1949
Military units and formations disestablished in 1989