[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant

fter reports, as published by four prefectures around the nuclear Plant, re-estimated the risks of potential earthquakes in the region:

 Tottori Prefecture: a 220 kilometer long fault might trigger an 8.15 magnitude earthquake
 Shimane Prefecture: 8.01 magnitude
 Ishikawa Prefecture: 7.99 magnitude

The calculated earthquake magnitudes are almost three times stronger than all the calculations done by TEPCO regarding the safety assessments for the plant. These were based on a magnitude 7.85 quake caused by a 131 kilometer long fault near Sado Island in Niigata and a 3.3 meter-high tsunami. To endure this, an embankment was under construction to resist tsunami waves up to 15 meters high. The recalculation could have consequences for the stress tests and safety assessments for the plant.

After the planned revision of the safety standards in July 2013, some faults under the reactors were considered as geologically active. This was found by Japanese news agency Kyodo News on 23 January 2013 in papers and other material published by TEPCO. Under the new regulations, geologic faults would be considered to be active if they had moved within the last 400,000 years, instead of the less stringent standard of 120 000 years, as was formerly accepted.

Two faults, named "Alpha" and "Beta," are present under Reactors 1 and 2. Other faults are situated under Reactor 3 and Reactor 5, as well as underneath the building of Reactor 4. Under the new regulations, the beta-fault could be classified as active because it moved a ground layer including volcanic ash around 240,000 years ago. The outcome of the study might trigger a second survey by the newly installed Japanese regulator NRA. In January 2013, studies were conducted or planned on geological faults around six Japanese reactor sites. The Kashiwazaki-Kariwa plant would be number seven.

Current status 
Kashiwazaki-Kariwa is one of the 44 nuclear power plants in Japan that have been rendered inactive in the years following the Fukushima Daiichi Accident. By October 2020, the Japanese government had inspected the plant, and by January 2020, TEPCO had completed its improvements on Unit 7. The company outlined plans to restart the reactor as early as the end of the Japanese 2022 Fiscal year (31 March 2022). However, the Nuclear Regulation Authority released a report in April 2021 indicating that there were serious security infractions and enacted an order that postponed the restart indefinitely.

Following the April 2021 NRA report, TEPCO admitted that its intruder detection system was left broken in order to reduce costs and confirmed that an unauthorized personnel member used a colleague's ID card to access the plant's central control room in September 2020. In response, TEPCO plans to implement anti-terrorism measures, install an intrusion detection system, and hire an additional 30 guards to protect nuclear material at the facility. The power company intends to invest ¥20 Billion (US$165.4 Million) on these security measures from 31 March 2023 to 31 March 2028.

According to a report from TEPCO, the NRA began Additional Inspection (Phase II) to monitor the new security measures at the plant. In April 2022, it was confirmed that the security flaws revealed in the NRA's April 2022 report were limited to Kashiwazaki-Kariwa and not indicative of a widespread issue throughout the company's culture.  TEPCO is planning on moving nearly 40% of their nuclear division employees to Niigata Prefecture in preparation of its plans to restart Reactor 7 and begin rebuilding trust in the citizens, but the future of Kashiwazaki-Kariwa is still uncertain. As of 26 May 2022, the local government has yet to move forward with approval for TEPCO to set forth their plans to restart. According to a 2021 survey by Niigata Nippo, just over half of Niigata prefecture residents oppose a nuclear restart.

In October of 2022, Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio unveiled a new strategy for Japans nuclear power plants regarding new construction projects and license extensions. Included in this strategy, is a plan to restart units at the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant by the summer months of 2023. Although, the feasibility of this timelime have been questioned by journalists given the number of safety issues that have come to light at the plant in the last few years. Most of these issues relate to security discrepancies such as a worker who forgot his ID, borrowed his colleagues card to enter crucial areas. A government inspection of Unit 7 in October 2020 concluded that the majority of construction had been finished by January the following year. TEPCO felt that it is doing everything in its power to meet NRA guidelines.

See also

 Katsuhiko Ishibashi
 Pacific Ring of Fire
 List of nuclear power plants in Japan

References

External links