[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israel Democracy Institute

The Israel Democracy Institute (IDI; ), established in 1991, is an independent center of research and action dedicated to strengthening the foundations of Israeli democracy. It is located in Jerusalem, Israel.

History

The Israel Democracy Institute was founded in 1991 by Arye Carmon, the founding president, and Bernard Marcus.

IDI works to bolster the values and institutions of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state. A non-partisan think-and-do tank, the institute harnesses rigorous applied research to influence policy, legislation and public opinion. The institute partners with government, policy and decision makers, civil service and society, to improve the functioning of the government and its institutions, confront security threats while preserving civil liberties, and foster solidarity within Israeli society. Israel recognized the positive impact of IDI's research and recommendations by conferring upon the institute its most prestigious award, the Israel Prize for Lifetime Achievement.

In 2014, Yohanan Plesner was appointed president of the institute.

Structure 
The Israel Democracy Institute contains the following centers:

The Center for Democratic Values and Institutions 
Engages with the core issues of Israeli democracy, and with the erosion in public commitment to substantive democracy and its values. The center focuses on bolstering the commitment of public institutions and decision makers to the protection of human rights, to the principles of freedom and equality, and to the rule of law. The research and implementation work carried out at the center concentrates on failures in implementing the principle of the separation of powers, and on maintaining the independence of the state's structural institutions, including the courts, the Knesset, the government, regulatory bodies, the state prosecutor and the attorney general, local government, and the media.

The Center for Religion, Nation and State 
Addresses the question of how to balance the particularistic Jewish characteristics of the State of Israel (nationality and religion) with its liberal-democratic characteristics. The center is also concerned with renewing the conceptual foundations of Jewish-democratic Zionism for our times, and with the internal and external challenges to the state's Jewish identity. The center's researchers are also engaged in developing ways for Israel's Haredi population to be integrated into the general Israeli economy and society.

The Center for Governance and the Economy 
Promotes reforms to the political system, the civil service, and the labor market in Israel, with the aim of improving the functioning of these systems and increasing public trust in them.

The Center for Security and Democracy 
Maps the challenges for democratic societies posed by the fight against terror, and examines how a balance can be maintained between answering security needs and protecting human rights.

Viterbi Center for Public Opinion and Policy Research 
An independent research center that has operated under the auspices of the Israel Democracy Institute since 1998, engaged in collecting, analyzing, and maintaining empirical data relating to Israeli society and politics. The center's comprehensive survey database contains data from more than a thousand public opinion surveys conducted since 1967 on a range of political, social, and media-related topics. The center is headed by Prof. Tamar Hermann. Among the more noteworthy publications issued by the Guttman Center in recent years are: Religious? National!, a survey of attitudes and behaviors in the national-religious sector in Israel; the annual Israeli Democracy Index; and the monthly Peace Index produced in partnership with Tel-Aviv University. The institute was originally named after Louis Guttman and was renamed in January 2021 after Andrew Viterbi.

Activities

Eli Hurvitz Conference on Economy and Society (formerly the Caesarea Forum) 
The Eli Hurvitz Conference on Economy and Society, run by the Israel Democracy Institute, is Israel's leading economic conference. Since 1993, the conference has served as the meeting place for public discourse and professional knowledge relating to economy and society in Israel. Its main goal is to improve decision-making processes in government, so as to ensure better social and economic policies that will benefit all Israelis.