[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Eyes (novel series)

an free itself from the control of the humans and tries, unsuccessfully, to attack the humans. The golem flee the battlefield in frustration, while the Divine Mutant and his retinue of mumens and possessed humans moves north to Zagrin, the capital of Khassam's empire in the fertile lands.

Book Two 

The second book is set just some days after the end of the first one. It revolves around Liam, a former bard and one of the Phadraig ex-adventurers of the first novel, who roams the lands of Miir (northwest of Phadraig and of Khassam's camp) after the dispersion of Khassam army and the separation from his comrades. While the Divine Mutant's madness begins to spread around the country, Liam - still shocked by the events of the first book - meets and befriends Tshea, a noblewoman of the ancient city of Ussian. The two manage to survive the chaos of the Dream - triggered in the city by the bandit king Nikosner who first met with the hybernating mumen - and Liam discovers that, by playing his ancient technological musical sirena, he has the power to influence the minds of other people. In particular, he finds he is able to harness the madness induced by the Mutant and turn it into more positive thoughts. While Nikosner killed himself out of his madness Liam, Tshcea and many Ussian's survivors reach the Delta of Miir region, where the imminent fulfillment of an ancient prophecy related to the legendary Zuni Bird has gathered thousands of people fleeing from the burning nearby lands. 

With the help of the Cyclones (kind of a priestly order of the cult of the Zuni Bird) Liam manages to reach the top of an ancient pyramid buried in the swamps of the delta and plays his songs at the proper astral conjunction time. The psychical energies liberated by the event provides a soul-awakening in all the witnesses, who are now able to resist the plague of the Dream and pass this immunity and their newfound inner abilities to others. Liam disappears at the climax of the mystical event, never to be seen again, while all the witnesses, now named the Children of the Song (among them Tshea an Algon - the former leader of the Cyclones), spread in the world to oppose the madness of the Dream.

Book Three 

The third book focuses on the conflict between the Dream and the Song, with the Children of the Song determined in the stabilization of their newly-acquired powers and trying to discover the roots of the Dream in order to defeat it. While the Divine Mutant loses followers recovered to sanity thanks to the power of the Song, the Children learn that the Unmen - ever-revolving colored crystal-like being from another reality - are planning the harvest of humanity life-forces in order to recover the energy they lost on Earth, using the Mutant as a tool to trigger the proper state of mind in the people to be reaped. The Umnen already tried an harvest a millennium before through the first incarnation of the Divine Mutant, but results were disappointing and their project was perfectioned and postponed to the current era, where the Unmen arranged for a new body for the Mutant and for the discovery of the subterranean complex of the Shanzee mountains where the Mutant's 30 mumen were hybernating. 

The story revolves around Tah Ti, a former Cyclone and now a Children of the Song who listened directly to Liam during the ceremony at the submerged pyramid. With the help of fellow Children and other people - among them Potidan the merchant - he manages to enter the Shanzee complex. Hewre he meets the Cuyahogan and Sinope, a girl the Cuyahogan out of its loneliness saved from a pointless human sacrifice in a nearby village. Tah Ti and Sinope discover a strong mutual attraction to each other and Tah Ti learns of the golem's origin: it was an artificial being of the times of the cataclysm, tasked with killing the mutants in order to keep their numbers under control. 

Under a malicious suggestion by a jealous Cuyahogan, Tah Ti connects with the energies of a dangerous chamber of the complex which holds the memories of many people long dead. Fighting to keep his self together, Tah Ti discovers the true origin of the Divine Mutant as the reincarnation of Adam Cadman, the tyrannical human leader of the Council of 30 (the current mumen) who, two thousand year before, triggered the cataclysm by tapping too much energy from the reality inhabited by the Unmen. With the backfire of Adam's project - called Point Zero, aimed at resolving an impending global ice age caused by previous humanity's mistakes - and the triggering of an unstoppable set of geological cataclysms, Adam and his followers first created the Cuyahogan and its similars (at present time all destroyed but Cuyahogan) by imbuing them with shards of their life-forces, then built the subterranean complex of Shanzee to survive the catastrophe.