[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dechert

Dechert LLP () is an American multinational law firm of more than 900 lawyers with practices in corporate and securities, complex litigation, finance and real estate, financial services, asset management, and private equity. In 2021, the firm raised revenues by 25%, with a total of $1.3 billion. On the 2022 Global 200 survey, Dechert ranked as the 41st highest grossing law firm in the world.

History
The firm's first predecessor, MacVeagh & Bispham, was formed in 1875 by Wayne MacVeagh and George Tucker Bispham. MacVeagh previously served as United States Ambassador to Turkey, and Bispham authored the treatise "Principles of Equity," which was considered the definitive work on the subject at the time. MacVeagh went on to become United States Attorney General under President James Garfield, and then United States Ambassador to Italy in 1893. Bispham went on to become a professor at University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1884.

Over the next few decades, MacVeagh & Bispham and its successor represented a number of banks, railroads, insurance companies, and coal companies.

MacVeagh & Bispham's successor merged with another Philadelphia law firm, Dechert, Smith & Clark, in 1942. After several more name changes, the firm was known as Dechert Price & Rhoads for many years, beginning in 1962. The firm shortened its name to Dechert in 2000. By the early 2000s, the firm included about 700 lawyers in 12 worldwide offices.

In the 2018 AmLaw Global 200 survey, Dechert ranked as the 43rd highest-grossing law firm in the world. In the same year, Dechert reached a settlement with two former staffers over claims that it discriminated against certain staff members because of their sex and age.
 Two former payroll staffers at Dechert filed a complaint against Dechert in 2017, claiming they experienced a culture of bias against older and/or female employees at the firm that led to their firing in 2016. They also alleged there was a "boys club" at the firm that gave beneficial treatment to younger male employees. Previously, on the eve of trial, the law firm and former associate Ariel Ayanna reached an eleventh-hour deal in a ‘Macho culture' retaliation case The attorney had claimed big-league firm Dechert fired him to get back at him for taking time off to care for his mentally ill wife and their newborn, the National Law Journal reported.

Financial Times ranked Dechert in the Top 10 Most Innovative Law Firms in 2019. In 2021, Dechert ranked 5th for the same recognition.

The UK Dechert unit was sued by former partner Monica Gogn for workplace discrimination due to race and sex. In 2020, an employment tribunal filing document stated that the proceedings leveled against "Dechert LLP & Others" were "dismissed following a withdrawal of the claim by the claimant". Dechert and an administrative services provider for the firm agreed in 2021 to settle claims by a former site manager in Washington D.C. that he was subjected to discrimination and retaliation because he had a stroke, federal court records show.