[Source: PubMed]

48. J Psychiatr Brain Sci. 2021;6:e210003. doi: 10.20900/jpbs.20210003. Epub 2021
 Feb 24.

Biological and Environmental Factors Affecting Risk and Resilience among Syrian 
Refugee Children.

Javanbakht A(1), Stenson A(1), Nugent N(2), Smith A(3), Rosenberg D(1), 
Jovanovic T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences, Wayne State University 
School of Medicine, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Brown University, Providence, RI 02906, USA.
(3)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

More than 21 million people globally are refugees. More than half of these (>10 
million) are children, representing a highly vulnerable population. Most 
children experience high levels of trauma exposure, including war trauma, as 
well as substantial migration- and resettlement-related stress. These exposures 
confer risk for mental health problems, including posttraumatic stress disorder 
(PTSD), but their relative contributions have not been fully explicated. These 
effects may be modulated by the developmental timing of trauma and stress 
exposure: childhood trauma and stress are broadly linked to worse health 
outcomes across the lifespan, but the developmental specificity of these effects 
remains uncertain. Refugee children typically experience the trauma leading up 
to displacement (e.g., civil war) which often lasts for decades, and for some, 
followed by resettlement. Longitudinal studies that follow children through this 
process can provide unique insight into how these experiences of trauma, 
displacement, and resettlement during development impact mechanisms of risk and 
resilience. They can also elucidate how environmental and physiological factors 
may modulate the effects of trauma and stress. The present study includes two 
groups of families (parents and their 7- to 17-year-old children): (1) Syrian 
and Iraqi refugee families who experienced war-zone trauma before resettling in 
the United States in ~2016, and (2) Arab immigrant families who did not 
experience war-zone trauma prior to resettlement in the United States in ~2016. 
We assessed symptoms of anxiety, depression, and PTSD in refugee and immigrant 
children and parents. Skin conductance responses, a measure of autonomic 
response, saliva samples for genetic and epigenetic analyses, and information 
about social and environmental context, including family structure, resources, 
and neighborhood quality, were also collected. Refugee participants provided 
data at three time points spanning ~3 years following resettlement in the United 
States: Wave 1, within 1 month of resettlement, Wave 2, 12-24 months post 
resettlement, and Wave 3 planned for 24-36 months resettlement. Immigrant 
participants will provide data once, within 3-5 years after immigration, 
matching the age of Wave 1. This comparison group enables us to compare mental 
health and biomarkers between refugees and immigrants. Results of these 
comparative analyses will provide insight into the impact of war trauma versus 
other types of trauma and adversity on biomarkers of child mental health 
outcomes. Results from the longitudinal analyses will address refugee mental 
health trajectories over time, and, in children, across development. Initial 
data from Wave 1 showed high levels of anxiety in refugee children, as well as 
high levels of PTSD symptoms and anxiety in their parents. Together, results 
from these comparative and longitudinal analyses will provide insight into 
multiple aspects of trauma and stress exposure in refugees and immigrants, 
including how the developmental timing of trauma exposure impacts biomarkers and 
mental health across development. Our assessment of multiple factors affecting 
childhood mental health following trauma exposure, including familial, 
neighborhood and social context following resettlement may identify modifiable 
targets for interventions to support well-being in refugees.

DOI: 10.20900/jpbs.20210003
PMCID: PMC8009534
PMID: 33791438