[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Phayap Army

Phayap Army (  RTGS: Thap Phayap or Payap, northwest) was the Thai force that invaded the Siamese Shan States (present day Shan State, Myanmar) of Burma on 10 May 1942 during the Burma Campaign of World War II.

History

On 8 December 1941, Japanese troops entered Thailand by land and sea. There had been clashes between Thai soldiers and Japanese soldiers in many southern provinces. Finally, the Thai and Japanese governments had negotiated and agreed to a joint war alliance with the Japanese on 25 January 1942. When Thailand joined the Axis powers, the Thai government had to declare war on the Allies and was forced to use military force to support the combat operations of the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) by moving the troops of the Royal Thai Army (RTA) to capture Kengtung to be the defense of Burma, which was a territory controlled by the British Raj. In addition, the signing of the principle of cooperation between Thailand and Japan (14 December 1941), that the Royal Thai Army was responsible for raising forces to seize the Thai-Burma border, and to maintain the western coast in southern Thailand.

On 21 December 1941, the Thai government and the Japanese government signed a formal alliance agreement that was the Japan-Thai Alliance Pact causing the Royal Thai army to prepare hastily combat force from the two armed forces comprising the Royal Thai Army and the Royal Thai Air Forces (RTAF) across the country. At that time, the Royal Thai army had just finished Franco-Thai War only 7 months, the equipment of many units is in the process of being repaired. The Royal Thai army must hurry to organize an army by the force is divided into 3 main parts were reserve force, Phayap Army, and territorial defense force and with communications. The organization of the Phayap Army uses the 4th Army Circle in Nakhon Sawan as the Headquarters. Which the 4th Army Circle consisted of 1st Signal Battalion (Nakhon Sawan), 10th Artillery Battalion (Nakhon Sawan), 28th Infantry Battalion (Nakhon Sawan), 29th Infantry Battalion (Phitsanulok), 30th Infantry Battalion (Lampang), and 31st Infantry Battalion (Chiang Mai). Division of the Command of the Western Army Has appointed Lieutenant General Luang Sereeruengrit to be general, with the Payap Army Headquarters located at the British Consulate in Lampang Province (in the beginning, located in Nakhon Sawan). As for the command of the Phayap Army, Lieutenant General Charun Rattanakun Seriroengrit (aka Luang Seriroengrit) was appointed as a commander, then set up a headquarter at the British Consulate in Lampang Province (in the beginning, located in Nakhon Sawan). In addition to Lt. Gen. Luang Seriroengrit as commander, there were also other high-ranking military officers included; 
Major General Luang Phairirayordejd Commander of the 2nd Infantry Division, located in Chiang Mai Province.
Major General Phin Choonhavan Commander of the 3rd Infantry Division, located in Chiang Rai Province.
Major General Luang Haansongkhram Commander of the 4th Infantry Division, located in Chiang Rai Province.
Colonel Thwuan Wichaikhatkha Commander of the Cavalry Division, located in Chiang Rai Province
Air Marshal Luang Atuegtevadej Royal Thai Air Force commander
Air Vice Marshal Luang Tevaritpanluek Deputy Royal Thai Air Force commander
Air Vice Marshal Fuen Ronnaphagrad Ritthakhanee Chief of Staff of the Air Force Field and the Phayap Army's commander of the Wings Mixed

Subsequently, the Imperial Japanese Army requested the Thai government to send troops into operation in Shan State (Kengtung) was the invasion of troops into the northernmost area of the former Siamese Shan States, because the Imperial Japanese Army wanted Royal Thai Army to be a right-wing defense against the enemy in the rear for the Imperial Japanese Army in Burma. In early 1942, Chinese forces led by Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek invaded the former Siamese Shan States, when the Imperial Japanese Army had to invade Burma's territory to the Indian border The Imperial Japanese Army's rear line would become a weak point for British and Chinese troops to attack the Imperial Japanese Army's rear line.

The deployment of the Phayap Army troops to Kengtung faced the same problems as in the Franco-Thai War. Although most of the veterans were experienced at jungle and mountain warfare, but they faced the same problem as in the Franco-Thai War, namely the unpreparedness of combat support and new soldiers with no real combat experience. which in the Greater East Asia War had more problems because the troops had to move long distances into foreign lands with mountainous terrain, tropical dry forest terrain, and inclement weather. As a result, some soldiers in the army fell ill from lack of clothing and medicines.