[Source: PubMed]

44. PLoS Med. 2016 Mar 2;13(3):e1001965. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001965. 
eCollection 2016 Mar.

Translational Research for Tuberculosis Elimination: Priorities, Challenges, and 
Actions.

Lienhardt C(1), Lönnroth K(1), Menzies D(2), Balasegaram M(3), Chakaya J(4), 
Cobelens F(5), Cohn J(3), Denkinger CM(6), Evans TG(7), Källenius G(8), Kaplan 
G(9), Kumar AM(10), Matthiessen L(11), Mgone CS(12), Mizrahi V(13), Mukadi 
YD(14), Nguyen VN(15), Nordström A(16), Sizemore CF(17), Spigelman M(18), Squire 
SB(19), Swaminathan S(20), Van Helden PD(21), Zumla A(22), Weyer K(1), Weil 
D(1), Raviglione M(1).

Author information:
(1)World Health Organisation, Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Montreal Chest Institute, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Access Campaign, Médecins Sans Frontières, Geneva, Switzerland.
(4)Centre for Respiratory Diseases Research, Kenya Medical Research Institute 
(KEMRI), Nairobi, Kenya.
(5)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Netherlands.
(6)FIND Diagnostics, Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)Aeras, Rockville, Maryland, United States of America.
(8)Department of Clinical Science and Education, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(9)Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, Washington, United States of 
America.
(10)International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, South-East Asia 
Regional Office, New Delhi, India.
(11)DG Research & Innovation, European Commission, Brussels, Belgium.
(12)The European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP), The 
Hague, The Netherlands.
(13)Institute of Infectious Disease & Molecular Medicine, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(14)USAID, Washington, D.C., United States of America.
(15)National TB Programme, National Lung Hospital, Hanoi, Viet Nam.
(16)Ambassador for Global Health, Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Stockholm, 
Sweden.
(17)Tuberculosis, Leprosy and other Mycobacterial Diseases Program, National 
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 
Rockville, Maryland, United States of America.
(18)Global Alliance for TB Drug Development, New York, New York, United States 
of America.
(19)Centre for Applied Health Research & Delivery, Liverpool School of Tropical 
Medicine, Liverpool, United Kingdom.
(20)National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT), Indian Council of 
Medical Research, Chennai, India.
(21)DST/NRF Centre of Excellence for Biomedical Tuberculosis Research, MRC 
Centre for TB Research, Division of Molecular Biology and Human Genetics, 
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University, Tygerberg, 
South Africa.
(22)Division of Infection and Immunity, University College London Medical 
School, London, United Kingdom.

Christian Lienhardt and colleagues describe the research efforts needed to end 
the global tuberculosis epidemic by 2035.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001965
PMCID: PMC4775029
PMID: 26933883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CMD is employed by FIND, a nonprofit 
organization that collaborates with industry partners for the development, 
evaluation and demonstration of new diagnostic tests for poverty-related 
diseases. GKäl is co-founder of TBDiadirect AB, a start-up company aiming at 
developing the Uri-TB-direct diagnostic TB test. YM is working for USAID and has 
just received a donation of bedaquiline worth 30 million USD from Janssen. USAID 
is also funding several researches including clinical trials of short regimens 
for the treatment of MDR-TB, phase IIb clinical trials of novel TB drugs. SBS 
leads a multi-disciplinary research group with a focus on applied health 
research which generates knowledge for action in promoting equity in access to 
TB services. PDVH receives grants from the South African Medical Research 
Council and National Research Foundation to do unrestricted research on TB. In 
addition, PDVH received travel assistance for attendance at the European Society 
for Clinical Microbiology meeting in Copenhagen in 2015 to give a talk on his 
work. All other authors have declared that no competing interests exist. The 
authors alone are responsible for the views expressed in this publication and 
they do not necessarily represent the decisions or policies of the World Health 
Organization (WHO) or of the European Commission.