[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Steward Machine Co. v. Davis

almoner of public charity throughout the United States" (p. 603).

Justice Sutherland, joined by Justice Van Devanter
"The threat implicit in the present encroachment upon the administrative functions of the states is that greater encroachments, and encroachments upon other functions, will follow."

Justice Butler
"...the statutory scheme is repugnant to the Tenth Amendment.... The Constitution grants to the United States no power to pay unemployed persons or to require the states to enact laws or to raise or disburse money for that purpose. The provisions in question, if not amounting to coercion in a legal sense, are manifestly designed and intended directly to affect state action in the respects specified. And, if valid as so employed, this 'tax and credit' device may be made effective to enable federal authorities to induce, if not indeed to compel, state enactments for any purpose within the realm of state power and generally to control state administration of state laws."

Subsequent jurisprudence
Steward was part of a set of decisions in which the Supreme Court consistently upheld New Deal economic and regulatory legislation. The key role of the case was the expansion of Congressional authority to the regulation of state activity, which marked the end of Supreme Court attempts to limit Congressional powers based on advancement of the general welfare. In fact, Butler, just the year before Steward, had been the last case in which the Supreme Court struck down an Act of Congress as beyond the authority granted by the Spending Clause.

Steward marked the beginning of the recognition that Congress could use the Spending Clause, under the umbrella of general welfare, to regulate state laws by incentives and encouragement but not coercion. The federal government may induce the states, tempt them, or seduce them but not coerce them into passing legislation considered desirable to meet national needs. Before Steward, Congress could regulate only commercial economic activity, but after Steward, Congress could regulate the actions of state governments.

It is now common for Congress to tie grants-in-aid with requirements and restrictions upon the states, but the practice is still often controversial. In a modern case depending upon the jurisprudence of Steward, the Court held in South Dakota v. Dole that Congress could influence states to raise the minimum drinking age to 21 by threatening to withhold funds for federal highways. In her dissenting opinion, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor stated:

When Congress appropriates money to build a highway, it is entitled to insist that the highway be a safe one. But it is not entitled to insist as a condition of the use of highway funds that the State impose or change regulations in other areas of the State's social and economic life.... Indeed, if the rule were otherwise, the Congress could effectively regulate almost any area of a State's social, political, or economic life.

She later approved of and quoted from the text of Butler:

If the spending power is to be limited only by Congress' notion of the general welfare, the reality, given the vast financial resources of the Federal Government, is that the Spending Clause gives "power to the Congress to tear down the barriers, to invade the states' jurisdiction, and to become a parliament of the whole people, subject to no restrictions save such as are self-imposed."... This, of course, as Butler held, was not the Framers' plan and it is not the meaning of the Spending Clause.

See also
List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 301
Helvering v. Davis

References

External links

 

United States Supreme Court cases
United States Supreme Court cases of the Hughes Court
United States Tenth Amendment case law
1937 in United States case law
Social Security lawsuits
Unemployment in the United States
Constitutional challenges to the New Deal