[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Royal intermarriage

l Alexandrovich of Russia and Natalia Brasova (1912)
Princess Irina Alexandrovna of Russia and Felix Yusupov (1914)
Prince Oskar of Prussia and Countess Ina Marie von Bassewitz (1914)
Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia and Nikolai Kulikovsky (1916)
Alexander of Greece and Aspasia Manos (1919)
Infanta Beatriz of Spain and Alessandro Torlonia, 5th Prince of Civitella-Cesi (1935)
Leopold III of Belgium and Mary Lilian Baels (1941)
Prince Michael of Greece and Denmark and Marina Karella (1965)

Inbreeding

Over time, because of the relatively limited number of potential consorts, the gene pool of many ruling families grew progressively smaller, until all European royalty was related. This also resulted in many being descended from a certain person through many lines of descent, such as the numerous European royalty descended from Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom or King Christian IX of Denmark. The House of Habsburg was infamous for inbreeding, with the Habsburg lip cited as an ill effect, although no genetic evidence has proved the allegation. The closely related houses of Habsburg, Bourbon, Braganza and Wittelsbach also engaged in first-cousin unions frequently and in double-cousin and uncle-niece marriages occasionally.

When Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor married Maria Theresa of Naples and Sicily in 1790, they were double first cousins having the same set of grandparents.  Francis became the first Emperor of Austria in 1804 and dissolved the Holy Roman Empire in 1806.  All later Emperors of Austria and heads of the House of Habsburg were descendants of this union.

Examples of incestuous marriages and the impact of inbreeding on royal families include:

 Most rulers of the Ptolemaic dynasty from Ptolemy II (with the exception of ) were married to their brothers and sisters, in order to keep the Ptolemaic blood "pure" and to strengthen the line of succession. Cleopatra VII (also called Cleopatra VI) and Ptolemy XIII, who married and became co-rulers of ancient Egypt following their father's death, are the most widely known example.
  King Tutankhamun's father and mother were related.
 The Persian Sassanian dynasty often married close blood relatives, partially for religious reasons (see xwedodah). One example would be Narseh, who married his sister Shapuhrdukhtag.
 Four Japanese Emperors married their sisters: namely Emperor Bidatsu, Emperor Yōmei, Emperor Kanmu, and Emperor Junna.
 Jean V of Armagnac was said to have formed a rare brother-sister liaison, left descendants and claimed to be married. There is no evidence that this "marriage" was contracted for dynastic rather than personal reasons.
 One of the most famous examples of a genetic trait aggravated by royal family intermarriage was the House of Habsburg, which inmarried particularly often and is known for the mandibular prognathism of the Habsburger (Unter) Lippe (otherwise known as the 'Habsburg jaw', 'Habsburg lip' or 'Austrian lip'"). This was typical for many Habsburg relatives over a period of six centuries.

See also
 List of coupled cousins
 Haemophilia in European royalty
 Incest
 Inbreeding
 Inbreeding depression
 Prohibited degree of kinship

Notes

References and Sources

References

Sources

 

 

 

 .

Royalty
Monarchy
Types of marriage