[Source: PubMed]

14. Front Public Health. 2021 Nov 4;9:576481. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.576481. 
eCollection 2021.

Mental Health and Integration: A Qualitative Study on the Struggles of Recently 
Arrived Refugees in Germany.

Walther L(1), Rayes D(1), Amann J(1), Flick U(2), Ta TMT(1), Hahn E(1), Bajbouj 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charité University Medicine 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Department of Education and Psychology, Freie Universität Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.

Introduction: Forcibly displaced people are at particular risk of mental health 
problems and also face specific integration challenges upon resettlement. 
Existing literature suggests that there may be a bidirectional relationship 
between mental health and integration. The present study seeks to understand the 
relationship between integration processes and mental health problems or 
significant negative emotional experiences among adult refugees in Germany. 
Method: Applying a qualitative approach, we conducted 54 semi-structured 
interviews with refugees and asylum seekers who arrived in Germany between 2013 
and 2018 currently residing in Berlin, Leipzig, or the Duisburg area in North 
Rhine-Westphalia. Data was collected between December 2018 and September 2019. 
We analyzed transcripts inductively using thematic analysis. Results: Five 
themes covering the various links between integration and mental health problems 
or significant negative emotional experiences were identified. First, we found 
that the mental health consequences of past adverse experiences, as well as 
ongoing worries about those left behind in the homeland, can seriously impede 
refugees' ability to pursue activities key to integration. Second, the process 
of applying for and securing asylum can result in uncertainty and fear, which, 
in turn, burden the individual and may impact motivation for integration. Third, 
many of our participants described mental health ramifications related to 
feeling stuck and thwarted in the pursuit of building a life, especially in 
securing employment. Fourth, some participants described feeling so overwhelmed 
by fundamental tasks throughout the integration process, namely, language 
learning and bureaucratic processes, that these take a psychological toll. 
Fifth, we identified several forms of social disconnection between refugees and 
members of the host community due to xenophobia, social and cultural 
differences, physical and emotional isolation in refugee camps, as well as with 
co-nationals and fellow refugees. Negative emotions, mistrust, and 
socio-cultural differences that emerge throughout the integration processes seem 
to erode social cohesion among refugee communities, potentially further 
threatening mental health. Conclusion: Mental health problems and integration 
processes appear to be closely related across different areas of integration. 
Innovative solutions to challenges identified by members of the refugee 
community in Germany stand to benefit mental health and integration outcomes 
simultaneously.

Copyright © 2021 Walther, Rayes, Amann, Flick, Ta, Hahn and Bajbouj.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.576481
PMCID: PMC8599120
PMID: 34805055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The handling editor declared a 
shared affiliation with the authors at time of review.