[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Noëlle Lenoir

the blocking statute.
Between 22 May 2017 and 30 April 2020, she was a member of the panel of independent experts or ICRP (along with Theo Waigel, former Finance Minister of Germany, and Lord Gold) designated by Airbus to examine the compliance within the company and monitor the improvements needed.

After having been appointed by the French Minister of Justice, she acted as Commissioner under the 1970 Hague Convention on the taking of evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters in charge of ensuring compliance of the discovery process set up in relation with the tragic fire at the Grenfell Apartment complex in London with the French Blocking Statute and GDPR.

In July 2020, she created her own law firm – Noëlle Lenoir Avocats – and was referenced by Décideurs among the 30 best lawyers.

Current educational activities / think tank

Noëlle Lenoir taught at Sciences-Po Paris and the Faculty of law of Paris (apart from Columbia Law School and University College London). She is currently an Associate Professor and President of the European Institute at the Hautes Etudes de Commerce in Paris.

Furthermore, she is the Founder and President of Cercle des Européens, a think-tank which operates as an ideas exchange group on socioeconomic and political stakes of the 21st century Europe. Cercle des Européens is known as a place where French and European decision makers can meet for roundtable discussions on different European problems and subjects. Noelle Lenoir is also President of the Comité Droit et Débat Public, which gathers lawyers interested in popularization of legal issues.
She was also a member of the EC High Level Experts group on the European company law at the Commission level. She created in 2017 a European network "Ministers For Europe" (MFE) gathering former minister of Foreign or European Affairs to exchange views and publish common op-ed on European issues.

Mandates

Noëlle Lenoir was administrator of Generali France (2008–2012), Compagnie des Alpes (2012–2018) and Valeo (2009–2019). She is currently administrator of Sopra-Steria.

She became a local representative of the City of Valmandois (Val d'Oise) for the first time in 1977. By 1989 she was elected mayor of Valmondois until 1995, a post she had to abandon in favor of her mandate as a justice of the French Constitutional Court.  She ran again for the mayor in 2008 and was reelected with her complete list.  Lenoir stayed Mayor of Valmondois from 2008 through 2010, where she resigned for personal reasons. In this capacity she was vice-president of the Community of Cities of the District of "Sausseron", member of the Steering Committee of the Association of France Mayors, as well as member of the Legal Committee of "Concessions – Délégations de service public" of the Delegate Management Institute. She is member of the Board of the Association of French Constitutional lawyers and of the Society for Comparative Law.

She was appointed by the Bureau of the French National Assembly as Chief Ethics Officer (2012–2014).

She was appointed as Chairman of the Radio France Ethics Committee (2017–2018).

She was appointed as Chairman of the Scientific and Ethics Committee of the Parcoursup platform by an order issued by the French Minister of Higher Education and Research. This committee is due to deliver an annual report on the functioning of this platform to the Parliament (2018–2019).

She is the Vice President of the French Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC France – since 2017).

Other pro bono functions

 Member of the American Law Institute
 Distinguished Fellow of the Hastings Center
 Member of the French Academy of Technology

Press / media

Mrs Lenoir is a columnist on European matters for a variety of French newspapers. She was editor for the BFM radio station, France-Culture radio,France 24 TV station in partnership with HEC. She was responsible for the "Europe" blog of the L'Express weekly magazine till 2020.  She has made several publications about the caricaturist Honoré Daumier. She is honorary President of the Society for the Friends of Daumier which she created in 1994.

Among others:

 La Transparence administrative (en coll., 1987) with Bruno Lasserre and Bernard Stirn)
 Aux Frontières de la Vie : une Ethique Biomédicale à la Française.
 Les Normes Internationales de la Bioéthique (1998)
 Relever le défi des Biogechnologies (2000)
 La Justice, de Daumier à nos jours (1999)
 La Vie Politique, de Daumier à nos jours (2005)
 La Societas Europaea ou SE : Pour une Citoyenneté Européenne de l'Entreprise (2007)
 L'Europe, de Daumier à nos jours (2017)

Distinctions

 Grand Officier de l'Ordre national du Mérite (France)
 Officier de la Légion d'Honneur (France)
 Grand Officier de l'Ordre de Léopold II (Belgique)
 Commandeur de l'Ordre du Mérite (Pologne)
 Commandeur de l'Ordre du Mérite de la République fédérale d'Allemagne (Allemagne)

Other distinctions