[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Solomon Cartwright

uspend payments in specie during the Upper Canada Rebellion in 1837. In 1834, he became a judge in the Midland District and was named Queen's Counsel in 1838. Although a young man in his mid-thirties, he had developed a strong reputation for prudence, sobriety and integrity in his business dealings.

Cartwright also became involved in major land transactions.  In addition to projects in Kingston and Napanee, he was involved in land matters in Hamilton, Niagara, and Montreal.  He sold a significant tract of land in Hamilton to Allan MacNab, another leading figure in the Tory political group. When one of Cartwright's good friends and business associates, James Bell Forsyth, was in serious financial difficulties, he avoided bankruptcy because Cartwright came to his financial rescue.

With the success of his legal practice and business activities, Cartwright established a country estate outside of Kingston, named Rockwood, with an attached farm.  He invested heavily in his cattle and sheep, and by 1841 was winning prizes with them in the local agricultural fairs.

Cartwright gradually accumulated a large collection of law books.  When he was in England, he had spent around £250 acquiring legal texts, which he brought back to Kingston. He viewed his collection as public in nature, and readily loaned out books to other lawyers.  When he was dying, he was concerned that his collection should stay in the Kingston area, and sold his library at a great discount to John A. Macdonald, then a young lawyer starting his career, who went on to be the prime minister of Canada.

Rebellions of 1837–38 

Cartwight was a staunch supporter of the British colonial government during the 
Rebellions of 1837–1838.  He had been an officer in the local militia since 1822, and was the lieutenant-colonel of the 2nd Lennox militia during the rebellion.  As an officer, Cartwright sat on the court martial in 1838 which tried Nils von Schoultz, who had led the invaders from the United States at the Battle of the Windmill, in the Patriot War.  John A. Macdonald acted as von Schoultz's legal adviser, but under the law governing courts martial, von Shoultz had to conduct his own defence.  Against Macdonald's advice, he pled guilty and assumed full responsibility for his actions.  The court martial, including Cartwright, convicted von Schoultz for leading the invasion and condemned him to death.  Von Schoultz was hanged at Fort Henry, Kingston, on December 8, 1838.

In the summer of 1838, Cartwright acted as the Crown prosecutor in treason trials for eight individuals from the Kingston area who were alleged to have taken up arms in the rebellion. Cartwright gave them a fair prosecution, allowing the accused a considerable degree of indulgence in their defence. Macdonald was again involved, this time as full defence counsel. In these cases, the jury returned acquittals.

Political career

Upper Canada

Member for Lennox and Addington

In 1834, Cartwright stood for election as a Tory to represent the combined district of Lennox and Addington counties in the Legislative Assembly, the lower house of the Parliament of Upper Canada, but was defeated by the two Reform movement candidates, Marshall Spring Bidwell and Peter Perry. Cartwright came in third in the two-member riding.

Two years later, in the general election of 1836, Cartwright tried again.  This time, he was successful, benefiting from the strong showing the Tories made in the election, under the leadership of the Lieutenant Governor, Sir Francis Bond Head.  The Tories had held political control in the province by means of their strong influence over the succession of governors sent from Britain.  The members of the Reform movement challenged that oligarchic dominance, arguing for greater popular and democratic control of the provincial government.  Bond Head campaigned on the basis that the election represented a choice between Tory loyalism to the Crown and Empire, and Reformer republicanism.  The Tories won a substantial victory, gaining a clear majority in the Legislative Assembly.  Cartwright and his fellow Tory candidate in Lennox and Addington, George Hill Detlor, defeated Bidwell and Perry.  Cartwright and Detlor took their places in the thirteenth Parliament of Upper Canada.  

As a member of the Legislative Assembly, Cartwright secured a charter for the town of Kingston in 1838, and helped to draw up the initial procedures for election of town officials.  The Council unanimously elected him mayor, but he declined to serve.  When the new governor general, Lord Durham, visited Kingston on a tour of Upper Canada in the summer of 1838, Cartwright was chosen to give the welcoming address on behalf of the town.

Cartwright's conditions for union of Canadas