[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Daniel Seaman

o Israel."

On 11 March 2007, Haaretz reported that the Israeli Civil Service Commission was investigating foreign journalists' accusations that Government Press Office director Daniel Seaman has treated them improperly and enforced the procedures for receiving a press pass in an inequitable manner.

In August 2013, Haaretz accused him of having "gained a reputation for his confrontations with foreign correspondents and for the complaints they lodged against him" and called him "an abusive racist." The article, included selected quotes from Seaman's personal Facebook page. Seaman was admonished by the government, which distanced itself from his views and then suspended him from his position as Director of Interactive Media because of offensive, racist comments.

Comments against Japanese nuclear victim commemorations
I am sick of the Japanese, 'Human Rights' and 'Peace' groups the world over holding their annual self-righteous commemorations for the Hiroshima and Nagasaki victims. Hiroshima and Nagasaki were the consequence of Japanese aggression. You reap what you sow. Instead, they should be commemorating the estimated 50 million Chinese, Korean, Filipino, Malay, Vietnamese, Cambodian, Indonesian, Burmese and other victims of Japanese imperial aggression and genocide.

The statement, posted on Seaman's personal Facebook page, lead to a rebuke from the Japanese government and an official Israeli apology. Editorials in Tablet and Israel National News called Seaman's suspension over the incident "misguided."

Anti-Palestinian online postings
— The Palestinians' 65-second siren commemorating the Nakba is "not nearly enough time to stop and pause to think about how stupid they are."
	
— On 26 May 2013, Seaman posted "Is there a diplomatic way of saying 'Go F*** yourself'?" on Facebook in response to conditions for the renewal of peace talks set by Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat.

— Similarly, he wondered whether Muslims "stop eating each other" during Ramadan.

Media and book coverage
 Seaman is mentioned extensively in Stephanie Gutmann's book The Other War—Israelis, Palestinians and the Struggle for Media Supremacy(October 2005). Chapter 10, "His Own Private Jihad," is specifically about his efforts to curb Palestinian influence on the media coverage. 
 Media, Religion and Conflict by Heather Savigny, states, "Daniel Seaman, the Director of the Israeli Government Press Office, commenting on the international television coverage of the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah war, was quoted by CNN as saying: "There was too much exposure, it had an effect on our ability to achieve strategic goals, so that's one of the lessons we learned from the war in Lebanon." 
 Intifada: Palestine and Israel - The Long Day of Rage by David Pratt quotes Seaman as saying, Israel would not "...behave just to be liked by the Europeans or lay down and play dead. We are going to defend ourselves,' he continued. "Seaman pulled no punches and called it as he saw it, berating whatever country or organization he felt 'appeased Palestinian terrorism.' He even included the United Nations Palestinian relief agency UNWRA, accusing it of turning a blind eye to weapons stored in its food warehouses. "So I'm asking you, what are these organizations doing when they criticise Israel? All Israel is doing is defending itself..." 
 Seaman currently writes for Mida on the Arab-Israeli conflict and media bias. 
 Seaman has a regular column in Jewish News Syndicate. 
 "Danny Seaman's farewell voyage". Upon conclusion of his term as GPO director he gave an extensive interview to the editor of The Jerusalem Post, which was published on November 5, 2011.
 "Is an abusive racist the best Israeli PR can produce?" Haaretz, August 13, 2013. 
 "Bullying Israeli Government Flack Sparks Diplomatic Row—Among Other Concerns," about Seaman denying press cards to journalists and using foul language towards them. The Daily Beast, February 21, 2013.
 "Netanyahu's social media director suspended," on Seaman's suspension, blogging faux-pas and future plans. The Jerusalem Post, August 16, 2013. .

Published articles
 "Palestinian industry of lies: Media manipulation has become strategic Arab weapon against Israel" - Ynetnews, May 29, 2008 . 
 "Opposing the Digital Pogrom" - Responding to the foreign media's claim they are offended by their negative portrayal in a Ministry for Public Diplomacy's campaign. The Jerusalem Post, March 4, 2010

References

1961 births
Hunter College alumni
American emigrants to Israel
Living people
Israeli civil servants
Israeli broadcasters
Mass media in Israel
American people of Israeli descent