[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Masyumi Party

Abadi.

By 1950, Masyumi was considered the largest political party in Indonesia. On this basis it was awarded 49 seats, the largest number, in the 232-seat legislature, the People's Representative Council, when this was formed following the dissolution of the United States of Indonesia in August. 

In the same month, Sukarno asked Natsir to form a cabinet. Natsir attempted to negotiate with the second-largest party, the PNI, but was unsuccessful, and in September announced the formation of his cabinet with support from the PSI and other smaller parties. However, this cabinet lasted less than seven months, falling in March 1951 after losing support from the smaller parties and parliament. It was followed by two Masyumi-PNI coalition cabinets, the first from April 1951 to February 1952 with Masyumi figure Soekiman as Prime Minister (but with no representation from the Natsir faction) and the next (April 1952 - June 1953) led by Wilopo from the PNI, with a Masyumi deputy prime minister, Prawoto Mangkusasmito. 

Shortly after the Wilopo cabinet took office, the Nahdlatul Ulama began the process of withdrawing from Masyumi following protracted disputes, including a conflict over the cabinet's refusal to reappoint key NU figure Wahid Hasyim to the post of religious affairs minister. The NU decided at its congress in 1952 to become an independent political party. This split damaged the standing of the Masyumi and its claim to be the sole party for Indonesia's Muslims.

Elections had originally been scheduled for 1946. Many parties were worried that Masyumi would emerge as an outright winner and tried to delay the vote, but in April 1953, an election law was finally enacted scheduling elections for parliament for September 1955, and for the Constitutional Assembly for December 1955. 

Masyumi came in second in the legislative election. It won 7,903,886 votes, representing 20.9% of the popular vote, resulting in 57 seats in parliament. Masyumi was popular in modernist Islamic regions such as West Sumatra, Jakarta, and Aceh. One of Indonesia's first female legislators, educational activist Rahmah el Yunusiyah, was elected from West Sumatra for the Masyumi party at this contest. 51.3% of Masyumi's vote came from Java, but Masyumi was the dominant party for regions outside Java, and it established itself as the leading party for the one third of people living outside Java. The party received a million US dollars from the CIA for their election efforts.

The end of the party
In the mid-1950s, the  Revolutionary Government of the Republic of Indonesia rebellion broke out. In November 1957, senior Masyumi figures Mohammad Natsir, Sjafruddin Prawiranegara and Burhanuddin Harahap, joined the rebels in the Sumatran city of Padang. The Masyumi Party refused to condemn their actions, which damaged the party's image. In 1960, President Sukarno passed a law allowing him to ban parties whose ideologies conflicted with those of the state, or whose members rebelled against the state, and he subsequently used this law to threaten Masyumi to either dissolve itself or be forcefully dissolved. Following the collapse of the rebellion, Natsir and Sjafruddin, along with other senior Masjumi figures, were jailed in January 1962.

Successor organizations
Following the banning, Masyumi members and followers established the Crescent Star Family () to campaign for Islamic shariah law and teachings. An attempt was made to reestablish the party following the fall of Sukarno, but this was not permitted. However, the government eventually permitted the establishment of the Muslim Party of Indonesia (Parmusi) in 1968, but refused to allow former Masyumi members to lead the party. 

Meanwhile, in 1967, Mohammad Natsir and a few of his close associates, including Mohammad Roem, established the Indonesian Islamic Propagation Council (DDII), which was based at the former head office of Masyumi. As well as a refuge for former Masyumi supporters, the organization campaigned against "Christianization" of Indonesia and appealed for support from the lower social classes. After the fall of Suharto in 1998, another attempt was made to revive the Masyumi name, but eventually Masyumi followers and others established the Crescent Star Party, which contested the legislative elections in 1999, 2004, 2009 and 2014. 

Two other parties, known as the Masyumi Party, established by former Masyumi member Mawardi Noor, and the New Masyumi party, contested the 1999 election, but won only 0.22% and 0.14% of the vote respectively, which was enough for the former to be awarded one seat in the legislature. Neither party contested subsequent elections. The formation of a new party known as "Masyumi Reborn" was declared in November 2020 by a group of Islamic activists.

See also

Politics of Indonesia
List of political parties in Indonesia
Pan-Islamism

Notes

References