[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1999–2000 in English football

ly putting the memories of their relegation to the Second Division behind them. Ipswich Town finished in the play-offs for the fourth season in a row, but this time they were successful as they triumphed over Barnsley at Wembley and won promotion back to the Premier League after a five-year absence.

Wolves narrowly missed out on the playoffs for the third season running, while Huddersfield Town's eighth-place finish was perhaps the closest they had come to returning to the top flight since losing their top-flight place in 1972. Fulham finished ninth as their recent revival continued, but a failure to win a second successive promotion saw Paul Bracewell sacked as manager and replaced with Jean Tigana, who had won a French league title and reached a European Cup semi-final with AS Monaco.

Swindon suffered from a financial crisis and a transfer embargo for most of the season, and the effect on the pitch was obvious as they were relegated in bottom place. Port Vale, who had only survived the previous season due to the League's short-lived usage of Goals Scored over Goal Difference, went down with them. Walsall took their survival battle to the final day of the season, but were unable to avoid an immediate relegation back to Division Two.

Leading goalscorer: Andy Hunt (Charlton Athletic) – 24

Football League Division Two

Preston won the division title after 19 years away from the top two divisions, showing great progress under promising young manager David Moyes. Burnley, who were unfancied and even tipped for relegation by some owing to two unimpressive previous seasons, achieved promotion in the second automatic spot. After losing in the previous year's play-off final, Gillingham won promotion via the Division Two playoffs to reach the upper half of the English league for the first time in their history, their opponents in the play-off final being a Wigan Athletic side playing their first season in the impressive new 25,000-seat JJB Stadium.

Chesterfield started the season well enough, but a dreadful run of 2 wins in 20 games mid-season consigned them to relegation and spelled the end as manager for John Duncan after seven years. Scunthorpe, who had won promotion via the play-offs the previous year, never achieved enough wins to have a serious chance of survival, and went straight back down. Blackpool had been coping well in previous seasons despite financial problems, but they finally took their toll this season and helped send the club down. Cardiff were the final relegated team, eventually proving the weakest of a group of sides that could have easily gone down in the last weeks of the season. The highlight of their season was their game against Cambridge United, where they drew despite being a player down after 45 minutes, two players down after 63 minutes and 3 players down after 75 minutes. Oxford United finished one point clear of a second successive relegation, their future secured after being taken over by hotelier Firoz Kassam, who enabled construction work to resume on the club's long-awaited new stadium.

Leading goalscorer: Andy Payton (Burnley) – 27

Football League Division Three

Swansea and Rotherham, both of whom had been dumped out in the play-off semi-finals the previous year, led the table for virtually the entire season. Swansea eventually won the title by drawing a stormy last game of the season between the two sides. The third automatic spot was won by Northampton, who were led to promotion by new manager Kevin Wilson after a poor start to the season under previous manager Ian Atkins. Peterborough won the play-offs, returning to Division Two after an absence of three years.

A four-way relegation scrap took place throughout most of the season, involving Chester, Shrewsbury, Carlisle and York. York eventually pulled away to safety with some good results in the final weeks of the season, leaving the other three to face a final-day relegation battle. In the end, Chester, who had spent virtually the entire season rooted to the bottom of the table and only had the chance of a last-day escape because of similarly poor campaigns by Carlisle and Shrewsbury, were relegated to the Conference.

Leading goalscorer: Marco Gabbiadini (Darlington) – 25

Diary of the season

17 June 1999 – David James leaves Liverpool after seven years in a £1.7 million move to Aston Villa.

21 June 1999 – France national football team captain Didier Deschamps joins Chelsea in a £3 million move from Juventus.

30 June 1999 – Bradford City prepare for their first time top division season for nearly 80 years with a club record £1.4 million move for Leeds United defender David Wetherall.

5 July 1999 – Chelsea pay a club record £10 million for Blackburn Rovers striker Chris Sutton.

14 July 1999 – Newcastle United pay Ipswich Town £6.5 million for midfielder Kieron Dyer and Everton pay Trabzonspor £3 million for on-loan striker Kevin Campbell (who scored eight goals in seven games for them late last season).