[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

ad also joined the Klalists, though he considered himself a PER general secretary for the entire period of 1938 to 1944. By 1943, he was directly involved in the unification project, hoping to make Zissu into a leader of "the most representative and encompassing Jewish political party."

Revived PER

Reestablishment and anti-communism
Antonescu's downfall on August 23, 1944 allowed Jewish political life to resume a legal course. On August 30, Zissu published a "Manifesto of the Jewish Party", which congratulated democratic forces for their "manly decisiveness". It pledged Jewish support for Premier Constantin Sănătescu, as well as "ruthless combat against fascism of any kind". Re-founded, with Zissu as president, on September 18, the PER resumed its participation in the WJC on November 19. The latter reunion was hosted by Wilhelm Fischer on Popa Rusu Street, in Bucharest's Armenian Quarter. Zissu was present, but Filderman made a point of absenting. The PER was still organizing itself a year later; as Benvenisti notes, none of the PER's old senators or deputies were still living in Romania in the late 1940s. He and Wilhelm Fischer were selected as vice presidents; the leadership council included, among others, Cohen, Ebercohn, Iakerkaner, Kanner, Mendelovici, Moscovici, Rohrlich, Rosenthal, Tumarkin, Leon Itzacar, Iacov Litman, and Elias Schein. Filderman's UER was also reestablished and recruiting, but soon lost a cohort of members to Zissu's group. Their leader, Kiva (or Chiva) Orenștein, was subsequently co-opted on the PER council. Zissu later promoted Cohen to the position of PER secretary, and made Itzacar the party's financial administrator.

Already in August 1944, Cohen had represented Zissu on the General Jewish Council (CGE), which met in the home of Leon Ghelerter; painter M. H. Maxy was the PCR representative. According to Cohen, the Jewish Party was represented therein, but ultimately expelled by Filderman; instead, the CGE recruited Jewish members of the PNL and PNȚ. In an opinion piece for Universul, lawyer Iosif G. Cohen argued that the CGE was a reasonable enterprise, whereas the Jewish Party was not—he noted: "Jews must not constitute themselves into a political minority of any kind". On October 5, 1944, a PER communiqué was released, informing the party base that it welcomed a PCR initiative of unifying "all democratic forces" into a governing bloc. It also lauded the PCR for publicizing a "vast program of national and social demands, of the kind that are urgently needed at present for the democratization of public life within the state, as well as for fulfilling the needs of a great mass of the country's people."

The PCR was moving in to exercise control over the entire CGE. This caused the latter institution to fall apart before the end of 1944, its members having explicitly rejected the notion that "all Jews are communists". The PER found itself at odds with the governing and expansive PCR, as well as with its Jewish Democratic Committee (CDE), formed in June 1945 as part of the National Democratic Front. While formally presided upon by Maxy, the CDE was informally supervised by PCR man Vasile Luca, who spoke at the Committee's founding congress to repudiate all forms of Zionism—though he also formally rejected any notion that the CDE was a communist front. Zissu considered letting the PER be absorbed into the CDE, sending Ebercohn and Iakerkaner to negotiate. He then realized that the Committee was not politically neutral.