[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Geneva Call

Geneva Call is a non-governmental organization based in Geneva, Switzerland. It is currently focusing its efforts on banning the use of anti-personnel mines, protecting children from the effects of armed conflict, prohibiting sexual violence in armed conflict, working towards the elimination of gender discrimination and building armed non-State actors’ knowledge and implementation of broad International Humanitarian Law (IHL) rules.

Since 2015 it has been studying the protection of cultural heritage in conflicts involving armed non-state actors (ANSAs), which comprise the majority of current armed conflicts worldwide.

In 2018, Geneva Call started engaging ANSAs on the topics of displacement and medical care.

Since 2021, the NGO has broadened its scope and has started to engage ANSAs on the prevention of starvation and conflict-related food insecurity.

Creation

Some members of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines were concerned that the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-Personnel Mines and on their Destruction, also known as the Ottawa Treaty, was only binding on states. Geneva Call was created in 1998, one year after the Ottawa Treaty was signed, to begin engaging armed non-State actors on the subject of landmines.

However, Geneva Call took little action until March 2000, at a conference organized by the Swiss Campaign to Ban Landmines called Engaging Non-State Actors in a Landmine Ban. This conference, the first of its kind, created a foundation for approaching armed non-State actors about a landmine ban, and served as the official launch of Geneva Call.

Geneva Call is a non-profit organization under Swiss law. It is headed by a board composed of local personalities with expertise in international law, in the thematic issues that compose Geneva Call's mission, in business or politics. The board is organizing an advisory council consisting of further experts in Geneva Call's work.

Mission

Geneva Call engages with armed non-State actors to encourage them to comply with international humanitarian norms, improving the protection of civilians in armed conflict. These international humanitarian norms are enshrined in the Geneva Conventions and other international treaties.
While initially focusing on the ban of anti-personnel mines, Geneva Call has expanded its work into additional areas that deserve specific attention, namely the protection of children in armed conflict – notably from recruitment and use in hostilities – as well as the prohibition of sexual violence and gender discrimination, the protection of cultural heritage, displacement and the protection of medical care in armed conflict. This expansion was envisioned in Geneva Call’s founding statutes and has also been encouraged by armed non-State actors themselves. Geneva Call has also increasingly provided IHL training to armed non-State actors, and advice on how to incorporate IHL rules into their codes of conduct and other internal regulations.

Geneva Call developed an innovative mechanism, the Deed of Commitment that allows armed non-State actors to pledge to respect specific humanitarian norms and be held publicly accountable for their commitments. They cannot become parties to relevant international treaties, and are generally precluded from participating in norm-making processes. Consequently, they may not feel bound to abide by rules that they have neither put forward nor formally adhered to. Sometimes they are simply not aware of their obligations under IHL.

The Deed of Commitment process gives them the opportunity to formally express their agreement to abide by humanitarian norms and take ownership of these rules.

To date, Geneva Call has developed five such documents:
Deed of Commitment for Adherence to a Total Ban on Anti-Personnel Mines and for Cooperation in Mine Action, launched in 2000 ;
Deed of Commitment for the Protection of Children from the Effects of Armed Conflict,  launched in 2010 ;
Deed of Commitment for the Prohibition of Sexual Violence in Situations of Armed Conflict and towards the Elimination of Gender Discrimination, launched in 2012 ;
 Deed of Commitment for the Protection of Health Care in Armed Conflict, launched in 2018 ;
 Deed of Commitment on the Prevention of Starvation and Address Conflict-Related Food Insecurity, launched in 2021.

Geneva Call’s mission is currently divided into eight thematic areas: banning anti-personnel mines, protecting children in armed conflict, prohibiting sexual violence and gender discrimination, protecting cultural heritage, displacement, protecting health care in armed conflict, preventing starvation and promoting the respect of humanitarian norms.

Since 2000, Geneva Call has engaged more than 100 armed non-State actors on eight thematic areas and to date 66 groups have signed one of the Deeds of Commitment.

Landmine ban