[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hamber Provincial Park

e Canadian Rocky Mountain Parks, the park was recognized for its natural environment and the geological and ecological significance of its mountain landscapes containing the habitats of rare and endangered species, mountain peaks, glaciers, lakes, waterfalls, canyons and limestone caves and fossils.

Conservation and Recreation
As a remote wilderness area, no roads traverse the park. A commercial fly-in fishing camp operates on Chisel Creek Fan on the shore of Fortress Lake during the summer months.  The only other means of access are via hike-in or ski-in from Sunwapta Falls on the Icefields Parkway in Jasper National Park. It is a 22 km hike over trails to Fortress Lake. In the 1970s, construction began on a trail into the park from Kinbasket Lake via the Wood River by the British Columbia Forest Service. However, the trail was only completed to within 5 km of the park boundary and was abandoned.

In 2014, a bridge over the Athabasca River collapsed, severing access via the only maintained trail into the park.

Despite providing numerous recreation opportunities, lack of access prevents similar levels of hiking and camping found in other mountain parks. In addition to access to the park from Sunwapta Falls, an overgrown trail accesses two campgrounds (Fortress Creek and Washout Creek, decommissioned in August 2020) on Fortress Lake's north shore. A commercial fishing operation exists on the Chisel Creek fan, accessible by floatplane. Additionally, two small caves ranging from 15–87 m in depth exist in the upper reaches of the Alnus Creek watershed.

Vegetation around Fortress Lake is replete with spruce and balsam, consisting of a heavy understory of false azalea and rhododendron. The closest communities to the park are Valemount, British Columbia and Jasper, Alberta.

Gallery

See also
List of British Columbia Provincial Parks
List of Canadian protected areas
List of national parks of Canada
List of World Heritage Sites in the Americas

Notes

References 
Bradley, Ben. (2011), "'A Questionable Basis for Establishing a Major Park': Politics, Roads, and the Failure of a National Park in British Columbia's Big Bend Country." In Campbell, Claire. A Century of Parks Canada, 1911-2011. University of Calgary Press.  .

External links

Map of Hamber Provincial Park, 1942

Parks in the Canadian Rockies
Provincial parks of British Columbia
1941 establishments in British Columbia
Protected areas established in 1941