[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cochlear nucleus

so conveyed through inhibitory interneurons (tuberculoventral cells of the DCN and "wide band inhibitors" in the VCN). Through the outermost molecular layer, the DCN receives other types of sensory information, most importantly information about the location of the head and ears, through parallel fibers.  This information is distributed through a cerebellar like circuit that also includes inhibitory interneurons.   
 Fusiform cells (also known as pyramidal cells).  Fusiform cells integrate information through two tufts of dendrites, the apical dendrites receiving multisensory, excitatory and inhibitory input through the outermost molecular layer and the basal dendrites receiving excitatory and inhibitory acoustic input from the basal dendrites that extend into the deep layer.  These neurons are thought to enable mammals to analyze the spectral cues that enable us to localize sounds in elevation and when we lose hearing in one ear. 
 Giant cells also integrate inputs from the molecular and deep layers but input from the deep layer is predominant.  It is unclear what their role is in hearing.

Function 
The cochlear nuclear complex is the first integrative, or processing, stage in the auditory system.  Information is brought to the nuclei from the ipsilateral cochlea via the cochlear nerve.  Several tasks are performed in the cochlear nuclei.  By distributing acoustic input to multiple types of principal cells, the auditory pathway is subdivided into parallel ascending pathways, which can simultaneously extract different types of information. The cells of the ventral cochlear nucleus extract information that is carried by the auditory nerve in the timing of firing and in the pattern of activation of the population of auditory nerve fibers. The cells of the dorsal cochlear nucleus perform a non-linear spectral analysis and place that spectral analysis into the context of the location of the head, ears and shoulders and that separate expected, self-generated spectral cues from more interesting, unexpected spectral cues using input from the auditory cortex, pontine nuclei, trigeminal ganglion and nucleus, dorsal column nuclei and the second dorsal root ganglion.  It is likely that these neurons help mammals to use spectral cues for orienting toward those sounds.  The information is used by higher brainstem regions to achieve further computational objectives (such as sound source location or improvement in signal-to-noise ratio). The inputs from these other areas of the brain probably play a role in sound localization.

In order to understand in more detail the specific functions of the cochlear nuclei it is first necessary to understand the way sound information is represented by the fibers of the auditory nerve. Briefly, there are around 30,000 auditory nerve fibres in each of the two auditory nerves. Each fiber is an axon of a spiral ganglion cell that represents a particular frequency of sound, and a particular range of loudness. Information in each nerve fibre is represented by the rate of action potentials as well as the particular timing of individual action potentials. The particular physiology and morphology of each cochlear nucleus cell type enhances different aspects of sound information.

See also
 Auditory system
 Cochlear nerve
 Unipolar brush cell

Additional images

References

External links
 
 
 Medical research council
 Shore lab

Cranial nerve nuclei
Auditory system
Medulla oblongata
Pons
Otology
Audiology