[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Azarias Ruberwa

rundian Hutu rebel movement known for its hostility towards Tutsis) and the Mai-Mai, a Congolese rebel group who seem to have also been complicit. It resulted in one of the largest civilian massacres carried out in the history of Burundi and led to at least 166 deaths and another 106 wounded people.

The next day the Vice President returned to the refugee camp to visit the survivors and help bury the victims; some of whom were members of his own family. After further assessing the severity of what had happened, Ruberwa decided on August 23 to suspend his party's participation in the transitional government. While many international observers viewed this as a potential threat to the peace deal, Ruberwa remarked that "this was not a call to go back to war, rather, a call to go back to the negotiating table in order to concretize outstanding issues regarding the protection of Congolese minorities."

The suspension of the government continued for about a week until South African President Thabo Mbeki came to DRC to help mediate the conflict between Ruberwa and the Kinshasa government. After meeting with the South African delegation, Ruberwa and members of the RCD party decided to end the suspension once they secured additional guarantees for a new road map for peace.

Post-Government career (2006-2016)
After running in the 2006 presidential elections and losing in a crowded field to incumbent President Joseph Kabila, Ruberwa decided to step away from politics and to reopen his law practice in Lubumbashi along with two additional offices in Kinshasa and Goma. The firm specializes in corporate transactional work, commercial and white collar litigation, international arbitration, and lobbying. The firm's clients range in industry: banking, mining, telecommunications, international development and non-profit organizations.

Ruberwa previously served on the board of Mercy Ships from 2010-2019. He continues to serve on several other boards such as The International Leadership Foundation, Congo Family Restoration, The Congolese National Prayer Breakfast Group, and a few other organizations. He has also spoken at numerous conferences, seminars and universities throughout Africa, Europe, Asia, and North America.

Return to DRC government (2016-2021)
In November 2016, Ruberwa returned to the DRC government as the Minister of Decentralization and Institutional Reforms. In this capacity, Ruberwa is in charge of the decentralization process for each of the 26 provinces in the country; twenty-one of which were created in the 2015 repartitioning. Ruberwa has been lauded for adopting a strong interdependence approach that favors empowering provincial and local officials in each province and helping them become less dependent on the national government.

In the months leading up to the 2018 Elections, Ruberwa and his party joined the Common Front for Congo coalition, also known as FCC. After the 2018 Democratic Republic of the Congo general election, Ruberwa remained in government and was asked to concurrently serve as Vice Prime Minister and Interim Minister of Transportation after José Makila Sumanda stepped down to join parliament. Ruberwa also served as the Interim Minister of Justice and Keeper of the Seals after Alexis Thambwe Mwamba stepped down to become the President of the Senate. This was done in accordance with Article 108 of the Congolese Constitution which forbids members of parliament or senate from simultaneously also serving in a cabinet position. Since both Ministers had run in the parliamentary elections and won seats, they could not continue to serve as Ministers. Ruberwa further served as the Acting Prime Minister for several weeks between June and July 2019, while Bruno Tshibala took a medical leave of absence. After the new government was formed in September 2019, Ruberwa was one of a handful of Ministers to retain a Ministerial position in the new Government, keeping the Ministry of Decentralization and Institutional Reforms.

On January 3, 2020, social media reports surfaced alleging that a bomb had gone off at Ruberwa's residence. However, these  reports were quickly denounced by the Chief Police Commissioner of the City of Kinshasa, Mr. Kasongo Kisenge Sylvano, who released a statement warning that "instigators had spread this false information in order to manipulate the opinion and thus to disturb the public order in the capital." He also mentioned that an investigation would be opened to dismantle the network of designers and propagators of false information against Ruberwa and other authorities in the country.

In 2020, he announced the planned community of Lumumbaville to be built in Sankuru province.

In March 2021 he lost his post when a new government under Sama Lukonde was formed.

Personal
Ruberwa is married to the former Chantal Shama. The couple have three adult children.