[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Samuel Street Jr.

tiated by Randal. They claimed that the property destruction was worth £7,785, but were given £4,970. Falls Mills was rebuilt and turned into a woolen mill, while Bridewater Mills was never rebuilt. In 1822, Street was promoted to be the lieutenant-colonel of the 3rd Lincoln Militia.

Later career  

Street used the profits from the mills to become a moneylender, further increasing his profits. He did not discriminate on who he lent money to, giving various amounts to farmers, politicians, and clergy. He was very strict with borrowers who submitted late payments, although granted leniency to the clergy elite. He became the second-largest shareholder of the Bank of Upper Canada in 1830 and possibly the largest shareholder of the Gore Bank; he also held shares in the Bank of Montreal and the Commercial Bank of the Midland District. He acquired shares in the Welland Canal Company, Erie and Ontario Railroad Company, various road projects, and other transportation companies. He also owned debentures issued by the Upper Canadian government, the Gore district, and the Wellington District.

Street was also a land speculator and bought property in almost every region of the province. He acquired this land via foreclosures on loans and sales of land to recover unpaid taxes from farmers. He was well connected with local officials in various regions and lent them money for public work projects in exchange for preferential treatment on purchasing property. Local officials would also notify him when land was to be sold at cheaper rates due to a sheriff's sale. He employed agents throughout the province who would administer and purchase property for him. He vigorously defended himself in legal disputes by consulting people holding important legal or political positions and paying witnesses to attend court proceedings.

In the 1830s Street and Clark build a wooden walkway around their property at The Burning Springs in the Niagara region. The spring was a natural gas spring and Street would charge tourists to see the colourless liquid from the spring be lit. Other citizens in the Niagara region would hire Street to act as their agent concerning business concerns. He was an executor for prominent people in Niagara to settle estates and disperse land. In 1839 he was promoted to colonel in the 3rd Lincoln Militia.

In 1841, Street purchased shares in the Welland Canal Company, which were exchanged for debentures issued by the Upper Canadian government. William Hamilton Merritt assisted Street in purchasing the stocks at a lower price because Merritt had close relationships with the owners of the canal. Merritt also informed Street of a bill in the Upper Canadian legislature that, if passed, would further increase the value of the canal's stocks. Street purchased as much stock in the company as he could, but died before he could profit from the exchange.

Personal life and death

Street married Abigail Hyde Ransom on September 5, 1811. They had a son, businessman and political figure Thomas Clark Street, and five daughters. Street suffered from health problems for most of his life, possibly due to arthritis. This prevented him from traveling outside of the Niagara region for business reasons, so those responsibilities were given to Clark, his partner. 

Street died at Port Robinson, Upper Canada, on August 21, 1844. His estate and land holdings were given to his son, and his four living daughters, and totaled 15,680 acres in Upper Canada. At his death, he was one of the wealthiest men in Upper Canada. Upon his death, Street was negatively described in a local newspaper called the St. Catharines Journal as a businessman who ensured he received the total amount owed to him in interest when he lent money to others.

References

1775 births
1844 deaths
Pre-Confederation Canadian businesspeople