[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mitchells Plain

er trips per weekday and more than 90,000 passengers daily, it is one of the busiest transport interchanges in the city. Recent years have seen significant investment by the local authority in improving and upgrading public transport infrastructure and facilities at the Mitchell's Plain Interchange.

Mitchells Plain CBD
The Mitchells Plain Commercial Business District is commonly referred to as the Town Center by residents. It is a shopping district that includes a  retail plaza, a shopping centre over and around in the train station, a public library, two major transport interchanges and informal markets. Informal traders in the Town Center sell fruit, vegetables, stationary, spices and cosmetics.

Sub-sections

Mitchells Plain is split into a number of sub-sections. The western half of the township is home to a wealthier middle class population, while the eastern half comprises poorer working class communities.

Schools
Mitchells Plain is home to 85 schools, Some of these schools include Meadowridge Primary School, Aloe, Lentegeur, Beacon Hill, Oval North, Cedar, Glendale, Rocklands and Westville Primary Spine Road, Mondale, Portland, Princeton, Woodlands, Tafelsig, Westridge, Seaview Primary, West End Primary and Westport Primary

Social  movements

In the latter years of apartheid, Mitchells Plain became the seat of the launch of the United Democratic Front, a mass democratic movement of community organisations and trade unions fighting against apartheid. It was launched in August 1983 with such leaders of the people as Dr Allan Boesak, Albertina Sisulu, Helen Joseph, Joe Marks, Trevor Manuel, Mosiuoa "Terror" Lekota and many others present.

The most active social movements and activist organisations in Mitchells Plain after apartheid have been the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, the Treatment Action Campaign and the Mitchells Plain Concerned Hawkers and Traders Association. the Mitchell's Plain Backyarders Association, which had strong links to the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, organised a massive land occupation - The Mitchell's Plain Land Occupation in 2011.

Prominent residents
Nizaam Carr is a South African rugby union footballer who grew up in Mitchells Plain.
Athol Williams is a poet and business leader.
Devon Petersen, the most successful South African darts player, was born in Mitchells Plain.
Nasief Morris, International and National football player (Defender)
Moeneeb Josephs, National Football Player  (Goalkeeper)
Sergio Mullins, National Sprinter (100m 200m)
Ricardo Katza, Former National Football Captain
Ethen Sampson, soccer player
Reagen Allen, Western Cape Government Provincial Minister (MEC) of Police Oversight and Community Safety

See also
 District Six

Sources
 Mitchells Plain Profile

Former Coloured townships in South Africa
Suburbs of Cape Town
Urban decay in South Africa
Townships in the Western Cape