[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ben Sahar

d was given the number 26 shirt. He featured regularly in pre-season for Portsmouth, making seven appearances and scoring against Nigerian Premier League champions Kano Pillars, Conference South side Havant & Waterlooville, and Southern Football League Division One South & West side Gosport Borough.

However, Sahar was forced to endure yet another unsuccessful loan spell. Despite being involved in many of Portsmouth's pre-season matches, Sahar did not play once for Portsmouth; he was an unused substitute in three of their matches. "If I had played a few games and they said I wasn't good enough, then fine. But the fact is that I haven't been given that chance to shine," Sahar said of his disappointment at not being given one opportunity to prove himself.

De Graafschap
Sahar joined Eredivisie side De Graafschap on loan on 2 January 2009. He played for De Graafschap until the end of the season. He played his first match for De Graafschap in a friendly against Turkish club Sivasspor. He scored his first two goals for De Graafschap in a friendly match against Belgian team K.V. Mechelen. He scored his first goal in the Eredivisie on 17 January 2009 in his debut match, against Willem II. After only 17 minutes, Sahar received a pass from Luuk de Jong and then curled the shot into the top corner, after passing a defender in the  box. His second goal came in an away game against fellow relegation strugglers, Roda JC. His third goal for De Graafschap came in a home game against SC Heerenveen. In this game, he finished well to score the game's first goal with his left foot, after good play from Luuk de Jong. His fourth and fifth goals came in the home game against NEC Nijmegen. Sahar scored a penalty for the opening goal after missing an earlier penalty attempt. He scored his second goal of the match with a close range strike. This match finished in a 2–2 draw. De Graafschap finished second-bottom in the 2008–09 Eredivisie. This meant that they would have to participate in play-offs with teams from the Dutch second division in order to retain their place in the Eredivisie. In their first play-off match against MVV Maastricht, Sahar scored a goal within 60 seconds of the match's commencement to set up a 3–2 away win for De Graafschap.

Sahar finished with five goals and one assist in 16 appearances for De Graafschap in the 2008–09 Eredivisie, and in the relegation playoffs he scored one goal and made two assists in six games, making of a total of six goals and three assists in 22 games.

Espanyol
Sahar moved to Espanyol for a fee of £1million on a four-year deal, after leaving Stamford Bridge in the summer of 2009. He was presented with the number 14 jersey. On 2 August 2009, Sahar scored two goals in a friendly match against Liverpool as a substitute, also picking up the man-of-the-match award in a 3–0 win. These were the second and third goals of the match, scored at the club's inaugural match at their new stadium, the Estadi Cornellà-El Prat. Sahar scored his first league goal for Espanyol on 23 September 2009, with a header in a 2–1 victory over Málaga; also his club's first goal at the stadium in a competitive match.

Hapoel Tel Aviv
Despite the objections of his agent, Ronen Katzav, on 20 July 2010, Sahar joined his youth club Hapoel Tel Aviv on a one-year loan. Hapoel Tel Aviv also purchased 10% of the transfer rights for £100,000. Sahar scored his first goal for Hapoel Tel Aviv against FK Aktobe from Kazakhstan in the 2010–11 UEFA Champions League third qualifying round, after a pass from Itay Shechter and scored in the final qualifying round in the away leg versus Red Bull Salzburg.

Sahar found great difficulty scoring in the Ligat Ha'Al upon arrival. Assistant manager, Yossi Abuksis attributed this to a mental difficulty that Sahar created for himself. Sahar came back to Israel as a superstar and the pressures that came with this status were difficult to bear at the start of the season. When Itay Shechter went out with an injury midseason, Sahar capitalized on the increased playing time to create a striking partnership with Toto Tamuz.

Auxerre
On 4 July 2011, Sahar joined Ligue 1 side Auxerre on a one-year loan. Auxerre had an option to sign Sahar permanently for a fee of €1.5 million which the club did not take advantage of at the end of the player's loan spell.

Hertha BSC
On 19 July 2012, Sahar signed for 2. Bundesliga side Hertha BSC on a free transfer from Espanyol. He made his league debut for the side on 16 September 2012, coming on in the 82nd minute in Hertha's 2–0 win over VfR Aalen.

Arminia Bielefeld
He was on loan to Arminia Bielefeld from January 2014 until June 2014.

Willem II
On 21 July 2014, it was announced that Sahar had signed a one-year deal with an option for another year with Dutch Eredivisie side Willem II. He finished the season with 7 goals, but Willem II decided not to exercise the option.