[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Luis Suárez

Barcelona club president Josep Maria Bartomeu said the apology was "honorable", sporting director Andoni Zubizarreta welcomed Suárez as being "humble enough to admit an error" while new signing Ivan Rakitić commended Suárez's "character and strength".

Copa América Centenario and 2018 FIFA World Cup

On 25 March 2016, after over a year of international absence for Uruguay, Suárez scored an equalizer against Brazil in Recife for a 2–2 draw in the qualification process for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Suárez was included in Uruguay's 23-man squad for the Copa América Centenario, although a hamstring injury sustained in the Copa del Rey final on 22 May put his place in the team in jeopardy. Although he remained in the squad, he missed both of his national side's opening group losses to Mexico and Venezuela, which resulted in a first-round elimination from the tournament. He was once again left on the substitutes' bench in Uruguay's final 3–0 group win over Jamaica on 13 June.

Suárez scored twice on 10 October 2017 as Uruguay won 4–2 at home to Bolivia in their final World Cup qualifying match, thus securing their place for the tournament in Russia, as well as becoming the joint all-time leading scorer in CONMEBOL World Cup qualifiers with 21 goals, alongside Argentina's Lionel Messi, overtaking the previous record which was held by Hernán Crespo. In March, Uruguay won the 2018 China Cup, and Suárez scored his 50th international goal with a penalty against the Czech Republic in the semi-finals, winning it himself when fouled by goalkeeper Jiří Pavlenka. He won his 100th cap on 20 June 2018 in Uruguay's second group match at the World Cup, scoring the only goal against Saudi Arabia at the Rostov Arena in Rostov-on-Don to advance the nation into the last 16, for which Suárez was given man of the match. In the final group game on 25 June, Suárez was again named the man of the match as he scored Uruguay's opener with a free kick into the bottom corner in a 3–0 win over hosts Russia. In the Round of 16 match against Portugal on 30 June, he set-up Cavani's opening goal in an eventual 2–1 victory. Uruguay were eliminated from the tournament following a 2–0 defeat to France in the quarter-finals on 6 July.

2019–2020: Qualifiers and Copa América upset
In March 2019, manager Tabárez included Suárez in the final 23-man Uruguay squad for the 2019 Copa América in Brazil. On 16 June, he scored the third goal in a 4–0 win over Ecuador in the team's opening group match of the tournament, also setting up the opener scored by Nicolás Lodeiro.

In the quarter-finals against Peru on 29 June, he had a goal disallowed by VAR for offside, and was subsequently the only player to miss his spot-kick in the resulting penalty shoot-out, following a 0–0 draw after regulation time, which saw Uruguay eliminated from the competition.

On 8 October 2020, Suárez scored the first goal of the South American 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification, becoming the first player ever to score the opening goal three times (after his 2010 and 2014 strikes) in the competition's history.

2021–present: Copa América and 2022 World Cup
On 22 June 2021, Suárez scored in a 1–1 draw against Chile in Uruguay's second group match of the 2021 Copa América in Brazil. However, Uruguay lost against Colombia in the quarter-finals on penalties after a goalless draw.

On 2 December 2022, in Uruguay's final group match of the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar against Ghana, Suárez assisted Giorgian de Arrascaeta's second goal of the match to give Uruguay a 2–0 win; however, group rivals South Korea scored a late goal to win 2–1 against Portugal, advancing from the group stage having scored four goals to Uruguay’s two (both teams were tied at 4 points and a 0 goal difference).

Style of play

Suárez creates goal scoring chances with his powerful shot, and has "remarkable technical ability" according to his FIFA profile. Known for his direct running at players, Suárez has a particular penchant for nutmegging opponents (putting the ball through their legs). Liverpool fans (accompanied with a banner) used to say he was so good, "he could nutmeg a mermaid". Often regarded by many as one of the best strikers of all time, Suárez is a prolific goal scorer, having the rare distinction of being the leading scorer in three top-flight European leagues, a feat only matched by Ruud van Nistelrooy and Cristiano Ronaldo. An accurate finisher with either foot, despite being naturally right-footed, he is capable of scoring from both inside and outside the penalty area.