[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Campeonato Brasileiro tournament scheduling

on, the 4 promoted teams and second division's final 4 top teams. Promoted teams are ranked higher than first division teams eliminated from first phase. Given this, the top 32 placings do not take into account first phase results from both divisions, contrarily to CBF.

1981–1990

1981 Taça de Ouro

The 1981 tournament reapplied the concepts of 1980 with two internal divisions, with for  the first time promotion from second division (Londrina and CSA). Despite these teams being the second division finalists, they arguably were not the top second division teams as none had participated the second phase play-offs. The 4 teams promoted during the 1980 second phase nominally with better placing than these two finalists were not re-promoted (as they could not play the second division finals while the 4 other teams they had beaten had rejoined the third phase but still none did make into the finals also). Two of these 4 teams didn't participate at all as they did not qualify from their state league performance (América-SP and Americano-RJ).

First division: 40 teams

1st phase: 4 groups of 10, round-robin, top 7 qualify.

2nd phase: 4 groups of 8 (4 teams promoted from second division's second phase), round robin, top 2 qualify

Final phase: 16-team double play-offs with home and draw advantage on better season record.

Second division: 48 teams

1st phase: 6 groups of 8 teams, round robin, top 2 qualified.

2nd phase: 4 groups of 3 teams, single round-robin, top team qualified to first-division second phase, runners-up qualified to final phase.

Final phase: 4-team double play-offs, home advantage based on season record.

1982 Taça de Ouro

The 1982 edition, while maintaining the previous system of two-tier divisions, exceeded in creativity by introducing for the first time the feature of internal relegation. As for the internal promotion, teams from first-division first phase would be relegated entering second-division's third phase, only to be able to still fight for a place in the second-division finals and thus guarantee promotion to following-year's first division. It was probably the first and unique example of "cross internal promotion and relegation"  where teams starting on first division could end up second-division champions and teams of second division could end up first-division champions within the same season.

As in 1981, promotion from previous-year second division was odd, as finalists were promoted though failing to qualify among the top 4 teams on the second phase. On the contrary, none of the latter were re-promoted despite their better record. The case hit particularly Palmeiras and Uberaba, which failed to qualify through state league performance. Ironically enough, Palmeiras had directly eliminated champions Guarani on 1981's  second phase, thus reaching internal promotion but being unable to dispute the second division title which Guarani eventually clinched.

The Palmeiras case was particularly ironic (or rather dramatic) as, because of this, Palmeiras had to play for second year in a row in second division and moreover failed to clinch this time internal promotion, being eliminated straight in first phase. This was the only case in the tournament's history where a top-12 traditional team failed to place among the top 48 teams (actually 65th placing), thus collecting 0 points in ranking. The closest case would be Fluminense in 1999 and 2000 which was relegated to third division and then champion of it, thus placing 43rd and 45th back to back.

First division: 40 teams

1st phase: 8 groups of 5 teams, double round-robin. Top 3 qualified to second phase, 4th qualified for 8-team relegation play-offs and bottom (5th) team  was directly relegated to second-division third phase. Relegation play-offs would send 4 teams to relegation and remaining would proceed normally to second phase.

2nd phase: 8 groups of 4, including 4 promoted from second-division first phase. Double round-robin. Top 2 qualified

Final phase: 16-team playoffs with home and draw advantage to better season record.

Second division: 48 teams

1st phase: 6 groups of 8 teams. Round robin. Top 2 qualified

2nd phase: 4 groups of 3 teams. Single round robin. Top team promoted to first-division second phase. Runners-up proceeded to final phase

Final phase: 16-team (including 12 teams relegated from first-division first phase) play-offs with home and draw advantage according to season record.

1983 Taça de Ouro