[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1868 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1868 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
 Monarch – Victoria
 Prime Minister – Edward Smith-Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby (Conservative) (until 27 February); Benjamin Disraeli (Conservative) (starting 27 February, until 1 December); William Ewart Gladstone (Liberal) (starting 3 December)
 Parliament – 19th (until 11 November), 20th (starting 10 December)

Events
 2 January – British Expedition to Abyssinia: Robert Napier leads an expedition to free captive British officials and missionaries.
 9 January – penal transportation from Britain to Australia ends with arrival of the convict ship Hougoumont in Western Australia after an 89-day voyage from England.
 13 February – the War Office sanctions the formation of what will become the Army Post Office Corps.
 27 February – Benjamin Disraeli succeeds the Earl of Derby as Prime Minister following Derby's resignation due to ill-health.
 12 March – Britain annexes Basutoland and it becomes a protectorate.
 14 March – Eliza Lynn Linton's article "The Girl of the Period" is published in the Saturday Review.
 2 April – last public hanging of a woman in Britain – Frances Kidder outside Maidstone Prison by William Calcraft for drowning her stepdaughter.
 9–13 April – expedition to Abyssinia: At the Battle of Magdala, Robert Napier decisively defeats the emperor Tewodros II.
 25 April – HMS Repulse, the last wooden battleship constructed for the Royal Navy, is launched as an ironclad (with auxiliary steam propulsion) at Woolwich Dockyard.
 10–11 May – "Murphy riots" against Irish people in Ashton-under-Lyne.
 26 May – last public hanging in Britain – Fenian bomber Michael Barrett outside Newgate Prison in London by William Calcraft for his part in the Clerkenwell explosion of 1867.
 29 May – Capital Punishment Amendment Act abolishes public hanging in Britain.
 2 June – the first Trades Union Congress is held in Manchester.
 29 June – the Press Association founded in London.
 July – the Summer assize for Berkshire is moved from Abingdon to Reading, effectively making the latter the county town.
 17 July – judicial decision of the House of Lords in Rylands v Fletcher, a leading case in English tort law, establishing a standard of strict liability in negligence actions.
 13 August – first non-public hanging in Britain – Thomas Wells inside Maidstone Prison by William Calcraft.
 20 August – Abergele train disaster kills 32 passengers and a fireman.
 20 October – astronomer Norman Lockyer observes and names the D3 Fraunhofer line in the solar spectrum and concludes that it is caused by a hitherto unidentified chemical element which he later names helium.
 12 November – Archibald Tait is offered the post of Archbishop of Canterbury.
 15–24 November – general election, the first under the extended franchise of the Reform Act 1867: Liberal Party victorious.
 24 November – the Smithfield Meat Market opens in London.
 3 December – William Ewart Gladstone becomes Prime Minister.
 10 December
 Whitaker's Almanack first published.
 The world's first traffic lights are installed in Parliament Square in London.

Undated
 Church rate ceases to be compulsory.
 Pharmacy Act 1868 regulates the profession of pharmacist and restricts sale of poisons and dangerous drugs.
 The Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is founded by Philip Rose as The Foreign & Colonial Government Trust, the world's first collective investment scheme.
 Thomas Henry Huxley discovers what he thinks is a primordial matter and names it bathybius haecklii (he admits his mistake in 1871).

Publications
 Wilkie Collins' novel The Moonstone.
 Queen Victoria's diary Leaves from the Journal of Our Life in the Highlands, from 1848 to 1861.