[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Indiana State Museum

cultural history, and the future of Indiana.

Gov. Frank O'Bannon Great Hall

 Dean and Barbara White Auditorium
 Legacy Theater: The Indiana African American Experience

First floor

 Gallery One
 Ancient Seas
 R.B. Annis Naturalist's Lab
 Frozen Reign
 First Nations
 Natural Regions

Second floor

 Contested Territory
 19th State
 The Hoosier Way
 Crossroads of America
 Enterprise Indiana
 Global Indiana
 American Originals
 Firefly Landing

Third floor
 Rapp Reception Hall
 The Ford Gallery  
 NiSource Gallery
 South Gallery
 Thomas A. King Bridge
 Lincoln Financial Foundation Gallery

92 County Walk
The 92 County Walk is an art experience incorporated into the building's façade that spotlights Indiana's 92 counties by featuring an original sculpture for each county. The sculptures are made of limestone, aluminum, glass, and other materials and represent the uniqueness of each Indiana county.

Collections
The museum's collection consists of items relating to Indiana's history, arts, and natural sciences. The collection of more than 500,000 objects contains six focus areas, which the museum refers to as "Centers of Excellence." These areas are Ice Age paleontology, Abraham Lincoln, Indiana art and artists, quilts and textiles, Indiana industry, technology, and agriculture, and Indiana archaeology.

State Historic Sites
The museum is part of the Indiana State Museum and Historic Sites. This statewide institution maintains the museum and 11 state historic sites. Each site interprets the history of an important person, place, or event in Indiana's history.

Indiana State Historic Sites

See also

List of U.S. state historical societies and museums
List of attractions and events in Indianapolis
List of IMAX venues
Indiana Register of Historic Sites and Structures

References

External links

  Official website
  Indiana State Historic Sites

Museums in Indianapolis
Art museums and galleries in Indiana
History museums in Indiana
Natural history museums in Indiana
White River State Park
Paleontology in Indiana
Institutions accredited by the American Alliance of Museums