[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sarath Fonseka

ntial election. However opposition leaders proved that the agreement was a fake one with fake signatures adapted by another resources. Also the opposition revealed a secret written agreement between Mahinda Rajapaksa and EPDP Leader Douglas Devananda who was a Tamil politician faithful to Rajapaksa.

Sarath Fonseka however sincerely expected that he was set for a massive win on 26 January 2010. He booked 70 rooms of a five star hotel some hundred metres away from the President's House for the night of 26 January 2010. Media citing Sri Lankan military reported that a large number (about 400) of deserted army soldiers spent the night with General Fonseka at the hotel to enjoy the election results. Fonseka's camp stated that there may be about 400 people in the hotel but were the leaders of parties supporting the common opposition candidate, and did not consist of any army deserters.

Election results were released by the election commissioner electorate by electorate in the morning of 27 January 2010.

Post Presidential Election 2010

Fonseka refused to accept the election results published by the Election Commissioner. He also said he would consider applying for asylum in Australia.

On 28 January 2010, CID began its new investigations on claims made by several ministers of Rajapaksa government that Fonseka was planning a coup to remove Rajapakse in case of close election results on 26 January in connection with this investigation, a media institution "Lanka" run by JVP who helped Fonseka during presidential election was sealed on 30 January 2010 by the CID with a court order. Within a few days the court accepted the appeal and ordered CID to re-open the office. The Sri Lanka Army arrested Fonseka on 8 February 2010 for committing military offences.

Arrest and sentence

It was alleged that Fonseka became a political prisoner after running as a presidential candidate against President Mahinda Rajapaksa. He was arrested at his office in Colombo on 8 February 2010 by the military police as he was at the time in the army regular reserve following retirement, and taken into military custody. The military announced he would be court-martialed for "committing military offences" during his time as Chief of Defence Staff. The military stated that he would be charged according to the SL ARMY ACT, Section 57(1). The military tribunal in which the case was heard was challenged on multiple issues including the suitability and qualifications of the judges and the hearing of the case during an official holiday period of lawyers (9–13 August 2010), and his lawyers were not present. Furthermore, because the witnesses were summoned during the aforementioned period, the lawyers of the accused never had a chance to interrogate the witnesses. Amidst all these issues, the panel of judges of General Court Martial which included Major General A.L.R. Weeratunga, Major General Lalith Wijetunga and Major General Bhatiya Jayatilleke found Fonseka guilty of the charges. Sentenced to 30 months after the court martial in 2010 convicted him of irregularities in army procurement. In August 2010, by proclamation from President Mahinda Rajapaksa as Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces, he was cashiered from the army, having been stripped of his rank, medals and decorations. His military pension was forfeited.

In November 2011, Fonseka was sentenced to three years in jail and fined Rs. 5000 in a two-one split verdict delivered in the white flag case with two judges finding him guilty on one of the charges while one of the judges acquitted him on all three charges.

In March 2012, he was acquitted by Judge Sunil Rajapaksa of the High Court of Colombo of fraud charges in the case known as the "Hi-Corp Case" upholding the objections raised by his Counsel that the charges in the High Court and the Court Martial were substantially the same and that he cannot be sentenced twice on the same offence. However one more case continued against him in respect of an allegation that he harboured deserters during the presidential election campaign.

General Election 2010

Sarath Fonseka, Leader of Democratic National Alliance, obtained over 98,000 votes only in Colombo District. It is the 2nd highest individual vote obtaining percentage ever in the Election, 89.0%. His party was placed 3rd in the district with 110,683 votes (11.78%). General Sarath Fonseka was a Member of the Sri Lankan Parliament, until he was sentenced to serve a two and half-year prison sentence which made him unable to continue his membership in the chamber according to the Sri Lankan Constitution. However, he requested the Court of Appeal to issue writs against the cashiering, prison sentence and removal from parliament. The petition on the prison sentence was rejected in December 2011 and he appealed to the Supreme Court in January 2012.

Post release