[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Binyamina railway station

ned relocation
As part of National Infrastructure Plan 65-Aleph, the number of tracks on the Coastal Railway will be increased from two to six. The route of the railway near Binyamina will be moved adjacent to Highway 4 and Binyamina Station will be relocated next to Binyamina Junction on Highway 4.

One pair of the planned six tracks on the Coastal Railway will exclusively serve an express train which will travel between Haifa and Tel Aviv at speeds of up to 250 km/h. This train is only expected to make a single stop along the route – at Hadera West (two stations south of Binyamina), where a large combined public transport complex will be built. When this plan is implemented in the 2030s, Hadera West will take over from Binaymina as the key transfer station between intercity and suburban trains along the central section of the Coastal Railway.

Train service 

Binyamina railway station is a station on both the main North-South Coastal line of Israel Railways (Nahariya–Haifa–Tel Aviv–Ben-Gurion Airport inter-city service) and a terminus for the Tel Aviv suburban line (Binyamina/Netanya–Tel Aviv–Rehovot/Ashkelon suburban service), as well as being an important interchange station between the two railway lines. The station is situated between Atlit railway station to the north and Caesarea-Pardes Hanna railway station to the south.

Inter-city service:
On weekdays the station is served by 35 southbound and 35 northbound trains. First train departs at 01:56 and last train arrives at 00:27.
On Fridays and holiday eves the station is served by 23 southbound and 20 northbound trains. First train departs at 01:56 and last train arrives at 15:06.
On Saturdays and holiday the station is served by 6 southbound and 5 northbound trains. First train departs at 19:17 and last train arrives at 21:50.
Suburban service:
On weekdays the station is served by 27 southbound and 26 northbound suburban trains. First train departs at 06:17 and last train arrives at 21:51.
On Fridays and holiday eves the station is served by 5 southbound and 6 northbound suburban trains. First train departs at 10:49 and last train arrives at 15:02.

Station layout
Platform numbers increase in an East-to-West direction

Ridership

Public transport connections 
Binyamina railway station is located besides the Zikhron Ya'akov – Pardes Hanna-Karkur road (Route 652) and is accessible by several bus lines as well as sherut taxis, bus line 9, 10 are synchronized with train arrival or departure times. The bus lines are:
1: Benyamina, intracity, operated by Kavim.
9: Or Aqiva – Benyamina, direct, operated by Kavim.
10: Or Aqiva – Benyamina, via Caesarea-Pardes Hanna railway station, operated by Kavim.
11: Benyamina - Or Aqiva, via Caesarea-Pardes Hanna railway station, operated by Kavim.
70: Zikhron Ya'akov – Hadera, operated by Kavim.
156: Afula – Binyamina railway station, operated by Superbus.
157: Yokneam – Binyamina railway station, operated by Superbus.
202: Haifa Hof HaCarmel Central Bus Station – Pardes Hanna-Karkur, operated by Egged.
222: Haifa Hof HaCarmel Central Bus Station – Hadera, operated by Egged.
708, 710: Netanya - Zikhron Ya'akov, operated by Kavim.
872: Zikhron Ya'akov – Tel Aviv Central Bus Station, operated by Egged.

Sherut Taxis (share taxis) stop on the road outside the station.

Facilities 
Payphone
Ticket cashier
Ticket machine
Buffet
Parking lot
Toilet
Taxi station

External links 
Israel Railways website

References 

Railway stations in Haifa District
Railway station
Railway stations opened in 1921