[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Assembly (Haiti)

ry 2004, the Chamber of Deputies remained empty. It was re-established along with the Senate, and elections were held on 21 April 2006.

National Assembly
The National Assembly () is a joint session of Parliament.  The National Assembly is convened for specific purposes laid out in the Constitution.

Meetings of the National Assembly are presided over by the President of the Senate, with the President of the Chamber of Deputies assisting. The Secretaries of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies also serve as Secretaries of the National Assembly. The National Assembly building was built in 1949 for the Exposition internationale du bicentenaire de Port-au-Prince and was destroyed during the earthquake on 12 January 2010.

Legislative Palace
The Legislative Palace () was among the many structures which were virtually destroyed by the earthquake on 12 January 2010. Parliament resumed sitting shortly after the earthquake in a temporary classroom.

On 22 November 2011, the government opened new temporary facilities for the Parliament, built with the help of the USAID program.

On 27 December 2012 the first stone of the new Legislative Palace was laid. The main building, horizontal, of 4 levels, will include 3 large sitting rooms for the 2 Chambers and the National Assembly, the Library of Parliament, the press rooms and several meeting rooms for the Parliamentary Committees and will have a parking for 94 vehicles. The second building, a tower of 9 levels, is going to be equipped with 4 main elevators, a freight elevator and emergency staircase, and will host the individual offices of senators and deputies, including their secretariats, waiting rooms, meeting rooms, space for clerks, toilets, kitchens and a parking of several levels with a capacity of 240 vehicles.

See also
 List of legislatures by country

References
[A___] citations are Article numbers of the 1987 Constitution of the Republic of Haiti.  A government-issued but unofficial (and error-prone) English translation is available at http://www.unhcr.org/refworld/docid/3ae6b542c.html and http://pdba.georgetown.edu/Constitutions/Haiti/haiti1987.html and the French original is available at http://pdba.georgetown.edu/Constitutions/Haiti/haiti1987fr.html

External links
  

Haiti
Government of Haiti
Haiti