[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Rehabilitation Council for Torture Victims

CT members includes more than 160 members in 76 countries.

Work
The work of the IRCT can be divided into three areas: 
 Offering rehabilitation services to torture survivors
 Countering impunity for perpetrators and promoting justice for survivors
 Raising awareness among policy-makers and citizens

The stated vision of the IRCT is "a world that values and accepts shared responsibility for the eradication of torture". The objective of the organization is to promote the provision of specialized treatment and rehabilitation services for victims of torture and to contribute to the prevention of torture globally. To further these goals, the IRCT seeks on an international basis:
 to develop and maintain an advocacy programme that accumulates, processes, and disseminates information about torture as well as the consequences and the rehabilitation of torture 
 to establish international funding for rehabilitation services and programs for the prevention of torture 
 to promote the education and training of relevant professionals in the medical as well as social, legal, and ethical aspects of torture 
 to encourage the establishment and maintenance of rehabilitation services 
 to establish and expand institutional relations in the international effort to abolish the practice of torture
 to support all other activities that may contribute to the prevention of torture, and 
 to promote knowledge of and use of the Istanbul Protocol to promote access to torture survivors to high-quality medico-legal, or forensic, documentation of torture for use in legal proceedings.
The IRCT has special consultative status with the UN Economic and Social Council and the UN Department of Public Information, and participatory status with the Council of Europe.
Important collaboration partners include (but are not limited to) the World Medical Association (WMA), the World Confederation of Physical Therapy (WCPT), the World Psychiatric Association (WPA), the International Council of Nurses (ICN), and Physicians for Human Rights (PHR).
The IRCT also works in partnership with governments, human rights organizations, health professional organizations, and intergovernmental organizations.

Publications
 Torture, a journal on rehabilitation of torture victims and prevention of torture.

Structure
The IRCT comprises four bodies: the General Assembly, the Council, the Executive Committee, and the General Secretariat.

General Assembly
The IRCT General Assembly meets every three years and comprises accredited rehabilitation centers and programs worldwide. The General Assembly provides a forum in which representatives of rehabilitation centers and programs, and others working in related fields, may facilitate and press forward the global work against torture.
The first IRCT General Assembly was conducted as a Written General Assembly on 16 June – 6 July 2003. All rehabilitation centers and programs that are accredited with the IRCT were eligible to participate in the General Assembly, the forum in which the IRCT Council is elected.
A total of 94 accredited rehabilitation centers and programs participated in the 2003 IRCT Written General Assembly.

Council and Executive Committee
According to the IRCT Statutes and Bylaws, the IRCT Council is elected by the General Assembly and comprises up to 30 members, 27 representing rehabilitation centers and programs worldwide, and three independent experts. The Council is the principal policy-making and advisory standard-setting body of the IRCT, and includes the seven members of the Executive Committee.

The allocation of seats to the IRCT Council by region is as follows: 
 Europe – 7 seats
 Asia – 4 seats
 North America – 2 seats
 Latin America – 4 seats
 Sub Sahara Africa – 4 seats
 Middle East and North Africa – 3 seats
 Pacific – 2 seats
 Independent experts – 3 seats
 Country of domicile of the IRCT General Secretariat (Denmark) – 1 seat.

General Secretariat
The General Secretariat, based in Copenhagen, Denmark, is the operational body of the IRCT, responsible for the management and implementation of the IRCT's policies and programmes in support of the rehabilitation of torture victims and the prevention of torture worldwide.
The General Secretariat consists of the Office of the Secretary-General, Administration and Finance Team, Communications Team, Membership Team, Health Team, Advocacy and Legal Team and Liaison Offices in Brussels and Geneva.

See also
UN International Day in Support of Victims of Torture – 26 June
Institute of Therapy and Investigation
Freedom from Torture
United Nations Convention Against Torture
Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (2006)
Torture
Psychology of torture
The Secret Life of Words – 2005 film
Committee for the Prevention of Torture
European Convention for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment
Universal Declaration of Human Rights

References