[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lotus 23

The Lotus 23 was designed by Colin Chapman as a small-displacement sports racing car. Nominally a two-seater, it was purpose-built for FIA Group 4 racing in 1962–1963.  Unlike its predecessors Lotus 15 and 17, the engine was mounted amidship behind the driver in the similar configuration developed on Lotus 19.

The 23
To comply with FIA rules, it had a regulation trunk space to the right-rear of the driver, a windshield wiper, a horn, pairs of headlights and tail lights, rear center license plate light, a wire-operated emergency brake, and a mounting space for one spare tire under the front body. The 23 used a wider version of the Lotus 22 space frame, clothed in a fibreglass body.

It was originally intended for engines of 750 cc to 1300 cc (45-80ci) with a Renault 4-speed transaxle, but had a 5-speed Hewland Mk.III in production, which used the entire Volkswagen magnesium alloy transaxle case in upside-down configuration, housing bespoke straight-cut gears with dog-rings, and the Volkswagen differential gear set.  Unlike the later Mk.IV/V, the Mk.III had the shifter rod at the end of the VW nose casing, so the shifting rod (pipe) from the centre shifter knob location extended to the tail end of the chassis.  As this part was not completely covered by the bodywork, a following driver with good eyesight could tell when the 23 with Hewland Mk.III shifted gears. 

The front suspension was a typical double wishbone arms with outboard coil/damper unit using the Triumph upright made by Alford & Alder, Triumph Herald rack and pinion steering, and outboard Girling non-ventilated disc brake. The rear had the top link with lower reversed wishbone, top and bottom radius arms with the top arm at the height of the halfshaft, combined with the outboard disc brakes and coil/damper unit.  Unlike the arrangement for Lotus 20 suspension, the halfshafts had Metalastic rubber 'doughnuts' on the inside, carrying no cornering (side) forces.  The side forces are carried by the lower wishbone, together with the top 'I' arm link, which connects the tail end of the upper side tube in the frame with the extended top end of cast alloy upright.

The tie-rod end, front top and bottom wishbone outside joints were ball joints, and the rear lower wishbone inside joints were Rose joint.  The rest of the suspension joints were rubber joint, with joint-mounting pipes welded onto the ends of suspension arms.  While most of the suspension arms were in common with Lotus 22, the angle of the rear radius arms on the plan view was different from the narrower-frame Lotus 22, so they were not interchangeable with the 22.

On the frame structure, the lower side pipes and the width-wise lower pipe behind the cockpit were rectangle tubes, with most of the other frame pipes being round steel tubes in various diameter.  The upper left round pipe was used as the water feed pipe (the use of anti-freeze chemicals was prohibited by most of the race organisers at the time for the danger of making the tarmac slippery) for the radiator up front, and the lower right side pipe and a half of the width-wise lower rear cockpit pipe were used as the return path.  Likewise, the upper right side pipe was the oil feed to the oil cooler, and the lower left tube was the return.  This frame was mostly made by Arch Motors, carrying 'AM' serial number.

This water/oil-bearing frame configuration was shared with Lotus 22 and other later Lotus formula cars, but the combination of a wider and thus larger radiator, wider and bulkier steel frame acting as a cooling device, and the small displacement engines resulted in more than ample cooling capacity.  Atypical of the contemporary racing cars, Lotus 23 models sometimes experienced an over-cooling problem when the thermostat was not installed in the coolant circuit in sprint races, and displayed a very stable water/oil temperature in endurance racing.

The 23B
The 23B in 1963 had the original center gear shifter relocated to the right side of the driver, and the radiator and oil cooler were combined into a single unit, with the lower 1/5 or so acting as the oil cooler.  The frame received additional structural tubes to take the torque of Lotus TwinCam-based 1.6 litre Cosworth Mk.XII and Mk.XIII, mated to "high torque spec" 5-speed Hewland Mk.V transaxle.  Smaller displacement engines were mated to 5-speed Hewland Mk.IV.  Both the Mk.IV and Mk.V transaxles had GKN (Ford Zephyr) differential gears and a forward-facing selector rod on the right side in a bespoke (Hewland made) tail casing.

The intake funnels on the Weber carburetors on 23B (and the 23C) were housed in a "cold air box" which received fresh air from two oval holes cut out on the top side of the rear body behind the driver.