[Source: PubMed]

47. J Community Health. 2001 Apr;26(2):123-32. doi: 10.1023/a:1005229330204.

The socio-economic and cultural impediments to well-being along the US-Mexico 
border.

Ruiz-Beltran M(1), Kamau JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, George Washington University, School of 
Public Health and Health Services, Washington, DC 20037, USA.

Among all of the underdeveloped and developing countries of the world, Mexico is 
the only nation that shares its borders with the United States. This unique link 
between the two nations has created one of the most multifaceted clusters in the 
world. Moreover, this relationship has sketched out the direction and the role 
of health services and economic development of the two countries. The cultural 
infrastructure of the region and the political force of this association affect 
and contribute to the development of the economies and to the outcomes of public 
health programs and initiatives on each side of the border. Culture as a barrier 
for integration faces many challenges. The disparities in terms of access to and 
utilization of health services that are observed along the border are enormous. 
Sometimes, such disparities exist between people from the same culture, same 
identical ethnic group, from the same racial background and in many cases from 
the same family. Lack of language skills, inadequate education and a poor 
understanding of values are not the principal impediments to well being. 
Instead, political agendas and a non-global commitment to health care are the 
causes for such discrepancies. The economy of the region possesses unusual 
financial characteristics. The Maquila industry with its cheap labor practices 
and the North American free Trade Agreement (NAFTA's) two-way crossing of 
billions of dollars contribute to such characteristics. In addition, well-known 
drug smuggling activities and the daily crossing of thousands of documented and 
undocumented people contribute to the unusual economic characteristics of this 
area. The health care development and the economic growth of both countries 
depend on mutual efforts. Each nation can benefit if these efforts are directed 
at the development of binational partnerships, the enhancement of basic services 
in the region and by providing trans-boundary health coverage for all residents 
of the region regardless of linguistic, economic and/or migratory status.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005229330204
PMID: 11322752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]