[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ernest Titterton

y the McClelland Royal Commission, which held hearings between August 1984 and September 1985 to investigate the conduct of  British nuclear testing in Australia. He clashed repeatedly with its chairman, Jim McClelland, who accused Titterton of being "a British plant". His final report was scathing:

Jack Waterford from the Canberra Times noted in Titterton's obituary that the "general charge of complaisance is better directed at Menzies than Titterton." T. R. Ophel, the historian of the ANU's Department of Physics, opined that "Rarely has it been more evident that the past is the proper territory of thoughtful histories. Hindsight, conditioned by political and scientific changes evolving over a 30-year period, cannot and should not be used to judge the past."

Retirement 
Titterton officially retired in 1981, but retained a position as a visiting fellow in the Department of Nuclear Physics at the ANU. He suffered a stroke in 1982, but recovered. He divorced in 1986, and was injured seriously in a car accident in September 1987, which left him a quadriplegic. He considered himself as "on the scrap heap of life", and claimed that "if euthanasia were legal I should opt for it tomorrow". Nonetheless, he died from a pulmonary embolism on 8 February 1990. His remains were cremated, and his ashes scattered along the White Cliffs of Dover. He was survived by his ex-wife and three children. His papers are held by the Australian Science and Technology Heritage Centre at the University of Melbourne.

Notes

References 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1916 births
1990 deaths
People from Tamworth, Staffordshire
English physicists
English nuclear physicists
English expatriates in Australia
Manhattan Project people
Fellows of the Australian Academy of Science
Alumni of the University of Birmingham
Fellows of the American Physical Society
Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George
Knights Bachelor
Fellows of the Royal Society
People associated with the nuclear weapons programme of the United Kingdom