[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Tillinghast James

rifles, were used in the breaching of Fort Pulaski in April 1862; this was probably James' most significant contribution to the war. After the war, the rapid reduction of Fort Pulaski was used to justify stopping work on masonry forts and led to a brief period of new construction of earthwork forts.

On October 16, 1862, during the demonstration of a projectile at Sag Harbor, Long Island, New York, a worker attempted to remove a cap from a shell. It exploded, killing the man and mortally wounding James, who died the next day. Following his death, few of his weapons were produced. His projectiles were gradually replaced with Hotchkiss projectiles due to stripping of the lead sabot.

Legacy
Over 150 14-pounder James rifles survive, many of them at Shiloh National Military Park, Tennessee, including over 50 6-pounder weapons bored out to 3.8 inches and rifled. Other heavy guns with James rifling survive as well. A portrait of Charles T. James is in the collection of the National Portrait Gallery, and a bust is in the Smithsonian American Art Museum collection, both in Washington, D.C.

There is an iron rifled 14-pounder artillery piece, used by James in experiments at Napatree Point in Watch Hill, Rhode Island, in the collection of the Newport Artillery Company.

References

Bibliography
 Taunton and Mason: Cotton Machinery and Locomotive Manufacture in Taunton, Massachusetts, 1811–1861, by John William Lozier, PhD Dissertation Thesis at Ohio State University 1978. Charles T. James section pages 375-386. Copies also at Old Colony Historical Society in Taunton and at The Baker Business School Library at Harvard University.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Focuses on his establishment of steam mills in Newburyport, MA and Lancaster, PA

Further reading
 Letters on the Culture and Manufacture of Cotton by Charles Tillinghast James, published 1850. Originally published in Hunt's Merchants' Magazine and Commercial Review By Thomas Prentice Kettell, volume 22, January–June 1850, pages 290-311. Article IV by Charles T. James entitled Culture and Manufacture of Cotton, which rebuts an article by Amos Adams Lawrence.

External links 
 General Charles Tillinghast James at CivilWarArtillery.com
 Light James projectiles at CivilWarArtillery.com
 Heavy James projectiles at CivilWarArtillery.com
 Light Hotchkiss projectiles at CivilWarArtillery.com
 Heavy Hotchkiss projectiles at CivilWarArtillery.com

1805 births
1862 deaths
People from West Greenwich, Rhode Island
Democratic Party United States senators from Rhode Island
Rhode Island Democrats
19th-century American politicians
American manufacturing businesspeople
People of Rhode Island in the American Civil War
Deaths by explosive device
Accidental deaths in New York (state)
Burials at Swan Point Cemetery
19th-century American businesspeople
American Civil War artillery