[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Todd G. Buchholz

s numbers more intuitive to children. He is the CEO of Sproglit, LLC, which develops software and classroom materials based on the Math Arrow.

Economic Theories and Policy Proposals

Buchholz has devised a number of economic theories and policy proposals, presented in books, articles, and lectures:

 Law of Fertility, Prosperity, and ImmigrationIn his book The Price of Prosperity, Buchholz says that when a nation's annual average GDP rate exceeds 2.5 percent for two consecutive 25-year periods (two generations), the fertility rate will drop to just over the replacement level, that is, 2.5 children per female. If GDP continues to grow for a third consecutive generation, the fertility rate will tend to drop below 2.1 children per female and the population will require immigration to maintain a stable working population. As a corollary, if the fertility rate falls below the replacement rate, the nation will find it extraordinarily difficult to pay down accumulated debt.
 On the editorial page of the Wall Street Journal  in June 2012, Buchholz proposed the U.S. Treasury lock in record low borrowing rates by issuing 100-year bonds. With the 10-year Treasury yielding just 1.62%, Buchholz called it the "best deal since Pope Julius paid a pittance to have Michelangelo paint his ceiling." Fourteen months after the article appeared, yields had risen by 78 percent to 2.88%.
 In his book Rush, Buchholz argues from neuroscience and history that competitive societies achieve longer life expectancy, less disease, and greater measures of cooperation than societies that try to quash competitiveness.
 In 2011, on the front page of The Washington Post's Outlook section, Buchholz proposed turning unemployment compensation into signing bonuses. Instead of collecting 99 weeks of unemployment payments, under Buchholz's proposal, individuals would receive a signing bonus from the government if they accepted a job sooner.
 The Buchholz Hypothesis holds that crime is strongly correlated with interest rates. This hypothesis might solve the puzzle of why crime fell during the Great Depression, even though conventional wisdom suggests that a bad economy leads people to commit more crime.
 In his book New Ideas from Dead Economists, Buchholz argues that small countries with large social welfare programs may achieve strong GDP gains because they are able to free-ride on the gains generated by countries that promote a more competitive structure with less governmental intervention.
 In a 2019 essay reprinted in the South China Morning Post and a variety of global publications, Buchholz claimed that sluggish worldwide growth was actually benefitting the U.S. economy. He projected that slow GDP growth among U.S. trading partners was keeping interest rates remarkably low and inflation well-contained, which is more important for the U.S. economy than the loss of export growth.  This is a rare situation, he stated, that confounds the standard textbook explanations.

Economic Forecasting

In his media and speaking appearances, Buchholz frequently makes forecasts about major economic turns and developments: