[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of British gallantry awards for the Iraq War

A list of British awards for gallantry in the Iraq War, awarded between 2003 and 2010. Apart from appointments to purely military orders, only gallantry awards have been included and only those that allow post-nominal letters (this excludes appointments to the Order of the British Empire for distinguished service and fourth-level awards such as Mentions-in-Despatches and Queen's Commendations).

The list includes the rank and decorations the recipient held at the time, together with their regiment, corps or service, and the date of publication of the award in the London Gazette. The first honours list was published in October 2003, and covered the initial invasion period from 19 March to 19 April. Thereafter lists covered six month periods of operations, ending in March or September, normally being published several months later. The final list was published in March 2010.

Victoria Cross 
The Victoria Cross (VC) is the highest award for gallantry in the presence of the enemy, and is also the highest honour in the British Honours System. A miniature of the award is worn on the undress uniform to indicate the unique nature of the award.

Private Johnson Gideon Beharry, The Princess of Wales's Royal Regiment, March 2005

George Cross 
The George Cross (GC) is the highest civilian award for bravery, and ranks as second only to the Victoria Cross. It may be awarded to members of the armed forces for acts of heroism not in the presence of the enemy. A miniature of this award is also worn in undress.

Trooper Christopher Finney, The Blues and Royals, October 2003
Captain Peter Allen Norton, The Royal Logistic Corps, March 2006

Order of the Bath 
Senior officers may be appointed to the Order of the Bath for distinguished service. There are three Divisions: Knight Grand Cross (GCB), Knight Commander (KCB) and Companion (CB).

KCB:
Air Marshal Brian Kevin Burridge CBE, Royal Air Force, October 2003
Lieutenant General John George Reith CB CBE, late The Parachute Regiment, October 2003; CB for service in Kosovo / Macedonia, CBE for service in the Gulf; previously Mentioned in Despatches and appointed OBE for service in Northern Ireland, and also awarded QCVS for service in former Yugoslavia

CB:
Air Vice Marshal Andrew David White, Royal Air Force, October 2003

Distinguished Service Order 
The Distinguished Service Order (DSO) is awarded for leadership during operations. It may be awarded to any rank, but the majority of awards are to officers of at least the rank of lieutenant colonel (or equivalent) commanding recognised formations. Although an Order, and with only one Class - Companion - bars may be awarded for further periods of service meriting an appointment to the Order.