[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Martyrs' Day

the armed forces of the Kingdom of the Netherlands who have died in wars or peacekeeping missions since the beginning of the Second World War.

Pakistan 
Martyrs' Day or Youm-e-Shuhada is a Pakistani holiday held on 30 April to pay tribute to Pakistani military who died in service of their country.

Panama 
Martyrs' Day (Panama), is a Panamanian holiday which commemorates the January 9 1964 riots over sovereignty of the Panama Canal Zone.

São Tomé and Príncipe 
Dia dos Mártires da Liberdade, 3 February, commemorates the 1953 Batepá massacre.

South Sudan 
30 July is Martyr's Day in South Sudan commemorating the death of John Garang de Mabior, leader of the Sudan People's Liberation Army during the Second Sudanese Civil War. Following a peace agreement, he briefly served as First Vice President of Sudan for three weeks until his death in a helicopter crash on July 30, 2005. Foul play in his death has never been proven, but July 30 is marked as Martyr's Day in South Sudan.

Syria 
Martyrs' Day (Lebanon and Syria), commemorates the execution of Syrian nationalists in Damascus by the Ottoman Empire on 6 May 1916.

Togo 
21 June honours all who struggled for the freedom of Togo. It is celebrated with a military parade in Lomé

Tunisia 
April 9, Martyr's Day remembers Tunisians killed in 1938.

Turkey 
March 18, is recognised in remembrance of Turkish soldiers fallen in action. It is on the same date Ottoman forces defeated a naval attack of the Allied Powers in Gallipoli Campaign during World War I on March 18, 1915.

Uganda 
In Uganda, Martyrs' Day is celebrated on June 3, mainly in honor of the Uganda Martyrs; Christian converts who were murdered for their religion in Uganda's biggest kingdom, Buganda in the late-1880s.

United Arab Emirates 
Martyrs' Day (United Arab Emirates) also known as Commemoration Day (United Arab Emirates) will be marked annually on November 30, recognising the sacrifices and dedication of Emirati martyrs who have given their life in the UAE and abroad in the field of civil, military and humanitarian service.

United States 
Memorial Day (originally known as Decoration Day) is a federal holiday in the United States for honoring and mourning the military personnel who have died in the performance of their military duties. Since 1971, the holiday is observed on the last Monday of May. The holiday was observed on May 30 from 1868 to 1970.

Vietnam 
The Memorial Day for War Martyrs is recognised on 27 July, in Vietnam.

References 

Types of secular holidays
January observances 
February observances 
March observances
April observances
May observances
June observances
July observances
September observances