[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Area 88 characters

The following is a list of characters from the Area 88 franchise by Kaoru Shintani.

Characters

Main

Shin Kazama

A Japanese pilot who was supposed to be employed at Yamato Air Lines (YAL), Shin was tricked into fighting for the Asranian air force in the country's civil war by his friend, Satoru Kanzaki, by letting him place his signature in an Asranian military sign up sheet after getting him drunk at a local bar. Shin became the top ace at Area 88, though he gradually felt his humanity slipping as his time at the Area passed.
Because of this, he was cold to most of the people inside Area 88; he would make friends with Mickey Simon, Kim Aoba, Kitori Palvanaff, Roundell and his commanding officer, Saki Vashtar. All his aircraft (which include an F-8 Crusader, an F-5E, F-20A, and a Saab J-35 Draken) sported a flaming unicorn head painted on the tail. Determined to survive the war without losing his humanity, Shin's principal motivation is to save enough money to buy out his contract.

Mickey Scymon

An Ex-US Navy American pilot and Vietnam War Veteran who signed up to fight for the Asranian government in its civil war after serving in the Vietnam War with the VF-33 Starfighters in the OVA and VF-96 Fighting Falcons aboard the USS Enterprise in the series. Addicted to the life of combat pilot, Mickey is unable to adjust to life at home. The self-proclaimed "number-two" pilot in Area 88, he was Shin's closest friend in the war, and is found in all three incarnations of the series. In the English-language comic version, he flies an F-100 Super Sabre at first, eventually moving up to a Grumman F-14 Tomcat. Flashbacks show him flying an F-4J Phantom II for the US Navy. The insignia found on his plane is a rabbit head resembling the Playboy bunny, similar to the "Black Bunny" tail art sported by VX-4 Evaluators (and its successor, VX-9 Vampires). He is spotted reading "Playgirl" magazine in episode 12. In the manga series, Mickey dies in the final attack after trying to save Seilane from the wreck of her fighter.

Greg Gates
A bearded Danish mercenary, he is noted by the base's mercenary force for being the only person who couldn't die, sometimes apparently oblivious or apathetic to the danger he faces. Greg serves as comedic relief and humor, as his actions lead him to trouble with his comrades and his officers, not to mention unintentionally making the civil war even worse. Pilots the A-10(OVA), and A-4 Skyhawk(2004 anime), Greg appears in all versions of Area 88.

Saki Vashtahl
A member of the royal family and a commissioned officer (Lt. Colonel) in the Asranian air force, he is distinguishable by his black shades (which in the manga was due to an eye injury), long hair, and an X-shaped scar on his forehead. Saki is the son of Abdael, the eldest son of the late former king of Asran. Asran was, at the time, the only middle eastern country not exporting its oil. Saki's grandfather did not wish to sell out to the West or to Communists and suspected that Abdael was dealings with both sides. For this reason, on his deathbed, he declared his younger son, Zak, the next king. Humiliated, Abdael became leader of an anti-government rebel force backed by various communist countries. Saki, remained loyal because of his late mother's love for Asran and is Area 88's commanding officer, though it is clear that Saki feels shame for betraying his own father and perceives that his late mother would be saddened by his father's actions. The scar on his forehead is self-inflicted as a symbol of this shame. (In the English-language comic, Saki scarred himself early in the war when, as a commander of Asran's regular Air Force, he allowed himself to be tricked by his father - allowing anti-government forces to successfully attack Saki's base.) Saki appears in all three versions. He is the cousin of Kitori Palvanaff. Though not incompetent, Saki is not exactly considered an outstanding leader by the pilots but they follow his orders for the most part simply because it's what they are paid to do - and if they don't he will either dock their pay or shoot them. Although shown as a capable pilot in the manga and OVA series by efficiently flying the Kfir, Saki is leading the force from  the control tower in the TV series.
He is named after Saki's Sredni Vashtar.