[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# National Museum of India

in the National Museum, spanning 900 years and most stylistic formats to be found in India: Pala, early Jain style, Sultanate, the indigenous styles of Malwa, Mewar, Bundelkhand, Raghogarh, Mughal, Deccani, later Rajasthani, Pahari, Sikh, Jammu, Tanjore and Mysore, and the Company School paintings.

Mughal Miniature Paintings

Miniature painting flourished during Mughal rule. Emperor Jahangir and Shahjahan were great patrons of art. In their courts, the painters adopted themes ranging from portraitures to landses, durbar scenes and processions for their works. The Deccani style was a fusion of Islamic idiom with indigenous art styles and of local classical traditions with elements of Persian and European Renaissance.

Central India Miniature Paintings

Paintings from Central India include miniatures from Malwa and Bundelkhand.

Rajasthan Miniature Paintings

Rajasthani Miniatures flourished mainly in Mewar, Bundi, Kota, Kishangarh, Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bikaner.

Mewar Miniatures are illustrating Hindu mythological themes. Bundi and Kota Miniatures excel in composition compactness. Hunting scenes are Kota's speciality. Bikaner excels in Portraiture. Kishangarh is known for its Bani Thani, which portrays the model of an idealised and elegant woman.

Pahari Miniature Paintings
Pahari schools flourished mainly at Basohli, Chamba, Guler and Kangra. Under the patronage of Maharaja Sansar Chand in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, Kangra became the most prominent centre for the Pahari style.

Buddhist Artefacts Gallery

The Buddhist Art Section is mostly known for the sacred relics of Buddha (5th–4th century BC) unearthed from Piprahwa, Siddharthnagar district, in Uttar Pradesh, which yielded caskets with fragments of bone, along with ornaments, figures and precious stones. The inscription on a casket speaks of the relics of Buddha. The Archaeological Survey of India conducted further excavations at the site from 1971 to 1977, resulting in the discovery of two more caskets in soapstone, containing more sacred bone relics. The site has been identified with ancient Kapilavastu, the home town of Buddha Sakyamuni. Outstanding specimens of Buddhist Art is illustrated through exhibits in Stone, Bronze, Terracota, Stucco, Wooden Sculptures & Painted Scrolls or Thangkas from Nepal, Tibet, Central Asia, Myanmar, Java and Cambodia which represents the three principal Buddhist forms – Hinayana, Mahayana and Vajrayana. These objects stimulate a sense of Devotion, Dedication and Love for Humanity.

Key highlights of the collection include:

 Adoration of Stupa, Nagarjunkonda, Pale Green Limestone, 3rd century AD
 Standing Buddha, Kushana, Dark grey schist stone, 2nd–3rd century AD
 Laughing Boy Head, Kushana, Stucco, 3rd–4th century AD
 Scenes from Buddha’s Life, Gupta, Sarnath, Chunar sandstone, 5th century AD
 Buddha Head, Gupta, Sarnath, Buff Chunar sandstone, 5th century AD
 Standing Buddha, Pala, Nalanda, Bronze, 10th century AD
 Elephants carrying Buddha’s Relics, Sunga, Bharhut, Red sandstone, 2nd century BC
 Sacred Relics from Kapilavastu, Piprahwa, Spotted red sandstone, 5th–4th century BC

Evolution of Indian Scripts and Coins Gallery
In this gallery, there are many large sized well-lit transparencies on show which are narrating the development of various Indian Scripts and Coins.

Bronze Gallery
The Bronze Gallery, showcases pioneer works of bronze in Indian art and sculpture. Renovated to present information in a unique and accessible way, the gallery features a striking layout that juxtaposes the sculptures with detailed descriptions providing context, significance and production processes of the objects. The gallery has been curated by Shri Tejpal Singh, Deputy Curator, Archaeology and designed by Ms.Matrika, Mumbai and executed by CPWD.

Four Buddha images from Phophnar, Madhya Pradesh known for their excellence are on display. The Pala bronzes from 8th to 10th century, mainly Buddhist in theme are from Nalanda in Bihar. The bronzes from the Himalayan region, especially those belonging to Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, represents bronzes of Northern India. Svachchhanda Bhairavi showcases the skill of the metal smith of Chamba and Vishnu Vaikuntha testifies to the high level of craftsmanship of Kashmiri artists. Selected Nepalese and Tibetan bronzes are also on view. The image of Vasudeva-Kamalja (half Vishnu and half Lakshmi) displayed here is a superb example of Nepalese bronze art and iconography.

Key highlights of the collections include:

 Vishnu Vaikuntha, Kashmir, Bronze, 9th century AD
 Nataraja, Chola, Tamil Nadu, 12th century AD
 Kaliya-Mardan Krishna, Early Chola, 10th century AD
 Siva- Tripurantaka, Early Chola, 9th century AD
 Svachchhanda Bhairavi, Utpala Chamba, Himachal Pradesh, 10th century AD

Manuscripts Gallery