[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cham language

Cham (Cham: ꨌꩌ) is a Malayo-Polynesian language of the Austronesian family, spoken by the Chams of Southeast Asia. It is spoken primarily in the territory of the former Kingdom of Champa, which spanned modern Southern Vietnam, as well as in Cambodia by a significant population which descends from refugees that fled during the decline and fall of Champa. The Western variety is spoken by 220,000 people in Cambodia and 25,000 people in Vietnam. As for the Eastern variety, there are about 73,000 speakers in Vietnam, for a total of approximately 320,000 speakers.

Cham belongs to the Chamic languages, which are spoken in parts of mainland Southeast Asia, Indonesia's Aceh Province, and on the island of Hainan. Cham is the oldest-attested Austronesian language, with the Đông Yên Châu inscription being verifiably dated to the late 4th century AD.

Phonology
The Cham language dialects each have 21 consonants and 9 vowels.

Consonants

  in Western Cham is heard as a velar fricative . In Eastern Cham, it is heard as an alveolar flap , glide , or trill .

Vowels

Monophthongs

Diphthongs
,  (occurs only before ), , , ,  (occurs only before ), , , , .

Grammar

Word formation
There are several prefixes and infixes which can be used for word derivation.
 prefix pa-: causative, sometimes giving more force to the word
thau (to know) → pathau (to inform)
blei (to buy) → pablei (to sell)
biér (low) → pabiér (to lower)
yao (like, as) → payao (to compare)
jâ (finished) → pajâ (well finished)
prefix mâ-: sometimes causative, often indicates a state, possession, mutuality, reciprocity
jru (poison) → mâjru (to poison)
 (teacher) → mâgru (to study)
tian (belly) → mâtian (pregnancy)
boh (egg, fruit) → mâboh (lay an egg, give fruit)
daké (horn) → mâdaké (having horns)
prefix ta- or da-: frequentative
galung (to roll) → tagalung (to roll around)
dep (to hide oneself) → dadep (to be  to hide oneself)
infix -an-: noun formation
puec (to speak) → panuec (speech)
tiw (row) → taniw (oar)
dok (to live) → danok (house, living place)
infix -mâ-: no specific meaning
payao (to compare) → pamâyao (to compare)

Reduplication is often used:
palei, pala-palei (country)
rambah, rambah-rambâp (misery)

Syntax and word order
Cham generally uses SVO word order, without any case marking to distinguish subject from object:

Dummy pronominal subjects are sometimes used, echoing the subject:

Composite verbs will behave as one inseparable verb, having the object come after it:

Sometimes, however, the verb is placed in front of the subject:

Auxiliary verbs are placed after any objects:

If a sentence contains more than one main verb, one of the two will have an adverbial meaning:

Adjectives come after the nouns they modify:

If the order is reversed, the whole will behave like a compound:

Composite sentences can be formed with the particle krung:

It is also possible to leave out this particle, without change in meaning:

Questions are formed with the sentence-final particle rẽi:

Other question words are in situ:

Nominals
Like many languages in Eastern Asia, Cham uses numeral classifiers to express amounts. The classifier will always come after the numeral, with the noun coming invariably before or after the classifier-numeral pair.

The above examples show the classifier boḥ, which literally means "egg" and is the most frequently used — particularly for round and voluminous objects. Other classifiers are ôrang (person) for people and deities, ḅêk for long objects, blaḥ (leaf) for flat objects, and many others.

The days of the month are counted with a similar system, with two classifiers: one (bangun) used to count days before the full moon, and the other one (ranaṃ) for days after the full moon.

Personal pronouns behave like ordinary nouns and do not show any case distinctions. There are different forms depending on the level of politeness. The first person singular, for example, is kău in formal or distant context, while it is dahlak (in Vietnam) or hulun (in Cambodia) in an ordinarily polite context. As is the case with many other languages of the region, kinship terms are often used as personal pronouns.

Comparative and superlative are expressed with the locative preposition di/dii:

Verbs
There are some particles that can be used to indicate tense/aspect. The future is indicated with si or thi in Vietnam, with hi or si in Cambodia. The perfect is expressed with jâ. The first one comes in front of the verb:

The second one is sentence-final:

Certain verbs can function as auxiliaries to express other tenses or aspects. The verb dok ("to stay") is used for the continuous, wâk ("to return") for the repetitive aspect, and kieng ("to want") for the future tense.

The negation is formed with oh/o at either or both sides of the verb, or with di/dii in front.

The imperative is formed with the sentence-final particle bék, and the negative imperative with the preverbal juai/juei (in Vietnam and Cambodia respectively).

Sociolinguistics