[Source: PubMed]

24. Eur J Transl Myol. 2022 Oct 5;32(4):10777. doi: 10.4081/ejtm.2022.10777.

COVID-19 management in Iran and international sanctions.

Pormasoumi H(1), Rostami D(2), Jamebozorgi K(3), Mirshekarpour H(4), Heshmatnia 
J(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Zabol University of Medical Sciences, Zabol. 
drhpm@yahoo.com.
(2)School of Allied Medical Sciences, Zabol University of Medical Sciences, 
Zabol. daryoush.rostami@yahoo.com.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Zabol University of Medical Sciences, Zabol. 
khossro29@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine, Afzalipour Hospital, Kerman 
University of Medical Sciences Kerman. Mirshekarpour@kmu.ac.ir.
(5)Clinical Tuberculosis and Epidemiology Research Center, National Research 
Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases (NRITLD), Shahid Beheshti University 
of Medical Sciences, Tehran. jalalheshmatnia@yahoo.com.

Iran has one of the highest death rates from COVID-19 among Middle Eastern 
countries. In addition to having a better disease registration system compared 
to neighboring countries, many factors including economic conditions, have 
played an important role in increasing the number of mortality rate. This is 
while that during the Corona pandemic, Iran has been undergo severe sanctions by 
the United States, that has faced this country with a severe economic crisis. 
Considering the role of sanction on the country's health management in our 
study, we examined Iran's management plans against the Corona pandemic and the 
effect of sanctions on it. Quarantine and corona restrictions, on the one hand, 
and international sanctions, on the other hand, have put double pressure on the 
Iranian government. Although drugs and basic medical equipment are exempted from 
economic sanctions, direct and indirect effects of the sanctions have limited 
Iran's banking system and created widespread restrictions in the fields of 
trade, production, and investment. Fortunately, despite the sanctions, many 
hospitals had an appropriate performance in line with the health promotion 
program. It is obvious that economic sanctions have severe and harmful effects 
on public health and have led to poor health consequences in Iran, but attention 
to planning, standards and improving the quality of the hospital is an important 
issue in Corona management. Despite multiple mutations, this virus is likely to 
face with a more dangerous virus in the world future. Now, it is time to take 
appropriate management measures to remove these sanctions by relying on 
international solutions and interactions.

DOI: 10.4081/ejtm.2022.10777
PMCID: PMC9830411
PMID: 36200579

Conflict of interest statement: We confirm that we have read the Journal’s 
position on issues involved in ethical publication and affirm that this report 
is consistent with those guidelines. In March 2020, the Director-General of the 
World Health Organization declared Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) as a 
pandemic disease. Iran, like many other countries, was severely affected by the 
Corona virus and the first official case of this disease was registered in Qom 
on February 20, 2017. In a short time, Corona virus infected a large part of 
Iran. In fact, the Islamic Republic of Iran was among the countries whit the 
highest rate of COVID-19 infection. Irant was the first country with COVID-19 in 
the Middle East and its key role in spreading the virus to other neighboring 
countries such as Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan was also very likely. According 
to official statistics, Iran is placed on the eighth ranking among 10 countries 
in terms of infection rate with more than 6312387 cases based on positive PCR 
test and 135974 deaths due to COVID-19 by the end of January 2022. So far, the 
control and treatment of COVID-19 disease has imposed huge costs on countries 
both socially and economically. Diagnosis, screening, hospitalization in the 
hospital, the exorbitant costs of treatment on the one hand, and the cost of 
providing essential supplies and health items for medical staff and those who 
are in quarantine conditions on the other hand have put a lot of economic 
pressure on countries. Economic costs resulted in job closures, especially in 
the tourism, hotels, transportation, retail, and socio-economic costs resulted 
in educational institutions closures, the social consequences of locked down, 
isolation, quarantine, and psychological consequences obtained of it, are among 
very important cases during this challenge. Taking preventive measures, treating 
and reducing the socio-economic consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic requires 
funding to reduce the adverse effects of these costs, which needs government 
budget. The epidemiological situation of Iran and the complexity of its 
political and economic challenges have converted this country into a special 
subject for study; since that economic sanctions act as a major obstacle against 
scientific advice for effective prevention and treatment to control the COVID-19 
epidemic. This epidemic disease requires physical distancing and closure of many 
economic activities, and in the meantime, the Iranian government should 
encourage the people to stay at home and maintain a physical distance by 
offering economic assistance to the people and providing food and health for 
them. Also during this period, due to job closures, government revenue sources 
including taxes, government services and domestic sales of energy and 
electricity have decreased significantly, and this is while that current 
production costs of the public sector and private jobs continue. The direct 
costs of prevention, screening, control and treatment of the disease are also 
borne by the government. Many political and economic sanctions have been imposed 
on Iran since the Islamic Revolution (1979). In 2016, an agreement between Iran 
and members of the United Nations Security Council [known as the Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA)] led to the cancel some of these sanctions. 
Of course, however, after the victory of Donald Trump in the US presidential 
election and the withdrawal of the US from Barjam in 2018, the sanctions were 
imposed again. As a result, in 2019, Iran recorded the highest inflation rate 
and the lowest economic growth rate (35.7 vs. -9.5%, respectively) during the 
last 20 years. On October 8, 2020, the Trump government announced that the last 
round of sanctions would be imposed on Iran's banking system which its goal is 
merely collapsing Iran's economy. One of the major challenges in the Iranian 
health system is the restrictions imposed by these sanctions. In fact, due to 
the limitations of the Iranian banking system, the purchase of raw materials for 
drug synthesis as well as medical equipment and supplies for hospitals and 
medical centers is limited. Also, as a result of the sanctions imposed, Iran has 
restrictions on the import of some essential equipment with advanced technology; 
including test equipment (such as real-time PCR and X-ray machine) and some 
hospital equipment needed for Intensive Care Unit (ICU)/ Coronary Care Unit 
(CCU) beds. However, despite the production of some personal protective 
equipment (PPE) such as face masks, disinfectants, etc. in the country due to 
sanctions, there are restrictions on providing advanced testing and hospital 
equipment.,, During the COVID-19 pandemic in Iran, many drugs that showed 
promising results for this disease (such as Remdesivir, dexamethasone, and 
interferon beta) were developed and made available to the public. But, the 
increase the number of patients admitted to the hospital and also the use of 
these drugs outside the instructions, led to a shortage of some of these drugs. 
Iran for the production of some of these drugs and also chronic non-communicable 
diseases (NCD) drugs and the elderly people is facing with shortage of drug. 
This is because this country has a high rate of chronic non-communicable 
diseases such as cancer, diabetes, high blood pressure, etc., which has a high 
financial burden and sanctions and the COVID-19 pandemic were doubled these 
problems. In this review study, we intend to examine how the way manages and 
organizes the Iran country against the Corona virus and the effects of sanctions 
on it. MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF COVID-19 IN IRAN: From 
the beginning of outbreak this disease, health policy makers and decision makers 
began to implement intervention policies to prevent, control and treat people of 
the community. The National Committee for Fighting COVID-19 (NCFC) was 
established. According to the recommendation of this committee, interventions 
such as the nationwide closure of kindergartens, schools, universities and 
dormitories, the temporary release some of prisoners, the suspension of public 
transportation services and shopping malls, the closure of sports clubs and 
scientific institutions, the cancellation of congregational prayers and the 
closing of the holy shrines was done for the first time in the history of Iran. 
Moreover, from the National universities were asked to provide critical advices 
regarding COVID-19 coping strategies. The government, aware of the dangers that 
this disease can endanger health and of course other sectors, began to inject 
funds and in the first step to cope with the burden of COVID 19 and strengthen 
the budget health system allocated to the National Headquarters of management 
and control the outbreak this disease and the country's medical universities. 
This budget was applied for purchasing masks, disinfectants materials and 
related equipment., Usually in crises, especially the crisis of the new 
coronavirus outbreak, the weak and vulnerable groups of any society suffer the 
greatest damages. Therefore, the government and its organs must provide 
facilities to this group, so that they can meet their basic needs, including 
their physical and mental health. In addition, during the crisis, there are many 
problems such as business closures, lack of service providing personnel, 
insufficient control over the transmission chain and the recommendations of the 
Ministry of Health to stay at home, lack of equipment and medical space and 
convents, and so on. In this regard, a grant was allocated to individuals of the 
community during this pandemic. One of other policies included allocating 100 
billion Tomans in insurance subsidies to the Ministry of Health to prevent the 
outbreak of the coronavirus., The Iranian government also uses reliable public 
channels such as the SMS service, as well as mass media such as government 
television and radio stations to inform the public about the risk of contracting 
the virus and to encourage them to stay home. The dedicated websites and portals 
of some data analysis tools were also provided to identify urban areas with the 
highest risk of infection., The Ministry of Health and Medical Education of Iran 
in response to COVID-19 performed special activities such as setting up more 
than 10,000 IVR lines, setting up 1000 comprehensive health centers for 16 and 
24 hours on 7 days a week and self-assessment and self-reporting through 
responding to the questions of the site "salamat.gov.ir" for screening 
households; which in the first phase, about 75 million people were screened 
through self-assessment. Providing free health care to COVID-19 patients in 
hospitals or their homes was another government measures. With increasing health 
service costs, mainly due to rising age and chronic diseases, hospitals' focus 
has been criticized only on treatment, so it is not surprising that hospitals 
improve their health services and their health promotion programs and disease 
prevention tasks are considered in their daily plans. According to the World 
Health Organization, hospitals should evaluate their internal departments to 
improve health promotion services using self-assessment tools. To achieve this 
goal, standards for health-promoting hospitals have been developed by the World 
Health Organization, and measurable elements and indicators have been defined to 
facilitate the practical application of these standards in the planning, 
implementation, and evaluation of health promotion in hospitals. Hospitals that 
integrate health promotion programs into their day-to-day activities compared to 
hospitals that occasionally implement these standards, have better performance 
in health promotion. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the focus on this issue has 
become much more important than ever, and health promotion programs have 
received more attention than before., Although the health promotion program was 
started in Europe about three decades ago with the aim of reducing costs and 
implementing effective prevention programs in hospitals, but this project is 
relatively new in Iran. Therefore, in the early stages of assessing its 
compliance with the standards of the World Health Organization as well as 
determining barriers to program implementation for increase the quality of 
services in hospitals will be useful. One of the measures which has been taken 
during the corona pandemic to promote the health of patients and treatment staff 
was to prevent as many surgical procedures as possible for different patients, 
including cardiovascular patients; if urgent surgery is required, performing 
preoperative diagnostic procedures, including blood PCR coagulation specimens 
and COVID-19 are necessary. As a result, paying attention to the standards and 
improving the quality of the hospital is an important issue that should be 
considered. Also during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Iranian Ministry of Health 
and Medical Education announced that all public and private hospitals must 
cancel their elective procedures and elective admissions from February 29, 2020. 
Simultaneously with the decision to postpone the elective procedure, all 
colleges and hospitals were required to form multidisciplinary scientific and 
executive committees. In addition, all hospitals and clinics, with the exception 
of specialized centers, were prioritized the admission of patients with 
COVID-19., With exponential increasing number of patients, internal medicine 
specialists, hematologists, nephrologists, general surgeons, and thoracic 
surgeons were joined to the multidisciplinary framework. Cardiac surgeons were 
also involved in performing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). These 
initial measures, combined with government restrictions, led to a fixed curve of 
newly diagnosed patients in March 2020. Domestic pharmaceutical and medical 
equipment companies have accelerated the production of personal protective 
equipment (PPE), drugs, diagnostic kits and necessary supplies to overcome the 
major shortcomings posed by international sanctions against Iran over the past 
few years. At present time, all hospitals that care for patients with COVID-19 
are equipped with PPE for healthcare staff. SANCTIONS AND COVID-19 PANDEMIC: 
Every country may encounter problems in providing medicine for patients with its 
non-communicable disease, but further sanctions and restrictions in Iran have 
exacerbated this problem. The epidemiological characteristics of the COVID-19 in 
Iran showed that older age and people with comorbidities significantly increase 
the risk of death, so the prevention and control of COVID-19 in these patients 
should be paid more attention, but unfortunately people with older age due to 
economic conditions, had to expose in the community. Drug shortage is one of 
Iran's main restrictions in this epidemic which was exacerbated by sanctions. 
Although drugs and basic medical equipment are exempt from economic sanctions, 
but foreign banks that are afraid of being affected by these sanctions avoid 
from doing these activities. Therefore, many foreign transactions are not 
related to the health sector. As a result, Iran faces with problems in importing 
health and pharmaceutical supplies, which thus this issue has led to shortage 
and the provision of health services is one of the problems of the Iranian 
health system during the COVID- 19 crisis. Therefore, beyond the severe effects 
of political and economic sanctions against Iran, the country's health system is 
more at risk and to deal with this crisis must be relieved of these sanctions. 
With the increasing number of COVID-19 patients admitted to hospitals, including 
mothers and babies, an additional workload has been imposed on medical staff and 
more staff have become infected with COVID-19. In these circumstances, the lack 
of sufficient funding to hire experts jeopardizes the control of COVID-19, and 
sanctions can exacerbate these measures, especially over a long period of time. 
Sanctions against Iran have several direct and indirect consequences during the 
COVID-19 outbreak, which are graphically illustrated in Figure 1. Restrictions 
on the provision of some essential test equipment with advanced technology for 
the diagnosis of COVID-19, restrictions on the provision of necessary hospital 
equipment for CCU and ICU beds, restrictions on the provision of health services 
to patients with non-communicable diseases, the elderly and their mothers and 
children, drug shortage for patients with COVID-19, non-communicable diseases 
and the elderly people, the impact on medical and health professionals and 
nurses, problems on disease control and prevention due to financial constraints, 
and adverse effects on scientific research are among the effects of sanctions. 
MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES AGAINST SANCTIONS DURING THE CORONA PANDEMIC: The 
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 1966 (ICCPR), and the 
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in 1966 (ICESCR), 
protects the right to health and access to medicine. Article 25 of the UDHR 
refers to a person's right for having standard of life that allows him or her to 
maintain health and well-being. This issue includes access to food and medical 
care.,, The negative consequences of economic sanctions during the COVID-19 
crisis are unacceptable from a human rights perspective. They harm people and 
effectively restrict full access to humanitarian goods, which is a violation of 
international human rights obligations. Within the framework of the draft 
articles, the responsibility of governments for international misconduct, which 
was approved by the International Law Commission in its 53rd session (2001), a 
violation of international obligations by a state can lead to the international 
responsibility of the state. In addition to other strategies, in the first step, 
the responsible government must stop the wrongdoing and promise not to commit it 
again. According to this rule, the United States should suspend financial 
sanctions of Iran and not impose new sanctions during the Corona virus epidemic. 
The United States has declared that humanitarian goods, such as food and health 
or medical equipment, are exempt. However, the Iranian officials say that due to 
the lack of payment mechanisms and financial channels for vaccines could lead to 
an increase the mortality rate due to COVID-19 among Iranian people compared to 
other parts of the world. Recently, Iran has been under pressure from a very 
troubling situation in its economic growth rate. So it is expected that economic 
growth rate is reduced to further 1.4%, as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak 
which may lead to economic collapse. All of these conditions have prevented Iran 
from dealing properly with the COVID-19. It is clear from this situation that 
Iran is increasingly exposed to the threatening consequences of the current 
epidemic more than before., The ongoing economic sanctions are a major obstacle 
to funding the necessary preventive and control measures, including continuity 
physical distancing with jobs closure, reducing traffic, and providing essential 
health care to the elderly, and implementing a quarantine policy. Considering 
the importance of epidemic control in all countries to successful control the 
global epidemic, there is the need to remove economic sanctions to fund 
implement direct control, prevention, treatment and indirect measures such as 
providing support packages to continue physical distancing policies in Iran. In 
this critical periods, any reduction in Iran's revenue sources as a result of 
sanctions influence directly on the lives and health of the people, which is 
contrary to the Charter of Human Rights. Successful experiences regarding some 
governments' performance in the COVID-19 pandemic have shown that implementing 
public health policies is associated with increased public trust in formal 
structures and mutual accountability of governments in advancing goals and 
programs. It is important to note that some governments, despite their 
willingness to take serious action, also suffer from severe shortage of funds to 
implement dealt with COVID 19 programs, and in this regard, the support of 
international institutions can play an important role. Eliminating economic 
pressures with political consequences in these circumstances can also be a part 
of the process for helping to properly control this worrying disease., Iran in 
the shadow of the unparalleled efforts, cooperation and empathy that has shown 
throughout history, could repeatedly has resisted against the storm of natural 
and unnatural events and disasters and has emerged victorious, and this time 
there is no doubt that despite US government sanctions during these days, even 
in sending medical and health shipments to the people of Iran, and has doubled 
their suffering, thus Iran will come out victorious and proud in the fight 
against this pervasive calamity and also in the face of US sanctions. To achieve 
this goal, all available capacities must be used including legal capacities, 
international organizations, associations and non-governmental organizations to 
reduce harm to public health. In fact, the best solution is to use different 
forces for achieve the desired goals to ensure public health and establish order 
in the health system, especially in the COVID-19 pandemic. Effective resolution 
of the Corona crisis in the face of sanction situation will be possible through 
reliance on self-sacrifice and intellectual, human and material resources in the 
light of technological approaches and leaps in national production of 
pharmaceutical products and empowerment improve in the field of diagnosis and 
treatment using the country's indigenous capacities. Due to sanctions and lack 
of access to sufficient financial resources, Iran did not perform pre-purchase 
the vaccine at an appropriate time and mostly sought to produce domestic 
vaccines which may be one of the reasons for the conflict of interest of 
decision makers in preventing the import of vaccines. Therefore, by the end of 
August 1400, only 6% of Iranian people had been vaccinated. This is while that 
594 days after the World Health Organization announced the outbreak of the 
unknown disease in Wuhan, China, 4.72 billion doses of corona vaccine were 
produced worldwide and 23.6% of the world's population was vaccinated against 
this virus and even more than 30 countries had managed to inject two doses of 
the vaccine to more than 50% of their population and introduced several 
approaches to prevent infections and manage also tha long term consequences of 
COVID-19. Despite the role of vaccines in saving human life, different countries 
have been looking for ways to increase the effectiveness of vaccines. In this 
regard, the US Food and Drug Administration had authorized the injection of the 
third dose of modern vaccine and Pfizer for some people., With the measures 
taken by the Iranian government to vaccinate the country’s population better and 
more, in particular the purchase of 110 million doses of vaccine, in January 
2022 Iran reached an acceptable status in terms of 2 doses of vaccine with 72.11 
percent of the population vaccinated.48 This percentage compared well with other 
countries, including Italy with almost 90 %, United States with 75 percent, 
Russia 52 percent, Iraq 22 percent and Afghanistan 12 percent. [Figure: see 
text] CONCLUSIONS: This review impartially has examined the management of corona 
heart disease despite sanctions. The current outbreak of COVID-19 disease has 
created an emergency and threating status for public health in international 
level. Hence, governments have adopted new decisions to control and manage this 
crisis so that less damage is entered into communities. But despite the 
oppressive sanctions, Iran is struggling with double problems and in this 
meantime, the Iranian people have been severely affected by economic and health 
conditions, and the support of the international community can greatly reduce 
many problems. In crises, the weak and vulnerable groups are more facing with 
the greatest damage, so the attention of the government and organs towards the 
physical and mental health of this group is important. Oil sanctions are another 
important issue that has put a lot of pressure on the Iranian government and 
people with a direct impact on revenue generation, and in such circumstances, 
the Iranian health system is facing with a major crisis. In addition, although 
the drug is not on the sanctions list, but the sanctions have significantly 
affected the preparation and management of drugs, of course, the Iranian 
government and the Ministry of Health offered appropriate solutions in the 
information sector during the epidemic. Fortunately, despite the sanctions 
against Iran, many hospitals had a good performance in implementing the health 
promotion program. This issue indicates that the planning and implementing the 
health promotion program is important in the management plan of hospitals. 
Allocating funds to cope with the COVID-19 burden and strengthening the health 
system can reduce the pressure of sanctions on the medical staff and the people 
of Iran. In general, the ongoing economic sanctions are a major obstacle to 
providing the necessary funding for preventive and control measures, and this 
issue endangers the public health of the Iranian people. The negative 
consequences of economic sanctions during the COVID-19 crisis are unacceptable 
from a human rights perspective, and the global health system must address this 
issue. In fact, the control and treatment of COVID-19 imposes direct and 
indirect socio-economic costs, which require government support packages, and 
make the economic and political problems of treatment management difficult. It 
is obvious that economic sanctions have severe and harmful effects on public 
health and have led to poor health consequences in Iran, but paying attention to 
standards and improving the quality of hospitals is another important issue that 
should be appropriate management strategies in this regard. It is time to take 
appropriate management measures, including by the government of Iran, based on 
international solutions and interactions to lift these sanctions or to help 
shape the structure and reduce economic sanctions to ensure the health of the 
Iranian people. Certainly, paying attention to public health is more important 
than political and ideological issues, which should be considered by the 
relevant organizations.