[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# João Biehl

hropology from 2004-2005 and 2011-2012. Biehl was an Academic Adviser at Wilson College from 2004 to 2007, and has taught more than 20 undergraduate and graduate classes at Princeton since joining the faculty. He has also been a guest lecturer at more than 50 different universities around the world.

Publications
Biehl has written two books in English: Vita: Life in a Zone of Social Abandonment (University of California Press 2005) and Will to Live: AIDS Therapies and the Politics of Survival (Princeton University Press 2007). The books are ethnographic studies of the experience and treatment of mental illness and HIV/AIDS, respectively. Both Vita and Will to Live explore new geographies of access and marginalization that have emerged alongside pharmaceutical globalization. They also elaborate on networks of care that poor urban patients create in their daily struggles to survive. 
He has also written 4 books in Portuguese: "Entre as Montanhas" ("Between the Mountains") (Literalis, 2004), "Clandestino: No Cotidiano e na Teologia" (“Clandestine: Theology and Ordinary Life ”) (Vozes/Sinodal, 1990), "Igual pra Igual: Um Diálogo Crítico entre a Teologia da Libertação e as Teologias Negra, Feminista e Pacifista" ("From Equal to Equal: A Critical Dialogue between Latin American
Liberation Theology and Black, Feminist and Pacifist Theologies”) (Vozes/Sinodal, 1987) and "Tudo a Ver: Uma Viagem Sem Roteiros pela América do Sul" ("All to See: A Journey through South America”) (Sinodal, 1987.)
Biehl is the co-editor of "When People Come First: Critical Studies in Global Health" (Princeton University Press) and Subjectivity: Ethnographic Investigations (University of California Press 2007) and of the book series "Critical Global Health" (Duke University Press.) He is writing the history of a fratricidal war—the Mucker war—that took place among German immigrants in 1874 in southern Brazil. His ethnographic research focuses on domestic crimes and the monetarization of kinship ties in that region.
His work has been published in American Ethnologist; Culture, Medicine, and Psychiatry; Journal of Latin American Cultural Studies; Public Culture; and Social Text.

Awards
"Vita" garnered six major book awards, including the Margaret Mead Award of the American Anthropological Association. "Will to Live" received the Wellcome Medal of Britain's Royal Anthropological Society and the Diana Forsythe Prize of the American Anthropological Association. Biehl received Princeton University's Presidential Distinguished Teaching Award in 2005 and the Graduate Mentoring Award in 2012. His research has been supported by grants from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, the Wenner-Gren Foundation, the Ford Foundation, Princeton's Health Grand Challenges Initiative, and Princeton's Council of International Teaching and Research Foundation.

References

External links
 joaobiehl.net - Official website
 Biehl with one of his interlocutors 

Brazilian anthropologists
Brazilian Protestants
Medical anthropologists
Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
Place of birth missing (living people)
Brazilian people of German descent
UC Berkeley College of Letters and Science alumni
Princeton University faculty
Graduate Theological Union alumni