[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Denílson (footballer, born 1988)

re playing time. Denílson added a third Premier League goal of the campaign vs. Aston Villa at Villa Park in a 2–2 draw on 26 December 2008. On 11 March 2009, he converted his penalty to seal a 7–6 shoot-out victory over A.S. Roma in the Champions League Round of 16 second-leg match.

2009–10 season

Denílson started the first match of the 2009–10 season with a powerful strike from 25 yards out to beat Everton goalkeeper Tim Howard, leading to Arsenal winning the match 6–1 at Goodison Park. A month later he signed a new five-year deal at the Emirates Stadium.
However, he was then diagnosed with a seemingly innocuous back injury. This, though, was not the case and he was sidelined for two months at a crucial stage of the season. Denílson came back to action against Standard Liège on 23 November where he scored Arsenal's second goal with a long-range effort in their 2–0 home win. This was Denílson's 100th appearance for the club.
He afterward went on to score again for Arsenal against Hull City, Everton, Stoke City and West Ham United. Denílson altogether netted a sum of 6 times during that season with all these goals being long range strikes, as in the instance of a free kick upon Hull City. In the club's league campaign, Denílson was capped 28 times, with him making starts in 25 of those games. He in all scored 5 league goals for the Gunners in an eventful season where they finished third within the Premier League.

2010–11 season
Due to the emergence of teenage sensation Jack Wilshere and his own injury concerns, Denílson appeared less often in the 2010–11 season, being used mostly as a substitute starting only six Barclays Premier League matches and featuring in just 16 in total. Overall, he made 32 appearances in all competitions, 20 starts and 12 from the bench. On 19 May 2011, Denílson announced that he was set to leave Arsenal in the summer and it was reported that he wanted to return to Brazil. Arsenal finished in fourth place that season leaving them behind Manchester City in the places for automatic Champions League Qualifying.

São Paulo loan
Denílson returned to former club São Paulo on loan for the 2011–12 season after confirming he was to leave Arsenal earlier in the summer.
His number 15 squad number at Arsenal was given to new signing Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain for the 2011–12 season.

Denílson was sent off twice in his first three matches, with the latter of the red cards coming after he swore at a referee. Denílson thereafter received a number of angry messages in response to his playing upon Twitter. He then in response described the fans of whom spoke adversely about then São Paulo head coach Adílson Batista as being 'very, very annoying'. Denílson also claimed that he did not mean for his comments to be taken in a negative way towards all of the fans of the club. This was followed by a row of which ensued to such a level that several supporters demanded that Denílson was never to play for São Paulo again.

On 6 October, he scored his first goal whilst upon loan, a long range strike for São Paulo against Palmeiras in a Brazilian Serie A game. Denilson was instrumental in São Paulo getting to the final of 2012's Copa Sudamericana where in the second leg of such Club Atlético Tigre refused to play the match in its entirety. As so São Paulo went on to victoriously lift the trophy with Denilson copping a winners medal altogether.

On 3 June 2013, Denílson's agent confirmed that both Arsenal and Denílson had agreed to terminate his contract by mutual consent.

São Paulo
On 14 June 2013, Denílson signed a four-year contract with São Paulo. His transfer was praised by Ney Franco.

Al Wahda
He moved to Al Wahda during the summer of 2015.
Whilst at Al Wahda, Denilson won the UAE League Cup of 2016.

Cruzeiro
On 19 July 2016, Cruzeiro announced that they signed Denílson on loan until the end of the year. After only five league matches in his spell, the club stated that they would not exercise their option of buying the player.

Return to Al Wahda and release
After surgery in his right knee in 2017, Denílson agreed his contract termination with Al Wahda on July of the same year.

Botafogo-SP
After more than two years from his last professional match and a total of three knee surgeries, Denílson was signed by Brazilian Série B club Botafogo-SP for the 2019 season. He made his debut for the club as a substitute in the 2019 Campeonato Paulista loss against Red Bull Brasil. He was released in April having made no further appearances, due to fitness issues.

Sliema Wanderers
In August 2020 Denílson decided to come back to Europe, signing a one-year contract with the Maltese Premier League side Sliema Wanderers.