[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of circles in Washington, D.C.

Circle – intersection of Massachusetts, Minnesota, and Branch Avenues; K and 32nd Streets; and Fort DuPont Drive.
 Stadium Circle - intersection of East Capitol St, 22nd St NE & SE, C St NE, Independence Ave around RFK Stadium and is divided between the Northeast and Southeast quadrants of the city.

Southwest
Benjamin Banneker Circle – Off L'Enfant Promenade, south of Interstate 395
Garfield Circle – intersection of First Street and Maryland Avenue
Lincoln Memorial Circle – intersection of 23rd Street, Henry Bacon and Daniel French Drives, and the Arlington Memorial Bridge; surrounds the Lincoln Memorial and is divided between the Southwest and Northwest quadrants of the city
 Unnamed circle at the western end of Arlington Memorial Bridge connecting the bridge to the George Washington Memorial Parkway, Memorial Drive (which leads to Arlington National Cemetery), and Washington Boulevard (Virginia State Route 27); this circle is located on Columbia Island in the Potomac River, and thus falls within the District of Columbia
 Unnamed circle at the intersection of Third and G Streets

Squares
Washington, D.C. also has a number of squares that serve the same purpose as a traffic circle, but are not true roundabouts.
 Lincoln Square - intersection of 11th Street NE and SE on the west, 12th Street NE and SE on the west, 13th Street NE and SE on the east, East Capitol Street, Massachusetts Avenue, North Carolina Avenue, and is divided between the Northeast and Southeast quadrants of the city.

 Stanton Square - intersection of Maryland Avenue and Massachusetts Avenue in the Capitol Hill neighborhood of Northeast, Washington, D.C. It is bounded by 4th Street to the west and 6th Street to the east. North and south of the park are the respective westbound and eastbound lanes of C Street, NE.

Photos

See also

 Geography of Washington, D.C.
 Streets and highways of Washington, D.C.
 Transportation in Washington, D.C.

References

Circles
Circles in Washington D.C.
Circles