[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Continental shelf of Russia

of Arctic sea shelf extending more than 350 nautical miles (about 650 kilometers) from the shore.

On 9 February 2016, Russia formally submitted to the United Nations a revised application with substantiated evidence of shelf claims to the Arctic Ocean seabed, including an area under the North Pole.

The evidential base of this application includes geology and geophysics evidence from nine Russian scientific expeditions.  They were launched by Ministry of natural resources and environmental protection in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and Russian Academy of Sciences. It is important to note that the expeditions were performed by scientific icebreakers and submarines. Moreover, a geological office has conducted acquisitions of bathymetric multibeam sounder, integrated seismic exploration, airborne geophysical measurements and geological sampling of the main Amerasian and Eurasian basins' structures. During the work researchers used a unique technology, specially designed for difficult ice conditions. The icebreaking research vessel Akademik Fedorov was refitted specifically for seismic operations in ice thickness up to three meters.

The justification of Russian claim is confirmed by the continuity of the sedimentary magnitude, elements of basal complex, as well as the overall continuity and consistency of the deep layers of the earth's crust and the absence of strike-slip transverse faults at the junction of the Lomonosov Ridge and the Eurasian continent.

All collected data show the continental character of the Lomonosov Ridge, the Mendeleev-Alfa High, the Chukotka Plateau, as well as the continuous extension of these elements from the shallow Eurasian shelf.

On August 9, 2016, all of this evidence were presented in New York at the 41st session of the UN Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS).

See also
 Arctic policy of Russia
 Energy policy of Russia
 Outer Continental Shelf
 List of Russian explorers
 Maritime boundary

References

Borders of Russia
 
Russia
Energy in Russia
Geography of the Arctic
Government of the Arctic
Landforms of the Arctic Ocean