[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Soil vapor extraction

inated zones with lower air flow (i.e., low permeability zones or zones of high moisture content) and/or lower volatility (or higher adsorption).  Recent work at U.S. Department of Energy sites has investigated layering and low permeability zones in the subsurface and how they affect SVE operations.

Enhancement of SVE
Enhancements for improving the effectiveness of SVE can include directional drilling, pneumatic and hydraulic fracturing, and thermal enhancement (e.g., hot air or steam injection).  Directional drilling and fracturing enhancements are generally intended to improve the gas flow through the subsurface, especially in lower permeability zones.  Thermal enhancements such as hot air or steam injection increase the subsurface soil temperature, thereby improving the volatility of the contamination.  In addition, injection of hot (dry) air can remove soil moisture and thus improve the gas permeability of the soil.  Additional thermal technologies (such as electrical resistance heating, six-phase soil heating, radio-frequency heating, or thermal conduction heating) can be applied to the subsurface to heat the soil and volatilize/desorb contaminants, but these are generally viewed as separate technologies (versus a SVE enhancement) that may use vacuum extraction (or other methods) for collecting soil gas.

Design, Optimization, Performance Assessment, and Closure
On selection as a remedy, implementation of SVE involves the following elements:  system design, operation, optimization, performance assessment, and closure.  Several guidance documents provide information on these implementation aspects.  EPA and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) guidance documents establish an overall framework for design, operation, optimization, and closure of a SVE system.  The Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE) guidance presents actions and considerations for SVE system optimization, but has limited information related to approaches for SVE closure and meeting remediation goals.  Guidance from the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) supplements these documents by discussing specific actions and decisions related to SVE optimization, transition, and/or closure.

Design and operation of a SVE system is relatively straightforward, with the major uncertainties having to do with subsurface geology/formation characteristics and the location of contamination.  As time goes on, it is typical for a SVE system to exhibit a diminishing rate of contaminant extraction due to mass transfer limitations or removal of contaminant mass.  Performance assessment is a key aspect to provide input for decisions about whether the system should be optimized, terminated, or transitioned to another technology to replace or augment SVE.  Assessment of rebound and mass flux provide approaches to evaluate system performance and obtain information on which to base decisions.

Related Technologies
Several technologies are related to soil vapor extraction.  As noted above, various soil-heating remediation technologies (e.g., electrical resistive heating, in situ vitrification) require a soil gas collection component, which may take the form of SVE and/or a surface barrier (i.e., hood). Bioventing is a related technology, the goal of which is to introduce additional oxygen (or possibly other reactive gases) into the subsurface to stimulate biological degradation of the contamination.  In situ air sparging is a remediation technology for treating contamination in groundwater.  Air is injected and "sparged" through the groundwater and then collected via soil vapor extraction wells.

See also
 In-situ thermal desorption
 In situ soil heating
 Bioventing
 In situ air sparging
 Environmental remediation
 Vapor–liquid separator
 Volatile organic compounds
 Modified active gas sampling
 Electro Thermal Dynamic Stripping Process

References

 EPA.  1996.  "User’s Guide to the VOCs in Soils Presumptive Remedy."  EPA/540/F-96/008, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Washington, D.C.
 EPA.  1997.  Analysis of Selected Enhancements for Soil Vapor Extraction.  EPA/542/R-97/007, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Washington, D.C.
 EPA.  2012.  "A Citizen’s Guide to Soil Vapor Extraction and Air Sparging."  EPA/542/F-12/018, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Washington, D.C.