[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Penn State Altoona

icrowave/refrigerator/freezer. Vending machines and card-operated laundry machines are located in each hall. The lounges generally contain a TV, lounge, and study area. Residence Life Professional staff members are also present in the residence halls in addition to undergraduate Resident Assistants.

Housing options include:
 Oak Hall - Built in 1964, Oak Hall is a traditional residence hall which, along with Maple Hall, houses the majority of first-year students who live on campus. There are two students per room and the halls are coed by wing. There are Resident Assistants, who live on each floor, who serve as student counselors to the residents of the floor.
 Maple Hall - Built in 1970, Maple Hall is a traditional residence hall which, along with Oak Hall, houses the majority of first-year students who live on campus. There are generally two students per room and the halls are coed by wing, on the first floor, while the second floor houses male students and the third floor houses female students. There are Resident Assistants, who live on each floor, who serve as student counselors to the residents of the floor. A professional staff member lives and has office space in the building located directly off of the lobby. 
 Spruce Hall - Built in 1987, Spruce Hall consists of suites: four students share two bedrooms and a private bathroom. Spruce Hall is reserved mostly for sophomores. Residence life staff office space is also located here in addition to housing the graduate assistant for the Residence Life Office.
 Cedar Hall - Built in 1997, Cedar Hall houses 320 students, includes living space for professional residence life staff, office space, and a guest staff/faculty apartment. Cedar Hall consists of suites: four students share two bedrooms and a private bathroom.

There are also several off-campus housing locations, including Nittany Pointe, Wehnwood Court, College Park, and Penn View Apartments.

In addition to housing on campus, there is a cafe on campus called 'Port Sky Cafe' which serves food from hamburgers and French fries to more varied foods, a coffee shop called 'Coasters Coffee Bar' located in the Hawthorn Classroom Building, and 'Common Grounds', a convenience store available to students, faculty, and staff located in the Slep Student Center building. Common Grounds was originally a coffee shop (the name was a pun on coffee grounds) but closed a year after Coasters opened in the Hawthorn building and became an on-campus convenience store. There are also several fast food restaurants within a mile radius of the campus. The campus is located less than two miles from downtown Altoona.

Information Technology 
Penn State Altoona's Office of Information Technology offers support to students on many technologies such as wireless connection, e-mail, Canvas, etc.   There are also extra resources given to students to help with their academic career such as: computer labs around campus, printing, cloud storage, etc. There are also additional resources and benefits offered through Penn State University as a whole.

References

External links

Official website

 
Universities and colleges established in 1939
Universities and colleges in Blair County, Pennsylvania
Altoona, Pennsylvania
1939 establishments in Pennsylvania
Altoona