[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1929 Bahamas hurricane

se islands with an intensity equivalent to a Category 4 hurricane on the modern Saffir–Simpson scale. The swath of winds exceeding 100 mph (160 km/h) cut through much of the Bahamas, encompassing the entirety of Andros and New Providence islands and parts of Great Abaco Island and the Berry Islands.

The weaker construction standards of the era succumbed to the force of the hurricane. Poorly-built structures were destroyed en masse by the storm. Many ships throughout the Bahamas were driven ashore and destroyed. The sponging industry, at the time the colony's most prominent economic activity, was badly affected; nearly all sponge warehouses and roughly 70% of sponge vessels were destroyed, with many other ships sustaining serious damage. Communication was lost between many of the islands in the Bahamas. Only a few radio stations remained in the Out Islands, with limited capacity for international communications. Crops sustained widespread losses and roads required significant repairs.

Andros and New Providence experienced the heaviest blow in the Bahamas. Other islands in the Bahamas sustained lesser impacts as the force of winds was diminished farther out from the center of the storm. Great Abaco Island endured hurricane-force winds of up to 100 mph (160 km/h) for 36 hours, causing "minor to major damage". Nineteen homes and twelve boats were wrecked on the island. The steamship Wisconsin Bridge went aground along the southeastern tip of Abaco Island near the Hole-in-the-Wall lighthouse; all but one of the 34 crew chose not to evacuate, and those that did perished. The lighthouse was also damaged by the storm.  The British freighter Domira went aground  off Great Abaco on September 25. A colonial lighthouse tender was designated to render assistance but could not depart promptly due to the rough seas. Minor damage was also reported on Eleuthera and Cat Island. Communications on Eleuthera were disrupted after winds reached 50 mph (80 km/h). Strong but mostly non-damaging gale-force winds and squalls were reported in Great Exuma Island, Long Island, and Ragged Island; one schoolhouse collapsed in Ragged Island.

Andros Island 

Andros Island experienced its worst storm in at least a century, with the entire island thoroughly devastated. At least 25 fatalities occurred on the island. As the storm's center progressed from the Tongue of the Ocean towards the west of the Bahamas, Andros Island endured hurricane-force winds and rough seas for nearly 48 hours. The onslaught was prolonged by the storm's slow motion— when it moved across Andros Island on September 26—and its expansion as it approached the island; the diameter of the region of hurricane-force winds expanded from  upon the storm's initial entrance into the Northeast Providence Channel to  atop Andros Island. A storm surge higher than  swamped the island from Mangrove Cay southward, the winds driving the sea  inland along the western and southern coasts of Andros Island and raking the land clear of vegetation. According to the annual report for the island submitted to the Bahamas House of Assembly, all crops and most fruit trees, livestock, and poultry on Andros Island perished. In some locations, the inundation was  deep. Areas of the island farther north experienced less flooding. Several ships were lost in the storm at Andros Island. The British tanker Potomac, sailing from Havana, Cuba, encountered the core of the hurricane and broke into two on Andros Island after documenting the lowest pressure associated with the hurricane. Having transported a cargo of oil, the mangled vessel was at risk of an explosion; the captain of the ship took to the boiler room to shut off valves himself. Three ships bound for Andros Island were caught in the storm. Among them was the  schooner Pretoria, which sank at the entrance to the Fresh Creek Harbor Channel, killing 35 people with only 3 surviving. The schooner Repeat sank near Grassy Creek with the loss of most lives. At Water Cay, at least sixteen ships lost their entire yields of sponges. Many other boats were destroyed or seriously damaged. Six large sloops and another large vessel undergoing repairs were destroyed at Mangrove Cay. Many other vessels were damaged. The wind and waves vacated the seas of any ships, depositing them inland several hundred feet from their anchorage. Ten people drowned at Mangrove Cay. Another 18 drowned en route to the district after their ship sank.