[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard

The Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard was a set of five minimum statutory entitlements for wages and conditions introduced as part of the Howard government's WorkChoices amendments to Australian labour law in 2006 and then abolished by the Fair Work Act 2009 in 2010.

The five statutory entitlements the Standard dealt with were:
 basic rates of pay and casual loadings
 maximum ordinary hours of work
 annual leave
 personal leave (including carer's leave and compassionate leave)
 parental leave and related entitlements.

The Standard came into effect on 27 March 2006. The employment conditions and wages of employees covered by the Standard had to meet or exceed the Standard's provisions. Compliance was ensured by Workplace Ombudsman inspectors, with powers to investigate disputes and enforce valid claims.

The Standard was replaced by the National Employment Standards when the Rudd government passed the new Fair Work Act 2009 on 1 January 2010.

Scope 
Because the changes under WorkChoices largely relied on the corporations power under the Australian Constitution, the Standard did not apply to all Australian workers. It applied to all employees in Victoria, the ACT, the Northern Territory, Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Island because they were already within the federal workplace relations system. In Victoria, the application of the Standard (although universal) was slightly different in terms of how wage rates were adjusted by the Australian Fair Pay Commission.

In other parts of Australia, the following specific categories of employers and employees were not covered by the Standard:
 workers whose employers were not constitutional corporations (unless their employers fell within other specified categories);
 employees who were bound to an Australian Workplace Agreement which had been approved by the Office of the Employment Advocate prior to 27 March 2006;
 workers covered by a Certified Agreement that had been filed with or certified by the Australian Industrial Relations Commission prior to 27 March 2006. In the case of an agreement that had been filed before this date, but not yet certified, the employer would have had to meet the Standard until the certification took place;
 employees who were bound by a state employment agreement that was made prior to 27 March 2006, insofar as the agreement addressed conditions otherwise addressed by the Standard.

Some entitlements under the Standard did not apply to casual employees. Generally, casuals had no entitlement to annual leave, personal/carer's leave or compassionate leave. However, unpaid parental leave was available to eligible casual employees. Casuals were also eligible for unpaid carer's leave. In return for having no annual leave or personal leave entitlements, casuals without an entitlement under an industrial instrument were guaranteed a minimum casual of 20%.

Provisions

Ordinary hours 
The Standard provided for a guaranteed maximum of 38 ordinary hours of work per week. It allowed for an averaging of an employee's weekly hours of work over a 12-month period by written agreement between the employer and employee. Employees could also be asked to work reasonable additional hours and had the right to refuse to work hours not considered 'reasonable'. The question of what constituted 'reasonable' depended on the particular circumstances of the employee, but included factors such as any risk to the employee's health or safety, the hours worked by the employee in the previous four weeks, the notice given by the employer of the requirement to work the additional hours, and the notice given by the employee of the refusal to work those hours, and the operational requirements of the business.

A three-year transitional period was created in relation to maximum ordinary hours and federal awards and Notional Agreement Preserving a State Awards. During this period, an award term that provided a lower standard than the maximum ordinary hours guaranteed by the Standard continued to operate. In other words, the award term continued until 27 March 2009.

Annual leave 
The Standard provided an entitlement to four weeks' paid annual leave each year. All full-time and part-time employees covered by WorkChoices were entitled to paid annual leave. Part-time employees accrued their annual leave on a pro rata basis. Annual leave accrued for each completed four-week period of continuous service and was cumulative. Casual employees did not have an entitlement to annual leave under the Standard. Continuous shift workers received an additional week of annual leave, provided they regularly worked both Sundays and public holidays.