[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Don't Torture a Duckling

s Screen Entertainment made the film available on DVD on 29 August 2011 in a "Shameless Fan Edition", which contains, for the first time, optional English and Italian audio and subtitles, the Italian theatrical trailer and a booklet adapted by Stephen Thrower from Beyond Terror, his definitive book.

Reception  
Bloody Disgusting awarded the film a positive score of  out of 5. Praising the film's cinematography, music, and gory special effects, calling it one of their all-time favorite film by director Fulci.
AllMovie gave the film a positive review calling the film "one of Fulci's more successful outings".
TV Guide awarded the film 3 out of 5 stars. Complimenting the film's direction, atmosphere, and well executed murder scenes, stating "Lucio Fulci's murder mystery paints an exceptionally unflattering portrait of small-town Sicily as a backwater rife with perversion, ignorance, madness and murderous small-mindedness".
 
According to Danny Shipka, the small Italian town of the setting turns out to be an Italian version of Harper Valley PTA, with suspects including voyeurs, drug addicted pedophiles, gypsies and priests. He finds that the film provides a thought-provoking depiction of life and politics in a small town of Italy. The main themes are "repression, sin and guilt". The motive of the murder turns out to be a desire to rescue the boys from the effects of their own sexuality. In other words, the killer attempts to preserve the innocence of the victims. He is attempting to send them to Heaven while they remained in a stage of uncorrupted grace.

Shipka finds that the film also demonstrates the tendency of giallo filmmakers to seriously question religion and priesthood. Mikel J. Koven points that predatory priests also appeared in Who Saw Her Die? (1972) and The Bloodstained Shadow (1978).

Troy Howarth, author of So Deadly, So Perverse: 50 Years of Italian Giallo Films, calls it one of the most beautifully photographed Italian genre films in his commentary track for Arrow Video's 2017 Blu-ray release of the film.

References

Works cited

External links 
 
 
 

1972 films
1972 horror films
1970s mystery thriller films
1970s horror thriller films
Films directed by Lucio Fulci
Films set in Italy
Films shot in Matera
Giallo films
Italian horror films
1970s Italian-language films
Italian mystery thriller films
Italian serial killer films
Religious horror films
Films about sexual repression
Films critical of the Catholic Church
Films scored by Riz Ortolani
1970s exploitation films
1970s Italian films