[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# El Cartel: The Big Boss

El Cartel: The Big Boss is the fourth studio album and eighth overall by Puerto Rican rapper Daddy Yankee. It was released on June 5, 2007, by El Cartel Records through Interscope Records and It is the third installment following El Cartel (1997) and El Cartel II (2001). It explores lyrics and themes ranging from immigration, tabloid rumors, romance, dance and protest against political corruption. The album production persecutes an aggressive sound and was focus on hardcore reggaeton and Latin urban mixed with elements of tropical rhythms, R&B and straight-up hip-hop on a few tracks. The album's theme was to solidified the artist status at the top of Latin music industry and rivals. It features guest appearances Akon, Fergie, Will.i.am, Nicole Scherzinger, Héctor el Father and contains the contributions of producers such as Scott Storch, Luny Tunes, Tainy, and Mr. Collipark.

El Cartel: The Big Boss receive polarized reviews by the critics. While some critics enjoyed the music diversion and praised the production as Yankee's input and charisma as well, others criticized reggaeton's repetitive formula. The album was nominated for Lo Nuestro Award for Urban Album of the Year. Also, it was nominated for Best Latin Urban Album at the 50th Annual Grammy Awards and Best Urban Music Album at the 8th Annual Latin Grammy Awards. Eventually, it won Top Latin Album of the Year and Reggaeton Album of the year at the 2008 Latin Billboard Music Awards. The album was supported by two official singles. The lead single "Impacto" won Lo Nuestro Award for Video of the Year in 2008 and was included at the soundtrack of Grand Theft Auto IV.

El Cartel: The Big Boss was a commercial success. It debut at the top of US Billboard Top Latin Albums and at number nine US Billboard 200, with the highest sales figure for reggaeton album in its first week. It was the best selling Latin album in the United States of 2007, His third consecutive album to do so, following Barrio Fino en Directo in 2006 and Barrio Fino in 2005, that were top sellers in the two previous years. Eventually, it received platinum certification (Latin field) three times by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Also, it reached the top ten in Mexico, Peru, Ecuador, Venezuela, Dominican Republic, Argentina and Paraguay selling over one million of copies worldwide. In August 2007, Daddy Yankee embarked on the Big Boss Tour to promote the album, his second arena tour in the United States and his first official world tour.

Background and production
Initial plans of the album, according to Yankee himself in summer of 2005, it would feature much of his vintage reggaeton style and that he's been in talks with P. Diddy, the Neptunes, Lil Jon and one of his childhood idols, Dr. Dre, about getting down on the album. However, none of those plans was materialized. Daddy Yankee said that he wanted people to see his style as an MC and return to his hip-hop roots. He collaborated with producers Scott Storch and will.i.am to combine, as he put it, "the force and our creative minds to create a new sound".

Yankee started writing for the album shortly after the last leg of Barrio Fino World Tour ended in June 2006. The recording seasons official started in August 2006, at the Hit Factory In Miami and ended in April 2007 with the recording of the remix of Impacto with Fergie. He also collaborated with Akon on a track called, "Bring It On", a track he considered as a follow-up to his lead single. Another song from the album that is characterized as a "catchy club banger" entitled, "Impacto" was produced by Scott Storch and features The Black Eyed Peas member, Fergie. He also recorded a song with Pussycat Dolls' lead vocalist, Nicole Scherzinger, which he described as a "crazy dancehall, Caribbean song". On the track "Soy Lo Que Soy", Daddy Yankee self-proclaimed himself as the leader of reggaeton when he stated that "the Latin people baptized me as the King of Reggaeton".

Promotion and media appearances 
On April 16, 2007, Yankee revealed plans for his second arena tour in the US with initial plans to expand the tour to Europe and Asia. Following the announcement, presale of the tickets started and fans got a pre-order digital copy of the album on iTunes in a marketing strategy to bundle the sales. In May 2007, MTV Tr3s made the reggaeton star its "Artist of the Month", with interviews, news and special programming across its TV, online and wireless platforms. On May 15, 2007, the album was released for pre-order along with the remix of Impacto with Fergie. Also, the dates of the US leg were released and available for presale. Those who pre-ordered the album got a special code to buy the tickets on June 9, 2007 while the general sales were set on June 15.