[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Abdul Majeed al-Zindani

Abdul Majeed al-Zindani (; born in 1942 in Ibb, Yemen) is a leading Islamist, founder and head of the Iman University in Yemen, head of the Yemeni Muslim Brotherhood political movement and founder of the Commission on Scientific Signs in the Quran and Sunnah, based in Saudi Arabia. He has been described by Daniel Golden of the Wall Street Journal as "a charismatic Yemeni academic and politician." and by CNN as "a provocative cleric with a flaming red beard".

Career

Al-Zindani spent his early college years in Egypt, and studied at Ain Shams University (first studying biology and chemistry, but then switching to Islamic studies) but did not complete a degree. He returned to Aden in 1966, went to Saudi Arabia in 1967 where he was a senior official in the Islamic Call Organization, and was sent home in 1962 when he was arrested by the ruler of Egypt.  He returned to Yemen In 1962 as a delegator to represent his master Al-Zubiri in the conference revolutionary republicans and monarchic forces. Zindani, under the leadership of Alzubairi, advocated for a revolution and played a role in mobilizing Yemeni people against the monarchy.

When he returned to Yemen he formed the Yemeni Muslim Brotherhood and devoted his life to politics.

Iman University
Al-Zindani is the founder and president of the Iman University in Sanaa, Yemen. The institution was founded in 1995 with Yemeni government support. It also received foreign donations from the conservative Wahhabist heritage nations of Saudi Arabia and Qatar, receiving about 400 students annually.

The US Treasury statement that Zindani is loyal to bin Laden states that some students at Iman University have been arrested for political and religious murders. Some believe that the school's curriculum deals mostly, if not exclusively, with Islamic studies, and that it is an incubator of extremism.

The Sunday Times has established that Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, the Northwest Airlines Flight 253 suspected bomber who was arrested on Christmas Day 2009, attended lectures by al-Awlaki at the university in 2005.

Political activity
Al-Zindani is "a leading member" of Yemen's al-Islah Party, (the Yemeni Congregation for Reform), of which Tawakel Karman, who was awarded the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize, was also a member.

Commission on Scientific Signs in the Quran and Sunnah
He approached the Saudi government's largest charity, the Muslim World League, in 1984 to establish a Commission on Scientific Signs in the Quran and Sunnah, based in Saudi Arabia. He headed the Commission as secretary general until stepping down in 1995.  Although he no longer has any official role with the Muslim World League, he is still invited to its events.

A criticism made of the commission is that in its enthusiasm to prove that evidence in favor of Qur'anic scientific miracles "is clear and obvious" and that "a group of eminent non-Muslim scholars in several fields" has testified to this, the commission has spread misleading, out-of-context statements by several of these non-Muslim scholars. In 1984, a member of the commission, Mustafa Abdul Basit Ahmed, moved to the United States to recruit non-Muslim Western scientists to verify the miraculous signs of the Quran. However, in a 2002 story in the American newspaper The Wall Street Journal, several non-Muslim scientists spoke of questionable practices used by the commission to coax statements from them, such as hard-sell interviews by Sheikh Abdul Majeed al-Zindani,
and false promises to be "completely neutral."

The commission drew the scientists to its conferences with first-class plane tickets for them and their wives, rooms at the best hotels, $1,000 honoraria, and banquets with Muslim leaders – such as a palace dinner in Islamabad with Pakistani President Mohammed Zia ul-Haq shortly before he was killed in a plane crash. Ahmed also gave at least one scientist a crystal clock. 

Marine scientist William Hay complained of having fallen into a "trap" in interviews, while embryologist Gerald Goeringer claimed "mutual manipulation" between the scientists and conference organizers. Retired Geologist Professor Alfred Kröner of the University of Mainz has a standard e-mail reply clarifying his "out of context" remarks during one of the conferences and has described the proceedings which resulted in his remarks being used by Muslim apologists. In a video recorded interview, he describes the events and explains how he was asked to answer purely hypothetical questions and it was from these answers that he was subsequently quote-mined and misrepresented.  More recently, the YouTube user TheRationalizer recorded interviews with William Hay, Alison (Pete) Palmer, Prof Tom Armstrong and Alfred Kröner in order to give them the opportunity to put forward their accounts of the events and explain their true opinions in full, without editing.