[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 193]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

the wrath of God remaineth upon them;"
and not that they shall be condemned; but that "they are condemned
already."(John 3.36, 3.18) Nor can it be conceived, that the benefit
of Faith, "is Remission of sins" unlesse we conceive withall, that the
dammage of Infidelity, is "the Retention of the same sins."

But to what end is it (may some man aske), that the Apostles, and other
Pastors of the Church, after their time, should meet together, to agree
upon what Doctrine should be taught, both for Faith and Manners, if no
man were obliged to observe their Decrees? To this may be answered, that
the Apostles, and Elders of that Councell, were obliged even by their
entrance into it, to teach the Doctrine therein concluded, and decreed
to be taught, so far forth, as no precedent Law, to which they were
obliged to yeeld obedience, was to the contrary; but not that all other
Christians should be obliged to observe, what they taught. For though
they might deliberate what each of them should teach; yet they could
not deliberate what others should do, unless their Assembly had had
a Legislative Power; which none could have but Civill Soveraigns. For
though God be the Soveraign of all the world, we are not bound to take
for his Law, whatsoever is propounded by every man in his name; nor any
thing contrary to the Civill Law, which God hath expressely commanded us
to obey.

Seeing then the Acts of Councell of the Apostles, were then no Laws,
but Councells; much lesse are Laws the Acts of any other Doctors,
or Councells since, if assembled without the Authority of the Civill
Soveraign. And consequently, the Books of the New Testament, though most
perfect Rules of Christian Doctrine, could not be made Laws by any other
authority then that of Kings, or Soveraign Assemblies.

The first Councell, that made the Scriptures we now have, Canon, is not
extant: For that Collection the first Bishop of Rome after S. Peter, is
subject to question: For though the Canonicall books bee there reckoned
up; yet these words, "Sint vobis omnibus Clericis & Laicis Libris
venerandi, &c." containe a distinction of Clergy, and Laity, that was
not in use so neer St. Peters time. The first Councell for setling the
Canonicall Scripture, that is extant, is that of Laodicea, Can. 59.
which forbids the reading of other Books then those in the Churches;
which is a Mandate that is not addressed to every Christian, but to
those onely that had authority to read any publiquely in the Church;
that is, to Ecclesiastiques onely.




Of The Right Of Constituting Ecclesiasticall Officers In The Time Of
The Apostles

Of Ecclesiastical Officers in the time of the Apostles, some were
Magisteriall, some Ministeriall. Magisteriall were the Offices
of preaching of the Gospel of the Kingdom of God to Infidels; of
administring the Sacraments, and Divine Service; and of teaching the
Rules of Faith and Manners to those that were converted. Ministeriall
was the Office of Deacons, that is, of them that were appointed to the
administration of the secular necessities of the Church, at such time
as they lived upon a common stock of mony, raised out of the voluntary
contributions of the faithfull.

Amongst the Officers Magisteriall, the first, and principall were the
Apostles; whereof there were at first but twelve; and these were chosen
and constituted by our Saviour himselfe; and their Office was not onely
to Preach, Teach, and Baptize, but also to be Martyrs, (Witnesses of
our Saviours Resurrection.) This Testimony, was the specificall, and
essentiall mark; whereby the Apostleship was distinguished from other
Magistracy Ecclesiasticall; as being necessary for an Apostle, either to
have seen our Saviour after his Resurrection, or to have conversed with
him before, and seen his works, and other arguments of his Divinity,
whereby they might be taken for sufficient Witnesses. And therefore at
the election of a new Apostle in the place of Judas Iscariot, S. Peter
saith (Acts 1.21,22.) "Of these men that have companyed with us, all the
time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the
Baptisme of John unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must
one be ordained to be a Witnesse with us of his Resurrection:" where, by
this word Must, is implyed a necessary property of an Apostle, to have
companyed with the first and prime Apostles in the time that our Saviour
manifested himself in the flesh.




Matthias Made Apostle By The Congregation.

The first Apostle, of those which were not constituted by Christ in the
time he was upon the Earth, was Matthias, chosen in this manner: There
were assembled together in Jerusalem about 120 Christians (Acts 1.15.)
These appointed two, Joseph the Just, and Matthias (ver. 23.) and caused
lots to be drawn; "and (ver. 26.) the Lot fell on Matthias and he was
numbred with the Apostles." So that here we see the ordination of this
Apostle, was