[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# First Military District

servatives dominated the Virginian General Assembly after its election in 1869, the 14th and 15th Amendments were ratified shortly after. Virginia was readmitted into the union in January 1870, thus ending Reconstruction in the state and Canby's tenure.

Legacy of Military Rule

Immediate aftermath 

The period of military government in Virginia preserved for African Americans some of their hard-won guarantees of citizenship. However, the degradation of these rights occurred shortly after the end of military rule. With its readmission to the Union, the district commanders relinquished their powers under the Reconstruction Acts to the civil authorities within their commands. Therefore, Conservative Party candidates regained dominance over state legislature, and returned Virginia to control of prewar leaders.

Impact on African Americans 

During the time after military rule, African Americans merely gained minority status in the constitutional convention, in either house of the General Assembly, or in city or county government offices. However, the Constitutional right for African Americans to vote was firmly established under military rule, which lead to the election of more than twenty African Americans to Virginia's General Assembly between 1870 and 1875. While many of these African American political leaders following the end of military rule were somewhat wealthier and had more education than other African Americans, they faced many of the same difficulties and obstacles as the men who were born into slavery. They worked in jobs similar to other freedmen, such as mechanics, farmers, and ministers. However, these first African American political leaders in Virginia used the guarantee of suffrage in the 15th Amendment to their full advantage and paved the path for future leaders and further struggles for equal rights to follow in their footsteps.

See also
 Reconstruction military districts
 Second Military District (North Carolina, South Carolina)
 Third Military District (Georgia, Alabama and Florida)
 Fourth Military District (Arkansas and Mississippi)
 Fifth Military District  (Texas and Louisiana)

References

Reconstruction Era
Departments and districts of the United States Army
Political history of Virginia