[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gerald McCarthy (hurler)

Gerald McCarthy (born 12 September 1945) is an Irish former hurling manager and player. In his playing career he was known for his intelligent anticipation, his ability to find open space and his overhead striking of the ball. A versatile player who lined out in no less than eight different positions, McCarthy made his name as an attacking midfielder and as a centre-forward. He is widely regarded to be one of the most skilful and stylish players of his generation and as one of the greatest players in the history of the sport.

Raised in Cork city, McCarthy came to Gaelic games prominence as a schoolboy. He joined the St Finbarr's senior team at the age of 17 in 1963 and spent the next 16 years as one of the club's key players. McCarthy's association with Cork began as a member of the minor team in 1962. He progressed through the under-21 ranks before making his senior debut in 1964. McCarthy brought his 17-season association with the red jersey to an end when he announced his club and inter-county retirement in October 1979.

McCarthy is one of the most decorated players of his era. During his time with Cork, he won five All-Ireland Championship titles - including a three-in-a-row from 1976 to 1978, nine Munster Championship titles and three National Hurling League titles. McCarthy captained Cork on several occasions, particularly in 1966 when, as captain with the Cork under-21 team also, he became the only player in history to captain two All-Ireland-winning teams in the same season.

In retirement from playing, McCarthy enjoyed success as a trainer, coach, selector and manager at club and inter-county levels. After winning numerous Cork SHC titles with St Finbarr's, he became a highly sought-after coach at inter-county level. McCarthy had three spells as coach-manager of the Cork senior team, culminating with an All-Ireland title in 1990. He later managed the Waterford senior hurling team to a first All-Ireland semi-final appearance in 35 years.

Playing career

St Finbarr's
McCarthy was born and raised in the Bandon Road area on the southside of Cork. He first made an impression as a schoolboy dual player at Greenmount National School and in the local street leagues, before joining the St Finbarr's club. McCarthy progressed through the ranks with the club, winning juvenile hurling and minor football championship medals, before joining the senior hurling team as a 17-year-old in 1963. He quickly became a regular member of the starting fifteen and scored two points in the 1964 Cork SHC final, which St Finbarr's lost to Glen Rovers by eight points. St Finbarr's made amends the following year, with McCarthy scoring a goal in the 6–08 to 2–05 win over University College Cork in the 1965 final, before later scoring in all three game in the successful Munster Club Championship campaign.

McCarthy was described in the Irish Press as the best player on the St Finbarr's team in their 1967 Cork SHC final defeat by Glen Rovers. This defeat was reversed the following year, with McCarthy winning a second championship medal, just 24 hours after his wedding, after a 5–09 to 1–19 defeat of Imokilly in the 1968 final.

The next few seasons proved difficult for the St Finbarr's hurlers, with McCarthy also lining out with the St Finbarr's football team in the senior championship. St Finbarr's returned to the Cork SHC final in 1971; however, Blackrock won by 2–19 to 5-04. The game was not without incident for McCarthy who received a six-month suspension from the Cork County Board as a result of "all aspects of his conduct" in the game. A number of difficult seasons followed at club level, however, St Finbarr's returned to the summit of Cork hurling with a defeat of reigning champions Blackrock in the 1974 Cork SHC final. After collecting his third winners' medal, McCarthy again played a key role as a scoring midfielder in the successful annexation of the Munster Club Championship title. St Finbarr's ended the season with the All-Ireland Club Championship title, with McCarthy playing at midfield in the eight-point defeat of the Fenians.

In the 1976 Cork SFC final, McCarthy showed that he was just as adept as a high level Gaelic footballer. He became a dual county medal-winner after lining out at right wing-back in the three-point defeat of St Michael's. Back on the hurling front McCarthy won a fourth and final Cork SHC winners' medal after a record crowd of 34,151 saw St Finbarr's beat Glen Rovers by twelve points in the 1977 final. The subsequent club championship resulted in St Finbarr's claiming a third Munster Club Championship title. McCarthy later claimed a second All-Ireland club winners' medal after a 2–07 to 0–09 win over Rathnure.

McCarthy's attempt at winning a fifth Cork SHC medal ended with a 2–14 to 2–06 defeat by Blackrock in the 1979 final. Three weeks after this defeat he announced his retirement from club and inter-county hurling.

Cork