[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of retronyms

more dominant variant when referring to flour.
 Windows 10, version 1507 Win16 : The original, 16-bit Windows API, as distinguished from the newer Win32 and Win64.
 Windows 8.0 Zune 30 : Used to describe the first-generation Zune device; the "30" was added after the release of the Zune 4, 8, and 80

Geographic retronyms
Proper names
These are proper names for the described regions, or corridors.
 Abandoned Pennsylvania Turnpike : A section of the Pennsylvania Turnpike between Breezewood and Hustontown which was bypassed by a new alignment that bypassed the tunnels because it was too costly to blast away more rock to widen the travel lanes.
 Asia Minor : The name Asia was first applied to the mainland east of the Aegean islands, and later extended to the greater landmass of which that is a peninsula.
 Baja California : The name California was first applied to the peninsula (thought to be an island) now known as Baja ("Lower"), and later extended – and then restricted – to Alta ("Upper") California, and finally to the current U.S. state.
 East Indies : After Columbus landed in the West Indies.
 East Prussia : Prussia began as a duchy in the kingdom of Poland. As the highest-ranking dignity of the Hohenzollern dynasty, the name came to be applied to their territories stretching across Germany. The name East Prussia became more significant when it was separated from the rest of Prussia and Germany by the Polish Corridor.
 EUxx "EU" followed by two digits is often used in statistics to indicate the different makeup of the European Union
EU12: the twelve-member EU as founded in 1993; most of the Western European nations
EU15: the fifteen-member EU after Austria, Finland and Sweden joined in 1995
EU25: the EU from 2004 to 2007 after ten eastern and central European nations joined
EU27: the EU from 2007 to 2013, after Romania and Bulgaria were added
EU28: the EU from 2013 to 2020, after Croatia joined
EU27 is now used to refer to the EU after the United Kingdom left in 2020; it was also used after the 2016 Brexit referendum to refer to "the EU countries less the UK" as they negotiated with the UK government
 First Chinatown: First Chinatown refers to Toronto's original Chinatown at Dundas and Elizabeth Streets in The Ward, and was known as such until the construction of the new city hall and public square in the 1960s. Most stores that occupied the construction project was cleared through expropriation. The resulting development caused the westward relocation of Chinatown to its current location at Dundas Street and Spadina Avenue. 
 Great Britain : Britons fleeing the Germanic invasions settled in Armorica which became Brittany or Little Britannia.
 Lower Saxony : The kingdom and duchies of Saxony are outside the original lowland territory of the Saxon people.
 Manhattan Chinatown : For a long time, New York City had only one Chinatown. However, there are now large Chinese communities in Flushing, Queens and Sunset Park, Brooklyn, and thus, a need has developed to differentiate among the city's three Chinatowns.
 Old Chinatown : London's original Chinatown (destroyed in The Blitz) was in Limehouse; the new Chinatown is in Soho. Also used in Houston, Texas, to the Chinatown district located east of the George R. Brown Convention Center and south of BBVA/Compass Stadium.
 Old Toronto : Old Toronto refers to the old City of Toronto, prior to the amalgamation of Toronto in 1998. In 1998, the Government of Ontario dissolved the regional municipality of Metropolitan Toronto, as well as the region's constituent municipalities (including Old Toronto). The former municipalities that made up Metropolitan Toronto were amalgamated into a single entity, the present-day city of Toronto.
 Old World: After Columbus landed in the Americas ("The New World").
 Old Northwest, Old Southwest and Old West: Regions formerly at these extreme corners of the United States.

General descriptions
These are less official descriptions that are commonly used.
 Contiguous United States or Lower 48 : Referred to simply as The United States before Alaska and Hawaii, which are American exclaves, became states.