[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Spanish units of measurement

There are a number of Spanish units of measurement of length or area that are virtually obsolete due to metrication. They include the vara, the cordel, the league and the labor. The units of area used to express the area of land are still encountered in some transactions in land today.

(unit of length)

A  (meaning "rod" or "pole", abbreviation: var) is an old Spanish unit of length.  Varas are a surveying unit that appear in many deeds in the southern United States due to them previously being part of Mexico, they became part of the United States due to the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo. Varas were also used in many parts of Latin America. It varied in size at various times and places; the Spanish unit was set at about  in 1801. In Argentina, the vara measured about , and typical urban lots are  wide (10 Argentine varas). At some time a value of  was adopted in California.

In Texas, a  was defined as , or 1 yard = 1.08 . The  and the corresponding unit of area, the square , were introduced in the 19th century to measure Spanish land grants. Stephen F. Austin's early surveying contracts required that he use the  as a standard unit. The  can be seen in many deeds as late as the mid to late 1900s.  is equivalent to 5,645.376 Texan square . A league is equivalent to 5,000  squared or .

Standardisation of measurement in Texas came with the introduction of , cordeles, and leagues.

A measure of 100 by 100  (Spanish) is almost 7000 square meters, and is known traditionally throughout Spain and Latin America as a  (i.e., a "city block"). As well, lumber is still measured in Costa Rica using a system based on 4 , or 11 feet, for both round and square wood. With square wood, using inches, the width is multiplied by the depth to get a measurement called , or inches. The lumber is charged 'per inch', which is a measurement of .

(unit of area)
The  ( in West Texas) is a unit of area, used to express an area of land, that is equal to 1 million square . A  is equivalent to about . It was used in the archaic system of old Spanish land grants affecting Texas and parts of adjoining states. The  is often used as an approximate equivalent to a quarter-section (that is, one quarter of a square mile of land). It is still encountered in modern real estate transactions.

League (unit of area)
A league can also be a unit of area, used to express the area of land, that is equal to 25 million square . A (square) league is equivalent to about . It was used in the archaic system of old Spanish land grants affecting Texas and parts of adjoining states and this use of league is used throughout the Texas Constitution.

A common Texas land grant size, discussed in James A. Michener's Texas, was a " and a league": a  of good riparian land and a (square) league of land away from the river.

The (square) league is still encountered in modern real estate transactions.

Palmo and coto (unit of length)
The palmo ("palm") measured the distance between the tip of the thumb and the tip of the little finger with all fingers splayed. Its standardized value is  (9 pulgadas). Half of a palmo in Castile was called the coto, described as six fingers and defined as . The ancient Romans had a similar, smaller unit called the palmus, which was .

Local units 
Although some standardisation was achieved with the law of 1801, particularly in defining the league as   long, varying measures continued to be used in various cities and regions.

Other units 
 , a unit of volume
 , the fourth part of a 
 , a unit of land measure in Cuba.
 , a unit of volume equivalent to approximately 4.625 L.
 , a unit of length used for measuring depths (similar to the fathom); 7 
 , measure of grain by volume
  (of which there are 12 ) used in Galicia in northwestern peninsular Spain.
  (league), a unit of length
  (ounce), a unit of weight (28 grammes) used for chocolate.
  (inch: 24.5 mm) used in Spain.
 , a unit of weight
 , a unit of land measure in the Philippines.
 , a unit of land measure in Valencia.
  and , units of weight
 , unit of length equal to

See also
 International System of Units
 Metrication in Guatemala
 Portuguese customary units
 Systems of measurement
 Units of measurement

References

External links
 
 www.sizes.com, "Vara Conversions in 19th Century Spain"
 Rowlett's A Dictionary of Units of Measurement
 Reasonover's Land Measures A Reference to Spanish and French land measures(and their English equivalents with conversion tables) used in North America
 http://www.sizes.com/units/

Systems of units
Obsolete units of measurement
Customary units of measurement
Units of measurement by country