[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Italians in Germany

employment, especially in the automotive and electronics industry and mechanical engineering. A growing market for Italian cuisine among the local German population also led many to open restaurants. These trends contributed to the gradual upward mobility of Italian immigrants and their descendants.

After reunification (1990–present) 
Socioeconomic indicators on immigrant groups in Germany are generally hard to come by, since most studies collect data only on the basis of citizenship, which excludes German citizens of Italian descent. However, a study in 2005 showed that Italian-German students remain over-represented in the lower tier of German secondary education (Hauptschulen) and underrepresented in the middle and highest tiers (Realschulen and Gymnasiums). They also remain underrepresented in company leadership positions, the civil service, and white-collar employment. Nevertheless, the gaps are much less extreme than during the era of the biggest waves of arrivals in the mid-20th century, demonstrating the strides the Italian-German community has made since. Although Italians are among the most popular immigrants in Germany, they are often poorly integrated and have little contact with Germans. However, since the reporting of failed integration in the media and measures to promote integration are mostly limited to immigrants from muslim countries, integration problems and disadvantages, especially in terms of education, are increasingly often not clearly perceived among Italian migrants.

This may also be due to the fact that the Italians, like the other southern Europeans, are comparatively well integrated economically and can successfully compensate for their educational deficits in working life. As a result, people with an Italian migration background almost reach the values of the natives in some labor market indicators. Youth unemployment is even lower than that of the autochthonous Germans. The proportion of those dependent on public services also fell from over eleven to under eight percent between the first and second generation.

Among the German cities Wolfsburg and Ludwigshafen had the highest share of Italian migrants in 2011 according to German Census data.

Social integration
Historically, Italians have had a significant impact on the development of the fine arts in Germany, from the Romanesque and Gothic to contemporary fashion and design. Since the late 1950s, Italians have also had a very large influence on German gastronomy and food culture; many Italian dishes are now everyday dishes in Germany. There have also been acquisitions at the level of popular culture, such as the foundation of the Bensheim Passion or the Stations of the Cross in Saarlouis.

During the 1950s and 1960s, Italian guest workers were often subjected to severe discrimination. Before entering the country, they had to endure sometimes degrading procedures in Italian emigration centres, where they were tested for their ability to work. In Germany, workers were isolated from the local population in cramped barracks, with around four people sharing a 13-square-metre room. In front of some German restaurants there were signs saying "Dogs and Italians not allowed".

However, unlike other large immigrant groups in Germany, relatively few Italians have acquired German citizenship.

According to a study by the weekly Die Zeit, pupils of Italian descent in German schools fare worse than members of other large immigrant groups. According to this, approximately 48% of pupils of Italian origin attend the Hauptschule and 8.6% attend the Sonderschule. Although Italians are among the most popular immigrants in Germany, they are often poorly integrated and have little contact with Germans. However, as reports of lack of integration in the media and measures to promote integration are mostly limited to immigrants of Islamic culture, the problems and disadvantages of integration, especially in terms of education, are often not clearly increasing perceived among Italian migrants.

This may also be due to the fact that Italians, like other Southern Europeans, are relatively well integrated economically and can successfully compensate for their educational deficits in working life. As a result, people with an Italian migration background nearly match native values in some labor market indicators. Youth unemployment is even lower than that of native Germans. The share of employees in public services also fell from over 11% to under 8% between the first and second generations. There are many Italian-German associations scattered throughout the territory, and there is a monthly magazine in Italian language called Corriere d'Italia.

German stereotypes about Italians
Given the differences in culture and mentality between Germans and Italians, the Italian community in Germany has sometimes been the victim of prejudice in the last century.