[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New South Wales Crime Commission

uary decision, the Police Integrity Commission made a fresh decision to conduct a public inquiry into whether the Crime Commission acted outside the laws that govern the confiscation of criminal proceeds, and whether it had abused some of the processes of the court.

Conviction of assistant director

On 11 August 2011, after a five-month trial, a NSW Supreme Court jury found former NSWCC assistant director Mark Standen guilty of conspiring to import and supply  of pseudoephedrine, a chemical that could produce A$60 million worth of "ice", or crystal methamphetamine. He was also found guilty of perverting the course of justice. In a 30-year career, Standen had risen to prominence in the perceived fight against organised crime in New South Wales, trusted by ministers and police commissioners, having previously served with the Australian Federal Police (AFP) and the Australian Customs Service. He was arrested by the AFP on 2 June 2008 after intensive surveillance and investigation, conducted jointly with the Crime Commission. Handing down the sentence on 8 December 2011, Justice Bruce James stated that Standen had shown no remorse during criminal proceedings and sentenced him to a maximum term of 22-years in custody. Standen may be eligible for early release on parole by 1 June 2024.

Standen appealed his conviction and sentence on six grounds. His appeal was rejected on 13 August 2015.

Patten Report
On the same day of Standen's conviction, the NSW Government announced that a Special Commission of Inquiry would be conducted into the affairs of the NSWCC. Handing his report to the NSW Government on 30 November 2011, it was reported that the Special Commissioner, retired Supreme Court justice David Patten, recommended sweeping changes to the NSWCC including to its governance structure, legislation, management of informants, complaint handling, auditing and oversight. The NSW Parliament later passed the Crime Commission Act 2012.

Governance
The functions of the commission are discharged by its Commissioner, two Assistant Commissioners and staff.

The commission is overseen by the New South Wales Crime Commission Management Committee, which consists of:
the Independent Chairperson, presently David Patten
the Commissioner of NSW Police, presently Karen Webb APM.
the Chair of the board of the Australian Crime Commission, presently Tony Negus
the Chief Executive Officer of the Ministry for Police and Emergency Services and
the Commissioner for the New South Wales Crime Commission, presently Peter Cotter APM

Operations
The New South Wales Crime Commission works closely with the NSW Police Force.

See also
New South Wales Police Force
Police Integrity Commission

References

New South Wales courts and tribunals
Crime Commission
1986 establishments in Australia
Government agencies established in 1986