[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Antonio Imbert Barrera

her accusations.

Imbert died on May 31, 2016, the day following the fifty-fifth anniversary of Trujillo's assassination, at the age of 95. Dominican President Danilo Medina declared three days of mourning. His niece, Carmen Imbert Brugal, said that cause of his death was complications of pneumonia.

Marriages and family 
He married Guarina Tessón Hurtado on September 10, 1939, in Puerto Plata. They had three children:
Antonio Segundo Imbert Tessón (born June 9, 1940), army general. He married Victoria Isabel Pellerano Amiama (niece of Luis Amiama Tió) and had 3 children.
Leslie Imbert Tessón (1949–February 15, 1970), sportswoman. Died childless in an aircraft accident.
Oscar José Antonio Imbert Tessón (born December 30, 1953), architect. He designed the Punta Cana International Airport. He married Margarita Pou Guerra and had 1 child and divorced. He remarried to Solange Juliette Martín-Caro Lithgow, but later divorced with no children from this marriage.

He had a liaison with María Sánchez, from Sosúa, and begat Manuel Antonio Imbert Sánchez (born April 1, 1939), police officer and former diplomat; Imbert Sánchez is a colonel and is married (to Josefina López Henríquez) with 4 children and he is since 2012 the chief of the Special Police Corps for State Banks, he also was consul to the United States in Charlotte Amalie, U.S. Virgin Islands in the 1980s and the 1990s.

His wife died in 1970 in an aircraft accident. After widowing Imbert Barrera remarried to Giralda Busto Sánchez, but had no children from this marriage.

Cultural references
Antonio Imbert is a character of Mario Vargas Llosa's novel The Feast of the Goat. In the film adaptation, he was played by Carlos Miranda.

Ancestry

References

|-

|-

1920 births
2016 deaths
Assassins of presidents
People from Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic
Military history of the Dominican Republic
Presidents of the Dominican Republic
Dominican Republic anti-communists
Dominican Republic assassins
Dominican Republic revolutionaries
Dominican Republic military personnel
Dominican Republic people of French descent
Dominican Republic people of Galician descent
Dominican Republic people of German descent
Deaths from pneumonia in the Dominican Republic
20th-century rebels
Dominican Republic rebels
White Dominicans