[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Second migration to Abyssinia

daughter Zaynab was born in Abyssinia.
 Shammas ibn Uthman of the Makhzum clan.
 Habbar ibn Sufyan of the Makhzum clan (nephew of Abu Salama).
 Abdullah ibn Sufyan of the Makhzum clan (brother of Habbar and nephew of Abu Salama).
 Hisham ibn Abi Hudhayfa of the Makhzum clan.
 Salama ibn Hisham of the Makhzum clan (son of Hisham).
 Ayyash ibn Abi Rabia of the Makhzum clan.
 Mu'attib "Ayhama" ibn Awf of the Khuza'a tribe (ally of the Makhzum clan).
 Uthman ibn Madhun of the Juma clan.
 Al-Saïb ibn Uthman of the Juma clan (son of Uthman).
 Qudama ibn Madhun of the Juma clan (brother of Uthman).
 Abdullah ibn Madhun of the Juma clan (brother of Uthman).
 Hatib ibn Al-Harith of the Juma clan.
 Fatima bint Al-Mujallil (wife of Hatib).
 Muhammad ibn Hatib of the Juma clan (son of Hatib).
 Al-Harith ibn Hatib of the Juma clan (son of Hatib).
 Hattab ibn Al-Harith of the Juma clan (brother of Hatib).
 Fukayha bint Yasar (wife of Hattab).
 Sufyan ibn Maamar of the Juma clan.
 Hasana (wife of Sufyan).
 Jabir ibn Sufyan of the Juma clan (son of Sufyan and Hasana).
 Junada ibn Sufyan of the Juma clan (son of Sufyan and Hasana).
 Shurahbhil ibn Abdullah of the Ghauth tribe (son of Hasana by her previous husband).
 Uthman ibn Rabia of the Juma clan.
 Khunays ibn Hudhafa of the Sahm clan.
 Qays ibn Hudhafa of the Sahm clan (brother of Khunays).
 Abdullah ibn Hudhafa of the Sahm clan (brother of Khunays and Qays).
 Abdullah ibn Al-Harith of the Sahm clan.
 Hisham ibn Al-Aas of the Sahm clan.
 Abu Qays ibn Al-Harith of the Sahm clan.
 Al-Harith ibn Al-Harith of the Sahm clan.
 Maamar ibn Al-Harith of the Sahm clan.
 Bishr ibn Al-Harith al-Sahmi.
 Saïd ibn Amr (maternal brother of Bishr).
 Saïd ibn Al-Harith of the Sahm clan.
 Al-Saïb ibn Al-Harith of the Sahm clan.
 Umayr ibn Riyab of the Sahm clan.
 Mahmiya ibn Al-Jazu of the Zubayd tribe (ally of the Sahm clan). He was the maternal brother of Zaynab bint Khuzayma, Maymuna bint al-Harith, Lubaba bint al-Harith, Asma bint Umays and Salma bint Umays.
 Maamar ibn Abdullah of the Adi clan.
 Urwa ibn Abduluzza of the Adi clan.
 Adiy ibn Nadla of the Adi clan.
 Al-Numan ibn Adiy of the Adi clan (son of Adiy).
 Amir ibn Rabia al-Andhi ibn Waïl (ally of the family of al-Khattab).
 Layla bint Abi Hathama of the Adi clan (wife of Amir).
 Abu Sabra ibn Abi Ruhm of the Amir ibn Luayy clan.
 Umm Kulthum bint Suhayl of the Amir ibn Luayy clan (wife of Abu Sabra).
 Abdullah ibn Makhrama of the Amir ibn Luayy clan.
 Abdullah ibn Suhayl of the Amir ibn Luayy clan.
 Salit ibn Amr of the Amir ibn Luayy clan.
 Al-Sakran ibn Amr of the Amir ibn Luayy clan (brother of Salit).
 Sawda bint Zama'a of the Amir ibn Luayy clan (wife of Al-Sakran). She later married Muhammad.
 Malik ibn Zama'a of the Amir ibn Luayy clan (brother of Sawda).
 Amra bint al-Saadi of the Amir ibn Luayy clan (wife of Malik).
 Hatib ibn Amr of the Amir ibn Luayy clan (brother of Salit and Al-Sakran).
 Saad ibn Khawla (ally of the Amir ibn Luayy clan).
 Abu Ubayda ibn al-Jarrah of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.
 Suhayl ibn Bayda (Suhayl ibn Wahb) of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.
 Amr ibn Abi Sarh of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.
 Iyad ibn Zuhayr of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.
 Amr ibn Al-Harith of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.
 Uthman ibn Abdu Ghanm of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.
 Saad ibn Abdu Qays of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan.
 Al-Harith ibn Abdu Qays of the al-Harith ibn Fihr clan (brother of Saad).

Ibn Ishaq adds that some people believed Ammar ibn Yasir was also included in the Second Emigration, "but that is doubtful."

Sahla bint Suhayl is missing from this second list, although her biography asserts that she did indeed go to Abyssinia "in both emigrations".

This list also excludes those gone for overseas preaching.

See also
Habesha
Masjid as-Sahabah in Massawa, Eritrea
Negash
Timeline of 7th century Islamic history

References

Life of Muhammad