[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Liam King (footballer)

Liam King (born 31 December 1987) is an English footballer who plays in central midfield. He is currently a coach at Gainsborough Trinity.

Career
On 1 January 2008 King joined Altrincham on a month-long loan, making his first team debut the same day in a 2–1 victory against Northwich Victoria. After several appearances, the loan was extended until April.

He was released by Rotherham United after the 2008–09 season, and subsequently signed for Matlock Town of the Northern Premier League Premier Division.

In 2013 he moved on to North Ferriby and built a strong working relationship with manager Billy Heath who ended up making King captain of the team. In his three years at Ferriby, King and his teammates achieved high success by winning the FA Trophy in 2015 at Wembley Stadium and also won the Conference North in the 2015/16 season. In his time at North Ferriby King made 205 appearances and scored 62 goals.

After going up with North Ferriby, he followed in the footsteps of his manager, Billy Heath, and joined FC Halifax town along with seven other teammates. King was also made captain again by Heath at Halifax.

In November 2017 it was announced that King had left Halifax and joined Gainsborough Trinity for an undisclosed fee. On 11 February 2019, he had his contract cancelled by mutual consent, following injury problems. Just three days later, he was appointed as the caretaker manager of the club following manager Lee Sinnott's departure. After three wins from his first three Northern Premier League games, he was placed in charge until the end of the season alongside Ross Hannah. Their appointment was made permanent at the end of the season. In October 2019 Curtis Woodhouse was appointed manager, with King remaining at the club as a coach.

References

External links

1987 births
Living people
People from Rainworth
Footballers from Nottinghamshire
English men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Rotherham United F.C. players
Altrincham F.C. players
Matlock Town F.C. players
North Ferriby United A.F.C. players
FC Halifax Town players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Northern Premier League players
English football managers
Gainsborough Trinity F.C. managers