[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Interreg

in some cities

Interreg IV
Interreg IV has a budget of almost 7,8 billion euro (2006 prices), up from 4,9 billion euro in Interreg III (1999 prices).

Strand A: cross-border cooperation
The A strand of Interreg IV covers 52 programmes, which use up to 74% of all resources (some 5,6 billion euros).

Examples of Interreg IVA projects
FLUXPYR (2009–2012): European cross-border network for the determination and management of water, carbon and energy fluxes and stocks in agricultural and grassland ecosystems of the Pyrenees, in the context of climate and land-use change. 11 partners from France, Spain and Andorra. Cofinanced by the EU-ERDF, Generalitat de Catalunya and Conseil Régional Midi-Pyrénées.
ISLES project – "ISLES", accelerating the development of renewable energy off the coasts of Scotland and Ireland
WINSENT project: WINSENT is an ambitious project to promote social entrepreneurship in Ireland and North Wales.
WINSENT provides a networking opportunity and free assistance, guidance and a range of supports to any social entrepreneur or social enterprise based in Dublin and surrounds in Ireland or based in North Wales in the counties of Denbighshire and the Isle of Anglesey, including opportunities to network with other like minded "change agents" through the WINSENT Networks: socialenterprise.ie and WISEA
SHAPING 24 - SHAPING 24 is a cultural and heritage tourism initiative that links 12 heritage sites in Norwich with 12 heritage sites in Ghent, increasing awareness of the longstanding historical links between East Anglia and the Low Countries. SHAPING 24 seeks to "promote and support the 24 sites", and raise the profile of Norwich and Ghent as cultural heritage cities. It is funded through the Interreg IVA 2 Seas Programme
AI-CHEM CHANNEL - AI-Chem Channel project gathers 9 Research organisations and institutes on both sides of the Channel and aims at developing cross-border relationships between academic and industrials stakeholders from the molecular chemistry sector. It is supported by local innovation agencies, incubators and CBS technopole. It has a budget of 7.6M€ among which 3.8M€ are ERDF European Fund in the framework of the INTERREG IVa France(Channel)-England programme.

Strand B: transnational cooperation
Interreg IVb is divided into thirteen different Operational Programmes (OPs). Each OP is led by a Secretariat and covers a specific part of the EU territory. All Member States can participate in Interreg IVB, but only if an organisation or authority is located in the eligible area of one of the programmes (Annex 1). IVB has a total budget of 1,82 billion euro for the programme period 2007–2013.

List of the Interreg IVb programmes:
Alpine Space programme
Atlantic Area programme
Baltic Sea programme
Caribbean Area programme
Central Europe programme
Indian Ocean Area programme
MAC programme - Açores-Madeira-Canarias
Mediterranean programme
North Sea Region programme
North West Europe programme
Northern Periphery programme
South East Europe programme
South West Europe programme