[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Front for Victory

livestock sector employers of soybean roots caused the confrontation. In 2005, FPV presented as presidential candidate Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, while duhaldismo introduced Hilda "Chiche" González de Duhalde, the wife of the former president, being Cristina the first winner by a large margin.

During the Kirchner administration an advance payment of the total debt to the International Monetary Fund was made, declaring the aim of ending the subjection of the respective national economic policies to the international body. Afterwards a swap debt is performed, which began renegotiations for the bonds that had been in default since 2001.

As a symbol of his administration, pursued an active policy to promote human rights. His government incorporated members of recognized human rights organization and prompted the prosecution of those responsible for crimes against humanity that occurred during the 70s, made by the Triple A and the government of National Reorganization Process. To carry it out, supporters in Congress voted the cancellation of the laws of Due Obedience and Full Stop,  which had remained restraining such judgments since the government of Raul Alfonsin. This decision was subsequently ratified by the Judicial.

Regarding international policy, in November of that year was held in Mar del Plata the IV Summit of the Americas, where Kirchner said a rejection of the ALCA, proposed by the United States. This is considered the foundational moment for UNASUR.

Nestor Carlos Kirchner died on 27 October 2010. He was 60 years old.

Presidency of Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner: 2007-2015 

On 18 July 2007, Senator of FPV, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner was presented as the alliance's candidate for the presidential elections of October.

On 28 October the candidate of the Front for Victory, Cristina Fernandez won the general election with 45.29%, leading by over 22 points to Elisa Carrio (Civic Coalition). The formula was imposed in almost all provincial districts and thus became the first woman elected to the office of President of Argentina. She assumed this role on 10 December 2007.

One of the first steps taken by President Fernandez was the creation of the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation, designating responsible Lino Barañao, a renowned molecular biologist. The move was accompanied by the announcement of the creation of a scientific-technological centre in Buenos Aires, composed of three institutes: Social and Human Sciences, Biomedical Sciences and Biotechnology and Sciences Tecnológicas.

On the 11 March 2008, the Argentine Economy Minister Martin Lousteau, announced the enactment of Resolution 125 / In the month of March 2008 was passed Resolution 125/2008, establishing a new system of export duties on exports, holding its increase or decrease to international price developments. This caused a conflict with the large estate owners from the agricultural sector, who protested against the government's decision to change the tax system of exports. During the protest, the landowners and main producers declared a series of measures such as roadblocks for national disruption of basic food supply and of long distance transportation and agricultural exports, making partial lockouts (lock out) of roadblocks and other ports and direct action measures. President Cristina Fernandez suspended the resolution and sent Congress a bill on the tax on exports of grains and compensation for small and medium producers, so it was the legislature that ultimately resolved the situation. The project received preliminary approval in Congress, but the vote in the Senate was not successful, scoring the equalizer in the vote, and was the vice president of the Nation Julio Cleto Cobos (President of the Senate), who had negative tie by voting against the project.

The government focused on making social action measures, among which we can highlight the Connect Equality program by ANSES (Social Security Administration) consisting of the delivery and commissioning of two million netbooks with Internet access to all public elementary and secondary schools. The Universal Child Allowance, which generalizes the family allowance per child for all children under 18 whose parents are unemployed or work in the informal economy for pay no more than the minimum wage, vital and mobile, including monotributistas.  This benefit was extended to pregnant women over 12 weeks gestation.