[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Interleukin 1 beta

d to the production of an antigen-specific pro-inflammatory subset of T helper cells (TH17). In combination with other cytokines, interleukin-1β can upregulate the production of the cytokine GM-CSF which is correlated to neuroinflammation. Detailed mechanisms on this front are yet too be elucidated.

IL-1β has also been observed in elevated levels of the cerebrospinal fluid and brain tissues of Alzheimer patients. The amyloid-β plaques, that are characteristic of Alzheimer disease, are damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) that are recognized by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) and lead to the activation of microglia. Consequently, microglia release interleukin-1β among other cytokines. Nevertheless, the significance of IL-1β in Alzheimer disease and the onset of neuroinflammation still remains largely unknown.

Lastly, in vitro studies have shown that IL-1β causes an increase in mitochondrial glutaminase activity. In response, there is excessive glutamate secretion which has a neurotoxic effect.

As a therapeutic target 
Anakinra is a recombinant and slightly modified version of the human interleukin 1 receptor antagonist protein.  Anakinra blocks the biologic activity of IL-1 alpha and beta by competitively inhibiting IL-1 binding to the interleukin type 1 receptor (IL-1RI), which is expressed in a wide variety of tissues and organs. Anakinra is marketed as Kineret and is approved in the US for treatment of RA, NOMID, DIRA.

Canakinumab is a human monoclonal antibody targeted at IL-1B, and approved in many countries for treatment of cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes.

Rilonacept is an IL-1 trap developed by Regeneron targeting IL-1B, and approved in the US as Arcalyst.

Orthographic note
Because many authors of scientific manuscripts make the minor error of using a homoglyph, sharp s (ß), instead of beta (β), mentions of "IL-1ß" [sic] often become "IL-1ss" [sic] upon automated transcoding (because ß transcodes to ss). This is why so many mentions of the latter appear in web search results.

References

Further reading

External links 
 

Interleukins