[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Char D2

y 1934 the High Command confirmed only the plan of a first production order of fifty. All these decisions were taken on the basis of experience gained with the riveted prototype, though it was well understood that from it no firm conclusions could be drawn on the quality of the intended welded type.

Meanwhile, two welded prototypes had been ordered in December 1932. These were finished in August 1933, but only delivered in November. From December 1934 till the summer of 1935 the Commission de Vincennes used the three available prototypes to test different engine configurations. The riveted hull was equipped with a 120 hp petrol engine; the other two with diesel engines. These were rejected in favour of the petrol engine even though its combination with the intended welded hull had not yet been tested.

Nevertheless, on 29 December 1934 the order of fifty hulls was granted to Renault, at a price of 410,000 French Francs per piece. The turrets were produced separately. First the ST3 turret (Schneider Tourelle 3) had been tested in 1933; then the ST2, at the time seen as a possible standard turret for all heavier tanks, was considered but finally a choice was made to use the APX1, originally developed for the Char B1, costing ₣ 200,000. This turret brought the unit price to ₣ 610,000. The fifty vehicles were only delivered from May 1936.

Due to this delay a planned second order, to be made in 1935, of a hundred, to bring total production to 150  was cancelled. It had been assumed that the lighter Char D2 could be quickly produced as an interim type, to speed the formation of the first Infantry armoured division of the Infantry.

Description
In essence the Char D2 was an improved Char D1. The different turret type used, increased its height somewhat to 266.6 centimetres; the hull was 175.5 centimetres high. The length of the hull, without tail, was 546 centimetres; its width was reduced to 222.3 centimetres through the use of a narrower track, 35 centimetres wide. The suspension was largely identical but the top rollers, to which a tension wheel was added, were placed somewhat higher to prevent track resonance, a persistent problem with the Char D1. The armour plate covering the three vertical coil springs consisted of six instead of eight panels; mud-chutes were added below each top roller. There were three bogies per side, each with four road wheels, a coil spring and two shock absorbers. In front, and at the back below the sprocket, there was a tension wheel with its own damper; identical to the road wheels proper they brought the total number of such wheels to fourteen. Another change was the fenders with large stowage bins that gave the false impression of being part of the main armour.

The production vehicles used far less welded sections than at first intended. To reduce the price, Renault opted to implement a novel construction technique, using large flat screws, serving both as bolts and, applied heated, as rivets, attaching the main armour plates to each other by means of thin connecting steel strips. This way no internal girders, forming a real chassis, were needed. The armour plates were 40 mm thick.

Like with the Char D1 there was a crew of three, but the radio-telegraphy operator sat to the right of the driver instead of the commander, and the antenna, of the ER52 set, has been moved to a position next to him. To make room a hull machine-gun was absent. This new configuration had been demanded to create a roomier fighting compartment. Two command vehicles, series numbers 2016 and 2049, had a second antenna on the left to serve their ER51 long range set. The engine power was increased considerably to 150 hp by installing a Renault V-6 9.5 litres motor, but as the weight increased to 19.75 (just below the twenty tonne limit) instead of the intended 15.5 metric tonnes, the gain in maximum speed was only to 23 km/h. The gear box had four speeds. Four fuel tanks together holding 352 litres allowed for a range of a hundred kilometres. The wading capacity was 120 centimetres, a trench of 210 centimetres could be crossed, an obstacle eighty centimetres high or a slope of 50% climbed. The hull had a fixed 7.5 mm machine-gun low in the glacis on the right side.

The commander was the sole occupant of the APX1 turret, acting also as gunner and loader for the 47 mm SA34 gun, which had a limited anti-tank capacity, and the optionally coaxial 7.5 mm Châtellerault machine-gun. The gun could fire two types of ammunition:  a HE (High Explosive) called the Obus D with a shell weight of 1250 gramme and a muzzle velocity of 490 m/s; and an APHE (Armour-Piercing High Explosive), the Obus B Modèle 1932, with a shell weight of 1410 gramme, an explosive charge of 142 gramme and a muzzle velocity of 480 m/s. It rendered an armour penetration of just about 25 millimetres at a distance of a hundred metres, barely enough to be effective against light armoured vehicles.