[Source: PubMed]

74. BMC Med Ethics. 2016 Aug 18;17(1):49. doi: 10.1186/s12910-016-0135-z.

Ethical considerations surrounding the response to Ebola: the Spanish 
experience.

Royo-Bordonada MÁ(1), García López FJ(2).

Author information:
(1)National School of Public Health, Institute of Health Carlos III, 8 Sinesio 
Delgado Street, Madrid, 28029, Spain. mroyo@isciii.es.
(2)National Centre for Epidemiology, Institute of Health Carlos III, Madrid, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: The recent Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak, with 28,646 reported 
cases and 11,323 deaths, was declared a public health emergency of international 
interest by the World Health Organisation. In Spain, a single reported case 
triggered a public health crisis of a markedly media-centred nature. The 
approach to the first EVD epidemic has given rise to various ethical 
considerations around the world. We address the most relevant ethical 
considerations emanating from the management of EVD in Spain.
MAIN BODY: Firstly, for reasons of global justice and humanitarian assistance, 
rich countries have the duty to support poorer countries in building up their 
core public-health capacities. Secondly, quarantine for high-risk contacts might 
have been a disproportionate and not properly justified measure, which could 
have contributed to stigmatising contacts and spreading panic. Thirdly, when the 
first secondary case was reported in Spain, it is doubtful whether informed 
consent requirements were strictly complied with when disclosing information 
concerning the alleged accident potentially causing the contagion. Moreover, 
this information was used by the Regional Health Minister to blame the patient, 
evading his responsibility to ensure safe medical procedures for health workers. 
Finally, the patient received convalescent plasma for compassionate use from a 
colleague of the first missionary repatriated, who also participated in a 
research study in Spain, despite having previously been denied the chance of 
being transferred to Spain to receive treatment. This fact highlights the 
asymmetry in the relationship between rich and poor countries.
SHORT CONCLUSION: The management of this crisis highlighted the technical 
capacity of the health system and its professionals to respond effectively to 
public health emergencies caused by emerging diseases. This said, the failures 
in the protection of the EVD patient's privacy remind us that this aspect has to 
be borne in mind from the outset in crisis situations. Certain coercive 
measures, such as quarantine, should only be applied where there is some 
evidence that the benefit-risk balance could be favourable. Lastly, it is 
essential that research and interventions targeted at combating the fragility of 
the health systems in poor countries respond to reasons of global justice.

DOI: 10.1186/s12910-016-0135-z
PMCID: PMC4991003
PMID: 27538685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]