[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Refugees in India

settle in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu due to previous discrimination on the island, and Nepal and Bhutan, the latter of which is accused of discriminating against Hindus through a Buddhist-only society. Tibetans refugees from China are also excluded from the bill despite being an ongoing concern.

Illegal migrants 
Those without valid Indian citizenship or visas are classified as illegal immigrants. Indian law does not classify any illegal immigrant as a refugee. Since India is not a signatory to the 1951 Refugee Convention, the United Nations's principles of non-refoulement and impediment to expulsion do not apply in India. Illegal immigrants are subjected to The Foreigners Act (1946), which defines a foreigner as a person who is not a citizen of India. Where the nationality of a person is not evident, the onus of proving whether a person is a foreigner or not lie upon the person himself. Anyone who believes that a foreigner has entered India, or who is the owner or managers of the property where a foreigner resides illegally, must inform the nearest police station within 24 hours of the presence of such foreigner. The Foreigners Act allows the government to detain a foreigner until he is deported back to his own country.

Illegal immigration is a national security issue in politics. It is believed to pose a security threat, especially in sensitive areas like Jammu and West Bengal. The Centre on Monday, an Indian security organisation, has claimed that "some Rohingyas sympathising with many militant group's ideologies may be active in Jammu, Delhi, Hyderabad, and Mewat and can be a potential threat to internal security." Additionally, women and girls are illegally trafficked to India; a common purpose for illegal trafficking is prostitution.

In 2005, the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act, passed in 1983, was struck down by the Supreme Court of India, which held that the act "has created the biggest hurdle and is the main impediment or barrier in the identification and deportation of illegal migrants." On 9 August 2012, the Supreme Court heard a public interest litigation petition for the deportation of illegal migrants. In the case, the government of India stated that it does not support any kind of illegal migration either into its territory or illegal immigration of its citizens. The government claims to be only committed to the lawful deportation of illegal Bangladeshi migrants.

Religious refugees

Afghanistan
Currently, there are around 8,000 to 11,684 Afghan refugees in India, most of whom are Muslims and Sikhs. The Indian government has allowed the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in India to operate a programme for them. In 2015, the Indian government granted citizenship to 4,300 Hindu and Sikh refugees. Most were from Afghanistan, and some were from Pakistan.

Bangladesh

Many people from East Bengal, mainly Hindus, migrated to West Bengal during the partition of India in 1947. The native population of West Bengal sometimes referred to these refugees as "Bangals". From 1947 to 1961, the percentage of the population of East Bengal that was Hindu decreased from 30% to 19%. In 1991, it was down to 10.5% The percentage further decreased from 2001, where the census recorded it to be 9.2%, to 2008, when it was estimated to be 8%.

Chakmas are a Bangladeshi Buddhist community. Chakma immigrants from Bangladesh have settled in the southern part of Mizoram because they were displaced by the construction of the Kaptai Dam on the Karnaphuli River in 1962. Because there was no rehabilitation or compensation, they fled from Bangladesh to India.

In 2001, the BBC reported that many Bangladeshi Hindu families had entered India to escape repression in Bangladesh because they were members of minority religious groups.

Pakistan

Partition of India

Following the partition of India, massive population exchanges occurred between the two newly formed nations, spanning several months. Once the borders between India and Pakistan were established, a total of about 14.5 million people migrated from one country to the other, seeking safety from being an adherent to the religion of the majority in their new country. Based on the 1951 census, immediately after the partition 7.226 million Muslims migrated from India to Pakistan, while 7.249 million Hindus and Sikhs moved from Pakistan to India. About 11.2 million migrants crossed the western border, making up 78% of the total migrant population. Most of them travelled through Punjab. 5.3 million Muslims moved from India to West Punjab in Pakistan, and 3.4 million Hindus and Sikhs moved from Pakistan to East Punjab in India. Elsewhere in the west, 1.2 million moved in each direction to and from Sind. The initial population transfer on the east involved 3.5 million Hindus moving from East Bengal to India and only 0.7 million Muslims moving the other way.