[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Ștefan Voitec

ived Social Democratic Party. He was replaced as chairman by Alexandru Athanasiu, who in 2000 aligned the party with the stronger Party of Social Democracy, widely seen as a successor of the PCR; commenting on these developments, which he opposed, Cunescu depicted Athanasiu as a "new Ștefan Voitec".

According to Stan, Voitec, like Maurer and Alexandru Bârlădeanu, was a man of "certain intellectual openness", and as such stood above other figures in Gheorghiu-Dej's "clan", itself largely formed around "mediocrities". Before their ideological split, Titel Petrescu had commended "my friend Ștefan Voitec" for his work in collecting "socialist literature and old documents". Tismăneanu notes that Voitec was once regarded as the would-be theoretician of Romanian moderate socialism, "one who was so very well acquainted with the works of Karl Kautsky and Eduard Bernstein", and therefore fully educated about the critique of communism from the left. The same issue had been raised in 1963 by his exiled former employer, Pamfil Șeicaru: "Voitec was well trained in Marxist sociology and knew the history of Soviet Russia. What then could he expect from those who invaded our Country? [...] Romanian democrats, whatever their political affiliation, had the heads of poultry." However, in 1949, anarchist Alberto Casanueva argued that ministers such as Voitec, Gheorghiu-Dej, and Mihail Lascăr had lost prominence because of their failure to uphold the Soviet line, whereas Pauker and Pârvulescu were rewarded for their staunch Stalinism.

There are also indications that Voitec was made malleable by his political dossier. Memoirist Adrian Dimitriu notes that Titel Petrescu once tried to defend Voitec's contribution to Nazi propaganda as authorized by the PSDR, because it could spare him from being called under arms; however, both this episode and his earlier Trotskyism exposed Voitec to permanent communist blackmail. Claiming to report a statement by communist militant Valentina Mihăileanu, Pandrea suggests that Voitec's "fundamental trait" was his cowardice. The incriminating articles were therefore written by Voitec "for fear, fear of the Soviet–Hitlerist war". Following their break with Stalin, Titoist authorities in neighboring Yugoslavia (where his name was casually misprinted as "Noitek") also used this detail against Romanian Stalinists. An April 1950 article in Vjesnik underscored that Voitec, a Central Committee man, had been a "fascist journalist on the Eastern Front".

Historian Ovidiu Bozgan suggests that Voitec should be noted for his "philosophy of survival and weariness". This remark was prompted to Bozgan a 1961 dialogue between Voitec and the French ambassador, Pierre Bouffanais. When the latter commented on the paradox that Pauker, once depicted as a rightist, was condemned by the same regime as a "Stalinist", Voitec allegedly replied: "Let those folks carry on with their small business." According to Tomašić, by that moment Voitec's services to the PMR were purely ideological: "[he represents] the myth of 'Socialist unity' to the outside world. Within such a framework, Voitec might be used as a link with the Social Democrats in the countries outside the Soviet orbit, particularly since the Kremlin counts on the support of Socialists and other left-wing circles in its various 'peace' and 'coexistence' moves."

Private networking and cultural image
In December 1944, Ion Vinea reported his disappointment that Voitec would not defend him, and would not vouch for him as an anti-fascist. With time, however, Voitec became recognized as a protector of his PSDR and PSU colleagues. He intervened in favor of sociologist Henri H. Stahl, brother of the disgraced Șerban Voinea, who had publicized his unorthodox belief that Romanian history was rooted in "Asiatic despotism" and had introduced his pupils to Bernstein's work. In 1951, Voitec asked that Poldi Filderman be granted a fair trial, though making it clear that he himself would not dispute the charges. After 1958, he personally obtained rehabilitation for Radu Grigorovici, the orphaned son of Social Democratic leader George Grigorovici. In 1969, he arranged for Papacostea's daughter, historian Cornelia Papacostea-Danielopolu, to be granted a Romanian passport, which allowed her to visit France. By 1970, Voitec was openly demanding that the PSDR and PSU membership be recognized by the PCR as a pedigree similar to that of first-generation communists.