[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

m movie she seems to be turned into a quantum-brainwaves user singularly sensible as she is one of the first persons to be affected by the ELS approach, she later encourages Saji's decision to travel to the orbital ring and help on to its maintenance while the Earth forces battles the ELS invasion. 

 
 Andrei Smirnov is the estranged son of Sergei Smirnov and member of the A-Laws. Andrei holds a grudge against his father for not protecting his mother 14 years before the beginning of the second season and joins the HRL military and later the A-Laws to forge his own path. Andrei meets Louise Halevy and becomes protective of her, as he sees her more suited as a young girl than a soldier. After the AEU's orbital elevator collapse as a result of a coup d'état by the Federation's military, Andrei kills his father in a fit of rage when Andrei assumes that Sergei sided with the coup d'état forces. After Setsuna defeated him easily, he eventually comes to terms with his father's actions after his consciousness connects with the consciousness of Soma under 00-Raiser Trans-Am Burst on the climax of the final battle noting that both Sergei and Andrei failed at trying to understand each other, as his father didn't know hot to reach him and himself failing to understand how he father felt, there is when Soma finally goes to a dormant state as she also finally come to terms with the Colonel's death, allowing to Marie regain full control again as she finally feels the despair and grief that Andrei feels for his actions; in the epilogue, he continues to serve in the Federation army in relief efforts in order to live up to his mother and father's hopes and ideals of being a "Soldier that protects the civilians" for the world. In the Gundam 00 Movie, Andrei battled against the ELS with his mobile suit after the ELS threatened the well-being of mankind. In the final battle, he fights valiantly against an ELS GNX-IV and defeats the enemy, but the right arm of his GNX-IV is assimilated along with his beam rifle. He uses his GN Buster Sword to cut off the arm, and discovers an ELS carrier heading towards Earth. Activating Trans-Am, he slices the carrier a few times before a part of his suit is assimilated. He, along with a few of his comrades in GNX-IVs, then proceed to overload their GN Drive Taus with Trans-Am, and destroy the ELS carrier along with themselves and their MSs. Before his death, he sees his parents, and yells "I am a soldier that protect the civilians!" 

 
 A former member of the Union army and captain of his own platoon, Barack pilots the newly developed GNX-704T Ahead and is responsible for the extermination of anti-government forces, mostly Katharon. His wife was killed shortly before the commencement of the second season after being involved in one of Katharon's anti-Federation terrorist attacks. Initially looking down on Louise Halevy, Barack often shows a great concern for her due to her young age, often chastising her for her reckless behaviour on the battlefield. He is eventually killed by Setsuna after the 00 Gundam docks with the 0-Raiser, and is later promoted posthumously to lieutenant colonel. His passing causes a significant amount of grief in Louise. 

 
 A fat man with curly blond hair who holds a high position within the A-Laws. He initially appears in the epilogue of the first season, next to Kati Mannequin in the Federation lineup, but is not introduced proper until second season. He overlooks the A-Laws' operation against Katharon, and is highly interested in Barrack's and Louise's encounter with Gundams Exia and Seravee, stating that "more equipment" is required. He is later seen in a conversation with Kati Manneqin and Arba Lindt. After Lindt's defeat to Celestial Being, Arthur orders that the command be given back to Kati Manneqin, telling them that failure is unacceptable in A-Laws. He is one of the A-Laws officers present in the A-Laws party. He is later seen leading the operations to obliterate the Suille Kingdom, destroy the Africa Tower along with the coup d'etat forces, and attack Celestial Being using the Memento Mori weapons. He is also seen at the speech of the ESF President, and later after the operation in episode 19 to wipe out the Gundams and the Ptolemaios II, mocking Healing Care for her failure to carry out the operation, and also decrying the decision to give her and Revive licenses. His assault, however, fails due to an uprising led by Kati Mannequin aiding Celestial Being and Katharon, with Setsuna killing Goodman.