[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Humberto Moreira

ique Peña Nieto. For acquiring this debt the state of Coahuila fell from having an A+ score to a BBB- in the Standard & Poor's index.

On 3 October 2012 his eldest son, José Eduardo, was assassinated and his dead body found in the Acuña municipality, José Eduardo was 26 years old when he was killed.

Money laundering
On 30 June 2015 a state court in Texas related Moreira with money laundering operations through the use of an intermediary called Rolando Gonzalez Trevino, who agreed to plead guilty and implicated the ex-governor. According to this statement, in 2006, Moreira and other senior officials of the state of Coahuila took public funds from the treasury, and transferred them to Gonzalez Treviño to invest in the acquisition of radio stations. In total, it is said that the figure is $1 million 846,782 dollars.

Arrest
On 15 January 2016 Humberto Moreira was arrested by the government of Spain in the Barajas Airport, and charged with money laundering and embezzlement. The arrest was done on request of the US government.

It was reported that the Spanish government's anti-corruption prosecutor was investigating the relation between Moreira's money laundering operation and los Zetas drug cartel,
 and stated that the assassination of Moreira's son in 2012, was in retaliation of a money laundering operation where the Los Zetas cartel did not get their share.

On 22 January 2016 Moreira was granted restricted release on a bail, and is waiting for a trial and the end of the investigation.

Private life
His parents are Rubén Moreira and Evangelina Valdés. He married three times and is father of five children: José Eduardo, Rubén Humberto, Alba Elena, Joaquín Felipe and Vanessa Lucìa.

See also 
 2002 Coahuila state election
 2005 Coahuila state election
 List of presidents of Saltillo Municipality

References

|-

|-

1966 births
Living people
Governors of Coahuila
Municipal presidents in Coahuila
Institutional Revolutionary Party politicians
Presidents of the Institutional Revolutionary Party
Politicians from Saltillo
Mexican people of Portuguese descent
21st-century Mexican politicians