[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Acid Survivors Foundation

. ASF's advocacy campaigns directly involve survivors as spokespersons for change. This allows campaigns to hold more clout and give survivors more self-confidence. ASF also lobbies with the government, NGOs, business organisations, and other agencies to provide rehabilitation support for survivors.

Direct services from ASF
To ensure that survivors are in a position to act as spokespersons, they will need to have secured livelihoods. As such, ASF complements government efforts by providing rehabilitation support to survivors through social protection and other schemes, which enable survivors to establish a secured livelihood and successfully reintegration into mainstream society.

ASF also provides emergency financial support to victim's who are the sole breadwinner of their family and provides education support to encourage survivors to continue primary and secondary schooling.

Legal support
The effective prevention of acid violence can only be ensured if all perpetrators are brought to justice and the state can effectively control the illegal use of acid.

Prior to 2002 acid related offences were primarily dealt with using The Prevention of Oppression Against Women and Children Act of 2000. ASF along with other humans' rights organisations, social activists, and pressure groups advocated for the introduction of new laws to combat acid offences specifically. ASF, the newspaper Prothom Alo, and BRAC on International Women's Day mobilised over 5000 people to march alongside 100 acid attack survivors as a campaign for new laws.

ASF's efforts have resulted in the creation of two laws on 17 April 2002, the Acid Crime Control Act (ACCA) and the Acid Control Act (ACA), making it the first country in the world to have specific laws against acid attacks.

ASF provides legal support for survivors by referring them to its legal partners including BRAC, Aino Salish Kendro (ASK), the Bangladesh National Women Lawyer's Association (BNWLA), and the Bangladesh Legal Aid Services and Trust (BLAST). ASF's case managers prepare case reports of each survivor as they are admitted in the ASF Hospital and then provide legal advice to both survivors and their family. While the legal partners pursue court cases for each survivor, ASF's case managers monitor the role of the police and public prosecutors to ensure the utmost concern is given.

Advocating awareness
Bangladesh has the highest reported incidence of acid violence in the world. In Bangladesh, acid violence is largely a gender-discriminatory crime against women. Since its inception, ASF has worked to create successful prevention campaigns which have led to significant reductions in acid attacks. ASF runs local and national prevention campaigns using radio, television, and print to bring the issue into public attention.

ASF campaigns 2011

School and college campaigns
ASF has organised various school and college campaigns to motivate students into taking an active role in preventing of acid violence in their communities. The campaigns also help raise awareness as to the causes of acid violence, which will engender a change in attitude towards women and human relationships. The campaigns also work to sensitise youth to the social rehabilitation needs of victims and to encourage youth not to discriminate against students with scars and disfigurements. Students are also informed as to the proper procedure for dealing with acid attacks.

Community meetings
ASF's community meetings involve survivors' families, community leaders, and representatives of the local government with the purpose of making them aware of the consequences of acid violence as well as the psycho-social struggles of survivors. Plans to accelerate community acceptance of survivors, ensure social protection, and promote favourable environments for healing are also discussed.

"Use water"
ASF has taken great measures to raise awareness as to the importance of using water immediately after an attack. Information is given to do the following if any part of the body is exposed to acid or if acid is swallowed:
 Pour large amounts of water on the affected area for at least thirty minutes.
 Hold eyelids open and flush the area with water for at least thirty minutes if eyes are affected.
 Drink large amounts of water and vomit immediately if acid is swallowed.

International support

United Kingdom