[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Operation New Life

Operation New Life (23 April – 1 November 1975) was the care and processing on Guam of Vietnamese refugees evacuated before and after the Fall of Saigon, the closing day of the Vietnam War.  More than 111,000 of the evacuated 130,000 Vietnamese refugees were transported to Guam, where they were housed in tent cities for a few weeks while being processed for resettlement.  The great majority of the refugees were resettled in the United States.  A few thousand were resettled in other countries or chose to return to Vietnam on the vessel Thuong Tin.

Background

In April 1975, as the North Vietnamese People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) advanced on Saigon, the United States carried out evacuations from South Vietnam, such as Operation Babylift and Operation Frequent Wind for Americans, nationals of allied countries, Vietnamese children or adults who had worked for or been closely associated with the U.S. during the Vietnam War.

To deal with the refugees, President Gerald Ford created the Interagency Task Force (IATF) for Indochina on 18 April 1975. It tasked a dozen government agencies with the responsibility to transport, process, receive and resettle Indochinese refugees, nearly all Vietnamese, in the United States. Ford appointed L. Dean Brown of the Department of State to head Operation New Life. Later he was replaced by Julia V. Taft of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare (HEW). To finance Operation New Life the Indochina Migration and Refugee Assistance Act was adopted on 23 May 1975. This act allocated funding of $305 million for the State Department and $100 million for HEW.

Nearby countries in Southeast Asia declined to accept the Vietnamese evacuees, fearing that they would have them on their soil permanently. However, Governor Ricardo Bordallo, agreed to grant the Vietnamese temporary asylum on Guam, some  from Saigon. On April 23, Rear Admiral George Stephen Morrison, commander of U.S. Naval forces on Guam (and the father of singer Jim Morrison), was ordered to "accept, shelter, process and care for refugees as they were removed from South Vietnam."

More than 130,000 Vietnamese were evacuated from South Vietnam by air and sea during the last few days of April. A few went to other locations, such as Wake Island, but most were transported to Guam by U.S. and South Vietnamese naval ships, commercial vessels and military and commercial aircraft. A total of 111,919 Vietnamese would be housed temporarily and processed for entry into the United States on Guam. That total included 2,600 orphans and abandoned children evacuated from South Vietnam under Operation Babylift who transited Guam on 3 and 4 April en route to the United States.

Guam had a substantial U.S. military presence to care for the Vietnamese refugees. Andersen Air Force Base on the northern end of the island was the U.S.'s biggest B-52 base and Naval Base Guam was a large deep-water port for naval vessels.

Typhoons frequently impact Guam and the military and civilian personnel involved in Operation New Life feared that a typhoon would strike Guam while the Vietnamese were living in tents and unprotected from the elements. Fortunately, no typhoon hit Guam in 1975.

Refugees

The U.S. military estimated that 13,000 refugees could be housed on Guam, and the first arrivals on 23 April were placed in apartments.  The numbers, however, reached 20,000 on 27 April, exceeding the capacity of existing housing.  The Seabees constructed additional housing, including bulldozing 1,200 acres of brush to create "Tent City" for 50,000 people. On 7 May, three merchant ships arrived at Guam carrying 13,000 Vietnamese, the highest number of people to arrive in a single day.  The refugee population on Guam peaked on 13 May at 50,450 - more than one-half the number of permanent residents of the island. Most of the Vietnamese would spend only two or three weeks on Guam before being transported to the United States or, in a few cases, to other countries.

The objective of the evacuation of South Vietnamese had been to remove U.S. government employees and their families, and Vietnamese with close associations with the United States, who were in danger of persecution by the victorious North Vietnamese and Viet Cong. Many of the refugees were former officers in the South Vietnamese military and officials of the South Vietnamese government. However, a Congressional report summed up characteristics of the refugees who arrived in Guam as follows: "Half the Vietnamese we intended to get out did not get out – and half who did get out should not have."