[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Financial Reporting Council

by the FRC.

Senior personnel
Sir Winfried Bischoff was the Chairman of the FRC, between 2014 and 2019. Other board members included Gay Huey Evans, Melanie McLaren and Paul George. The FRC's chief executive from November 2009 until announcing he was stepping down in late 2018, was Stephen Haddrill.

In 2019, Simon Dingemans and Sir Jon Thompson took over as chair and CEO respectively. Private Eye reported that during the appointment process, Simon Dingemans did not declare an interest in a company which was late filing accounts. In May 2020, Dingemans resigned, citing conflicts between the part-time role and other positions he was interested in taking. In December 2021, Jan du Plessis was nominated by the UK Government to lead the FRC through its transformation into the Audit, Reporting and Governance Authority. In February 2022, du Plessis was confirmed as the FRC's new chair.

Controversies

Carillion
Following the January 2018 collapse of construction and services business Carillion, it was reported that Carillion's auditor KPMG would have its role examined by the FRC. Two months later, the FRC's conduct committee announced an investigation into the conduct of former Carillion finance directors Richard Adam and Zafar Khan.

The operations of the FRC itself were also to be scrutinised by an independent inquiry ordered by Business Secretary Greg Clark.

An "excoriating" report by the Business and the Work and Pensions Select Committees into the collapse of Carillion, published on 16 May 2018, was critical of the FRC, describing it as feeble and timid, and of failing to follow up concerns in Carillion's 2015 accounts. Along with The Pensions Regulator, it was branded as "chronically passive". Welcoming the Government's review of the FRC's powers and effectiveness, the report said changes to be a more aggressive and proactive regulator "will require a significant shift in culture at the FRC itself". Still under pressure to improve, in October 2018, the FRC proposed reforms, including banning from earning consultancy fees at businesses they audit, to tackle the "underlying falling trust in business and the effectiveness of audit," and severely rebuked KPMG. In July 2020, the FRC told the Big Four that they must submit plans by October 2020 to separate their audit and consultancy operations by 2024.

Meanwhile, in November 2018, it was announced that Stephen Haddrill, CEO of the FRC, was to quit, amid suggestions that his departure might lead to the body's abolition.

FRC replacement
In March 2019, the government announced that the FRC would be replaced by a new regulator, the Audit, Reporting and Governance Authority (ARGA), with enhanced powers, in an effort to "change the culture" of the accounting sector. Plans for the new regulator were included in the September 2019 Queen's Speech and, despite concerns that the launch of ARGA might be delayed, the Department for Business, Enterprise and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) told Accountancy Daily in February 2020 that "next steps on audit reform" would be taken in the first quarter of 2020. However, further details were slow to emerge; in November 2020 City A.M. reported that reform proposals relating to the audit sector were expected in early 2021 with full implementation expected in 2023.

A UK Government policy paper, Restoring trust in audit and corporate governance, was published on 19 March 2021, consulting on its proposed steps to establish the ARGA and give it the formal duties, functions and powers it needs to be fully effective. In September 2021, the FRC's head of regulatory standards, Mark Babington said the ARGA would "commence in April 2023".

See also
UK company law
UK Corporate Governance Code
Stewardship Code

References

External links
Official site
FRC structure

Accounting in the United Kingdom
Accounting organizations
Government oversight and watchdog organizations
Corporate governance in the United Kingdom
Financial reporting
1990 establishments in the United Kingdom
Government agencies established in 1990
Public bodies and task forces of the United Kingdom government
Financial regulatory authorities of the United Kingdom
Accounting in Ireland
Department for Business and Trade