[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Cyprus

village of Geroskipou.

Sports

Sport governing bodies include the Cyprus Football Association, Cyprus Basketball Federation, Cyprus Volleyball Federation, Cyprus Automobile Association, Cyprus Badminton Federation, Cyprus Cricket Association, Cyprus Rugby Federation and the Cyprus Pool Association.

Notable sports teams in the Cyprus leagues include APOEL FC, Anorthosis Famagusta FC, AC Omonia, AEL Limassol FC, Apollon Limassol FC, Nea Salamis Famagusta FC, Olympiakos Nicosia, AEK Larnaca FC, Aris Limassol FC, AEL Limassol B.C., Keravnos B.C. and Apollon Limassol B.C. Stadiums or sports venues include the GSP Stadium (the largest in the Republic of Cyprus-controlled areas), Tsirion Stadium (second largest), Neo GSZ Stadium, Antonis Papadopoulos Stadium, Ammochostos Stadium. Makario Stadium and Alphamega Stadium.

In the 2008–09 season, Anorthosis Famagusta FC was the first Cypriot team to qualify for the UEFA Champions League Group stage. Next season, APOEL FC qualified for the UEFA Champions League group stage, and reached the last 8 of the 2011–12 UEFA Champions League after finishing top of its group and beating French Olympique Lyonnais in the Round of 16.

The Cyprus national rugby union team known as The Moufflons currently holds the record for most consecutive international wins, which is especially notable as the Cyprus Rugby Federation was only formed in 2006.

Footballer Sotiris Kaiafas won the European Golden Shoe in the 1975–76 season; Cyprus is the smallest country by population to have one of its players win the award. Tennis player Marcos Baghdatis was ranked 8th in the world, was a finalist at the Australian Open, and reached the Wimbledon semi-final, all in 2006. High jumper Kyriakos Ioannou achieved a jump of 2.35m at the 11th IAAF World Championships in Athletics in Osaka, Japan, in 2007, winning the bronze medal. He has been ranked third in the world. In motorsports, Tio Ellinas is a successful race car driver, currently racing in the GP3 Series for Marussia Manor Motorsport. There is also mixed martial artist Costas Philippou, who competed in UFC's middleweight division from 2011 until 2015. Costas holds a 6–4 record in UFC bouts.

Also notable for a Mediterranean island, the siblings Christopher and Sophia Papamichalopoulou qualified for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. They were the only athletes who managed to qualify and thus represented Cyprus at the 2010 Winter Olympics.

The country's first ever Olympic medal, a silver medal, was won by the sailor Pavlos Kontides, at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the Men's Laser class.

See also
Ancient regions of Anatolia
Index of Cyprus-related articles
Outline of Cyprus
List of notable Cypriots

Notes

References

Further reading

 
 
 Clark, Tommy. A Brief History of Cyprus (2020) excerpt 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sacopoulo, Marina (1966). Chypre d'aujourd'hui. Paris: G.-P. Maisonneuve et Larose. 406 p., ill. with b&w photos. and fold. maps.

External links

General Information
 Cyprus. The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency.
 Timeline of Cyprus by BBC
 Cyprus from UCB Libraries GovPubs
 Cyprus information from the United States Department of State includes Background Notes, Country Study and major reports
 
 Cyprus profile from the BBC News
 The UN in Cyprus

Government
 Cyprus High Commission Trade Centre – London
 Republic of Cyprus – English Language
 Constitution of the Republic of Cyprus
 Press and Information Office – Ministry of Interior 
 Cyprus Statistical Service

Tourism
 Read about Cyprus on visitcyprus.com – the official travel portal for Cyprus
 Cyprus informational portal and open platform for contribution of Cyprus-related content – www.Cyprus.com
 
Cuisine

 Gastronomical map of Cyprus 

Archaeology

 Cypriot Pottery, Bryn Mawr College Art and Artifact Collections
 The Cesnola collection of Cypriot art : stone sculpture, a fully digitised text from The Metropolitan Museum of Art libraries
 The Mosaics of Khirbat al-Ma

Official publications
 The British government's Foreign Affairs Committee report on Cyprus.
 Legal Issues arising from certain population transfers and displacements on the territory of the Republic of Cyprus in the period since 20 July 1974 
 Address to Cypriots by President Papadopoulos (FULL TEXT)
 Annan Plan
 Embassy of Greece, USA – Cyprus: Geographical and Historical Background

 
Countries in Europe
Republics in the Commonwealth of Nations
Member states of the European Union
Eastern Mediterranean
Islands of Europe
International islands
Island countries
Mediterranean islands
Islands of Asia
Middle Eastern countries
West Asian countries
Member states of the Union for the Mediterranean
Member states of the United Nations
Countries in Asia
Member states of the Commonwealth of Nations
States and territories established in 1960
Countries and territories where Greek is an official language
Countries and territories where Turkish is an official language