[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Samuel Street Jr.

Samuel Street, also known as Samuel Street Jr, (March 14, 1775 – August 21, 1844) was a Canadian businessman and government official in Upper Canada who became one of the richest men in Upper Canada. Born in Farmington, Connecticut,  he moved to Chippawa, Upper Canada, after his father was murdered. In Chippawa he lived with his uncle, Samuel Street, who introduced him to the local business community. In the early 1800s, he entered into various partnerships with other businessmen and purchased mills in the Niagara region. His most prominent partnership was with Thomas Clark, and together they used the profits from the mills to lend money (and charge interest) to various people in Upper Canada, further increasing their wealth. They also purchased property throughout Upper Canada, employing agents to help with the purchases, and lending money to local officials in exchange for notification of property that was to be cheaply sold. He bought shares in banks and transportation companies and held debentures with the Upper Canadian government and regional governments. He was a prominent member of the Niagara business elite and was hired to be an executor for other prominent members. He was also a military commander of the 3rd Lincoln Militia, become a colonel of the militia in 1839. He died in Port Robinson, Upper Canada, and his estate was given to his son, Thomas Clark Street, and four daughters.

Early life and family

Street was born in Farmington, Connecticut on March 14, 1775. He was the eldest son of Nehemiah Street and Thankful Moody. His father was murdered in Cold Spring, New York, and in 1787 Samuel Street moved to Chippawa, Upper Canada, to live with his uncle Samuel Street. Street Jr was introduced to the mercantile community in the Niagara region by his uncle and worked in his uncle's shipping business. In October 1796, Street Jr was granted 600 acres by the British government because he was the son of a loyalist. That year he also became a magistrate and he was also the deputy-registrar for the Niagara region. By 1801 he was also the deputy lieutenant of the militia in Lincoln county. He insisted that religious sects who paid a fine rather than join the militia, such as Quakers, Mennonites, and members of the Old German Baptist Brethren, attend the militia's musters with proof of their fine payment. He threatened to arrest and prosecute those who did not attend the muster.

Business career

Early career and milling operations

The first records of Street's business activities are from 1797, when he received a shipment of goods. He formed a partnership with Thomas Clark in May 1798, but the partnership ended the following year. By 1803 Street was part of the milling business at Niagara Falls and in August he became a clerk for Bridgewater Mills in Chippawa, a milling complex. In 1804 he entered into a partnership with James Durand and in 1807 he purchased a milling complex named Falls Mills from Clark. 

In 1808 or 1809, Street entered a new partnership with Clark to run Falls Mills, a milling complex. In 1810 the two businessmen bought Bridgewater Mills. Robert Randal contested Street's ownership over Bridgewater Mills because he claimed the process in which its previous owner, Durand, obtained the property from Randal several years prior was improper. This caused a lengthy legal battle over the status of the property and Randal highlighted this event in his opposition to the Niagara region's elite, which included Street. The two gristmills processed wheat, which were produced on farms in the region. The mills were described by James Crooks, another businessman and political figure, as having a monopoly in the region, while George Prévost, an army officer in the War of 1812, described the mills as the "most useful and valuable in the country".  

In September 1812 Street became captain of the 3rd Lincoln Militia. Several of his mills were destroyed by the Americans during the War of 1812 in July 1814. Street and Clark applied for compensation for this event, but the compensation for Brigewater Mills was delayed until 1835 by the legal dispute initiated by Randal. They claimed that the property destruction was worth £7,785, but were given £4,970. Falls Mills was rebuilt and turned into a woolen mill, while Bridewater Mills was never rebuilt. In 1822, Street was promoted to be the lieutenant-colonel of the 3rd Lincoln Militia.

Later career