[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Caribbean Legion

an government annulled a presidential election that had been won by the opposition candidate. This provided the Legion with a pretext for an invasion, and the 300-strong Costa Rican army was quickly defeated by the invasion force composed mostly of Nicaraguan exiles, and Figueres was made President.

Luperón invasion 
In 1949, Arévalo supported another invasion of the Dominican Republic, this time by air. 60 Dominican exiles were to take part. The invasion force was trained at Guatemalan military facilities, and Arévalo persuaded the Mexican government to allow the invasion planes to refuel there. However, due to poor coordination and poor weather, only 15 men of the invasion force landed in the Dominican Republic at the town of Luperón, where they were quickly captured or killed. The trial of those who were captured was used by the Trujillo government to express its support for non-interventionism and to condemn the Guatemalan government as a puppet of the Soviet Union. The United States also strongly criticised the Legion following the capture of the fighters. The failure of the invasion led to the collapse of the Legion, and it never fought another battle.

Membership and organization 
The Caribbean Legion never had a formal structure. The name was coined by journalists in the United States in 1947. Although it had members from every country in Hispanic Latin America, the greatest number came from the Dominican Republic. Many of the exiles were war veterans; many of the Cubans and Dominicans had volunteered in the United States army during World War II, while others had fought in the Spanish Republican Army. There were also some pilots who had been members of the U.S. Air Force.

The funding and weapons of the Caribbean Legion came from many different sources. A number of weapons dealers had stock left over from World War II that they were willing to sell to the Legion. The Legion also received support at various times from the governments of Cuba and Guatemala, as well as from the Costa Rican government of José Figueres Ferrer after it came to power in 1948. The biggest source of funding for the legion was Juan Rodriguez Garcia, a wealthy Dominican rancher who fled the Dominican Republic in January 1946.

A secondary member of the Caribbean Legion was Fidel Castro, who participated in the Cayo Confites affair as a 21-year-old. He was captured with the rest of the invasion force, but escaped by jumping off the Cuban Navy vessel he was held on and swimming to shore (disputed).

References

Citations

Sources 

 
 
 
 
 

History of Central America
History of the Caribbean
Politics of Central America
Politics of the Caribbean