[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bill Miner

00s.

It has been speculated that Miner left a hidden cache of loot in the forests near and around Green Lake / 70 Mile House BC after the first robbery and local historians believe he used these monies to fund his escape, while others surmise that today there is still hidden loot to be found there.

An original song titled "The Ballad of Bill Miner" was written by singer/songwriter Phillip Mills (Eugene Quinn) and recorded by the San Francisco bay area band "The Blackout Cowboys".

Miner was the subject of the 1982 Canadian film The Grey Fox, in which he was played by Richard Farnsworth.

Miner is buried in Memory Hill Cemetery in Milledgeville, Georgia. It was discovered that his headstone was in the wrong location, name spelled wrong, and with the wrong year of his death. A new headstone was put in the correct spot and spelled correctly. The old one was kept where it was.

Mount Miner near Princeton, formerly Bald Mountain or Baldy, was renamed in Bill Miner's honor in response to a motion by the Princeton Board of Trade in 1952. Miner had lived on the ranch owned by Jack Budd, which was on the other side of this mountain from Princeton, while planning the robbery at Ducks. Billy's Restaurant in Princeton, British Columbia is also named after him.

Tin Whistle Brewing Co. a microbrewery from Penticton B.C. launched a Red Ale titled "Hands Up!" as a commemoration to Miner.

His principal biography is The Grey Fox: The True Story of Bill Miner, Last of the Old Time Bandits, by Mark Dugan and John Boessenecker (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1992).

In 2014, thieves stole Miner's watch from the Royal BC Museum in Victoria. The watch, along with the several others, was recovered by the Victoria Police and the thieves arrested by the Port Alberni RCMP.

References

External links

William Miner The Canadian Encyclopedia
Bill Miner Canada Vignettes
Podcast about Bill Miner from Library and Archives Canada

1847 births
1913 deaths
American escapees
American people imprisoned abroad
Burials at Memory Hill Cemetery
Escapees from Canadian detention
Fugitives
Gunslingers of the American Old West
History of British Columbia
Outlaws of the American Old West
People from Bowling Green, Kentucky
People from British Columbia
People from Jackson County, Kentucky
Train robbers