[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alex (footballer, born March 1982)

eping him there, until 2013. After leaving Brazil for Russia, Alex explained his departure, stating the time had come for him to play in Europe and against his wishes to stay for the rest of his career at Internacional. On 2 March 2009, he was presented by the club and was given the number 12 shirt.

Alex made his debut for the club, where he made his first start and played 90 minutes, in a 1–1 draw against Zenit Saint Petersburg on the opening game of the season. Two weeks after the opening game of the season, he scored his first goal in a 2–0 win over Spartak Nalchik when he scored in a free-kick. On 23 May 2009, he scored a brace in a 5–1 win over Amkar Perm. In his first season, he had an optimal season, with the club second place, missing out to become first place behind Rubin Kazan, who won the title for the second time, as Alex made 29 appearances, scoring 12 goals and providing 9 assists. In a match against Amkar Perm, Alex was given a captaincy and made a double assist in a 2–1 win.

The following season, Alex did not make a bright start, as in the previous last season. In a match against Spartak Nalchik on 25 April 2010, he received a second bookable offence in a 0–0 draw. Due to lack of his performance earlier in the season, Manager Valery Karpin spoke out about Alex, claiming he had a problem with psychology. On 21 July 2010, Alex made a fourth assist in a 5–3 win over Sibir Novosibirsk. With the departure of Martin Jiránek to Birmingham City in August, Alex was named the new captain of Spartak after just one and a half seasons with the club. During a match against Alania Vladikavkaz on 15 October 2010, he scored in a penalty spot but suffered an injury on the muscles of his right thigh. By 7 November, he made his return in a 1–1 draw against Rubin Kazan (which turned out to be the last league appearance of the season). In the Champions League campaign, he made his debut in a 1–0 win over Marseille on the opening game of the group stage. In the first game against MŠK Žilina, he set up a goal for Ari in a 3–0 win. In the second game, he scored and set up a goal for Ibson in a 2–1 win in the final game of the group stage, resulting in the club going to the Europa League. At the end of the season, Alex had made 27 games and scored 5 goals.

The following season, Alex made a few appearance until his move back to Brazil. He played his first match in the Europa League where he made a double assist in a 3–2 win over Basel in the first leg. The club advanced to the next round after a 1–1 draw in the second leg. Against Ajax, he scored twice in each leg and the club won both games against Ajax before losing to Porto in both leg 10–3 on aggregate. In the semi-final of the Russian Cup, he made his last appearance in a 5–4 loss against CSKA Moscow. In April 2011, he announced his intention to leave Spartak Moscow. This was later explained as his wife was seven months pregnant and feared a miscarriage. However, his son was born prematurely and he needed to support his wife. Alex was also struggling with the freezing weather as another reason he wanted to leave despite being content on the pitch. After leaving the club, he made his final interview and apologised to Spartak's fans.

Corinthians 
On 13 May 2011, Spartak agreed the transfer of Alex to Corinthians for 6 million and signed until 2014. Four days later, on 17 May, he was presented by the club in São Paulo.

One month since joining Corinthians on 30 June 2011, he made his debut in a 1–0 win over Bahia. 38 days later, he scored his first goal in a 1–1 draw against Atlético Paranaense. After scoring his first goal, he scored three more in three games.

During a match against Santos on 18 September in a 3–1 loss, Alex collapsed on the field and was immediately taken to Hospital São Luiz. Despite serious concerns, he was released after no injuries were found by a CT scan.

At the end of the season, the club won their first league title in six years and also won the Copa Libertadores Finals. In the final, Alex played in attacking midfield in both legs.

For Corinthians, Alex played 56 games and scored nine goals.

Al-Gharafa

For €6M, on 17 July 2012, Alex left Corinthians and was transferred to Qatari side Al-Gharafa, where he joined his Brazilian compatriots Diego Tardelli and Afonso Alves. Two months after signing for the club, Alex made his debut in a 2–0 loss against Al-Wakrah. On 21 October 2012, he scored his first goal in a 2–0 win over El Jaish. In January 2013, Nenê was recruited by Al-Gharafa from Paris Saint-Germain, meaning that Alex had to leave the club as the foreign players' quota was reached, as announced on the Qatar Stars League official website. However, the departure of Diego Tardelli a week later led to the reinstatement of Alex, who would continue with Al-Gharafa until the end of the season.