[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hillbilly Highway

miliarity with modern plumbing, and because they were seen as taking away jobs from the old-time automotive workers. The advent of assembly lines meant that unskilled workers could ably perform tasks at manufacturing plants, so these unskilled mountain folk were adequate employees.

Migrant identity

The Appalachian people who migrated to Detroit (and in smaller numbers to Flint) in order to work in the automotive plants gained an identity distinct from the one that they possessed in their home state.   Many families were forced to separate and adapt to new environments, causing traumatic experiences. The discrimination and negative stereotypes that they faced caused new issues that went into following generations. The migrants felt out of place and had a hard time feeling a part of their new community. In their home states, people saw themselves as distinct from those living in other parts of the state, or in a different part of the South.  Once they migrated to Michigan, they were lumped together as southern white laborers, and a group consciousness based on that label emerged.  Migrants from all over Appalachia began to feel a social solidarity with each other, preferring to work and live beside other Southerners than with Northerners. It was believed that the southern Appalachian migrants began to resemble one another by characteristics less rapidly than Northern rural migrants because of their group consciousness and the persistence of certain southern regional attitudes, and an acute awareness of the difference between themselves and other native-born white Americans. Because the Appalachian migrants had no cultural context for situations they encountered in northern industrial cities, their reactions were dictated by their rural southern lives and attitudes. This led to these migrants going back to their old homes during holidays and layoffs where everyday life seemed more familiar to them. As many as 35% of migrants would return to their old homes from places like Flint and Michigan during such periods of layoffs between 1940 and 1970.

In popular culture 
Country singer Bobby Bare's 1963 hit single "Detroit City", written by Danny Dill and Mel Tillis, describes the homesickness and culture shock commonly experienced by Southern migrants.

Singer Steve Earle wrote a song titled "Hillbilly Highway", recorded on his 1986 album Guitar Town. Also released as a single, "Hillbilly Highway" recounts the story of three generations of Appalachian men who leave their homes to find work elsewhere.

See also
History of the Appalachian people in Baltimore
History of the Appalachian people in Chicago
History of the Appalachian people in Metro Detroit
Urban Appalachians
Urban Appalachian Council
Detroit City (song)
Hillbilly Elegy
Mountain white
Poor White
White trash
Council of the Southern Mountains

References

Society of Appalachia
Human migration
Culture of Detroit
Southern United States
Appalachia
Poverty in the United States
History of West Virginia
History of Chicago
History of Baltimore
History of Cleveland
History of Kentucky
Culture of the Southern United States
History of Cincinnati
Internal migrations in the United States