[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Local government in Connecticut

Connecticut shares with the five other New England states a governmental structure known as the New England town. From 1666 to 1960, Connecticut had a system of county governments, which each had limited powers given to it by the General Assembly. They were abolished by Public Act 152 in 1960. Connecticut also had a system of sheriffs' offices until October 2000, when those were also abolished.

County 
Connecticut is divided geographically into eight counties, but these counties do not have any associated government structure. The Connecticut General Assembly abolished all county governments on October 1, 1960. The counties continued to have sheriffs until 2000, when the sheriffs' offices were abolished and replaced with state marshals through a ballot measure attached to the 2000 presidential election.  Today, counties serve as little more than boundaries for the state's judicial and state marshal system. Connecticut's court jurisdictions still adhere to the old county boundaries, with the exception of Fairfield, Hartford, and New Haven counties, which have been further subdivided into multiple court jurisdictions due to their relatively large populations.

From 1666 to 1960, "weak" county governments existed in Connecticut, where each county commission had limited powers delegated to it by the General Assembly.  Each county had a 3-member County Commission, whose members were appointed by the General Assembly; plus a Sheriff who was elected by the voters in each county.  Initially, county governments had authority over:

 County courts (transitioned to the State Judiciary in 1855)
 Construction and maintenance of county jails
 Resolving road disputes between towns
 Constructing and maintaining bridges to link adjacent towns
 Maintaining safe houses for neglected and/or abused children

County governments had no direct taxing authority; their funding was provided indirectly through set-asides from state and local taxes.  During the first half of the 20th century, county governments were gradually phased out as the General Assembly transitioned powers from the county commissions to either the state government or to individual towns.  By the time county governments were abolished by Public Act 152 in 1960, the only remaining responsibility of the county commissions was to oversee and maintain the county jails; those functions were transitioned to the state Department of Corrections or local police departments after the county commissions were disbanded.

Councils of governments 

In the 1980s the legislature established fifteen regional councils, which cluster towns with similar demographics into an administrative planning region, instead of adhering to the old county structure. In 2014 the number of planning regions was reduced from the original fifteen to nine, as a result of four voluntary consolidations and the elimination of two planning regions.

As of 2015, the State of Connecticut recognized COGs as county equivalents, allowing them to apply for funding and grants made available to county governments in other states. In 2019 the state recommended to the United States Census Bureau that the nine Councils of Governments replace counties for statistical purposes. This proposal was approved by the Census Bureau in 2022, and will be fully implemented by 2024.

Town 

Unlike most other states outside of New England, where incorporated cities and towns are usually separated by unincorporated territory under the jurisdiction of a county, incorporated cities and towns encompass all of the territory within the state of Connecticut with no portion of the state being unincorporated.  The 169 towns of Connecticut are the principal units of local government in the state and have full municipal powers including:
Corporate powers
Eminent domain
Ability to levy taxes
Public services (low cost housing, waste disposal, fire, police, ambulance, street lighting)
Public works (highways, sewers, cemeteries, parking lots, etc.)
Regulatory powers (building codes, traffic, animals, crime, public health)
Environmental protection
Economic development

Towns are officially creatures of the state, and their powers are set forth by statute and the state constitution.  In practice, as is the case in most of New England, their authority has been very broadly construed, and there is a long-standing tradition of local autonomy.

Towns traditionally had the town meeting form of government, which is still used by some of the 169 towns. Under Connecticut's Home Rule Act, any town is permitted to adopt its own local charter and choose its own structure of government. The three basic structures of municipal government used in the state, with variations from place to place, are the selectman–town meeting, mayor–council, and manager–council.

Nineteen towns are also incorporated as cities;  one town (Naugatuck) is also incorporated as a borough.