[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Islamic Courts Union

the warlord alliance. The cities air and seaports came under the organizations direct control for the first time. In May they seized the very building where the warlord alliance had been founded and established an Islamic Court in its place.

Defeat of the warlord alliance and seizure of Mogadishu 

On 5 June 2006, the Islamic Courts Union decisively defeated the warlord alliance in the Second Battle of Mogadishu, gained total authority over the capital and proceeded to establish a 65-mile radius of control around the city. This was a seminal moment in modern Somali history, as the ICU was now the first group to have consolidated control over all of Mogadishu since the collapse of the Somali state. According to Chatham House, "The Courts achieved the unthinkable, uniting Mogadishu for the first time in 16 years, and re-establishing peace and security". The Alliance for the Restoration of Peace and Counter-Terrorism soon collapsed, with the majority of its commanders publicly resigning or expressing support for the ICU. Two of the defeated warlords allegedly fled to an American naval vessel off the Somali coast according to witnesses in Mogadishu. BBC News reported that the ICU had emerged as Somalia's strongest and most popular faction.  

The leaders of the ICU repeatedly professed that they intended to negotiate with the Transitional Federal Government In Baidoa so that it could move into Mogadishu and reunite Somalia. Several days after the city came under ICU control, US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack noted that goal of the union was to "...lay the foundations for some institutions in Somalia that might form the basis for a better and more peaceful, secure Somalia where the rule of law is important." In mid June, ICU leaders sent a cable to Washington stating that the courts had no interest in being enemies with the United States.

Rule over Mogadishu and southern Somalia (June  – December 2006) 
Over the ensuing months, the eleven amalgamated Islamic Courts initiated a drive to establish stability in Mogadishu and the territories under its control. This period of the Somali Civil War, referred to as a 'Golden era' of Somali politics by top UN officials, saw the ICU undertake significant reformative and security measures.

In this time frame, the ICU revived sixteen previously defunct police stations in Mogadishu, deploying nearly 600 personnel and dozens of vehicles to fortify the nascent law enforcement framework. This resulted in a steep drop in banditry within days, as thieves avoided areas within reach of the court forces. Additionally, the city witnessed a ban on the open possession of firearms unless registered with a court, and foreign visitors were publicly advised to provide two weeks' prior notice of their arrival for their security. The courts also began issuing travel visas, resulting in significant influx of investors and former refugees. Another action that significantly increased the ICU's popularity was the restoration of proper ownership regarding land and homes that had been lost or stolen during the civil war. It was noted that as the courts were taking over the city many people simply left the homes they occupied before the rightful owners had even taken their cases to the specialized Sharia courts that were setup for property disputes. During this period the ICU also began to expand its authority by validating major transactions such as the purchase of vehicles or homes and overseeing marriages and divorces. The courts garnered broad backing from the Mogadishu business community by cracking down on theft and extortion, thus fostering a more conducive environment for trade. For the first time in years, major roads and junctions in the city, once notorious for severe traffic congestion, flowed smoothly. The courts deployed personnel to regulate traffic and dismantle roadblocks, bringing about a notable improvement in the city's traffic flow. Prices of goods would significantly drop in the weeks following.