[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1990 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1990 in New Zealand.

New Zealand celebrated its sesquicentennial, 150 years since the signing of The Treaty of Waitangi.

In the general election in October, National was elected in a landside victory.

GDP was $40.2 billion, unemployment was at 7.4% (March) and the exchange rate was 1 NZ$ per US$1.6750. This year New Zealand produced 8,000 million kWh of electricity.

Population
 Estimated population as of 31 December: 3,410,400.
 Increase since 31 December 1989: 40,600 (1.20%).
 Males per 100 females: 97.3.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
Head of State – Elizabeth II
Governor-General – Paul Reeves followed by Catherine Tizard

Government
The 42nd New Zealand Parliament continued, until the general election, held 27 October. The governing Labour Party was defeated. and The National Party, led by Jim Bolger, formed the new government.

Speaker of the House – Kerry Burke then Robin Gray
Prime Minister – Geoffrey Palmer then Mike Moore then Jim Bolger
Deputy Prime Minister – Helen Clark then Don McKinnon
Minister of Finance – David Caygill then Ruth Richardson
Minister of Foreign Affairs – Russell Marshall then Mike Moore then Don McKinnon
 Chief Justice — Sir Thomas Eichelbaum

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition – Jim Bolger (National), until 2 November, then Mike Moore (Labour) .
NewLabour Party – Jim Anderton (after 2 November General election)

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – Catherine Tizard then Les Mills
Mayor of Hamilton – Margaret Evans
Mayor of Wellington – Jim Belich
Mayor of Christchurch – Vicki Buck
Mayor of Dunedin – Richard Walls

Events

Unknown
 Telecom sold for $ 4.25 billion.
 New Zealand Bill of Rights Act passed
 The Tongariro National Park was inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage list for its natural values.
Creation of Te Wahipounamu World Heritage site
 The Royal New Zealand Navy tanker  and the frigates  and  were deployed to Bougainville as a neutral venue for peace talks between the government of Papua New Guinea and secessionist leaders of the Bougainville Revolutionary Army.
 New Zealand ratifies the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
 New Zealand and the Netherlands signed a reciprocal Social Security Agreement in October 1990, which came into effect in 1992.
 Banning of wood chip exports.
 Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand is formed.
 Establishment of the Forest Heritage Fund (later renamed "Nature Heritage Fund").
 Ministry for the Environment Green Ribbon Award established
 Penny Jamieson, Anglican Bishop of Dunedin, was ordained the first women Diocesan bishop in the world.

January
 24 January: Commonwealth Games are officially opened by Prince Edward in Auckland.

February
 1–16 February: Her Majesty Elizabeth II of New Zealand visits.
 3 February: Commonwealth Games are officially closed by Elizabeth II in Auckland, with New Zealand winning 58 medals,
6 February: New Zealand celebrates its sesquicentennial.

March
1 March – Royal New Zealand Navy discontinues the daily rum ration.

April
 30 April: One- and two-cent coins are withdrawn from legal tender.

May
 13 May: 6.2 Magnitude earthquake in Hawke's Bay

June

July
 1 July: Tariffs were eliminated between Australia and New Zealand under the Closer Economic Relations agreement. This was five years ahead of schedule

August

September
 4 September: Geoffrey Palmer: resigns as Prime Minister and is replaced by Mike Moore.

October
1 October: The Health Research Council of New Zealand is formed.
27 October – New Zealand general election returns National with record number of seats – 67; Labour 29, NewLabour 1
27 October: Referendum to increase Parliamentary term from three to four years defeated: 30.7% For, 69.3% Against.

November
 2 November:Jim Bolger becomes Prime Minister.
 2 November: Don McKinnon becomes Deputy Prime Minister
 2 November: Ruth Richardson became the first woman Minister of Finance.
 13 November: David Gray, an Aramoana resident, began a 22-hour shooting spree that left 13 people and Gray dead.

December
 Government announces $1.275 Billion worth of social welfare cuts.
 12 December: Dame Catherine Tizard becomes first woman Governor-General of New Zealand.

Arts and literature
David Eggleton wins the Robert Burns Fellowship.

See 1990 in art, 1990 in literature, :Category:1990 books

Music