[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brigitte Mabandla

A. Observers also surmised that Mabandla, as the NPA's political head, felt that Pikoli excluded her from decision-making, particularly in high-profile cases and particularly by comparison with the close relationship between their respective predecessors, Bulelani Ngcuka and Minister Penuell Maduna.

On 24 September, President Mbeki suspended Pikoli as the head of the NPA, citing "an irretrievable breakdown" in his relationship with Mabandla. However, there was widespread suspicion that his suspension was related to the fact that, earlier the same week, he had obtained a warrant to arrest one of Mbeki's allies, National Police Commissioner Jackie Selebi, on corruption charges; Pikoli himself agreed with this interpretation. During later investigations, Scorpion Gerrie Nel said that Mabandla had met with the Scorpions team in June 2007 and had agreed that there was a strong case but had expressed concern that Selebi's arrest would "shake the foundations of this country". Pikoli, moreover, revealed that Mabandla had written to him on 18 September 2007 with an instruction not to pursue Selebi's prosecution until, in the words of her letter, she was "satisfied that indeed the public interest will be served should you go ahead" and "that sufficient evidence exists". Pikoli's lawyer, Wim Trengove, argued that Mabandla's instruction constituted a clear infringement on the constitutional independence of the NPA. Nonetheless, Frene Ginwala, who chaired an inquiry into the saga, largely cleared Mabanda, finding instead that she had been misled by Menzi Simelane, the director-general of the Justice Department, who Ginwala said had misunderstood the department's proper role and had withheld information from her.

Concurrent positions 
Amid this controversy, Mabandla attended the ANC's 52nd National Conference, held in December 2007 in Polokwane. Unlike most of Mbeki's other cabinet ministers, she made a strong showing in the National Executive Committee elections and was elected to her third term, now ranked ninth of 80. However, she did not gain re-election to the National Working Committee. In addition, she served as the first woman president of the Asian–African Legal Consultative Organisation, gaining election to that office at the organisation's 46th session in Cape Town in 2007.

Minister of Public Enterprises: 2008–2009 
When Mbeki resigned from the presidency at the ANC's request in September 2008, Mabandla was among the minority of ministers who did not submit their own resignations in response. Mbeki was succeeded by President Kgalema Motlanthe, who, on 25 September, announced that Mabandla would succeed Alec Erwin as the Minister of Public Enterprises in his new cabinet. She was replaced as justice minister by Enver Surty, who oversaw the disbanding of the Scorpions, while her major task in her new portfolio was the management of power utility Eskom amid the ongoing energy crisis in South Africa. She vacated her parliamentary seat and cabinet office after the April 2009 general election.

Later career and diplomacy 

After leaving frontline politics, Mabandla continued her public service in various capacities: President Jacob Zuma appointed her as chairperson of the National Orders Advisory Council in October 2014, and in January 2015, the 22nd African Peer Review Mechanism (APRM) Forum Summit appointed her to succeed Baleka Mbete as a member of the APRM's Panel of Eminent Persons. In January 2016, she was appointed to a 17-person high-level panel that was chaired by former President Motlanthe and tasked by Parliament with assessing key legislation and its efficacy.

In 2020, she was designated as South African Ambassador to Sweden by President Cyril Ramaphosa. She presented her credentials at the Stockholm Palace on 16 January. She also remained active in the ANC, and in July 2018 she was appointed to deputise George Mashamba as deputy chairperson of the party's internal Integrity Commission.

Personal life 
In 1972, Mabandla married Lindilwe Mabandla, an activist whom she had met in the South African Students' Movement. They have children.

References

External links 

 Brigitte Sylvia Mabandla at South African Government
 Brigitte Sylvia Mabandla at South African History Online
 Interview with Padraig O'Malley (1993)
 "Choices for South African Women" in Agenda (1994)