[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Katalin Bogyay

Studies Kőszeg published book  A CRY FOR FREEDOM: Reflections on the 1956 Hungarian Revolution at the UN and Beyond by Ambassador Bogyay as well as created Statues of Remembrance by Hedva Ser, UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador és Special Envoy for Cultural Diplomacy, based on the concept of the Ambassador.

Awards and honors
She is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (FRSA) and of the World Academy of Art and Science (FWAAS). In 2005, she was awarded the Knight's Cross Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary for her contribution to international culture. In 2012, she was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Letters from the University of Glasgow  for her work in building cultural links between Hungary and Scotland, as well as promoting cultural diversity and cultural diplomacy throughout the world. In 2013, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the International Fair Play Committee Bogyay was awarded the Special Trophy of Fair Play to her contribution in sports diplomacy.
In 2014, she was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit for her achievements in culture and cultural diplomacy.
She is an International Advisory Board Member of the Institute for Cultural Diplomacy (ICD - Berlin) and President of the Program The Arts and Cultural Diplomacy. Ambassador Bogyay is an International Advisory Board Member of the Institute of Advanced Studies Kőszeg (iASK). 
In 2016, she was awarded a Doctor Honoris Causa from the Pannon University for her work in multilateral and cultural diplomacy. In 2016 she received the Global Citizenship Award from the James Jay Dudley Luce Foundation for embodying the characteristics of honor, intelligence, benevolence, and integrity   Ambassador Bogyay received an Honorary Professor distinction from the Utah Valley University in April 2016. On the occasion of the United Nations Day in 2017 she received the “Spirit of the UN – 2017” Award of the NGO Committee on Spirituality, Values and Global Concern. Ambassador Bogyay received the “Women of Distinction 2017 – Global Leadership Award in Social Justice/Development” by the Celebrating Women International in 2017.
She is a member of the Athena 40 Global Committee. In 2020, on the occasion of the International Day of the Girl Child, Ambassador Katalin Bogyay has received ‘The Last Girl Leadership Award’ raising the awareness and championing the global fight against human trafficking and modern day slavery. The honor was awarded by Apne Aap Women Worldwide, an India and the USA based human rights organisation. She is a founding member of the Women for Hungary Club, an organisation that was established with the aim of making the family and career complementary and not conflicting factors in Hungarian women's lives. She is Honorary Citizen of the City of Mór In 2021, she received the Countess Antonia Zichy Award for her outstanding role in international diplomacy and community building. She has become member of the Hungarian National Commission for UNESCO.

Books
She has published several books: a biography on Hungarian actress Margit Dajka (1989, Officina Nova, Budapest ) as well as another biographical work on János Pilinszky, a Hungarian poet (1990, Officina Nova, Budapest). Találkozásaim a nagyvilágban (My encounters around the globe) is a collection of interviews with internationally acclaimed artists and scientists (1996, H.G.& Co.Budapest). The Voice of Freedom-A szabadság hangja (2006, HCC, London ) is a compilation of interviews on the subject of the 1956 revolution. In the interview book: A Magyar kultúra szolgálatában (Serving Hungarian Culture, interviewed by Hedvig Dvorszky, 2010, Kairosz), Budapest she gives an insight about her professional life. The Art of Cultural Diplomacy: Panorama of the Presidency, (2013, Espace Cinko- UNESCO, Paris) and Elnökségem története (2014, Holnap Kiadó, Budapest)  are about her work as the President of UNESCO`s General Conference (2011–13). In 2017, it was published in China by Yilin Press. Her book on the 1956 Revolution at the UN called “A CRY FOR FREEDOM: Reflections on the 1956 Hungarian Revolution at the UN and Beyond” was published in 2017 in New York. To pay tribute to the Hungarian poet, János Pilinszky on his 100th birthday, she has revisited her former interview book and made a new series of interviews with contemporary thinkers (Pilinszky újra..., 2021, Holnap Kiadó, Budapest).

Personal life
Her husband is a lawyer in Budapest and her son Tamás is an associate attorney in the London office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP.

References

External links
Katalin Bogyay at the Institute for Cultural Diplomacy
Outstanding leaders in their field to receive honorary degrees, June 2012
A Magyar Érdemrend középkeresztje
(2007) European Union: the next fifty years: 50 top thinkers set out their ideas for Europe Oxford University Press, Oxford.  
Magyarorszag.hu - Government Portal
Hungarian Cultural Centre in London