[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Das Kapital, Volume I

a means to produce surplus value for the capitalist.

There are two distinct forms of wages that is used in the production of capital, namely time-wages and piece-wages. These forms facilitate the illusion of the actual value of labour-power and the increase of productivity from the worker employed.

Chapter 20: Time-Wages 
Marx presents the unit for measurement of time-wages to be the value of the day's labour-power divided by the number of hours in the average working day. However, an extension in the period of labour produces a fall in the price of labour, culminating in the fall in the daily or weekly wage. Yet as Marx specifies, this is to the advantage of the capitalist as more hours of production leads to surplus value for the capitalist, stating: "If one man does the work of 1½ or 2 men, the supply of labour increases, although the supply of labour-power on the market remains constant.  The competition thus created between the workers allows the capitalist to force down the price of labour, while the fall in price allows him, on the other hand, to force up the hours of work even further". To make the worker feel his extra time and labour is well spent, the capitalist employs the trick of overtime.

Chapter 21: Piece-Wages 
Marx explains the exploitative nature of the piece-wage system. Under this system, workers are paid a pre-determined amount for each piece they produce, creating a modified form of the time-wage system. A key difference is in the fact that the piece-wage system provides an exact measure of the intensity of labour, meaning that the capitalists know about how long it takes to produce one piece of finished product. Those who cannot meet these standards of production will not be allowed to keep their jobs. This system also allows for middlemen (wholesaler or reseller) to usurp positions between the capitalists and labourers. These middlemen make their money solely from paying labour less than capitalists are actually allotting, thus bringing about worker on worker exploitation.

Logic would lead a labourer to believe that straining one's labour power "as intensely as possible" works in one's own interests because the more efficiently they produce the more they will be paid. Therefore, the workday will lengthen to the extent that worker's allow and necessitate. However, prolongation in the workday requires the price of labour to fall. Marx elucidates that "the piece-wage therefore has a tendency, while raising the wages of individuals above the average, to lower this average itself," and "it is apparent that the piece-wage is the form of wage most appropriate to the capitalist mode of production". He gives examples of the weaving industry around the time of the Anti-Jacobin War where "piece-wages had fallen so low that in spite of the very great lengthening of the working day, the daily wage was then lower than it had been before".  In this example, we are able to see how piece-wages do nothing but decrease the value of labour and better disguise the true way the workers are exploited.

Part Seven: The Process of Accumulation of Capital 
In Chapters 23–25, Marx explores the ways in which profits are used to recreate capitalist class relations on an ever expanding scale and the ways in which this expansion of capitalism creates periodic crises for capitalist accumulation. For Marx, these crises in accumulation are also always crises in the perpetuation of the class relations necessary for capitalist production and so are also opportunities for revolutionary change.

Chapter 23: Simple Reproduction

Chapter 24: The Transformation of Surplus-Value into Capital

Capitalist production on a progressively increasing scale. The inversion which converts the property laws of commodity production into laws of capitalist appropriation

The political economists' erroneous conception of reproduction on an increasing scale

Division of surplus-value into capital and revenue. The abstinence theory 

The circumstances which independently of the proportional division of surplus-value into capital and revenue determine the extent of accumulation:
 The degree of exploitation of labour-power.
 The productivity of labour.
 The growing difference in amount between capital employed and capital consumed.
 The magnitude of the capital advanced.