[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sirkazhi

Sirkazhi (), also spelled as Sirkali and Siyali, is a major municipal town in Mayiladuthurai district in Tamil Nadu, India. It is located  from the coast of the Bay of Bengal, and  from the state capital Chennai. Sirkazhi was a part of Thanjavur district until 1991 and has later been part of Nagapattinam district. The town covers an area of  and in 2011 had a population of 34,927. It is administered by a second grade municipality. Sirkazhi is part of the Cauvery delta region and agriculture is the major occupation. Roads are the main means of transportation; the town has  of district roads, including a national highway.

The town is believed to be of significant antiquity and has been ruled by the Medieval Cholas, Later Cholas, Later Pandyas, the Vijayanagar Empire, the Marathas and the British. The Tamil trinity of Carnatic music; Arunachala Kavirayar (1711–78), Muthu Thandavar (1525–1600) and Marimutthu Pillai (1712–87), originated from Sirkazhi. The Saiva saint Tirugnanasambandar, foremost of the Saiva Nayanars, was born here in the seventh century. Thirumangai Alvar Kaliyan (Thirumangai) was born in Thirukuraiyalur near Sirkazhi.  The history of the town is centred on the Sattainathar Temple, which is dedicated to Hindu god Shiva. Also the history of town is associated with Rajarajeshwari – Angalaparameshwari Temple, which is dedicated to Goddess Adi shakthi, who believed to be most powerful form, located in the south of Kalumalaiyar river. The goddess when takes the forceful form, termed as "Shri Kali" or "Pechi amma" or " Angali" which forms the basis for the town's name as "Sirkali".

Etymology and origin
 In ancient times, this town had twelve different names, including Brahmapuram, Venupuram, Thonipuram, Kazhumalam, Pugali, Sirkazhiswaram and Shri Kali. According to Hindu legend, during one of the biggest deluges that submerged the planet earth, Hindu god Shiva is said to have carried the 64 arts on a raft (called Thoni in Tamil). The presiding deity in the temple, Shiva, is thus called "Thoniappar" (the one who carried the raft) and the region is called "Thonipuram". The Hindu god Brahma is believed to have worshiped Shiva here, giving the name "Bhrahmapureeswarar" (the one worshipped by Brahma) and so the region is also referred as "Brahmapureeswaram".

Shiva is believed to have quelled the arrogance of Hindu god Vishnu, after showing his dominance over the three worlds and hence got the name "Sattainathar" here. The town is thus called "Sattainathapuram", which in modern times, is a suburb within Sirkazhi. The town was known as "Kalumalam" during the early Chola period. Thirugnanasambandar, the seventh century Saiva nayanar, as an infant is believed to have been fed with the milk of wisdom by the divine mother Parvati on the banks of the temple tank. The child Sambandar started singing the anthology of Tevaram hymns from then on, commencing with "Todudaiya Seviyan". Sambandar refers the town as "Kazhi" in his verses. It was called Shiyali during British rule, and after Independence, it was renamed "Sirkazhi".

History
The earliest mention of Sirkazhi is found in the history of the Chola king Kocengannan from the Sangam Age (3rd century BCE to 4th century CE), who is believed to have won a bloody battle here. During the 7th–8th century, there were widespread disputes between the Hindu sects of Saivism and Vaishnavism. Tirugnanasambandar and Thirumangai Alvar, belonging to Saivism and Vaishnavism, respectively, and both natives of Sirkazhi, had disputes over their religious compositions and theologies during the period. The Chola Kings ruled over the region for more than four centuries, from 850 to 1280, and were temple patrons. There are 41 inscriptions from the Chola kings in the temple that record various gifts like land, sheep, cow and oil to the temple.

The region fell under the control of Pandyas in 1532 and later became part of the Thanjavur Nayak kingdom. The region was conquered in 1674 by Ekoji I (1675–84), the Maratha enemy of the Nawab of Bijapur and half-brother of Shivaji (1674–80). The town and the region became part of the British East India Company during the mid-18th century. Tanjore district was constituted in 1799 when the Thanjavur Maratha ruler Serfoji II (1798–1832) ceded most of his kingdom to the British East India Company in return for his restitution on the throne. After India's independence, Sirkazhi continued to be a part of Thanjavur district until 1991, when it became part of Nagapattinam district until March 2020.
Currently Sirkazhi is part of the newly created Mayiladuthurai district.

Geography
Sirkazhi is located at , on the eastern flank of the Kumbakonam-Shiyali ridge, which runs along the Kollidam River. Sirkazhi has an average elevation of  above sea level and is located at  west of Bay of Bengal. It is located  north-east of Thanjavur,  north of Mayiladuthurai and  south of Chidambaram.