[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tahirih Justice Center

tion issued in 2017. On March 28, 2017, Tahirih testified before the House Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security on the impact of Executive Order 13768 titled Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States on immigrant survivors of gender-based violence.

Following the release of the United States Department of Homeland Security's new Victim Information and Notification Exchange (DHS-VINE) in 2017, Tahirih and partner organizations discovered that this public database contained identifying information about immigrant victims of domestic violence, human trafficking, and other crimes. Tahirih requested that Immigration Customs and Enforcement (ICE) immediately remove all confidential information from the database, citing that DHS was prohibited from disclosing such information under federal statute. In response to Tahirih's advocacy, ICE removed the federally-protected information from DHS-VINE.

2014–present

Making Progress, But Still Falling Short: A Report on the Movement to End Child Marriage in America 
Making Progress, But Still Falling Short outlines what more needs to be done to end child marriage in America both at the state and federal level. It contains the latest analysis (updated November 1, 2022) on all thirty states that have recently enacted laws to end or limit child marriage, calling out features that make them strong or weak.

Surviving Deterrence: How U.S. Asylum Deterrence Policies Normalize Gender-Based Violence 

Surviving Deterrence: How US asylum deterrence policies normalize gender-based violence is a joint report by Oxfam and the Tahirih Justice Center that documents how migrants and asylum seekers experience gender-based harm as a consequence of deterrence-driven US asylum policies. First, it finds that US asylum deterrence policies foster conditions that cause gender-based violence (GBV) to proliferate at the US-Mexico border. Second, it finds that the US asylum process is woefully trauma-uninformed and systemically disadvantages and re-traumatizes survivors of GBV who are ultimately able to apply for relief. The report concludes that by choosing a deterrence-based approach to asylum, the US is complicit in systemically harming and devaluing the lives of women, girls, and LGBTQI+ individuals desperately seeking access to the asylum process as enshrined in US law. These policies, moreover, normalize GBV as an inevitable consequence of pursuing safe haven in the US.

Ensuring Equal and Enduring Access to Asylum: Why 'Gender' Must be a Protected Ground 
Ensuring Equal and Enduring Access to Asylum: Why 'Gender' Must be a Protected Ground, lays out six arguments for why gender must be added as an independent basis – the 6th ground – for asylum under US law.

Uplifting Immigrant Survivors: A Report on the Project Empower Guaranteed Income Pilot 
Project Empower is a first-of-its-kind guaranteed income (GI) program designed to support immigrant survivors of gender-based violence. This program offered unconditional, regular cash transfers of $1000 per month to 10 Tahirih clients, all survivors of domestic violence with a child or children, for six months. A new report from Tahirih and our partner, My New Red Shoes, discusses the experiences and lessons learned from the first cohort.

Operations

Tahirih offers legal services and social services case management, policy advocacy, and training and education with the aim of protecting immigrant women and girls fleeing gender-based violence.

Legal and social services

Tahirih provides legal services for immigrant women and girls, with expertise in the areas of gender-based asylum, Violence Against Women Act Petitions, T Visas, U Visas, and Special Immigrant Juvenile Status. Tahirih also provides family law services, engages in civil law, including appellate advocacy and impact litigation, and connects clients to social services.

Tahirih utilizes the services of pro bono attorneys, medical providers, and other professionals to serve its clients.

Public policy advocacy

Tahirih's engages in non-partisan public policy advocacy focused on ensuring that U.S. laws and policies protect immigrant women and girls from violence and exploitation.

Tahirih's policy advocacy focus areas include protecting the rights of immigrant survivors of crime, promoting access to asylum for women and girls fleeing gender-based persecution, ending the detention of refugee women and children, preventing abuse and exploitation through the international marriage broker industry, and addressing protection gaps for individuals facing forced marriages.

Forced marriage protection

Through its Forced Marriage Initiative, Tahirih provides support and assistance to individuals in the United States who are facing or fleeing forced marriage in the U.S. or abroad.

Training and education