[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

respectively; the independent Handsworth Volunteer Cavalry was disbanded in 1827. Colonel Monckton, aged 86, resigned the command in December 1829 and Lt-Col Edward Littleton, MP, was appointed Lt-Col Commandant. The Teddesley Trp under Capt Hordern was renamed the Wolverhampton Trp in January 1832.

Aid to the civil power
The Staffordshire Yeomanry was called out on the following occasions:
 November 1820: Himley Trp called out as a precaution in case of trouble at Dudley
 April–May 1822: South Staffordshire mining unrest; Himley Trp on duty for 23 days, others for shorter periods
 1823: Election riots at Newcastle-under-Lyme after the death of the MP, Capt Wiliam Shepherd Kinnersley of the Newcastle Trp; Stafford Trp also attended
 1826: Coal miners' wage riots at West Bromwich and Wednesbury; Walsall, Sandwell and Himley Trps called out
 1826: Election riots at Stafford
 1831: Miners' riots in the Potteries
 June 1831: Prevention of looting at Tutbury; Burton Trp called out
 October 1831: Great Reform Act riots at Derby; Uttoxeter and Burton Trps called out
 November 1831: riots at Wolverhampton 
 July 1837: Election riots in the Potteries; Newcastle, Stafford and Uttoxeter Trps deployed
 January 1839: firefighting at Walsall
 May–August1839: Chartist riots in the Potteries and at Birmingham; whole regiment deployed by successive troops
 April–August1842: Miners' riots in the Potteries and South Staffordshire; Troops embodied for an average of 22 days' service each, the Himley Trp completing 50 days

Queen's Own Royal Yeomanry
In 1832 the regiment escorted the Duchess of Kent and her daughter Princess Victoria when they visited Lt-Col Thomas Anson, 1st Earl of Lichfield (the regiment's second-in-command), at Shugborough Hall. Lieutenant-Col Littleton resigned the command in August 1833 when he became Chief Secretary for Ireland and the Earl of Lichfield was appointed Lt-Col Cmdt in his place. After Princess Victoria ascended the throne as Queen Victoria, the regiment was given the title of Queen's Own Royal Regiment of Staffordshire Yeomanry Cavalry (often referred to as the Queen's Own Royal Yeomanry (QORY)) on 12 February 1838 in commemoration of her earlier visit. In 1840 Lord Paget succeeded to the command of the  Burton Trp and obtained permission for it to be renamed the Anglesey Troop in honour of his grandfather Henry Paget, 1st Marquess of Anglesey. After the regiment's service in the disturbances of 1842 it was decided to raise an additional troop in the Moorland area of north-east Staffordshire: enthusiasm was so great that a full squadron was raised, with troops at Cheadle and Leek. In 1844 the regiment was issued with percussion carbines in place of the old flintlock pistols.

By 1850 the regiment consisted of 11 troops in six squadrons, a total of 892 all ranks, making it the largest yeomanry regiment in the country. The Earl of Lichfield was still in command, and after Lt-Col Edward Monckton (son of the former colonel) died in 1848 there was a series of promotions: Edmund Peel, MP, was second lt-col and the Hon William Bagot and Earl Granvillle were the majors; the colonel's son, Viscount Anson and Sir Francis Scott, 3rd Baronet were among the captains. Edmund Peel was the former prime minister's younger brother; Sir Robert's younger son Frederick Peel, MP, was also a lieutenant in the regiment. Major Bagot (now Lord Bagot) was promoted in 1851 after Lt-Col Peel died, and then became commanding officer (CO) when the Earl of Lichfield in turn died in 1854.

The regiment had been called out in 1848 during the great Chartist demonstration in London, but there were no disturbances at the meetings in Staffordshire. However, in March 1855 there were  miners' riots in the Potteries and the regiment was deployed to suppress them. The regiment patrolled the streets of Wolverhampton in February 1867 during an Anti-Papist meeting, but there was no trouble. This was the last occasion on which the regiment was employed in aid of the civil power.

Reorganisation
New Yeomanry Regulations came into force in April 1871, setting the establishment of a regiment at eight troops of 60 men, but as one of the strongest-recruited units the Staffordshire Yeomanry obtained a special dispensation to continue its 12 troops. It was also issued with Westley Richards breechloading carbines. Lord Bagot retired from the command in 1874 and was appointed the regiment's first honorary colonel, Lt-Col William Bromley-Davenport, MP, succeeding to the command.