[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Milan Smith

e school did not illegally retaliate against him when the school ordered the coach not to speak in the manner that he did. In a special concurrence, Smith noted that the school district's action also was justified in order to avoid violating the Establishment Clause. Certiorari was granted in the case on January 14, 2022.
 Calvary Chapel Dayton Valley v. Sisolak (9th Cir. 2020). Smith, writing for a unanimous panel, reversed the district court’s denial of Calvary Chapel’s motion to enjoin the enforcement of Nevada’s COVID-19 restrictions on religious worship services.  Relying on the recent Supreme Court case, Roman Catholic Diocese v. Cuomo (2020), Smith concluded that Nevada’s disparate treatment of religious worship services triggered strict scrutiny review, and although slowing the spread of COVID-19 was a compelling interest, the restrictions were not narrowly tailored to serve that interest.
 Tandon v. Newsom (9th Cir. 2021). Smith was a member of a panel hearing a case regarding California's limitation on gatherings to three households due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The plaintiffs, who wished to hold in-person prayer meetings, argued that the California regulation violated their 1st amendment rights to free practice of religion. Smith was a member of the 2-1 majority ruling against the plaintiffs. The Supreme Court reversed 10 days later.
 Herring Networks v. Maddow (9th Cir. 2021). Smith dismissed a defamation lawsuit against Rachel Maddow. He ruled that Maddow's words that OAN “really literally is paid Russian propaganda" could not amount to defamation and that her speech is protected by the First Amendment.

Second Amendment 

  Smith, writing for a unanimous three-judge panel, upheld a conviction for the possession of a homemade machine gun. Rejecting the defendant's Second Amendment claim based on District of Columbia v. Heller, 554 U.S. 570 (2008), Smith wrote that machine guns are "dangerous and unusual weapons" that are not "typically possessed by law-abiding citizens for lawful purposes," and that their possession is not protected by the Second Amendment.

Fourth Amendment and police excessive force cases 

  Smith, writing for the majority of a three-judge panel, concluded that a California law requiring police officers to collect DNA samples from adults arrested for felonies did not violate the Fourth Amendment. After the Ninth Circuit elected to rehear the case en banc, the U.S. Supreme Court held in Maryland v. King, 569 U.S. 435 (2013), that a Maryland law requiring the collection of DNA samples from arrestees charged with "serious crimes" was constitutional. Thereafter, a majority of the 11-judge en banc panel refused to bar implementation of the California law without deciding whether the statute might be unconstitutional as applied to at least some arrestees. In a concurring opinion, Smith maintained that the California law is "materially indistinguishable from the Maryland law" and therefore concluded that "[t]his case is over, and the district court has no obligation to give the Plaintiffs an opportunity to amend their complaint." Judge Charles Breyer in the Northern District of California stayed the case "pending final resolution of state law" in light of the California Court of Appeal's decision in People v. Buza, 231 Cal. App. 4th 1446 (2014), which held the statute unconstitutional on state law grounds. In 2018, the California Supreme Court in People v. Buza, Cal. 5th 658 (2018), reversed the California Court of Appeal's decision, holding that the DNA collection was lawful as part of the normal booking procedure for individuals validly arrested for a serious offense.
  Smith authored the majority opinion affirming the denial of summary judgment based on qualified immunity, where a deputy sheriff fatally shot a 13-year-old boy. Viewing the facts in the light most favorable to the plaintiffs, the panel concluded that the deputy deployed deadly force within seconds after exiting his vehicle while the boy was walking in the opposite direction on an adjacent sidewalk, holding what appeared to be a gun pointed at the ground, without warning about the amount of force that would be used, and without observing any aggressive behavior by the boy. Because the boy did not pose an immediate threat to law enforcement officials or anyone else, the law clearly established that the deputy's conduct was unconstitutional and the deputy was not entitled to qualified immunity. On June 25, 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court denied cert.

Separation of powers and federalism