[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Presidency of Abraham Lincoln

Constitution. The Union victory and the subsequent Supreme Court case of Texas v. White ended debate regarding the constitutionality of secession and Nullification by the states. In addition to ending slavery, the Reconstruction Amendments enshrined Constitutional clauses promoting racial equality.

In recent years, historians such as Harry Jaffa, Herman Belz, John Diggins, Vernon Burton, and Eric Foner have stressed Lincoln's redefinition of republican values. As early as the 1850s, a time when most political rhetoric focused on the sanctity of the Constitution, Lincoln redirected emphasis to the Declaration of Independence as the foundation of American political values—what he called the "sheet anchor" of republicanism. The Declaration's emphasis on freedom and equality for all, in contrast to the Constitution's tolerance of slavery, shifted the debate. As Diggins concludes regarding the highly influential Cooper Union speech of early 1860, "Lincoln presented Americans a theory of history that offers a profound contribution to the theory and destiny of republicanism itself." His position gained strength because he highlighted the moral basis of republicanism, rather than its legalisms. Nevertheless, in 1861, Lincoln justified the war in terms of legalisms (the Constitution was a contract, and for one party to get out of a contract all the other parties had to agree), and then in terms of the national duty to guarantee a republican form of government in every state. Burton (2008) argues that Lincoln's republicanism was taken up by the Freedmen as they were emancipated.

References

Works cited

 

Current, Richard N. Lincoln and the First Shot. (1963) 

Gienapp, William A. Abraham Lincoln and Civil War America. (2002) 

 
 Second edition, 2022.
Harris, William C. Lincoln's Rise to the Presidency. (2007) 

Holzer, Harold. Lincoln President-Elect: Abraham Lincoln and the Great Secession Winter, 1860–1861. (2008) 

McPherson, James M. Tried by War: Abraham Lincoln as Commander in Chief. (2008) 

Neely, Mark E. Jr. The Fate of Liberty: Abraham Lincoln and Civil Liberties (1992). Pulitzer Prize winner. online version
Neely, Mark E. Jr. The Last Best Hope of Earth. (1993) 
Neely, Mark E. Jr. Lincoln and the Democrats: The Politics of Opposition in the Civil War (2017)

Symonds, Craig L. Lincoln and His Admirals. (2008)

Further reading

 Bordewich, Fergus M. Congress at War: How Republican Reformers Fought the Civil War, Defied Lincoln, Ended Slavery, and Remade America (2020) excerpt
 
 Graff, Henry F., ed. The Presidents: A Reference History (3rd ed. 2002)  online
 
 Holzer, Harold. The Presidents Vs. the Press: The Endless Battle Between the White House and the Media--from the Founding Fathers to Fake News (Dutton, 2020) pp 69–82.  online 
 Holzer, Harold. Lincoln and the power of the press: The war for public opinion (Simon and Schuster, 2014).                                  
 Lowenstein, Roger. Ways and Means: Lincoln and His Cabinet and the Financing of the Civil War (2022)
 Nicolay, John George  and John Hay. Abraham Lincoln: a History (1890), 10 volumes; online at Volume 1 and Volume 2 vol 6

 Richardson, Heather Cox. The Greatest Nation of the Earth: Republican Economic Policies during the Civil War (1997) excerpt

External links
 Lincoln Administration links 
The Lincoln Collection: Original Signed Documents and Correspondence Shapell Manuscript Foundation

 
1860s in the United States
Lincoln
Lincoln, Abraham
1861 establishments in the United States
1865 disestablishments in the United States