[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Satveer Chaudhary

to a state legislature in U.S. history.  When he joined the legislature, there was only three other minority representatives in the House; Richard "Jeff" Jefferson, Edwina Garcia and Carlos Mariani. With Chaudhary's election, the number of minorities in the entire Minnesota legislature totaled five.

While in the House, Chaudhary made contributed to legislation on healthcare access, education and economic development priorities. During this period of Chaudhary's legislative career, he was a member of the Minnesota Conservation Federation, the Columbia Heights Lions Club, the Fridley Kiwanis, and became a member of the Fridley Human Resources Commission.

Chaudhary also worked closely in his first legislative months with Minnesota's Asian community, and on public safety issues, particularly DWI penalties and youth driving regulations. Records for Chaudhary's freshman House term list 103 House Documents Found In Legislative Session 80 (1997–1998) listing him as Author or Chief Author.  As a freshman legislator in the Minnesota House of Representatives, Chaudhary served on the Education Committee and assorted sub-committees, the Judiciary Committee and Judiciary sub-committees and the Local Government and Metropolitan Affairs Committee.

Chaudhary was re-elected to the House in 1998. During his second term in office, he continued to work on environmental legislation and financial reform of the Minnesota State Lottery. He also became a member of the Police Officers Alliance of Minnesota.  There were 97 House Documents Found In Legislative Session 81 (1999–2000) listing bills with Satveer Chaudhary as Authors or Chief Author. During his second term as a legislator in the Minnesota House of Representatives, Chaudhary served on the Education Policy Committee, Family and Early Childhood Education Finance Committee, and Jobs and Economic Development Policy Committee.

Minnesota Senate
In 2000, incumbent Senator Steve Novak resigned to run for Minnesota's 4th congressional district. Chaudhary received the nomination from the local Minnesota Democratic–Farmer–Labor Party chapter and ran against Republican Daniel Coughlin in the November general election. Chaudhary won the election with 57 percent of the votes.
 
When he joined the Senate at age 31, Satveer Chaudhary was the Minnesota Senate's youngest member, and became the first Asian-Indian state senator in American history. In 2001, Chaudhary was chosen to be a delegate by the American Council of Young Political Leaders representing the United States State Legislatures and traveling to Argentina and Uruguay. Later that year, he escorted the Dalai Lama during his State visit to Minnesota.

Due to the 2000 Census and redistricting, Chaudhary's first Minnesota senate term was two years. In 2002, he ran for a four-year term in the newly-redistricted SD-52 against Republican Steve Minar. Chaudhary won the election with 55.5 percent of the vote. During his next term, Chaudhary served on new Senate committees focusing on the environment, and assumed a leadership position within the Senate as Senate Majority Whip.

As Vice Chair of the Fish and Game Subcommittee, Chaudhary was the Chief Author of the 2005 Legislative Commission on Minnesota Resources reform bill, and co-authored legislation on clean air and water. In January 2006 Chaudhary worked with labor unions to ask then-Governor Tim Pawlenty to step in and help to save jobs of 12,3000 Minnesotans employed by Northwest Airlines. The bankrupt carrier proposed outsourcing about a quarter of the jobs left at the airline, and wrap up its drive for $1.4 billion in annual wage and other givebacks from its employees.  In 2006, because of his work with the environmental legislations, citizen's groups and outdoors organizations, Chaudhary was appointed by Senate Majority Leader, Dean Johnson, to serve on the newly-created Legislative and Citizen’s Commission on Minnesota Resources.

On April 25, 2006, the Saint Paul Police Department investigated a racial death threat made against the senator. Chaudhary, who had just voted against a ballot measure to ban same-sex marriage, had received a letter containing a picture of himself with a bullet hole through his forehead. The picture was attached to a newspaper ad run promoting the constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage and civil unions. In a media statement, Chaudhary denounced the letter as political hate speech. The group that ran the ad, Minnesota Citizens in Defense of Marriage, condemned the letter and said it did not condone threats of violence.