[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Antonio Nocerino

disallowed for offside in extra-time, and subsequently scored in the penalty shootout which Italy won 4–2. Italy went on to reach the final of the tournament, were they beaten 4–0 by Spain, who claimed a record third consecutive major trophy, and their second consecutive European Championship title.

Style of play
Compared to Gennaro Gattuso during his time at Milan, Nocerino was a quick, energetic, and hard-working player who was primarily deployed as a ball-winning defensive midfielder, or as a box-to-box midfielder, although he could be deployed anywhere in midfield. During his time at Juventus, he was played as a deep-lying playmaker on occasion, and even as a winger, although his preferred role was that of an attacking central midfielder, known as the "mezzala" role, in Italy. With the Italy national team, under Cesare Prandelli, he has also been used in a new role on occasion, as a false-attacking midfielder. Nocerino was primarily known for his pace, stamina, strength, and his tenacious tackling ability, as well his adeptness at reading the game and pressing opponents. He was also capable of being an offensive threat due to his tendency to make attacking runs into the box, as well as his eye for goal and powerful and accurate shot from distance. Throughout his career, he was able to improve his distribution, as well as his technical and creative skills, which made him capable of providing assists for teammates.

Personal life
On 18 September 2007, it was reported that Nocerino was hit by a car after leaving a restaurant in Turin and was hospitalised for scans when he suffered minor concussion and bruising. The following day, Nocerino was discharged from the hospital and monitored for a few days. In response of asking question to Twitter, Nocerino has two children that he cited "change his life and that his father is his role model."

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Italy U21
Toulon Tournament: 2008

Italy
UEFA European Championship runner-up: 2012

Individual
Serie A Team of the Year: 2011–12

Serie A 2010/2011

References

External links

 
 2006–07 profile by La Gazzetta dello Sport  
 FIGC profile  
 
 
 

1985 births
Living people
Italian men's footballers
US Avellino 1912 players
Genoa CFC players
US Catanzaro 1929 players
FC Crotone players
ACR Messina players
Piacenza Calcio 1919 players
Juventus FC players
Palermo FC players
AC Milan players
West Ham United F.C. players
Torino FC players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
Orlando City SC players
Benevento Calcio players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Premier League players
Major League Soccer players
Men's association football midfielders
Footballers from Naples
Footballers from Campania
Italy men's youth international footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
Italy men's international footballers
Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Olympic footballers for Italy
UEFA Euro 2012 players
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Italian expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Italian expatriate sportspeople in the United States