[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2009 in science

The year 2009 involved numerous significant scientific events and discoveries, some of which are listed below. 2009 was designated the International Year of Astronomy by the United Nations.

Events, discoveries and inventions

January 
1 January – In DNA nanotechnology, Arizona State University researchers Hao Yan and Yan Liu use nanoparticles to make 3D DNA nanotubes.
3 January – The Bitcoin cryptocurrency network is created when the developer known as Satoshi Nakamoto mines the genesis block of its blockchain.
6 January – NASA's Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope discovers 12 new gamma-ray-only pulsars, and has detected gamma-ray pulses from 18 others.
26 January – An annular solar eclipse takes place.
January – The first animal from an extinct species to be recreated by cloning, a Pyrenean Ibex, is born alive, but dies seven minutes later due to physical defects in its lungs.

February  
1 February – The Cospas-Sarsat satellite search-and-rescue system stops monitoring for outdated 121.5 MHz and 243 MHz (Class B) distress signals from EPIRBs and other emergency beacons.
2 February – Omid, Iran's first domestically built satellite, is successfully launched from Semnan Space Center into low Earth orbit; it re-enters the atmosphere on 25 April.
5 February – 28 individual fossils of the giant prehistoric snake T. cerrejonensis are discovered in the coal mines of Cerrejón, La Guajira, Colombia.
10 February – 2009 satellite collision: The first accidental hypervelocity collision between two intact satellites in low Earth orbit takes place when Iridium 33 and Kosmos 2251 collide and destroy each other over Siberia.
24 February – Comet Lulin, a non-periodic comet, makes its closest approach to Earth, peaking in brightness between magnitude +4 and magnitude +6.
 Iranian scientists find that the way in which traditional timber-framed constructions are built makes them earthquake-resistant.

March 
7 March – The Kepler space observatory is successfully launched, and begins its search for exoplanets.
12 March – Dartmouth researchers have found a way to develop more robust “quantum gates,” which are the elementary building blocks of quantum circuits.
27 March – Iranian researches found that drinking hot tea causes oesophageal cancer.

April
3 April – Dr. Yinfa Ma develops a method for pre-cancer screening that uses urine samples for detection. Ma hopes to be able to predict types of cancer as well as severity.
4 April – A new method developed by Cornell biological engineers offers an efficient way to make proteins for use in medicine or industry without the use of live cells.
5 April – Japanese engineers build a childlike robot, the Child-robot with Biomimetic Body, or CB2, and report that it is slowly developing social skills by interacting with humans and watching their facial expressions, mimicking a mother-baby relationship.

May 
11–24 May – STS-125, the last Space Shuttle mission to service the Hubble Space Telescope, takes place.
19 May – Paleontologists announce the discovery of Darwinius masillae, an evolutionary "missing link" with features similar to lemurs, monkeys, and humans.

July
22 July – A total solar eclipse – the longest-lasting total eclipse of the 21st century – takes place.
23 July – Two teams of Chinese researchers create live mice from induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells.

September
3 September – Saturn's rings cross the plane of the Earth's orbit. This was the first such crossing since May 22, 1995, and another will not occur until March 23, 2025.
29 September – NASA's MESSENGER spacecraft makes its final flyby of Mercury, decreasing velocity enough for its orbital capture in 2011.

October
1 October – Paleontologists announce the discovery of an Ardipithecus ramidus fossil skeleton, deeming it the oldest fossil skeleton of a human ancestor yet found.
20 October – European astronomers discover 32 new exoplanets.

December
31 December
A partial lunar eclipse is visible from most of Africa, Europe, Asia, and Australia.
The SB ("Sleeping Beauty") 100X is announced as the Molecule of the Year 2009 by Isidro A. T. Savillo, President of the International Society for Molecular and Cell Biology and Biotechnology Protocols and Researches (ISMCBBPR).

Prizes

Abel Prize

2009 Abel Prize: Mikhail Gromov

Nobel Prize

2009 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine: Elizabeth H. Blackburn, Carol W. Greider	and Jack W. Szostak
2009 Nobel Prize in Physics: Charles K. Kao, Willard Boyle and George E. Smith
2009 Nobel Prize in Chemistry: Venkatraman Ramakrishnan, Thomas A. Steitz and Ada E. Yonath