[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Refugees of Iraq

nce of Israel in 1948, it became illegal for Iraqis to emigrate to Israel. In 1951-1952, the Israeli government clandestinely orchestrated the Operation Ezra and Nehemiah, during which almost the entire Jewish community was rescued, and initially settled in temporary refugee camps in Israel.

Jordan

Pre-war relations between Jordan and Iraq were positive, especially economically. By 2009, Jordan had taken in roughly 700,000 Iraqi refugees since the war began, a high proportion for a country of only 6 million. Until the end 2005, Iraqis were allowed into Jordan and could register as guests for 3–6 months without work authorization. Renewal became more difficult after 2005 when Iraqi terrorists associated with Al Qaeda bombed a Jordan hotel, and the number of unregistered Iraqis increased. In 2006, Jordan excluded single men and boys between age 17-35 from entering, then required all Iraqis produce a newly issued passport. In February 2008, the Jordanian government began requiring Iraqi refugees to apply for a Jordan visa in Iraq rather than at the Jordanian border. Only Iraqis who have been able to invest in Jordanian businesses or who employed in fields of national interest have been able to obtain long-term status and receive yearly residence permits, seek employment in specified fields, send their children to schools, and access public services.

In the capital city of Jordan, Amman, the population blames Iraqis for increasing cost of housing and inflation.  Health facilities are free in Jordan regardless of legal status, but facilities in Iraqi neighborhoods are overstretched and many Iraqis are afraid of being identified as undocumented. Additionally, water infrastructure in Jordan is inadequate to support the large influx of refugees. A UNHCR-UNICEF international appeal to support the education of Iraqi children in Jordan, Syria, Egypt in Lebanon will give Jordan $80 million to absorb 50,000 Iraqi children into public schools. Most refugees in Jordan lack legal status and stay hidden for fear of deportation, making aid efforts difficult.

Syria

Syria has historically offered assistance to Iraqi refugees. At the beginning of 2007, the UNHCR estimated that the number of Iraqi refugees in Syria was over 1.2 million. 80–90% of the Iraqi refugee population lives in the capital city of Damascus. The reason for its large refugee population can be attributed to more than just geography.  Until 2007, Syria maintained an open-door policy to Iraqis fleeing the war-ravaged country.

Many Iraqis in Syria live in poverty, and an estimated 50,000 Iraqi girls and women, many of them widows, are forced into prostitution just to survive. According to the UNHCR, about 27% of Iraqi refugee families in Syria are without a breadwinner.

Early in the recent Iraq war, Iraqis in Syria were the politically threatened Baath party, including supporters of Hussein's government. But after the fighting began in Falluja in 2004, Shi'a were the main new entries to Syria. Before the restrictions were imposed, Iraqis seeking refuge in Syria received 3 month visas or permits with extension possibilities. However, the refugees are not entitled to work, but most do anyway due to lax enforcement on the part of the Syrian government. There were few sanctions for those who overstay and fail to renew.

Numbering over 1.2 million, Iraqi refugees comprise a large portion of Syria's population of 18 million. This has caused an increase in the cost of living and caused a strain on infrastructure. Sources like oil, heat, water and electricity were said to be becoming more scarce as demand had gone up. Syrian's deputy foreign minister has stated that the price of food has increased by 30%, property prices by 40%, and rentals by 150%. Water consumption rose by 21%, costing the Syrian government about 6.8 million US dollars in 2006. The Iraqi population also strained the labor market: Syrian unemployment was 18% in 2006. Refugees put a strain on health services (which are free in Syria), and Syria experienced public school overcrowding.  In 2005 and 2006, Syria used $162 million to offer aid to Iraqi refugees in the country.

Syria once maintained an open border for Arab migrants, and entitled Iraqi refugees to Syrian health care and schools.  The Syrian government accepted Iraqis as prima facie refugees. However, on October 1, 2007 news agencies reported that Syria re-imposed restrictions on Iraqi refugees, as stated by a spokesperson for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.  Under Syria's new rules, only Iraqi merchants, businessmen and university professors with visas acquired from Syrian embassies may enter Syria.