[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lillian Alling

Lillian Alling (1896 – after 1929) was an Eastern European immigrant to the United States, who in the 1920s attempted a return by foot to her homeland. Her four-year-long journey started in New York, and went westward across Canada, then north through British Columbia, the Yukon, and then west again through Alaska. Whether she successfully crossed the Bering Strait to Russia is unknown.

Journey 
Because her first appearance in official records was September 10, 1927, when she was arraigned in Hazelton, details before that, including her birth, emigration, and early journey, are impossible to confirm. Alling probably was born in either Russia or Poland some time around 1900. Cassandra Pybus speculates that she was Jewish, based on contemporary searches for similar names, emigrating from Belorussia via Poland in the 1920s.

Reasons
One of the earliest articles recounting her journey, published in a 1943 issue of The Beaver, simply stated Alling "could not stand the loneliness and the nostalgia any longer ... Siberia was her objective. Once there, among her own people, it would be easy to arrange passage from Vladivostok to her beloved steppes. She could almost hear the deep-toned laughs of the peasants at the market place and the tinkle of the music for the dance."

According to a 1949 article in Coronet, Alling had been sent by her family to the United States in the 1920s to check if they could find a safe refuge there following the Russian Revolution; she began her journey upon hearing that her family had been jailed.

In 1973, retired Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer T.E.E. Greenfield, who had been stationed at Hazelton in 1927, wrote to a local newspaper, the Vancouver Province, with his version of events; according to Greenfield, she had come from North Dakota, pursuing her boyfriend, who was also from Poland and had promised to marry her. Although he had disappeared before the ceremony, she had heard he was in Telegraph Creek.

Alling starts out
By 1926, Alling had been steadily working in New York, saving up for passage to Russia. Upon finding she still could not afford passage aboard a steamer ship, she instead chose to walk to Siberia. Alling studied books and maps in the New York Library, and had drawn a "rough outline" of her journey.

She first walked to Buffalo, then crossed into Canada at Niagara Falls on Christmas Eve, 1926. When the customs official asked her the routine entry questions, she stated her last place of residence was Rochester, New York, she was a Catholic, she was 30 years old, and had been born in Poland.

Dickey's accounts gave an alternative origin: she was 25 and had left New York City in spring 1927 instead, back-calculating from the  walking pace she averaged from Vancouver to Smithers in 1928. Beaver and Coronet stated she was remembered in Chicago, Minneapolis, and Winnipeg, where she had worked in restaurants, and then farm fields in Canada, where she helped with the harvest.

Jail and Telegraph Trail

By September 10, 1927, the first official records show that Alling had reached Canada's western edge,  north of Hazelton, British Columbia, having walked an average of  per day. She was stopped by a telegraph lineman at Cabin 2 of the Yukon Telegraph Trail, a  pathway to Canada's far north; the Telegraph Trail was marked by staffed cabins that served as relay stations and line maintenance, spaced at approximately  intervals. The lineman noticed Alling's tattered and malnourished appearance, and, after hearing her intention to walk to Siberia, he phoned the authorities at Hazelton, at the southern trailhead, out of concern for her welfare.

Constable J. A. Wyman arrived at Cabin 2 (Greenfield says it was Kispiox) knowing the coming winter would be deadly to someone on foot; fearing that allowing Alling to proceed would be unethical, he brought her back with him to Hazelton. Though she pleaded to continue, she was arrested and charged with vagrancy. When she was searched, they found two ten-dollar bills and an iron bar (or pipe)  long, which she declared was "protection against men", not wild animals. She spent the next two months in Oakalla Prison, near Vancouver, as an alternative to the $25 fine for vagrancy; this also gave her temporary shelter. After her release, she spent the rest of the winter working in a Vancouver restaurant, and saved up enough money to travel again by the end of May or June 1928.