[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Melchor Múzquiz

arcía Salinas of the state of Zacatecas to support the government, a promise which was later broken. Meanwhile in Veracruz after a six-month stalemate, Santa Anna defeated government forces led by Facio, allowing his army to leave Veracruz and advance upon the capital reaching Tacubaya on October 6.

The Múzquiz administration sent circulars to loyal governors, and redoubled its efforts to maintain itself. Half of his ministers were opposed by the revolutionists but Múzquiz did not make any personnel changes in response. Congress also refused to negotiate with the rebels by placing Gomez Pedraza in charge of the executive, and instead granted Melchor Múzquiz emergency powers. Commissioners were sent to negotiate with Santa Anna, who was at the gates of the capital, but no agreement was reached.

At this point, however, Santa Anna headed away from Mexico City on November 6 to face the approaching army of Bustamante at the city of Puebla, and defeated him on November 16. By now government had effectively lost control over the rest of the nation, retaining the loyalty of only Oaxaca and Chihuahua. Bustamante gave up the military struggle and opened negotiations at which it was agreed to enter into an armistice until congress could approve a peace treaty between the parties. Múzquiz himself wished to agree to an armistice, but congress refused to surrender. Múzquiz would resign in opposition on December 15, but his resignation was rejected. However Bustamante disobeyed congress to avert further bloodshed and proceeded to negotiate a peace that was ratified on December 23, 1832 through the Treaty of Zavaleta. In accordance with the treaty, the presidency now passed on to Manuel Gomez Pedraza. A group of commissioners arrived from the triumphant rebels to announce to the now ex-president Múzquiz that he was free to go home.

Later life
He remained retired from public affairs for a time. In 1836, under the Centralist Republic of Mexico during which Mexico was divided into departments rather than states, he was president of the Supreme Moderating Power, a council established by the Siete Leyes that was constitutionally even above the president. He pursued constitutional reforms in the fields of finance, justice, and the authorities of the departments. He would be appointed to the Supreme Moderating Power once more in 1840. Múzquiz died on December 14, 1844 in poverty despite the exalted positions which he once held. Afterwards his hometown was renamed after him.

See also

List of heads of state of Mexico

Notes

References

Bibliography
 "Múzquiz, Melchor", Enciclopedia de México, vol. 10. Mexico City, 1996, .
 García Puron, Manuel, México y sus gobernantes, v. 2. Mexico City: Joaquín Porrúa, 1984.
 Orozco Linares, Fernando, Gobernantes de México. Mexico City: Panorama Editorial, 1985, .

Presidents of Mexico
Mexican generals
Mexican people of Basque descent
Governors of the State of Mexico
Politicians from Coahuila
1790 births
1844 deaths
19th-century Mexican people
1830s in Mexico