[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# May 1974

iciary Committee that he would refuse to obey any further subpoenas for evidence or appearances.
Born: Henrietta Ónodi, Hungarian artistic gymnast, 1992 Olympic gold medalist in the vault; in Békéscsaba, Békés County
Died: Irmgard Flügge-Lotz, 70, German-American mathematician and aerospace engineer

May 23, 1974 (Thursday)
The Airbus 300, the world's first twin-engine, double-aisle (wide-body) airliner, was introduced into commercial service with a flight by Air France from Paris to London.
All 29 people aboard an Aeroflot Yakovlev Yak-40 airliner were killed when the airplane crashed during its scheduled approach to Kiev from a flight that had originated in Leningrad and had stopped at Khmelnitskiy in the Ukrainian SSR. Crash investigators concluded that the crew had been overcome by carbon monoxide as they were making their approach to Kiev's Zhulyany Airport and had failed to set several instruments. With the crew and passengers unconscious or dying, the Yak-40 crashed into a training range near Gorenychi at a speed of  per hour.
An electoral college met in Bonn to select the new President of West Germany, the largely ceremonial role of the nation's head of state. All 518 members of the parliament (496 from the Bundestag and 22 from the Bundesrat) and an equal number (518 delegates) from the West German states, for a total of 1,036 electors, participated. Vice Chancellor Walter Scheel of the Social Democrats defeated Richard von Weizsäcker of the Christian Democrats, 530 to 498, with eight abstentions.
Pope Paul VI issued a papal bull proclaiming 1975 a Holy Year and appealing for world governments to grant amnesty to prisoners.
One of the domes of Sacré-Cœur, Paris, was seriously damaged in an explosion which caused no deaths or injuries. Callers to the Agence France-Presse news service said they had set off the explosion to protest Valéry Giscard d'Estaing's election as President and to commemorate the 103rd anniversary of the Paris Commune.
David Frank Kamaiko, a 21-year-old man from Greenwich Village claiming to be a member of the Jewish Defense League, hijacked a helicopter from the East 34th Street Heliport and demanded $2 million in ransom. After landing on top of the Pan Am Building, the pilot tried to escape and Kamaiko shot him in the arm. The other hostage inside the helicopter disarmed the hijacker, and police took him into custody.
The New York City Council defeated a homosexual rights bill by a vote of 22 to 19. Politicians attributed the bill's defeat to opposition by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York.
Born:
Ken Jennings, American game show contestant and TV host, known for Jeopardy!; in Edmonds, Washington
Jewel (stage name for Jewel Kilcher), American singer known for "You Were Meant for Me"; in Payson, Utah
Died: Leif Høegh, 78, Norwegian shipowner, founder and chairman of Leif Höegh & Co

May 24, 1974 (Friday)
In the Philippines, the coronation of Mohammed Mahakuttah Abdullah Kiram as the Sultan of Sulu took place with approval by the government of President Ferdinand Marcos, who issued Memorandum Order No. 427. The Sultan's 7-year-old son, Muedzul Lail Tan Kiram, was recognized as Crown Prince during the ceremony. Official recognition of the Sultanate of Sulu as a limited self-governing territory would end with Mahakuttah's death in 1986.
In Poland, the collapse of an underground coal mine in Piekary killed five miners. Three others were rescued.
Born:
Magnus Manske (born Heinrich Magnus Manske), German biochemist and software developer who created MediaWiki for the Wikimedia Foundation; in Cologne, North Rhine-Westphalia, West Germany
Florence Baverel-Robert (born Florence Baverel), French biathlete and 2006 Olympic gold medalist; in Pontarlier, Doubs département
Dash Mihok, American TV actor known for Ray Donovan; in New York City
Died:
Duke Ellington, 75, American jazz pianist and bandleader
Clyde Cowan, 54, American physicist, co-discoverer of the neutrino, died of a heart attack.
Max Ritter, 87, German Olympic swimmer, who was co-founder in 1908 of the Fédération internationale de natation (FINA)

May 25, 1974 (Saturday)
Boxer Rodrigo Valdez of Colombia became the new World Boxing Council (WBC) middleweight champion, knocking out Bennie Briscoe of the U.S. in a bout at Monte Carlo in Monaco for the vacant WBC middleweight crown. World Boxing Association (WBA) champion Carlos Monzón had been stripped of his WBC title for earlier having refused to fight Valdez.
Born:
Kevin Hartman, American Major League Soccer player, MLS Goalkeeper of the Year in 1999, with five caps for the U.S. national team; in Athens, Ohio
Miguel Tejada, Dominican Major League Baseball shortstop, 2002 American League MVP and 2004 major league RBI leader; in Baní
Germán Paoloski, Argentine journalist and TV host; in Coronel Suárez, Buenos Aires Province
Died: Donald Crisp, 93, English-American film actor, 1942 Academy Award winner for Best Supporting Actor for How Green Was My Valley