[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomasian Martyrs

cause of his holiness and zeal for the Gospel, in 1636 he was sent to be a missionary in Japan. A year later, he was arrested. In his trial, he affirmed that only Christian truth will save mankind. For this, he was condemned to death. He died in September 1637 through the "gallows and hole" torture.

The Martyrs of Vietnam 

Vietnam was first introduced to Christianity in the year 1627. The Dominicans set foot on the country in 1676. Among the milestones of the Dominican missions were the training of catechists and the establishment of charitable institutions.  The predominant religions during the era of martyrs were Taoism and Buddhism.

The government of Vietnam was similar to China.  It was an empire ruled by dynasties that succeeded each other. The Emperor was regarded as an absolute monarch.  In 1711, Emperor An Vuong issued the first Edict of Persecution of Christians.

Domingo Henares
The 30-year-old Córdoba-born Domingo Henares arrived in Manila on July 9, 1796. He completed his studies in the University of Santo Tomás and there became a professor of Humanities. He went to Vietnam in 1790 where eventually he became bishop. His knowledge of medicine, astronomy, and the sciences was greatly appreciated by the Vietnamese, even respected by the Mandarins. Still, the fact that he was Christian made him subject to persecution. On June 9, 1838, he was arrested and a month later, on July 25, 1838, he was beheaded.

Vicente Liem de la Paz
Vicente Liem de la Paz was a native Vietnamese born in 1731.  This brilliant student was sent to the Philippines to study at the Colegio de San Juan de Letran. In 1753, he entered the Dominican order and studied in the University of Santo Tomás where he was later ordained a priest. After his petition to serve his people was approved, he went back to Vietnam as a missionary, working under Jacinto Castañeda, until he was arrested, tortured, and beheaded on November 7, 1773.

Jose María Díaz Sanjurjo
José María Díaz Sanjurjo was born in Lugo, Spain on August 25, 1818. He secretly entered the Dominican Priory in Ocaña, and in 1842, he received the Dominican habit. He was a famous Latin scholar, theologian, and legal expert. He arrived in Manila on September 14, 1844. He completed his studies while teaching at the University of Santo Tomás. After a year, he left for the Vietnamese missions. In March 1849, he became bishop. Even as he was raised to the episcopal rank, he remained a lowly servant of the Gospel. According to him, "Here, the dignities mean more work. I don't have any means of transportation at all, and although I did not vow to go barefoot, I do and sometimes with mud up to my knees" In 1856, he was arrested and was beheaded a year later.

Pedro Almato
Pedro Almato was born in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain on All Saints' Day, 1830.  He went to Manila, studied in the University of Santo Tomás, and was ordained in 1853. Learning of the persecutions in Vietnam, he obtained permission from his superiors to go on mission in the said country. In October 1861, after several years of missionary work, Almato was captured and was beheaded on his birthday.

Jeronimo Hermosilla
Born in the year 1800 to a poor family in Santo Domingo de la Calzada in Spain, Jeronimo Hermosilla entered the Diocesan Seminary of Valencia when he was fifteen years of age, but later sought admission to the Order of Preachers after being captivated by his Dominican professors. In 1824, he went to Manila and completed his theological studies at the University of Santo Tomas. He was ordained priest in 1828.  A year later he was sent as a missionary to Tonkin. There he learned the native language and taught catechism in collaboration with local catechists and other missionary Dominicans. In 1841 he was appointed bishop, and despite the persecution, continued his ministry hiding in safe places, until he was finally captured and beheaded in 1861.

The Martyrs of the Religious Persecution in Spain 
Last October 28, 2007, Pope Benedict XVI beatified 498 martyrs of the Spanish Civil War, in a Holy Mass presided over by Cardinal José Saraiva Martins, prefect of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints. This was the largest mass beatification ever in the history of the Catholic Church.

Religious persecution in Spain during the Spanish Civil War
After the fall of the monarchy, the Second Spanish Republic was established. The Republican government and its supporters, a combined force of communists, socialists and anarchists, was particularly antagonistic towards the nobility, the land owners, and the Catholic Church. In 1936, a coup d'etat staged by rebel forces (Nacionalistas) attempted to overthrow the communist republicans, leading to a three-year political unrest characterized by extreme brutality and violence resulting to countless deaths among the government and rebel forces, as well as ordinary citizens caught in the war.