[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 101]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

res, and rendering that condition of life which we
all avoid less dreadful to those who must support it always!"

Acting from such principles as these, Mr Barlow was the common friend of
all the species. Whatever his fortune would allow him to perform he
never refused to all who stood in need of his assistance. But there is
yet a duty which he thought of more importance than the mere
distribution of property to the needy--the encouragement of industry and
virtue among the poor, and giving them juster notions of morals and
religion. "If we have a dog," he would say, "we refuse neither pains nor
expense to train him up to hunting; if we have a horse, we send him to
an experienced rider to be bitted; but our own species seems to be the
only animal which is entirely exempted from our care." When he rode
about the country he used to consider with admiration the splendid
stables which the great construct for the reception of their horses,
their ice-houses, temples, hermitages, grottoes, and all the apparatus
of modern vanity. "All this," he would say, "is an unequivocal proof the
gentleman loves himself, and grudges no expense that can gratify his
vanity; but I would now wish to see what he has done for his
fellow-creatures; what are the proofs that he has given of public spirit
or humanity, the wrongs which he has redressed, the miseries he has
alleviated, the abuses which he has endeavoured to remove!"

When he was told of the stubbornness and ingratitude of the poor, he
used to say, "that he believed it without difficulty, for they were men
in common with their superiors, and therefore must share in some of
their vices; but if the interests of humanity were half so dear to us as
the smallest article that pleases our palate or flatters our vanity, we
should not so easily abandon them in disgust."

Mr Barlow happened once to be in company with a lady with whom he was
upon a footing of intimacy, who was talking in this manner. "Nobody,"
she said, "had greater feeling than herself, or was more desirous of
assisting her fellow-creatures. When she first came into the country she
had endeavoured to relieve all the misery she heard of; she had given
victuals to one, physic to a second, and clothes to a third; but she had
met with such ill-behaviour and ingratitude in return, that she had long
been obliged to resign all her charitable intentions, and abandon the
poor to their fate." All the company assented to a doctrine that was so
very conformable to their own practice and inclinations, and agreed that
nothing could be more injudicious than any attempts to be charitable.

Some little time after this conversation cards were produced, and the
lady, who had been so eloquent against the poor, sat down to whist, at
which she played for several hours with equal ignorance and ill-fortune.
When the party was over she was complaining to Mr Barlow of her losses,
and added that she scarcely ever in her life had sat down to cards with
better success. "I wonder, madam," replied Mr Barlow, "you do not then
give up entirely." "Alas!" answered the lady, "I have often made this
resolution, but I never had the courage to keep it." "Indeed, madam,"
said Mr Barlow, "it is impossible you can be deficient in courage, and
therefore you wrong your own character." "You do me too much honour,"
said the lady, "by your good opinion; but whoever has given you this
information is deceived." "I had it only from yourself, madam." "From
me, sir? When did I ever give you such a character of myself?" "Just
now, madam, when you declared that, upon the bad success of half-a-dozen
experiments, you had resolved never more to be charitable, and had kept
the resolution ever since. I can hardly conceive that your love of cards
is so much greater than that of your duty and religion, and therefore,
my dear madam, I must repeat it, that you certainly undervalue your own
fortitude."

Such were the opinions of Mr Barlow in respect to the poor; and
therefore, instead of widening the distance which fortune has placed
between one part of mankind and another, he was continually intent upon
bringing the two classes nearer together. Poverty has in itself so many
hardships and disagreeable circumstances, that we need not increase
their number by unnecessary pride and insolence. The distinctions of
rank may indeed be necessary to the government of a populous country,
but it is for the good of the whole, not of individuals, that they can
have any just claim to be admitted, and therefore a good man will insist
upon them no more than is absolutely necessary for that purpose. On the
contrary, whatever may he his rank or importance, he will plainly prove,
by the courtesy and benevolence of his manners, that he laments the
necessity of his own elevation, and, instead of wishing to mount still
higher, would willingly descend nearer to an equality with his
fellow-creatures.

Tommy was very much diverte