[Source: PubMed]

15. Front Public Health. 2021 Oct 28;9:765261. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.765261. 
eCollection 2021.

Estimating the Number of Civilian Casualties in Modern Armed Conflicts-A 
Systematic Review.

Khorram-Manesh A(1)(2), Burkle FM(3), Goniewicz K(4), Robinson Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Sciences, Gothenburg University, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Department of Research and Development, Armed Forces Center for Defense 
Medicine, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard 
University, Boston, MA, United States.
(4)Department of Aviation Security, Military University of Aviation, Dȩblin, 
Poland.

Objective: To examine the possibility of estimating the number of civilian 
casualties in modern armed conflicts. Methods: A systematic review was conducted 
following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses 
guidelines, using PubMed, Scopus, and Web of Science search engines. The outcome 
was analyzed using a qualitative inductive thematic analysis. The scientific 
evidence of selected article was assessed, using the Health Evidence Quality 
Assessment Tool. Findings: The review of 66 included articles in this study 
indicates that with an increasing number of public health emergencies and the 
lack of vital elements of life such as water and food, emerging armed conflicts 
seem to be inevitable. In contrast to military-led cross-border traditional 
wars, modern armed conflicts affect internally on local communities and take 
civilian lives. Consequently, the measures and tools used in traditional 
military-led cross-border wars to adequately tally wounded and dead for many 
decades under the mandates of the International Humanitarian Law, is 
insufficient for modern warfare. While casualty counting during modern conflicts 
is deficient due to organizational, political or strategic reasons, the 
international organizations responsible for collecting such data (the 
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent and International 
Institute of Humanitarian Law) face difficulties to access the conflict scene, 
resulting in under-reported, unreliable or no-reported data. Conclusion: There 
are challenges in estimating and counting the number of civilian casualties in 
modern warfare. Although the global need for such data is evident, the risks and 
barriers to obtaining such data should be recognized, and the need for new 
international involvement in future armed conflicts should be emphasized.

Copyright © 2021 Khorram-Manesh, Burkle, Goniewicz and Robinson.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2021.765261
PMCID: PMC8581199
PMID: 34778192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.