[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Hyman Abrams

Hyman Abrams (born Abramovitz; May 1, 1901 – January 1975) was an American businessman, Boston mobster, and high-ranking member under Charles "King" Solomon during Prohibition.

Biography
	
Abrams was born into a Jewish family in Vilnius, Russian Empire (now Lithuania),  the son of Israel and Ethel "Etta" Dimenstein Abramovitz. They immigrated to Boston in 1906. He became a U.S. citizen in 1923, when he changed his surname to Abrams. He started out as a restaurateur in Boston.\ Abrams and other members of Solomon's organization took over Boston's criminal operations for themselves following Solomon's murder in 1933. He would later become involved in financing syndicate controlled casinos with Meyer Lansky, specifically the Flamingo and later the Sands with Carl Cohen and Jack Entratter. In 1957, he partnered with Moe Dalitz, Morris Kleinman, Sam Tucker, Wilbur Clark (of the Desert Inn and Lansky's Hotel Nacional casino), Ed Levinson (of the Fremont Hotel and Casino), Charles "Babe" Baron (who represented Sam Giancana), and Morris Rosen (of the Flamingo  Hotel) to build the Hotel Habbana Riviera casino in Havana.

In 1968, Abrams married Harriet Janice Allison, a dancer in Las Vegas. They divorced in 1971. He died in January 1975 in Las Vegas.

Further reading 
 Fried, Albert. The Rise and Fall of the Jewish Gangster in America. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston, 1980. 
 Messick, Hank. Lansky. London: Robert Hale & Company, 1973. 
Reid, Ed and Demaris, Ovid. The Green Felt Jungle. Montreal: Pocket Books, 1964.
Schwartz, Rosalie. Pleasure Island: Tourism and Temptation in Cuba. U of Nebraska Press, 1997.

References 

Fox, Stephen. Blood and Power: Organized Crime in Twentieth-Century America. New York: William Morrow and Company, 1989.

External links

 Mr. Mob: The Life and Crimes of Moe Dalitz - Google Books
 The business of crime: Italians and syndicate crime in the United States - Google Books
 The Jewish body - Google Books

Jewish American gangsters
Businesspeople from Boston
1901 births
Date of death unknown
1976 deaths
20th-century American criminals
American real estate businesspeople
American restaurateurs
American casino industry businesspeople
Emigrants from the Russian Empire to the United States