[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Guibord case

Brown v Les Curé et Marguilliers de l'Œuvre et Fabrique de Notre Dame de Montréal, better known as the Guibord case, was a decision in 1874 by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in an early Canadian legal dispute over the relationship between church and state.

The question was whether the church officials of the Parish of Montréal could refuse to bury a deceased member of the Church because of his political beliefs.  Joseph Guibord had been a member of the Institut Canadien de Montréal, an association dedicated to the principles of liberalism.  The Institut was at odds with the Roman Catholic church, at that time very powerful in Quebec and very conservative.  When he died, the church officials of the Parish of Montréal refused to allow his widow, Henriette Brown, to have his remains buried in the section of the  Côte des Neiges Cemetery reserved for Roman Catholics.

Brown brought a petition in the Quebec courts to require the church officials to allow her to bury her husband in the cemetery.  The case was ultimately decided by the Judicial Committee, at that time the court of last resort for Canada within the British Empire.  The Judicial Committee ruled that the church officials had to allow Guibord's remains to be buried in the Roman Catholic section of the cemetery, although without full religious rites.  The case caused great political and religious controversy in Quebec.

Background

The case centred on a man named Joseph Guibord, a member of the Institut Canadien.  The Institut was a liberal association with a public library and debating room for literary and scientific discussions.  The views of its members, who tended to support the Rouges in Quebec politics, brought them into conflict with the Roman Catholic Church, which at that time had significant influence in Quebec society and with the Quebec government.  Eventually, the Bishop of Montreal, Ignace Bourget,  issued a pastoral letter forbidding membership in the Institut, and stating that no absolution was possible for member, "même à l'article de la mort."

Guibord died suddenly in 1869.  His widow, Henriette Brown, sought to have him buried in the Côte des Neiges Cemetery, at that time the only cemetery for Roman Catholics in Montreal.  The Church refused to permit the burial, except in the portion of the cemetery reserved for non-Roman Catholics and unbaptised infants, and without religious rites.  Brown was willing to forego the religious ceremony, but insisted that her husband be buried in the Roman Catholic portion of the cemetery.  The church officials refused. Brown and her supporters argued that the Church's decision contradicted its role under the civil law to give burial, but the Church argued it would permit the civil burial, and that Guibord not being buried in holy ground was a question of religious freedom.

After two attempts to have Guibord buried in the Côte-des-Neiges Cemetery, his remains were temporarily lodged in the neighbouring Mount Royal cemetery, a Protestant cemetery.

Decisions of the Quebec Courts

Superior Court
Brown then applied to the Superior Court of Quebec for an order of mandamus compelling the church officials to provide a burial for her husband in the Côte des Neiges Cemetery.  The pleadings filed by both sides were complex, with several supplemental pleadings from both sides.  Brown sought to have Guibord's remains buried in the Roman Catholic portion of the cemetery, "conformably to custom and law," and argued that her husband had been a practising Roman Catholic at the time of his death, filing his baptismal certificate and their wedding certificate. The church officials challenged the availability of the remedy of mandamus, as well as denying that they had refused civil burial to Guibord.  They asserted that they were prepared to carry out their civil duty to bury the remains, but as a matter of religious freedom, the Church had the right to decide whether to bury him in the portion of the cemetery reserved for Roman Catholics.  They also alleged that Guibord had been a "pécheur public" (i.e. - a public sinner), and therefore could be denied burial under Roman Catholic doctrine.

The petition was argued on 17 March 1870, before Mr Justice Mondelet.  On 2 May 1870, Mondelet J. granted Brown's petition and ordered the burial of the deceased by the church officials, according to custom and law in the same way as any other parishioner who dies with the status of a Roman Catholic, and to enter his name in the parochial register according to law.  He also ordered that the church officials pay Brown's court costs.