[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# 2007 New Year Honours

chael Seals, Chair, National Fallen Stock Company
Elvin Royston Sealy, J.P., lately Chair, Airlines Association of Barbados and the Airline Operators' Committee. For services to Civil Aviation.
Kenneth Seed, Principal Officer, H.M. Prison Preston, H.M. Prison Service.
Yvonne Carol, Mrs. Sessions, lately Clinical Service Manager, Learning Disability Services, Leeds Mental Health Teaching NHS Trust. For services to Healthcare.
Dr. Ramendra Nath Seth. For services to Rotary International and to the community in Nottinghamshire.
Victor Lockhart Shannon, Senior Principal Engineer, Ultra Electronics Holdings plc. For services to the Defence Industry.
Derek George Sharman. For services to Heritage in Berwick-upon-Tweed.
Raymond Alexander Sharpe. For services to the community in South East Wales.
Ina Simpson, Mrs. Shaw. For services to Stirling Albion Football Club.
Hannah Anne, Mrs. Shearer. For services to Older People in Birmingham, West Midlands.
Ronald Charles Shelley. For services to the Association of Jewish Ex-Servicemen and Women and to the Jewish community in London.
Ms Jane Shepherdson, Brand Director, TopShop. For services to the Retail Industry.
Paul Edward Siddall, Executive Officer, Disability and Carers Service, Department for Work and Pensions. 
David Ross Simpson. For services to the community in Harrow, Middlesex.
John Simpson, Works Operational Manager, Gateshead Health NHS Foundation Trust. For services to the NHS.
Margaret Anne, Mrs. Sims, Senior Health Promotion Specialist, South Gloucestershire Primary Care Trust. For services to Healthcare.
Nirmala, Mrs. Singhvi. For services to the community in Watford, Hertfordshire.
Keith Victor Skipper, D.L. For services to the community in Norfolk.
Offord Slater. For services to the Waste Management Industry and to the Environment in West Yorkshire. 
William Barry Slater. For services to the Boys' Brigade in Orkney.
Donald Smallwood, Chair, Preston Road Neighbourhood Development Company. For services to the community in Kingston-upon-Hull.
Peter Alexander Smart, Director of Adult Learning, Chichester College, West Sussex. For services to Further Education.
Adrienne Elizabeth, Mrs. Smith, Assistant Headteacher, The North School, Ashford, Kent. For services to Education.
Ms Lesley Smith, County Secretary, Devon Association of Parish Councils. For services to Local Government in the South West.
Margaret Montgomery, Mrs. Smith. For services to the community in Glasgow.
Irene Matilda, Mrs. Smyth, Recycling Centre Attendant, Magherafelt Recycling Centre. For services to Local Government in Northern Ireland.
Samuel Alfred Matthew Smyth, Main Grade Officer, Limited. For services to the Farming Industry. Northern Ireland Prison Service.
Ms Liz Snape, Director, Policy and Political AVairs, UNISON. For services to Diversity.
Roy Malcolm Dudley-Southern, Team Leader and Strategic Planning Manager, Greater Manchester Primary Care Trusts Collaborative Commissioning Team. For services to the NHS.
Miss Barbara Mary Speake, Founder, The Barbara Speake Theatre School and Agency. For services to Drama in London.
Angela, Mrs. Spellman. For services to the community in Newbury, Berkshire.
Anthony Noel Spencer, Chair, North West Housing Forum. For services to Social Housing.
Lieutenant Commander Victor William Spong, Royal Naval Reserve (Ret'd). For services to the Sea Cadet Corps in Newcastle upon Tyne.
Trevor Kenneth Stanbury, Partner, The Milky Way Adventure Park. For services to the Tourist Industry in the South West.
Anthony John Stannard, Head Trainer, Malmesbury Amateur Boxing Club. For services to Sport in Wiltshire.
Thomas Michael Robert Sterry. For charitable services. 
Dr. Peter Michael Collinson Stevens. For services to Conservation.
Rosemary, Mrs. Stevenson. For services to the community in Ballantree, Ayrshire.
Jacqueline June, Mrs. Stimpson, Water Skier. For services to Disabled Sport.
Lynn Maureen, Mrs. Storey, Lead Court Manager, Reading County Court, Her Majesty's Court Service. 
David Thomas Streeter, Reader in Ecology, University of Sussex. For services to Higher Education.
Nancy, Mrs. Stuart, Grade B2, Sierra Leone Office, Department for International Development.
John Christopher Sugden. For services to the community in Haslemere, Surrey.
Matthew Tanner, Director, SS Great Britain Trust. For services to Maritime Conservation.
Adelene Jarn, Mrs. Tasker. For services to Community Relations in North Lincolnshire.
Dr. Trevor Taylor, Technical and Projects Director, MBDA UK. For services to the Defence Industry. 
Ms Elizabeth Joanna Terry, Managing Director, The Leisure Media Company Ltd. For services to the Publishing Industry.
Nellie, Mrs. Thornton. For services to the community in Ilkley, West Yorkshire.
Gwendoline May, Mrs. Timmins. For services to the community in Kingswinford, West Midlands. 
Michael John Tombs, Volunteer Co-ordinator, Volunteer Recognition, National Trust. For services to Heritage. 
Simon Manville Topman, Chair, Aston New Deal for Co