[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Energy policy of Russia

ed as the Coordinator of the dialogue. At the working level the Energy Dialogue consists three thematic working groups. The Energy Dialogue involves the EU Member States, energy industry and the international financial institutions.
Projected gas pipelines originating in Russia and supplying Europe.

Ratification of the Energy Charter Treaty

Russia signed the Energy Charter Treaty in 1994, but flatly refused to ratify its current revision. Russia's main objections to the ratification revolve around the proviso about the third party access to the pipelines and transit fees. Notwithstanding the fact that Russia didn't ratify the treaty, Ivan Materov, State Secretary and Deputy Minister of Industry and Energy of the Russian Federation, serves as the vice-chairman of the Energy Charter Conference, and Andrei Konoplyanik as the Deputy Secretary General.

Russia and the European Union have also failed to finalize the negotiations on the Energy Charter Protocol on Transit. The main issue remain open is how, and to what extent, the Protocol will include mechanisms for establishment long term transit arrangements. Also the third party access to its pipeline infrastructure has remained Russia's main objection to the Protocol.

Controversies

Corruption
According to the estimation of Swedish economist Anders Åslund in 2008, 50% of the state-owned Gazprom's investments were lost through corrupt practices. For instance, the Russian section of Blue Stream pipeline was three times more expensive to construct per kilometer than the Turkish section of the pipeline.

Experts believe Bill Browder's "visa problem" is related to that he made questions about Gazprom's murky intermediates which receive money from Gazprom.

Oil-for-Food Programme

The Russian government and Russian energy companies were beneficiaries in the Oil-for-Food Programme.

OPEC temporarily lowering the price of oil
Crude oil prices declined from over a 100 dollars a barrel in 2014 to below 50 US dollars in 2015.  Russia tried and failed to get OPEC support for production cutbacks, and ramped up its oil production to reduce the drop in oil revenues. OPEC's oil glut supply policy affected the Russian economy and energy policy.

There were controversies about the reasons for OPEC's policy for reducing the price of oil. Russia responded to OPEC's policy by increasing dialogue with OPEC.

See also

Economy of Russia
Energy in Russia
Coal in Russia
Oil reserves in Russia
Petroleum industry in Russia
Russia in the European energy sector
Energy diplomacy
Energy policy
Energy policy of the European Union
Energy policy of the Soviet Union
Energy superpower
Russie.NEI.Visions in English
EU-Russia Centre
Petroleum exploration in the Arctic
European countries by fossil fuel use (% of total energy)
European countries by electricity consumption per person

Footnotes

References

External links
 Russia Energy Survey 2002 OECD/IEA 2002 
 Robert L. Larsson  Russia's Energy Policy: Dimensions and Russia's Reliability as an Energy Supplier, FOI-R—1934 –SE, March 2006, ISSN 1650-1942
 Russian Electricity Reform - Emerging Challenges and Opportunities OECD/IEA 2005 
 Three new rules of the Russian oil and gas industry Ivan Rubanov, "Expert", 2 July 2007
 The Battle for the Next Energy Frontier: The Russian Polar Expedition and the Future of Arctic Hydrocarbons, by Shamil Midkhatovich Yenikeyeff and Timothy Fenton Krysiek, Oxford Energy Comment, Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, August 2007
 Andreas Goldthau Rhetoric versus reality: Russian threats to European energy supply,  Energy Policy, 2008
 Brookings Report on Russian Energy: Brookings Foreign Policy Studies Energy Security Series: The Russian Federation - Brookings Institution
 Dirty Hands: Russian Coal, GHG Emissions & European Gas Demand
BP, Russian billionaires, and the Kremlin: a Power Triangle that never was, by Shamil Yenikeyeff, Oxford Energy Comment, Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, 23 November 2011
 Renewable Energy in Russia - A Giant Yet To Be Awakened: Renewable Energy in Russia - Growth Potential - Merar Weblog

 
Russia