[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# July 1976

an Patricio church in the Belgrano neighborhood of Buenos Aires.
Born: 
Daijiro Kato, Japanese motorcycle road racer, 2001 Grand Prix world champion for 250cc racing; in Saitama (killed in race accident, 2003)
Rohan Nichol, Australian TV actor known for Home and Away; in Geraldton, Western Australia

July 5, 1976 (Monday)
Adolfo Suárez was sworn in as the new Prime Minister of Spain after his appointment by King Juan Carlos I to work toward political reform.
The Italian Communist Party (PCI), with the second highest number of seats in Italy's Chamber of Deputies, received "its most import parliamentary post since the birth of the Italian Republic" as Pietro Ingrao was elected as President of the Chamber with 488 of the 613 votes.  With pressure from the United States and Western European nations to prevent Italy's Communists from participating as part of the ministers of the cabinet, and none of the parties having a majority of seats the Christian Democracy Party (DC), the PCI agreed to support the election of a Communist Party member as leader of the Deputies to be in return for the PCI's vote of confidence for the government of Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti. 
Ivanka Khristova of Bulgaria broke the world record for distance in the shot put, at 21.89 meters.  The previous record at had been 21.87m, which she had set on July 3 at the same track and field meet in the Bulgarian city of Belmeken.  She held the record for less than three months when it was superseded by Helena Fibingerová.
Born: 
Jamie Elman, American-born Canadian actor known for American Dreams; in New York City
Nuno Gomes, Portuguese national soccer football team striker; in Amarante
Michelle Zahra, English-born personal assistant and DJ, known for losing things on nights out;
Died: Walter Giesler, 66, American soccer football goalkeeper for the U.S. national soccer team at the 1948 Olympics and at the 1950 World Cup, died suddenly while the 1950 team was being inducted collectively into the U.S. Soccer Hall of Fame.

July 6, 1976 (Tuesday)

Soyuz 21 was launched into orbit by the Soviet Union, carrying cosmonauts Boris Volynov and Vitaly Zholobov to the new Salyut 5 space station. The two spacefarers showed the interior of the station on live television to viewers in the U.S.S.R. and Eastern Europe two days after arriving on a mission that appeared to be planned to last at least 54 days.  Volynov and Zholobov would depart Salyut 5 on August 24, earlier than planned, because of Zholobov's illness from "an acrid odor that developed in the environmental control system."
The white-minority government of South Africa agreed to abandon its policy of requiring black students to be instructed in the Afrikaans language, the issue that had led to the violent June 16 Soweto uprising that had killed 176 people in Johannesburg.  Education Minister Michiel C. Botha made the announcement after negotiating the issue with leaders of South Africa's black majority.
Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom began a "Bicentennial tour" of several locations in the former 13 British colonies that had become the nucleus of the United States, arriving in Philadelphia on the  royal yacht Britannia, where she was greeted by a crowd of 5,000 people.  In an address to Americans, she began "I speak to you as the direct descendant of King George III.  He was the last crowned sovereign to rule in this country..." and added "It seems to me that Independence Day, the Fourth of July, should be celebrated as much in Britain as in America... in sincere gratitude to the Founding Fathers of the great Republic for having taught Britain a very valuable lesson.  We lost the American colonies because we lacked that statesmanship 'to know the right time and the manner of yielding what is impossible to keep.'"  She followed by stops at the White House in Washington DC, New York City, Charlottesville, Virginia, and Providence and Newport, Rhode Island.
Born: Dimitrije Banjac, popular Serbian comedian and producer known for Državni posao; in Novi Sad, SR Serbia, Yugoslavia
Died: Marshal Zhu De, 89, Communist Chinese officer who had led the People's Liberation Army to victory over the Nationalists in 1949, later the nominal Head of State of the People's Republic of China since in his honorary capacity of Chairman of the National People's Congress Standing Committee