[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ZaMirNET

onal NGOs that used this communication channel to assist in the search for the missing persons and tracing relatives stuck in war zones, plan joint peace-building projects, political campaigns and send out independent news reports and access more than 150 regional and international news conferences.

Two international volunteers, Kathryn Turnipseed and Cecilia Hansen, under a project name "Electronic Witches", created the first ZTN training manual for women-users ensuring that gender specific barriers to use of ICT would be overcome in the trainings they delivered to hundreds of women activists throughout Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.

As the intense war period in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia passed, the telephone lines and direct Internet access became more viable, ZTN did not manage to achieve its goal of adjusting its system to more advanced technology, due to lack of resources and weariness of the core groups of volunteers who
kept it going during the difficult war years.

Several web-based networking and media outlets have in the meantime emerged in the post-Yugoslav region—such as Ljudmila, Kontrapunkt Festival, out of which ZaMirNET in Zagreb has built on—in terms of values, activist networks and human resources of ZTN.

Current operations

ZaMirNet has an office in Zagreb, Croatia with a staff of around six. Until 2004, ZaMirNet had several local offices in war affected areas of Croatia.

Current program areas include:

 Strategic use of ICTs
 Education
 Networking
 Independent media initiatives

It is a member of the Association for Progressive Communications, and sees itself as being "dedicated to the promotion of civil society and its values through ICT and the development of new media initiatives".

Recently (2004), it was involved with a media-project called ZaMirZINE—an electronic news magazine specialising in themes related to civil society. This interactive e-journal, was aimed at serving as a media outlet for a situation of otherwise scarce news on youth, peace-building, women's rights, gay and lesbian issues, environment and independent cultural initiatives. It combined articles with columns on national, regional and international events of relevance to human rights, social and economic justice and peace. ZaMirZINE is based on cooperation and knowledge-transfer between activists, young journalists and established journalists. ZaMirZINE was voted the best Croatian electronic zine of the year 2004 by the PC Chip, a magazine focused on ICT.

Through its MEDIAnet project, launched in 2004 too, ZaMirNET says it aims to encourage and facilitate the establishment of locally based independent media in Croatia and the neighbouring countries—Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and Montenegro. NGOs, through this project, are supported to expand their outreach and communication strategies to the media—including via community-based, alternative, and internet-based media outlets.

ZaMirNET says its research indicates that the mainstream media "tend to represent civil society organisations with a sensationalist and sometimes biased perspectives". On the other hand, it also notes that NGO members tend to lack journalistic skills to systematically report news about their sector "in a professional way".

ZaMirNET believes its ZaMirZINE could offer an inclusive media environment, based on a "knowledge transfer between activists, young journalists and established journalists".

ZaMirNET team

Last ZaMirNET's governing board was composed of Vatroslav Zovko, Srđan Dvornik, Davor Gjenero, Predrag Bejaković, and Nebojša Gavrilov.

Due to the lack of funding ZaMirNET ceased its operations in 2016.

Notes

External links
ZaMirNET, Croatia
ZaMirNET, English website
ZaMirNET Founds a Network of Independent Media
APC report, ZaMirNET founds a network of independent media
Peace-building in Croatia through community technology centres
ZaMirZINE

Information and communication technologies for development
Non-profit technology
Information technology organizations based in Croatia