[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Karachi Nuclear Power Complex

Karachi Nuclear Power Plant is owned by the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission which runs the operations through regulations provided by the Nuclear Regulatory Authority (NRA) that is responsible for licensing, inspection and ensuring the safety procedures taking place while running the power plant. 

The National Engineering Services (NES) of Pakistan, the contractor, manages nuclear power plant on site on behalf of Nuclear Regulatory Authority and oversees the overall electricity distribution of nuclear power plant including the employment of transformers and grid connections over the city. The K-Electric supports the NES operations to manage the plant and relays on energy provided by the nuclear power plant to feed through its circuits. The Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission, on the other hand, has the responsibility of running the overall operations of the nuclear power plant including computerized machinery, plant stimulators, and manufacturing of fuel bundles, producing fuel cycle, manufacturing tools, and employing of computers.

Energy site contractors
Montreal Engineering Co. (1965–71)
GE Canada (1971–76)
K-Electric
China NNC
NES Pakistan

Reception

Power outages, leakages, and engineering 

The Karachi Nuclear Power Plant received wide range of media publicity and fame when it was inaugurated by President Zulfikar Ali Bhutto on 2 November 1972, accompanied by nation's top scientists and high ranking civic officials. Since 2000, the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant has been subjected to a political debate and controversy between nation's anti-nuclear power and pro-nuclear power activists due to its repeated shutdown to generate energy to provide to the city. In 2000, Zia Mian, a physicist at the SDPI based in Islamabad, compared the performance and efficiency of nuclear power plant as "six worst performing reactors in the world."

In the wake of nuclear accident at Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Japan in 2011, the Nuclear Regulatory Authority (NRA) of Pakistan did a safety inspection of the nuclear power plant. Dr. Pervez Hoodbhoy who visited the nuclear power plant as part of the inspection viewed negatively of the performance of the plant and was very critical of IAEA's monitoring of the plant. Without the Canadian material support, the nuclear power plant has been shut down multiple times in the years of 1979, 1982, 1993, and in 2002. The power outages at the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant has been reported to high as compared to the other Canadian CANDU reactor, mainly attributed to equipment and regulation failure. In 2002, the Nuclear Regulatory Authority was established to set up the regulation codes, safety regulations, and statues based on the experience learned in running the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant.

The uranium hexafluoride (UF6) leakages in nuclear steam cylinder has been commonly reported multiple times but it was addressed when Bashiruddin Mahmood claimed to invent a scientific instrument to prevent further leakages. On 18 October 2011, a seven-hour emergency was imposed by the NES (manager of the plant) after detecting a heavy water leak. The leak was brought under control and the emergency was lifted.

Despite incidents of power outages, the senior physicists and the management of the nuclear power plant has dismissed the criticism of the operations of the nuclear power plant who maintained that the power plant had to be run without Canada's technical and material support, and facilities which were nonexistence in the country to support the operations of the plant. The welding facility, tool manufacturing, and machine shops near the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant were eventually established by Parvez Butt (a mechanical engineer) to support the nuclear power operations of the plant in successive years— Butt was honored with nation's highest honor for this contribution.

According to report submitted to IAEA by S.B. Hussain, a senior physicist who worked at Karachi Nuclear Power Plant, maintained that operating nuclear power plant in the environment of complete Canadian absence was a difficult task, but proved a blessing in disguise, because it provided the Atomic Energy Commission an opportunity to engage in self-reliance in producing nuclear fuel cycle and self-manufacturing programs that was pivotal experience in safely running and managing the much larger Chashma Nuclear Power Plant in Punjab.

According to the assessment compiled by the China's National Nuclear Corporation, the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant's construction works has promoted the development of related industries in Pakistan, providing more than 10,000 jobs for the local area.