[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Leigh Broxham

Leigh Michael Broxham (born 13 January 1988) is an Australian professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Melbourne Victory in the A-League. As of May 2021, he currently holds the record for most appearances for Melbourne Victory, playing 427 times across multiple competitions. Broxham is one of the A-league's most decorated players having played in all of Melbourne Victory's title-winning sides including four championships, three premierships and two FFA Cups. A natural defensive midfielder, Broxham nicknamed "Broxjajlovic", Lord Broxenbauer or simply "The Brox" can also play as an attacking midfielder, central midfielder, brox to brox midfielder, centre back, left back or right back. Broxham was named captain of Melbourne Victory at the commencement of the 2021 A-League season.

Born in Melbourne, Broxham played youth football at the Victorian Institute of Sport before making his professional debut in 2007 for Melbourne Victory, where he continued to play for over a decade and 300 appearances.

Broxham has made 1 appearance for Australia, in a debut on a friendly match which ended a draw with Singapore in 2008.

Club career
The attacking midfielder, who is known for his long range free kicks, sharp passing and toughness, joined the Victorian Institute of Sport whilst playing his club football at Knox City in Melbourne's east in 2003. He was selected as captain of the Victorian under 16 squad in 2004 before representing Australia the following year at the under 17 FIFA World Cup in Peru. Recruited from the Victorian Institute of Sport by Melbourne Victory FC, Broxham trained with the first-team squad for twelve months as the Football Team Assistant before being brought in to the actual squad prior to Round 19.

It was announced on 21 March 2007 that Broxham had signed a new three-year deal with the club. Leigh was left out of the squad for the majority of the 2008/2009 championship season. However, after having an excellent pre season, including scoring a 25-yard free kick and assisting multiple goals, he has played every game in the 2009/10 season. Broxham was the second of six nominees that will vie for the inaugural NAB Young Footballer of the Year Award at the conclusion of the Hyundai A-League 2009/10 season.

He scored his first ever goal for Melbourne in their clash against Sydney FC in the opening round of the 2010–11 A-League season.  Broxham has become a firm fan favourite for his excellent technique, and has inherited the popular moniker "Broxhajlovic" for his free kick prowess.

In the 2012–2013 A-league season under new boss Ange Postecoglou, Leigh Broxham initially began the season with lacklustre performances including a 5–0 defeat against Brisbane Roar. However, since the injuries of several key Melbourne Victory defenders, he was asked to fill in at centre back against Sydney FC and Newcastle Jets Alessandro Del Piero and Emile Heskey and performed admirably inspiring new chants from the Victory supporters. His goal against Brisbane Roar later in the season with a flying header attempt summed up the success of his season which was rewarded by a further 3-year contract.

With Melbourne Victory finishing 3rd, they subsequently qualified for a play-off match in order to participate in the Asian Champions League. On 15 February 2014, Melbourne Victory faced Muangthong United who were 2nd in their domestic league. Melbourne Victory was the first to concede with a goal scored directly from a corner. After captain Mark Milligan could not convert a penalty kick and trailing on the score board, Leigh Broxham managed to provide a pass to Scott Galloway who then crossed a ball into the head of James Troisi scoring the equalizer.  Broxham then went on to capitalize on a loose ball from a corner with a shot outside the box into the net to score the eventual winner ending the match 2–1 to send Melbourne Victory to the Asian Champions League. Soon later on their first ACL Group stage match away against Guangzhou Evergrande, Broxham would score from a loose headed ball off a corner with a volley blasting into the back of the net to send Melbourne Victory 2–0 up, a match in which ended in a 2–4 defeat.