[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pilbara strike

The Pilbara strike was a landmark strike by Indigenous Australian pastoral workers in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. The strike lasted between 1946 and 1949, and was the longest industrial action in Australian history.

The strike has been noted for its significance for the human rights of Aboriginal Australians. The strikers demanded social recognition, payment of fair wages, and an improvement in working conditions. 

Participating in the strike was 800 Aboriginal pastoral workers who walked off the large pastoral stations in the Pilbara on 1 May 1946, and also from employment in the two major towns of Port Hedland and Marble Bar. The strike did not end until August 1949, and even after its conclusion many Aboriginal Australians refused to return to work for white station owners.

Historians have noted it as the first industrial strike by Aboriginal people since colonisation and the longest industrial strikes in Australian history. It is regarded as a landmark historical moment in the history of the human rights, cultural rights, and Native title rights of Indigenous Australians.

Working conditions

For many years Aboriginal pastoral workers in the Pilbara were denied cash wages and were only paid in supplies of tobacco, flour and other necessities. The pastoral stations treated the Aboriginal workers as a cheap slave labour workforce to be exploited. Many tried to leave the stations on which they worked but were met with legal resistance; those who were unsuccessful could be whipped and those who escaped were hunted by police and returned. The situation was that "while Aboriginal labour was required, Aboriginal people were treated as if they were expendable".

European attacks and brutal shootings of whole family groups of Aboriginal Australians are part of the history of the region, though often not well documented. One attack took place at Skull Creek in the Northern Territory a few kilometers north of Ti-Tree in the 1870s, which resulted in the bleached bones and thus the name for the place. In 1926 the Forrest River massacre was carried out by a police party on the Forrest River Mission (later the Aboriginal community of Oombulgurri), in the East Kimberleys. Though there was a royal commission into the reported killing and burning of Aboriginal people in the East Kimberley, the police allegedly involved were brought to trial and acquitted.

As well as proper wages and better working conditions, Aboriginal lawmen sought natural justice arising from the original Western Australian colonial Constitution. As a condition for self-rule in the colony, the British Government insisted that once public revenue in WA exceeded 500,000 pounds, 1 per cent was to be dedicated to "the welfare of the Aboriginal natives" under Section 70 of the Constitution. Succeeding colonial and state Governments legislated to remove the funding provisions for "native welfare".

The strike

The strike was coordinated and led by Aboriginal lawmen Dooley Bin Bin and Clancy McKenna; and Don McLeod, an active unionist and member of the Communist Party of Australia for a short period. The strike was planned at an Aboriginal law meeting in 1942 at Skull Springs (east of Nullagine), where a massacre had previously occurred. The meeting was attended by an estimated 200 senior Aboriginal representatives representing twenty-three language groups from much of the remote north-west of Australia. 16 interpreters were needed for the meeting. Discussions were protracted with the meeting lasting six weeks. McLeod, the only European-Australian present, was given the task of chief negotiator. While not present, Bin Bin was elected to represent the Aboriginal peoples from unsettled desert lands. Later McLeod and Bin Bin chose McKenna to represent those from the settled areas. The strike was postponed until after the Second World War had ended in 1945.

Peter Coppin, also known as Kangushot, (1920–2006) was another one of the strike leaders. Regarded as a pioneer of the Aboriginal rights movement in the 1940s, he was awarded the British Empire Medal in 1972, and appointed NAIDOC Elder of the Year in 2002.
 
Crude calendars were taken from one station camp to another in early 1946 to organise the strike. The efforts, if noticed by the white people present, were dismissed and laughed at. The date of May 1st was chosen not only because it was International Workers' Day but also because it was the first day of the shearing season. On 1 May 1946, hundreds of Aboriginal workers left the pastoral stations and set up strike camps.

The strike was most effective in the Pilbara region. Further afield in Broome and Derby and other inland northern towns, the strike movement was harshly suppressed by police action and was more short lived. Over the three years, occasionally strikers went back to work, while others joined or rejoined the strike.