[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

Beverly-Rancocas Road) north to County Route 630 (Levitt Parkway).

New Mexico
 Albuquerque: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. A former section of Grand Avenue was renamed in 1994. The boulevard runs east–west between Broadway and University Boulevards (near the University of New Mexico campus).

New York
 Albany: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a two lane road running through Lincoln Park in the southern part of the city.
 Binghamton: Martin Luther King Jr. Promenade is a commercial street (formerly part of Henry Street) located in the city's downtown district, along the Chenango River.
 Hempstead: Martin Luther King Drive in Hempstead is a residential street of mostly multiple family dwellings, about four blocks long, from Circle Drive to South Franklin Street.
 Ithaca: Martin Luther King Jr. Street (also called State Street)

 Mount Vernon: Martin Luther King Boulevard is designated along East 3rd Street.
 Newburgh: Marine Drive, along the city's waterfront, was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard during the 2000s.
 New York City:
 125th Street between First Avenue and 12th Avenue is designated Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard (shortened by locals as MLK Jr. Boulevard). MLK Jr. Boulevard, which runs through Harlem, intersects with Malcolm X Boulevard at 125th Street and Lenox Avenue. The street features the Apollo Theater, a famous center for Black music and entertainment.
Martin Luther King Jr. Place in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn
 NY 440 in Staten Island, from the Bayonne Bridge to the Staten Island Expressway/I-278, is designated the Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway.
 University Avenue in the Bronx, between Kingsbridge Road and Edward L. Grant Highway, is also designated Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Syracuse: West Castle Street is designated as Dr. MLK Street West, from US 11 Salina Street west until it curves and becomes Hudson Street.
 Tuckahoe: Martin Luther King Boulevard (formerly Washington Street) runs from a dead end north to Main Street.
 White Plains: Dr. Martin Luther King Boulevard runs through the heart of the commercial district from Water Street to East Post Road in downtown White Plains.

North Carolina

 Asheboro: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a two-lane semi rural road which loops north from East Salisbury Street.
 Asheville: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in Asheville is a southern extension of Town Mountain Road; it starts at US 74A and winds south through a semi-residential area to Charlotte Street.
 Ayden: A nine-block long M.L.K. Jr. Street, running north–south.
 Chapel Hill: NC 86 north from the center of Chapel Hill is named Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. It was formerly named Airport Road. The street signs ingeniously list it as "Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard" on a green background, with a subheading "Historic Airport Road" beneath, on a brown background, to show the road's previous name. In 2017, the "Historic Airport Road" sign was removed.
 Charlotte: In 2006, Second Street in Uptown was renamed to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. It travels through what was once the predominantly Black neighborhood of Brooklyn, which was demolished in the 1960s to make way for expansion of the central business district.
Clinton: Martin Luther King Blvd is located off Hwy 701/421 
 Durham: Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway is a four-lane divided road that travels  from U.S. 15-501 to NC 55 across the southern portion of the city.
 Edenton: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue in Edenton runs from the center of Edenton west to the US 17 bypass, forming a sort of business spur of US 17.  It is Chowan County Road No. 1234.
 Enfield: Doctor Martin Luther King Street runs from the southernmost corner of Enfield, northeast for 13 blocks.
 Fair Bluff: A one-lane semi-paved cul-de-sac about a block and a half long, running off US 76 past some mobile housing.
 Fayetteville: The Martin Luther King Jr. Freeway, also known as the Central Business District Loop (CBD Loop), is a freeway in Fayetteville and the adjacent Gray's Creek Township. It is designated in part as US 401 and NC 87. This freeway has the credentials to be commissioned as an Interstate highway (such as I-395), but never has been designated as such.
 Greensboro: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in Greensboro follows the route of old US 421 into the city from the south, ending at East McGee Street.
 Greenville: US 264 bypassing Greenville is designated the Martin Luther King Junior Highway.
 Gastonia: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Way forms the northern leg of Marietta Street. It runs north–south, from the center of town north to the city limits at the bridge over Long Creek.
 Lexington: In Lexington, West Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is actually on the southeast side of the city; it runs from the center of Lexington southeast to the East Center Street extension near an interchange with I-85. It is NC 8 for a part of its length, and Davidson County Road 2205 for the rest of its length.
 Maxton: US 74 Business