[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mediation (statistics)

nt effect (path C in the diagram).
 
 To establish overall moderation, the β43 regression weight must be significant (first step for establishing mediated moderation).
 Establishing moderated mediation requires that there be no moderation effect, so the β43 regression weight must not be significant.

Step 2
Moderation of the relationship between the independent variable and the mediator (path A).
 
 If the β53 regression weight is significant, the moderator affects the relationship between the independent variable and the mediator.

Step 3
Moderation of both the relationship between the independent and dependent variables (path A) and the relationship between the mediator and the dependent variable (path B).
 
 If both β53 in step 2 and β63 in step 3 are significant, the moderator affects the relationship between the independent variable and the mediator (path A).
 If both β53 in step 2 and β65 in step 3 are significant, the moderator affects the relationship between the mediator and the dependent variable (path B).
 Either or both of the conditions above may be true.

Causal mediation analysis

Fixing versus conditioning

Mediation analysis quantifies the 
extent to which a variable participates in the transmittance
of change from a cause to its effect. It is inherently a causal
notion, hence it cannot be defined in statistical terms.  Traditionally,
however, the bulk of mediation analysis has been conducted
within the confines of linear regression, with statistical 
terminology masking the causal character of the
relationships involved. This led to difficulties,
biases, and limitations that have been alleviated by
modern methods of causal analysis, based on causal diagrams
and counterfactual logic.

The source of these difficulties lies in defining mediation
in terms of changes induced by adding a third variables into 
a regression equation. Such statistical changes are
epiphenomena which sometimes accompany mediation but, 
in general, fail to capture the causal relationships that
mediation analysis aims to quantify.

The basic premise of the causal approach is that it is
not always appropriate to "control" for the mediator M
when we seek to estimate the direct effect of X on Y
(see the Figure above).
The classical rationale for "controlling" for M" 
is that, if we succeed in preventing M from changing, then 
whatever changes we measure in Y are attributable solely 
to variations in X and we are justified then in proclaiming the 
effect observed as "direct effect of X on Y." Unfortunately,
"controlling for M" does not physically prevent M from changing;
it merely narrows the analyst's attention to cases
of equal M values.  Moreover, the language of probability 
theory does not possess the notation to express the idea 
of "preventing M from changing" or "physically holding M constant".
The only operator probability provides is "Conditioning"
which is what we do when we "control" for M, 
or add M as a regressor in the equation for Y. 
The result is that, instead of physically holding M" constant 
(say at M = m) and comparing Y for units under X = 1' to those under X = 0, we allow M to vary but ignore all units except those in 
which M achieves the value M = m. These two operations are 
fundamentally different, and yield different results, except in the case of no omitted variables. Improperly conditioning mediated effects can be a type of bad control.

To illustrate, assume that the error terms of M and Yare correlated. Under such conditions, the
structural coefficient B and A (between M and Y and between Y and X)
can no longer be estimated by regressing Y on X and M.
In fact, the regression slopes may both be nonzero
even when C is zero.  This has two 
consequences. First, new strategies must be devised for 
estimating the structural coefficients A,B and C. Second, 
the basic definitions of direct and indirect effects 
must go beyond regression analysis, and should
invoke an operation that mimics "fixing M", 
rather than "conditioning on M."

Definitions
Such an operator, denoted do(M = m), was defined in Pearl (1994) and it operates by removing the equation of M and replacing it by a constant m. For example, if the basic mediation model consists of the equations:

 

then after applying the operator do(M = m) the model becomes:

 

and after applying the operator do(X = x) the model becomes:

 

where the functions f and g, as well as the
distributions of the error terms ε1 and ε3 remain
unaltered. If we further rename the variables M and Y resulting from do(X = x)
as M(x) and Y(x), respectively, we obtain what 
came to be known as "potential
outcomes" or "structural counterfactuals".
These new variables provide convenient notation
for defining direct and indirect effects. In particular,
four types of effects have been defined for the
transition from X = 0 to X = 1: