[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dutch resistance

ined in the war as a combatant and immediately made its naval assets available for the joint allied war effort, starting with the evacuation from Dunkirk. During the Battle of Java Sea in 1941, the British, American and Australian Navies were led by a Dutch naval officer: Rear Admiral Karel Doorman.

The major areas of intensive military resistance were:
 The Hague and the area to the north of it. Dutch forces succeeded in decimating the two German airborne divisions that had landed with the task of capturing the Dutch government. These hostilities are known as the Battle for The Hague. This unexpected setback caused panic in the German military leadership, which ordered the undefended city centre of Rotterdam to be wiped out in order to force an off-the-battlefield solution and stop the effective resistance by the Dutch forces. Before this terror bombardment, the Royal Netherlands Navy managed to ship some 1300 captured German shock troops to England, providing their allies with first-hand intelligence about this novel type of airborne warfare.
 The Grebbe line, a north-south line some  east of the capital Amsterdam, from Amersfoort to the Waal, fortified, with field guns, and extensive inundations. The Dutch only surrendered after three days of hard fighting, known as the Battle of the Grebbeberg, with heavy losses on both sides. Having taken the Grebbeberg, the German forces were confronted by the next setback: during the battle the old Dutch Water Line had been inundated and thus reactivated.
 Kornwerderzand, with a bunker-complex that defended the eastern end of the Afsluitdijk connecting Friesland to North Holland and was held until ordered to capitulate. Dutch Army troops repelled wave after wave of German attackers, with support from the Royal Netherlands Navy cruising offshore on the North Sea. A small force of some 230 infantrymen stopped a complete German cavalry division in what become known as the Battle of the Afsluitdijk. The exposed stretch of dam leading to the bunker-complex became known among the Germans as the Totendam.
 Rotterdam, the bridges over the Maas River. Two school companies of Royal Netherlands Marines managed to keep a complete German army at bay until the bombardment of Rotterdam forced the commanding officer, General Winkelman, to accept a partial surrender. Elsewhere, Dutch forces stayed in the war; in Europe the fight continued from Zeeland (Battle of Zeeland) to Dunkirk, where a Dutch Royal Navy officer, Lodo van Hamel, assisted in the evacuation of allied troops. Van Hamel was first to parachute back into the Netherlands a few months later, with the mission to set up the resistance in the Netherlands. He was captured, tried and executed.

The Dutch succeeded in stopping the German advance for four days. By then, the Germans had already invaded some 70% of the country but failed to enter the urban areas to the west. The eastern provinces were relatively easy to overrun because they had been deliberately left lightly defended in order to create strategic depth. Adolf Hitler, who had expected the occupation to be completed in two hours or a maximum of two days (the invasion of Denmark in April 1940 had taken only one day), ordered Rotterdam to be annihilated to force a breakthrough as the attack was clearly failing on all fronts. That led to the Rotterdam Blitz on 14 May that destroyed much of the city centre, killed about 800 people, and left about 85,000 homeless. Furthermore, the Germans threatened to destroy every other major city until the Dutch forces capitulated. The Dutch military leadership, having lost the bulk of their air force, realized they could not stop the German bombers but managed to negotiate a tactical, instead of national, capitulation, unlike France a few weeks later. As a result, the Dutch State, unlike the French State, remained at war with Germany, and the Germans authorities had to ask every individual Dutch soldier to desist from further hostilities as a condition for their release from detention as a prisoner-of-war. The first act of resistance was, therefore, the refusal by members of the Dutch forces to sign any document to that effect.

The 2,000 Dutch soldiers who died defending their country, together with at least 800 civilians who perished in the flames of Rotterdam, were the first victims of a Nazi occupation that was to last five years.