[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Abdur Rahman Khan

erritory." From the end of 1888, the Amir spent eighteen months in his northern provinces bordering upon the Oxus, where he was engaged in pacifying the country that had been disturbed by revolts, and in punishing with a heavy hand all who were known or suspected to have taken any part in rebellion.

In 1895–1896, Abdur Rahman directed the invasion of Kafiristan and the conversion of its indigenous peoples to Islam. The region was subsequently renamed Nuristan.  In 1896, he adopted the title of Zia-ul-Millat-Wa-ud Din ("Light of the nation and religion"), and his zeal for the cause of Islam induced him to publish treatises on jihad.

Chitral, Yarkand and Ferghana became shelters for refugees in 1887 and 1883 from Badakhshan who fled from the campaigns of Abdul Rahman.

Hazara uprising

In the early 1890s some Hazara tribes revolted against Abdur Rahman. As the Kabul Newsletters written by the British agents indicate, Abdur Rahman was an extremely ruthless man. He has been called 'The Dracula Amir' by some writers. Due to Abdur Rahman's depredations, over 50-60 percent of the total Hazara population was massacred and numerous towers of Hazara heads were made from the defeated rebels. Upon each victory Abdur Rahman claimed, it unleashed a reign of terror. This resulted in Hazara women being forcibly married to Pashtuns, as well as Hazara territories, specifically in largely ethnic Hazara areas such as Urzugan, Ghazni, Maiden Shah, and Zawar being depopulated of Hazara populations. The territories of prominent Hazara chiefs in these areas were given to Mohammadzai sardars, or other closely related government loyalists. Alongside this, the Jizya tax was also enforced on Shias, which was only meant to be for non-Muslims. It caused some Hazaras to migrate to Quetta in Balochistan, and to Mashhad in northeastern Iran. In the Bamyan region, Abdur Rahman ordered soldiers to destroy the faces of the Buddhas of Bamiyan during a military campaign against a Hazara rebellion in the area.

Death and descendants

Abdur Rahman died on 1 October 1901, inside his summer palace, being succeeded by his son Habibullah Khan who is the father of Amanullah Khan.

Today, his descendants can be found in many places outside Afghanistan, such as in America, France, Germany, and even in Scandinavian countries such as Denmark. His two eldest sons, Habibullah Khan and Nasrullah Khan, were born at Samarkand. His youngest son, Mahomed Omar Jan, was born in 1889 of an Afghan mother, connected by descent with the Barakzai family. One of the Amir’s grandchildren, Azizullah Khan Ziai was the ambassador of Iran from 1930-1932, he was the son of Nasrullah Khan.

One of the Amir’s most notable descendants is Prince Ali Seraj.

Legacy
Afghan society has mixed feelings about his rule. A majority of Pashtuns (his native ethnics) remember him as a ruler who initiated many programs for modernization, and effectively prevented the country from being occupied by Russia by using the "financial and advisory" support of British Empire during the Great Game. The Emir was effectively dependent on British arms and money to stay in power.

Honours and awards
 Honorary Grand Commander of the Most Exalted Order of the Star of India, 11 April 1885
 Honorary Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Order of the Bath (civil division), 29 December 1893

Writings
 Pandnamah-i dunya va din (Advice on the worldly life and religion), 1883. Autobiography.
 Risalah-i Khirad’namah-i Amiri (Epistle of princely wisdom), 1886. On the notion of aql or intellect in Islam.
 Risalah-i najiyah, 1889. On the importance of jihad in the Qur’an and hadith.
 Taj al-Tavarikh (Crown of histories), 1904, Autobiography in 2 volumes.

In popular culture
 In the film Kesari, Abdur Rahman is briefly mentioned.

See also

European influence in Afghanistan
Lillias Hamilton (court physician to Abdur Rahman Khan in the 1890s)
List of heads of state of Afghanistan
Pashtun colonization of northern Afghanistan

Notes

References

Further reading
 Embree, Ainslie T. ed. Encyclopedia of Asian history (4 vol. 1988) 1:5.

External links

1844 births
1901 deaths
19th-century Afghan monarchs
20th-century Afghan monarchs
Emirs of Afghanistan
Barakzai dynasty
Durand Line
Pashtun people
Honorary Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of India
Honorary Knights Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath
19th-century Afghan politicians
19th-century monarchs in Asia
20th-century Afghan politicians
Genocide perpetrators