[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Miguel del Valle

panies.

President of the Chicago Board of Education

Del Valle took office as the president of the Chicago Board of Education on June 26, 2019, having been appointed to that position by Mayor Lori Lightfoot. 

During his tenure, the school district dealt with the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic.

In the summer of 2020, protests were held against the district's contract with the Chicago Police Department for the provision of armed school resource officers at a number of high schools. Amid this, student protesters held a demonstration outside of Del Valle's house at the same time that he was at his residence participating in a school board meeting that was held via virtual means due to the pandemic. During this meetings, Del Valle cast a vote in favor of renewing the contract with the Chicago Police Department.

In 2023, Del Valle voiced concern that, while the district was trending positively out of financial strife, financial issues could still reemerge.

Del Valle's tenure ended on June 30, 2023, when he stepped down from the position.

Additional leadership roles 
Del Valle is a founding member of Advance Illinois and served on the Board of Directors until 2016. He was appointed by Illinois Governor Pat Quinn to the Illinois P-20 Council where he served as Chairman. Additionally del Valle served on several non-profit organizational boards, including Josephinium High School, the Latino Institute, the Spanish Coalition for Housing, and Federation for Community Schools. In 2013, del Valle was appointed by Governor Pat Quinn to the Illinois Students Assistance Commission ("ISAC"), where he served as Vice-Chairman. ISAC's mission is making college accessible and affordable for Illinois students.

Del Valle has served on the Judicial Candidate Screening Advisory Committee established by Chief Justice Mary Jane Theis of the Illinois Supreme Court.

He has also served as Chairman of the Mayor Harold Washington's Advisory Commission on Latino Affairs, and taught a class at Roosevelt University called "Latinos and Public Policy."

In 2008, del Valle was awarded an honorary degree from National Louis University for his "inspirational leadership."

References

External links 
Del Valle for Mayor
Miguel del Valle — Chicago City Clerk
Miguel del Valle — Illinois General Assembly 
Senator Miguel del Valle — Project Vote Smart

1951 births
American politicians of Puerto Rican descent
City clerks of Chicago
Hispanic and Latino American state legislators in Illinois
Democratic Party Illinois state senators
Living people
Northeastern Illinois University alumni
People from Vega Baja, Puerto Rico
Politicians from Chicago
Presidents of the Chicago Board of Education
Puerto Rican people in Illinois politics