[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Taliban insurgency

May 8 – A roadside bomb near the Afghan border in North Waziristan, Pakistan, kills eight Pakistani soldiers.
 May 21 – The Taliban launch attacks in Badakhshan and Laghman provinces, killing 10 policemen and three civilians.
 May 23 – Gunmen attack the Indian consulate in Herat Province.

June 

 June 9 – Five NATO International Security Assistance Force troops are killed in fighting the Taliban.

July 

 July 2 – A suicide bomber attacks an Afghan National Army air force bus in Kabul killing at least five people.
 July 8 – The Taliban claims responsibility for an attack in central Afghanistan that claims the lives of 10 civilians, four Czech members of the International Security Assistance Force and two Afghan police officers.
 July 12 – A cross border attack by the Afghan Taliban kills three Pakistan Army soldiers in Bajaur Agency of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas.
 July 15 – A car bomb explodes at a market in the eastern Afghanistan province of Paktika, killing at least 89 people and injuring scores more in one of the deadliest attacks of the war.
 July 17 – Explosions and gunfire are reported near Kabul International Airport as militants temporarily capture a building under construction.
 July 22 – A Taliban suicide bomber blows himself up outside Kabul International Airport, killing three foreign advisers and an Afghan interpreter.
 July 24 – In Herat, two Finnish women working for a foreign aid organization are shot and killed.
 July 25 – Afghan insurgents killed 17 Shia civilians travelling from Kabul.
 July 26 – Insurgents stop minibuses in Ghōr Province and execute 14 Shiite Muslims.
 July 29 – A suicide bomber kills Hashmat Karzai, the cousin of the President of Afghanistan and a regional powerbroker, in the city of Kandahar.

August 

 August 5 – A U.S. major general Harold J. Greene is killed, and a German brigadier general and several American troops are among the 15 wounded, in an attack by an Afghan soldier gunman – who was killed by Afghan soldiers – at Kabul's Marshal Fahim National Defense University.
 August 14 – A roadside bomb detonates next to a police car in Laghman Province, killing three police officers and injuring another four.
 August 30 – Taliban insurgents attack the National Directorate of Security building in Jalalabad resulting in at least six deaths.

September 

 September 8 – A suicide bomb attack kills the police chief of southern Kandahar Province.
 September 16 – A large bomb explodes in Kabul resulting in the death of three international troops (including a U.S Army Major) and five injuries.
 September 30 – A double suicide attack killed seven people and wounded 21 others including Afghan soldiers in Kabul.

October 

 October 1 – Taliban suicide bombers attack an Afghan National Army convoy in Kabul, killing at least seven people and injuring 19.
 October 8 – A suicide bomber kills at least four people and wounds 16 in Helmand province.
 October 13 – A Taliban attack killed 22 Afghan military in northern Afghanistan
 October 21 – A Kabul roadside bomb kills at least four Afghan National Security Force soldiers with six other soldiers and six civilians injured.

November 

 10 November – Ten policemen, including a commander, are killed by bomb blasts in Jalalabad and Logar Province.
 13 December –  Assassination of Atiqullah Raufi.
 18 November – A suicide bomber attacks in Kabul and kills at least two people.
 27 November – A suicide attack in Kabul killed six people including a Briton.

December 

 December 1 – A suicide bomb kills at least nine, including two policemen, at a funeral for a tribal elder in Baghlan Province.
 December 11 – A Taliban suicide bomber kills at least six Afghan National Army soldiers in Tangi Tarakhil on the outskirts of Kabul.
 December 13 – Killings
 Gunmen assassinate Atiqullah Rawoofi, the head of the Secretariat of the Supreme Court of Afghanistan, in the outskirts of Kabul.
 Twenty-one people die in attacks across Afghanistan including two American soldiers.

2015 
2015 saw the Taliban make various gains in Afghanistan in an attempt to fracture the fledgling Afghan government with successes not seen since NATO intervened in 2001. The Taliban has increased suicide attacks and has made multiple territorial gains across the country.

Kunduz offensive 
Beginning in April, the Taliban fought for the city of Kunduz in the northern Kunduz Province with them capturing the city by September. Afghan Armed Forces recaptured the city in October but local sources dispute this claim. The quick fall of the city resulted in calls by some government officials for President Ashraf Ghani and CEO Abdullah Abdullah to resign.