[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Richard Ofshe

Federal court in US v. Hall in 1997.  The Utah Supreme Court in November 2013 held that a judge's failure to admit Ofshe's testimony was an abuse of the judge's discretion.  Ofshe has qualified under both Frye and Daubert standards over 50 times, despite challenges by prosecutors.

DIMPAC task force

After having to withdraw an amicus brief critical of Margaret Singer and favorable to the Moonies due to member protest, the American Psychological Association's board of Social and Ethical Responsibility for Psychology (BSERP) rejected a report presented by the APA taskforce on Deceptive and Indirect Techniques of Persuasion and Control, stating that it lacked the scientific rigor and an evenhanded critical approach for and the imprimatur of the APA, Although Ofshe had nothing to do with the preparation of the report when the American Sociological Association replaced the APA as a supporter of the Moonies Ofshe investigated how this came about and discovered that the ASA's then president authorized the Association's name to be put on an amicus brief without knowledge or approval of the Association's board.  Ofshe then became a subject of criticism and eventually he and Margaret Singer sued the APA and the ASA.  Margaret Singer and Ofshe  sued the APA in 1992 for "defamation, frauds, aiding and abetting and conspiracy". The case was dismissed by the court in 1994 on the basis that the claims of defamation, frauds, aiding and abetting and conspiracy constituted a dispute over the application of the First Amendment to a public debate over  academic and professional matters; that the parties may be described as the opposing camps in a longstanding debate over certain theories in the field of psychology, and that the plaintiffs could not establish deceit with reference to representations made to other parties in the  lawsuit.

In a further ruling,  James R. Lamden ordered Ofshe and Singer to pay $80,000 in attorneys' fees under California's SLAPP suit law, which penalizes those who harass others for exercising their First Amendment rights. At that time, Singer and Ofshe declared their intention to sue Michael Flomenhaft, the lawyer  that represented them in the case, for malpractice. Flomenhaft's insurance company paid the damages bill ordered by the court.

Bibliography

Books
 Utility and Choice in Social Interaction with co-author Lynne Ofshe
 Intepersonal Behavior in Small Groups
 The Light on Synanon – With co-authors David and Kathy Mitchell
 Making Monsters: False Memories, Psychotherapy, And Sexual Hysteria, with co-author Ethan Watters
 Therapy's Delusions: The Myth of the Unconscious and the Exploitation of Today's Walking Worried, with co-author Ethan Watters
 The Sociology of the Possible – served as Editor

Articles
 "The Social Psychology of Police Interrogation: The Theory and Classification of True and False Confessions." Studies in Law, Politics and Society, 16, pp. 189–251. Richard Ofshe and Richard Leo. 1997.
 "The Decision to Confess Falsely: Rational Choice and Irrational Action." Denver University Law Review. "Symposium: An Interdisciplinary Examination of Coercion, Exploitation and the Law. 74, 4, pp. 979–1122. Richard Ofshe and Richard Leo. 1997.
 "Defending the Innocent." The Champion. December. Richard Ofshe. 2007
 "Thought Reform Programs and the Production of Psychiatric Casualties", Psychiatric Annals, 20:4, April 1990, Margaret Thaler Singer, Ph.D., and Richard Ofshe, Ph.D.
 Attacks on Peripheral versus Central Elements of Self and the Impact of Thought Reforming Techniques , The Cultic Studies Journal, Vol 3, N°1, 1986, Richard Ofshe, Ph.D. and Margaret T. Singer, Ph.D.
 "Coercive Persuasion and Attitude Change", Encyclopedia of Sociology Volume 1, Macmillan Publishing Company, New York, By Richard J. Ofshe, Ph.D.
 "The Consequences of False Confessions: Deprivations of Liberty and Miscarriages of Justice in the Age of Psychological Interrogation", Journal article by Richard A. Leo, Richard J. Ofshe; Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, Vol. 88, 1998
 The Process of Status Evolution, M. Hamit Fisek, Richard Ofshe, Sociometry, Vol. 33, No. 3 (Sep., 1970), pp. 327–346
 The Impact of Behavioral Style and Status Characteristics on Social Influence: A Test of Two Competing Theories, Margaret T. Lee, Richard Ofshe, Social Psychology Quarterly, Vol. 44, No. 2 (Jun., 1981), pp. 73–82

References

External links

 , Dr. Ofshe, at Berkeley
 Dr. Richard Ofshe , testimony, "Free the West Memphis Three"
 Forgotten Sins in the Internet Movie Database

1941 births
Living people
Queens College, City University of New York alumni
Stanford University alumni
American social psychologists
University of California, Berkeley College of Letters and Science faculty
Researchers of new religious movements and cults
Place of birth missing (living people)
Satanic ritual abuse hysteria in the United States