[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 82nd Field Artillery Regiment

ment Wide Actions

Transition to Force XXI 
The 1st Cavalry Division transitioned to Force XXI following the redeployment to Fort Hood after OIF II. Each brigade of the division gained many assets that were traditionally reserved at the division or echelon above division / echelon above corps level.

Each field artillery battalion gained greater depth in the staff sections of the headquarters, multiple automated battle command systems (ABCS), greater depth in intelligence sections, and a small gain in medical support. The battalions lost organic Forward Observers and their accompanying Bradley Fighting Vehicles. Largely due to restrictions on female soldiers in front-line combat, a tailored Forward Support Company (Golf) was task organized from the brigade support battalion to support the fires battalions. Women were effectively assigned to the battalions for the first time.

1st Battalion 
In July 2012, 1st Battalion, 82nd Field Artillery Regiment deployed forward to Iraq in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and then to Kuwait in support of Operation Spartan Shield.

OAR 

In 2018, 1st Battalion, 82nd Field Artillery Regiment deployed with the rest of the 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division to Toruń, Poland and Germany in support of Operation Atlantic Resolve under the Command of LTC Matthew Dennis and CSM Jonathon Ballard. The Ironhorse Brigade earned the Army Superior Unit Award for its contributions, to include 1-82. Upon redeployment, the Battalion relinquished their mission to the 1st Battalion, 5th Field Artillery Regiment.

2nd Battalion 
Elements of the 82nd Field Artillery Regiment deployed to Iraq. To support the 2nd Battalion, 5th Cavalry Regiment of the 1st Cavalry Division in the Al Thawra District of Baghdad, Charlie Battery began conducting dismounted foot patrols in an area the soldiers call "Squaretown". From Squaretown, insurgent forces launched mortar attacks and the soldiers were concerned about weapons being transported through the area near the outskirts of Camp War Eagle.

Most of the soldiers of 2-82 Field Artillery are located on Camp Steel Dragon in the Green Zone. Many of the fire supporters are in different camps. The 2-82 Field Artillery fire supporters attached within the Grey Wolf Brigade Combat Team are serving at 3rd Brigade Headquarters, with Task Force 3-8 Cavalry, and with Task Force 1-9 Cavalry. Task Force 2-7 Cavalry and their fire supporters are serving with the 39th Brigade Combat Team at Camp Cooke in Taji. The soldiers of C Battery and the COLT Platoon are attached to Colonel Lanza's 5th BCT and are located on Camp Falcon on the south side of Baghdad. The rest of the 2-82 Field Artillery soldiers, along with nearly 100 soldiers of B Company, 1-160 Infantry, belong to Task Force Steel Dragon.

3rd Battalion

OIF II 

A typical day for 3–82 at Thunder involved anywhere from 1 to 2 daytime patrols and 1 to 2 nighttime patrols in its sector. These patrols can have any number of focuses from checking on projects in sector to searching for new ones to start or gathering intelligence. The main focus in the sector is helping to rebuild the neighborhood and helping the Iraqi Security Forces to take ownership in the areas. They have started two school projects that are approximately $100,000.00 a piece and several others in smaller amounts.

In October 2003, 3rd Battalion, 82nd Field Artillery formed Fox Battery, a hybrid mechanized/motorized battery composed of 2nd Brigade (Black Jack) fire supporters. The first platoon consisted of six M7A2 Bradley Fire Support Vehicles taken from Task Force 1-5 Cavalry and Task Force 2-12 Cavalry. The second platoon's composition was six M707 Striker HMMWVs belonging to the COLT platoon of D/9 Cavalry. The battery's existence proved to be vital during the Mahdi Army's uprisings in April 2004 with the mechanized platoon filling the gaps in Black Jack's armor shortage. The second platoon ran counter Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and main supply route (MSR) security during that time. Fire supporters from F/3-82 Field Artillery were called upon in August 2004 to go with Task Force 1-5 Cavalry (Black Knights) to retake the southern city of Najaf, with the rest of the battery relieving Task Force 1-5 Cavalry in Area of Operations Black Knight. In November 2004, Fox Battery soldiers were sent with Task Force 1-5 Cavalry and Task Force 2-12 Cavalry to provide outer cordon for operations in Fallujah. The battery then accompanied 3-82 Field Artillery to Forward Operating Base Kalsu in December 2004 to run heavy counter-insurgency operations prior to the January 2005 elections. The COLT platoon is credited for smashing an insurgent operation to kill voters on Election Day, without firing a shot. Fox Battery was inactivated in May 2005, with the entire battery receiving the Combat Action Badge for their efforts.