[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 2

ng had already finished around her. Suema saved Asukai and helped reunite Orihata and Taniguchi, who need no longer be separated.

Characters 
 

A cram school teacher, he possesses the ability to see people's hearts in the form of a plant. By altering the plant he can manipulate people's hearts.

 

A mysterious entity, Imaginator possesses humans and uses them to create the world it desires.

 

An ordinary teenage girl, Kinukawa seeks the assistance of Suema Kazuko to help discover what is wrong with her cousin, Asukai.

Anime
Episodes 4 to 9 of Boogiepop and Others adapt the 2 part novel in an abridged form with a present-day setting.

Major themes 
We are all brainwashed in society, even if we do not normally have an individual we can link with this.

Allusions/references to other works 
Kadono regularly references Western music – especially rock – in the Boogiepop series. This is mostly in the chapter titles, but also in the names of characters. The two plots in this title reference Prince: Do U Lie? was from the album Parade, while The Sacrifice of Victor is from Love Symbol. The characters frequently reference Sometimes it Snows in April, also from Parade, while some of the events from the volume occur at Paisley Park --- both a song by Prince and the name of his defunct music label. In the climax, Boogiepop has Wagner's Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg playing across Paisley Park.

When Asukai Jin references The Little Prince, by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.

Literary significance & criticism 
The character stories in Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 2 were well received for drawing in the reader, and for making each character more "distinctive" and "recognizable" than in Boogiepop and Others. The troubled nature of the cast were applauded for creating engaging personalities, while psychological development in the story was praised for realizing the characters "in a manner few works manage", and for making the novel successful more than the supernatural elements. However, other reviewers criticized the character development for only seeming to advance the character of Asukai Jin.

Reviews have noted that since the story is told in a non-linear fashion, the plot won't entirely make sense until the end of the novel, although the narrative style makes the story easier to follow for the reader. Plot development was well received for being more succinct as a result of changing viewpoints between fewer characters than in Boogiepop Returns: VS Imaginator Part 1,

Allusions/references from other works 
The anime series Boogiepop Phantom also makes use of Paisley Park and elaborates upon its back story.

Allusions/references to actual history, geography and current science

Release details
 1998, Japan, MediaWorks (), Pub date 25 August 1998, Paperback
 2006, USA, Seven Seas Entertainment (), Pub date 15 October 2006, Paperback

Sources, references, external links, quotations 
 References

 See also
 Characters of the Boogiepop series

Boogiepop
1998 Japanese novels
Novels by Kouhei Kadono