[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Craig Bryson

draw against Huddersfield Town on 18 April with a thigh injury and missed the final two matches of the season. Having been top of the table in late February, a run of two wins from the last thirteen matches saw Derby finish eighth, a single point off the playoffs, and manager Steve McClaren sacked.

2015–16 season
Bryson's start to the season was hampered by an injury which he picked up in the opening game of the season away to Bolton Wanderers on 8 August. He was taken off in the 21st minute suffering from what was later revealed to be a stretched ligament on the inside of his knee and was ruled out for 2 to 4 weeks. However, he was ruled out for longer than first thought; six weeks later, new Derby manager Paul Clement reported that Bryson was still feeling some discomfort in his knee, which meant he was "finding some things difficult to do relating to shooting and long passing". A week later, on 1 October, Clement revealed that Bryson had had injections in his knee to speed up the healing process and would thus miss training for a fortnight to allow his knee to settle. Clement said that "I think we all underestimated the severity of the injury he picked up on the opening day just because of his character. He wanted to push and push to get back as soon as possible but you have to allow the healing process to take place." Bryson returned to training on 16 October, played 90 minutes in an under-21 match against Newcastle United on 26 October and finally made his return to first team action on 31 October, coming on as a 79th-minute substitute for new signing Jacob Butterfield in a 3–0 win against Rotherham.

On the final day of the summer transfer window of 2017, Bryson joined fellow Championship side Cardiff City on a season-long loan deal. He scored his first goal for the club in a 2–1 win against Sunderland on 23 September 2017.

He was offered a new contract by Derby County at the end of the 2018–19 season, but instead agreed a pre-contract with Aberdeen.

Aberdeen
Bryson's Aberdeen career was hampered by injury, playing only 6 games at the start of the 2019–20 season due to an ankle injury.

In August 2020 he was one of eight Aberdeen players who received a suspended three-match ban from the Scottish FA after they breached coronavirus-related restrictions by visiting a bar earlier in the month. On 9 September 2020, Bryson departed Aberdeen via mutual consent.

St Johnstone
A week after leaving Aberdeen, Bryson signed with St Johnstone on a contract to the end of the 2020–21 season. Bryson would enjoy success with St Johnstone, lifting both the Scottish League Cup and the Scottish Cup in the 2020–21 season. In December 2021 however, Bryson would suffer an ankle injury against Celtic which would require surgery and end his season.

Stenhousemuir 
In June 2022 following the end of his contract with St Johnstone, Bryson decided to go part-time and sign a one-year deal with Scottish League Two side Stenhousemuir. Bryson retired from playing football in September 2022.

International career
Bryson was capped by Scotland at under-19 and under-21 level while with Clyde. He was called up for a Scotland B match in 2009 but was later withdrawn at the request of his club manager Jim Jefferies.

On 16 November 2010, Bryson made his full international debut as a second-half substitute against the Faroe Islands at Pittodrie. Bryson's form for Derby saw him recalled to the squad for a friendly against the United States in May 2012, but he did not play. In 2013, Bryson was recalled to the senior squad for World Cup qualifiers against Belgium and  Macedonia in September and Croatia in October, but did not get any match time.

He started a friendly against Norway in Molde on 20 November to gain his second cap for his country. He was also called up for a post-season friendly against Nigeria, but while Derby teammates Chris Martin and Craig Forsyth made their debuts, Bryson did not come off the substitutes bench.

Style of play
Bryson plays in central midfield and describes himself as a "box-to-box central midfielder, who will always give 100% for the team."

Bryson scored 16 league goals for Derby in the 2013–14 season, which was more than he had scored in any of his previous three seasons combined. He put this improvement down to manager Steve McClaren: "he's changed the formation slightly and I have more freedom to get in the box and support Chris [Martin]. We are a good partnership." Scotland manager Gordon Strachan hailed the understanding between the two when he called them up for a friendly with Nigeria in May 2014: "When you look at the link-up between [Martin] and Bryson, I think it's 40-odd goals they've scored between them. It's a smashing partnership."