[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Come and See

ssibly not by Great Escape fans." Tim Lott wrote in 2009 that the film "makes Apocalypse Now look lightweight".

In 2006, Geoffrey Macnab of Sight & Sound wrote: "Klimov's astonishing war movie combines intense lyricism with the kind of violent bloodletting that would make even Sam Peckinpah pause".

On 16 June 2010, Roger Ebert posted a review of Come and See as part of his "Great Movies" series, describing it as "one of the most devastating films ever about anything, and in it, the survivors must envy the dead ... The film depicts brutality and is occasionally very realistic, but there's an overlay of muted nightmarish exaggeration ... I must not describe the famous sequence at the end. It must unfold as a surprise for you. It pretends to roll back history. You will see how. It is unutterably depressing, because history can never undo itself, and is with us forever."

Legacy
Come and See appears on many lists of films considered the best. In 2008, Come and See was placed at number 60 on Empire magazine's "The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time" in 2008. It also made Channel 4's list of 50 Films to See Before You Die and was ranked number 24 in Empire magazine's "The 100 Best Films Of World Cinema" in 2010. Phil de Semlyen of Empire has described the work as "Elim  Klimov’s seriously influential, deeply unsettling Belarusian opus. No film – not Apocalypse Now, not Full Metal Jacket – spells out the dehumanizing impact of conflict more vividly, or ferociously ... An impressionist masterpiece and possibly the worst date movie ever." It ranked 154 among critics, and 30 among directors, in the 2012 Sight & Sound polls of the greatest films ever made, while it ranked 104 among critics, and 41 among directors, in the 2022 Sight & Sound polls. The film is generally considered one of the greatest anti-war movies ever made, and one with the most historically accurate depictions of the crimes on the Eastern Front.

Klimov did not make any more films after Come and See, leading some critics to speculate as to why. In 2001, Klimov said, "I lost interest in making films ... Everything that was possible I felt I had already done."

Accolades
Come and See was selected as the Soviet entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 58th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.

See also
 List of Soviet submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film

References

Further reading

External links
 
 
 
 Come and See on Russian Film Hub
 Full film on YouTube on Mosfilm's and Belarusfilm's pages

1985 drama films
1985 films
1985 in the Soviet Union
1980s German-language films
1980s Russian-language films
1980s war drama films
Animal cruelty incidents in film
Anti-war films about World War II
Apocalyptic films
Belarusian drama films
Belarusian-language films
Belarusian World War II films
Eastern Front of World War II films
Existentialist films
World War II films based on actual events
Films about anti-fascism
Films about fascists
Films about Nazism
Films about orphans
Films directed by Elem Klimov
Films set in 1943
Films set in Belarus
Films set in the Soviet Union
Gang rape in films
Metaphysical fiction films
Mosfilm films
Partisan films
Russian war drama films
Russian World War II films
Soviet-era Belarusian films
Soviet war drama films
Soviet World War II films
Works about children in war
Films shot in chronological order