[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 26]
# Constructive set theory

ith respect to the given set underlying the algebraic structure. A standard example of a cut, the first component indeed exhibiting these properties, is the representation of  given by

(Depending on the convention for cuts, either of the two parts or neither, like here, may makes use of the sign .)

The theory given by the axioms so far validates that a Pseudo-order|pseudo-ordered field that is also Archimedean and Dedekind complete, if it exists at all, is in this way characterized uniquely, up to isomorphism.
However, the existence of just function spaces such as  does not grant  to be a set, and so neither is the class of all subsets of  that do fulfill the named properties.
What is required for the class of Dedekind reals to be a set is an axiom regarding existence of a set of subsets and this is discussed further below in the section on Binary refinement.
In a context without  or Powerset, countable choice into finite sets is assumed to prove the uncountability of the set of all Dedekind reals.

Whether Cauchy or Dedekind reals, fewer statements about the arithmetic of the reals are decidable, compared to the classical theory.

Constructive schools 
Most schools for constructive analysis validate some choice and also -, as defined in the second section on number bounds. Here are some other propositions employed in theories of constructive analysis that are not provable using just base intuitionistic logic:
 On the recursive mathematics side (the "Russian" or "Markovian" constructive framework with many abbreviations, e.g. ), first one has Markov's principle , which is a form of proof by contradiction motivated by (unbound memory capacity) computable search. This has notable impact on statements about real numbers, as touched upon below. In this school one further even has the anti-classical constructive Church's thesis principle , generally adopted for number-theoretic functions. Church's thesis principle expressed in the language of set theory and formulated for set functions postulates that these all correspond to computable programs that eventually halt on any argument. In computability theory, the natural numbers corresponding to indices of codes of the computable functions which are total are  in the arithmetical hierarchy, meaning membership of any index is affirmed by validating a  proposition. This is to say that such a collection of functions is still a mere subclass of the naturals and so is, when put in relation to some classical function spaces, conceptually small. In this sense, adopting  postulate makes  into a "sparse" set, as viewed from classical set theory. Subcountability of sets can also be postulated independently. 
 So on another end, on the Brouwerian intuitionist side (), there are bar induction, the decidable fan theorem  saying decidable bars are uniform, which are amongst the weakest often discussed principles, Kripke's schema (with countable choice turning all subclasses of  countable), or even Brouwer's anti-classical continuity principle, determining return values of what is established a function on unending sequences already through just finite initial segments. 

Certain laws in both of those schools contradict , so that choosing to adopt all principles from either school disproves theorems from classical analysis.  is still consistent with some choice, but contradicts the classical  and , explained next. The independence of premise rule with set existence premises is not fully understood, but as a number theoretic principle it is in conflict with the Russian school axioms in some frameworks. Notably,  also contradicts , meaning the constructive schools also cannot be combined in full. Indeed, some of the principles cannot be combined constructively simply because they together imply forms of , for example  plus the countability of all subsets of the naturals. These combinations are then naturally also not consistent with further anti-classical principles.

Indecomposability
Denote the class of all sets by . Decidability of membership in a class  can be expressed as membership in . 
We also note that, by definition, the two extremal classes  and  are trivially decidable. Membership in those two is equivalent to the trivial propositions  resp. .

Call a class  indecomposable or cohesive if, for any predicate ,

This expresses that the only properties that are decidable on  are the trivial properties. It is well studied in intuitionistic analysis.