[Source: PubMed]

2. Mil Med. 2023 Aug 29;188(9-10):2924-2931. doi: 10.1093/milmed/usac219.

A Quantitative and Qualitative Literature Analysis of the Orthopedic Surgeons' 
Experience: Reflecting on 20 Years in the Global War on Terror.

Holm E(1), Cook J(1), Porter K(1), Nelson A(1), Weishar R(1), Mallory T(1), 
Cantor A(1), Croft C(1), Liwag J(1), Harrington CJ(2), DesRosiers TT(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD 20814, 
USA.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, 
Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.
(3)Combat Trauma Research Group U.S. Navy, USA.

INTRODUCTION: After over 20 years of war in the Middle East, orthopedic injuries 
have been among the most prevalent combat-related injuries, accounting for 14% 
of all surgical procedures at Role 2/3 (R2/R3) facilities according to the DoD 
Trauma Registry. To further delineate the role of the deployed orthopedic 
surgeon on the modern battlefield, a retrospective review was performed 
highlighting both quantitative and qualitative analysis factors associated with 
orthopedic surgical care during the war in the Middle East.
METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of orthopedic surgeons in the 
Middle East from 2001 to 2021. A comprehensive literature search was conducted 
using the PubMed and Embase databases using a two-reviewer strategy. Articles 
were compiled and reviewed using Covidence. Inclusion criteria included journal 
articles focusing on orthopedic injuries sustained during the Global War on 
Terror (GWoT) in an adult U.S. Military population. In the event of a conflict, 
a third author would determine the relevance of the article. For the remaining 
articles, a full-text review was conducted to extract relevant predetermined 
quantitative data, and the Delphi consensus method was then utilized to 
highlight relevant qualitative themes.
RESULTS: The initial search yielded 1,226 potentially relevant articles. In all, 
40 studies ultimately met the eligibility criteria. With the consultation of 
previously deployed orthopedic surgeons at the Walter Reed National Military 
Medical Center, a retrospective thematic analysis of the 40 studies revealed 
five themes encompassing the orthopedic surgeons experience throughout GWoT. 
These themes include unique mechanisms of orthopedic injury compared to previous 
war injuries due to novel weaponry, differences in interventions depending on R2 
versus R3 locations, differences in injuries from those seen in civilian 
settings, the maintained emphasis on humanitarian aspect of an orthopedic 
surgeon's mission, and lastly relation of pre-deployment training to perceived 
deployed success of the orthopedic surgeons. From this extensive review, we 
found that explosive mechanisms of injury were greatly increased when compared 
to previous conflicts and were the etiology for the majority of orthopedic 
injuries sustained. With the increase of complex explosive injuries in the 
setting of improved body armor and overall survival, R2/3 facilities showed an 
increased demand for orthopedic intervention including debridement, amputations, 
and external fixation. Combat injuries sustained during the GWoT differ in the 
complications, management, and complexity when compared to civilian trauma. 
"Humanitarian" cases made up a significant number of operative cases for the 
deployed orthopedic surgeon. Lastly, heterogeneous training opportunities were 
available prior to deployment (fellowship, combat extremity surgical courses, 
and dedicated pre-deployment training), and the most commonly identified useful 
training was learning additional soft-tissue coverage techniques.
CONCLUSION: These major themes indicate an emphasis on pre-deployment training 
and the strategic positioning of orthopedic surgeons to reflect the changing 
landscape of musculoskeletal trauma care. Moving forward, these authors 
recommend analyzing the comfort and perceived capability of orthopedic surgeons 
in these unique military environments to best prepare for a changing operational 
format and the possibility of future peer-peer conflicts that will likely lead 
to a lack of medical evacuation and prolonged field care.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Association of Military 
Surgeons of the United States 2022. This work is written by (a) US Government 
employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/milmed/usac219
PMID: 35862000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]