[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kaye Academic College of Education

Kaye Academic College of Education (), a teacher training college located in Beersheba, Israel. The college was named for Geoffrey Kaye, its chief sponsor.  In addition to improving the status of teachers in Israel, the college contributes to educational activities in the Southern region and conducts many projects in the Jewish and Bedouin sectors in conjunction with the Ministry of Education, Beersheva municipality, Ben-Gurion University, regional councils, JOINT and the "SAKTA-RASHI" Foundation.

History 
Kaye Academic College of Education started off as a college for new immigrant teachers in two sheds in a neighborhood known as "Meshek Ezer" in Beersheva. It was founded in 1954 by  Arie Simon, who was the school inspector for the Southern Region at the time. The aim was to provide a solution to the outrageous lack of teachers in the various types of settlements for new immigrants. The establishment of the college, in fact, laid the foundations of the education system in the Negev. In 1960, after moving from one temporary building to another, the first institute of education was permanently housed in the "Gimmel" neighborhood in Beer Sheva, and was named "the National College for Teachers and Kindergarten Teachers". The college expanded and developed rapidly, and from the beginning of the 70s, it began to train teachers – including new immigrant teachers and teachers in the Bedouin sector – for most teaching tracks.  In 1982, the college moved to its present location, and its name was changed to Kaye Academic College of Education. At the same time, the National College for Sports Education, which had been founded in 1964 by the late Dr. Eli Freedman, was incorporated into Kaye College. In 1994, Kaye College was granted academic status, and was thereby entitled to confer a B.Ed. degree. In 2003, the Academic Council of the college, which had been approved by the Council for Higher Education, began to conduct its various activities. The Academic Council is currently preparing to offer M.Ed. training programs.

Academic tracks  

At present, there are more than 2,000 Jewish and Bedouin students studying in various tracks: 
 Kindergarten teachers (for children ages 0–6) 
 Teaching of the first grades (kindergarten and the first and second grades) 
 Primary school (first to sixth grades) 
 The track for middle school teachers, which offers specializations in Bible, Hebrew grammar and literature, Arabic, English, Mathematics, Computers, Natural Sciences and Informal Education. 
 Special Education (for pupils ages 6–20) 
 Physical Education (first to twelfth grades) 
 Art (first to twelfth grades).