[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wilfried Strik-Strikfeldt

Wilfried Karl Strik-Strikfeldt (; 23 July 1896 – 7 September 1977) was a Baltic German officer in the Wehrmacht during World War II, known for his involvement with General Andrey Vlasov and the German-sponsored Russian Liberation Army.

Early years

Strik-Strikfeldt was born in Riga, Latvia (then part of the Russian Empire), and attended the   in St. Petersburg. He attended the centenary celebrations of the Battle of Borodino in 1912, and during World War I volunteered to fight as an officer in the Imperial Russian Army against Germany. During the Russian Civil War he fought against the Bolsheviks in Latvia and Ingria, as a supporter of the White movement.

In 1920 he met Gustav Hilger (later a counsellor to the Nazi German embassy in Moscow in 1939–41) in his capacity as an official co-ordinating efforts to repatriate Austrian and German military prisoners after the war. That same year Strik-Strikfeldt settled back in Riga, in the newly independent Latvia. In the early 1920s Strik-Strikfeldt was involved in Fridtjof Nansen's activities to alleviate the Great Famine in Russia. Between 1924 and 1939 he represented the interests of British and German heavy engineering companies in Latvia. His work was also part of the literature event in the art competition at the 1936 Summer Olympics.

Germany

In late 1939 Strik-Strikfeldt, along with the majority of Latvia's ethnic Germans (Volksdeutsche), was "repatriated" to Nazi Germany following the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. His family was settled in Posen (now Poznań), the administrative capital of the Warthegau (today, the Kraj Warty, Poland).

In early 1941 Strik-Strikfeldt was interviewed by a German army staff officer in Posen and asked to undertake an interpreter's examination in Berlin, where he was awarded a certificate as "Interpreter Class A". Due to his service in the former Russian Imperial Army he was only inducted into the Army as a captain. He was initially attached to Field-Marshal Fedor von Bock's HQ in the Warthegau, where he met and worked with Generalmajor (Major-General) Reinhard Gehlen and Generalmajor Henning von Tresckow. Gehlen encouraged him to lecture to other officers during the war on Der Russische Mensch ("The Russian Man") and even helped distribute Strik-Strikfeldt's lecture as an official OKW Propaganda Department paper to intelligence officers along the front line.

Early in 1942 Strik-Strikfeldt was transferred to the Oberkommando des Heeres (OKH) "War Booty Collection Centre" office in Angerburg, East Prussia, to sort through captured Russian military papers and documents for the Fremde Heere Ost ("Foreign Armies East") of the Army General Staff. In the spring and summer he worked briefly with Gehlen and Claus von Stauffenberg.

Over July and August 1942 Strik-Strikfeldt met and interviewed ex-Communist and former Soviet Army General Andrey Vlasov in a German PoW camp in Vinnitsa. The two developed a close rapport, with Vlasov addressing Strik-Strikfeldt privately by the Russian-style patronymic "Wilfried Karlovich". In September 1942 Strik-Strikfeldt was formally seconded to the OKW Propaganda Department office in Berlin as a Betreuer ("Confidante") responsible for Vlasov.

 "In August 1942 I arrived in Berlin. The so-called Russian Collaboration Staff of the OKW/Pr was located in the Viktoriastrasse under lock and key. Barred windows, wooden bunks. Straw mattresses. No permission to leave the building. All doors were locked at night. I was shocked."

Dabendorf

Early in November 1942 Gehlen and von Stauffenberg were able to authorize the establishment of a "training camp for Russian volunteers, to be known as Ost-propagandaabteilung ZbV (Eastern Propaganda Department ZbV)…. The proposed camp, with huts, at Dabendorf, was not far from Berlin. In due course the Ostpropagandaabteilung was known simply as Dabendorf."

Propagandaabteilung Dabendorf was granted the status of an independent battalion commanded by Captain Strik-Strikfeldt and although initially conceived as a 50-strong unit, was immediately increased in size to 1,200 on the urging of Strik-Strikfeldt.

"My official task, with that of my German and Russian staff, was to recruit and train 'propagandists', i.e. Betreuer, for the Russian Volunteers and Auxiliaries and the same for all permanent and transit prison camps throughout the whole of German-dominated Europe."

At Dabendorf Strik-Strikfeldt and his staff initiated two Russian language newspapers : Dobrovolets ("Volunteers") for ordinary Russian volunteers and auxiliaries serving in the Army and Zarya ("Dawn") for PoWs. Strik-Strikfeldt also persuaded Vlasov to publish, in March 1943, his article "Why I took up the struggle against Bolshevism" (a bitter attack on the Soviet system) and in April 1943, his pamphlet on the nationalities/minorities issue within Russia and Europe.