[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Dean Heller

tates. Heller said "I think there is a difference between North and South, East and West on what those minimum wages ought to be."

Unemployment insurance
In April 2014, Heller led a successful effort to pass legislation in the Senate extending emergency unemployment benefits to 2 million Americans.

Violence Against Women Act
Heller voted for reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act in 2012.

School safety
In March 2018, Heller and 20 other senators introduced the Students, Teachers, and Officers Preventing (STOP) School Violence Act of 2018, which would allocate funding with the goal of improving school security.

Supreme Court

After the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, Heller was the first Republican senator to break with party leader Mitch McConnell and say that President Barack Obama should nominate a replacement. He said Nevadans “should have a voice” in replacing Scalia.

In April 2017, he voted to invoke cloture (end debate) on the nomination of Supreme Court nominee Neil Gorsuch, putting an end to the Democratic filibuster. Heller also voted for the "nuclear option", ending the three-fifths (60-vote threshold) for Supreme Court nominees.

In October 2018, Heller voted in favor of Brett Kavanaugh's successful nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. Kavanaugh had been accused by several women of sexual assault; Heller referred to these allegations as a "hiccup", and later clarified that sexual assault allegations should not be considered to be a hiccup.

2022 gubernatorial campaign
Speculation on a potential Heller bid for Governor of Nevada started circulating around mid-2021. They were confirmed on September 22, 2021, when Heller announced his candidacy for governor on the Republican ticket in the 2022 primary race, hoping to challenge and defeat incumbent Democratic governor Steve Sisolak. He was initially considered the favorite for the nomination. However, his refusal to acknowledge Joe Biden as the winner in the 2020 United States presidential election, citing him as an "illegitimate president", damaged his popularity, and the Sheriff of Clark County, Joe Lombardo, surged in the polls. Amid his failing campaign, Heller made various attacks on Lombardo, including attacking Lombardo's decision to endorse Sisolak in the 2018 election instead of the Republican nominee Adam Laxalt, but Lombardo had a major fundraising advantage over Heller. In June, Lombardo won the nomination, defeating Heller and 10 other candidates. Afterwards, Heller reversed his previous comments and endorsed Lombardo for governor. In the general election on November 8, Lombardo defeated Steve Sisolak for a narrow victory.

Personal life
A member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he and his wife Lynne have four children and two grandchildren. His son-in-law, Ed Ableser, served for nearly ten years as a Democratic member of the Arizona Legislature.

Heller was a founding board member of the Boys and Girls Club of Western Nevada and the Western Nevada Community College Foundation. He is an advisory board member for Nevada's Foster Grandparent program.

Heller's wife Lynne competed on the original Family Feud game show in 1985 under the Brombach family name along with her father, sister and two other relatives. They had a winning streak that lasted through several episodes before losing to the Peterson family. The Brombachs finished with cash winnings totaling $18,344.

Electoral history

References

External links
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

1960 births
Living people
21st-century American politicians
American stockbrokers
Latter Day Saints from Nevada
Marshall School of Business alumni
Republican Party members of the Nevada Assembly
People from Castro Valley, California
People from Lyon County, Nevada
Politicians from Carson City, Nevada
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Nevada
Republican Party United States senators from Nevada
Secretaries of State of Nevada