[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas S. Bocock

T. Wootton and Independent Thomas H. Averett
1855; Bocock was re-elected with 57.25% of the vote, defeating American Nathaniel C. Claiborne .
1857; Bocock was re-elected unopposed.
1859; Bocock was re-elected with 88.78% of the vote, defeating two Independents identified only as Speed and Boisseau.

Civil War
Following the start of the Civil War and Virginia's secession, Bocock was elected as a Democrat to the Confederate States House of Representatives in 1861, serving until the end of the war in 1865. He was a member of the unicameral Provisional Confederate Congress, as well as the succeeding First and Second Confederate Congresses. Bocock was unanimously elected speaker of the Confederate States House of Representatives, and served from 1862 to 1865. However, in the final year, he broke with President Jefferson Davis and his personal friend and political ally Secretary of War James A. Seddon over the issue of arming slaves, arguing that such would be tantamount to abolishing slavery, as did his ally Robert M. T. Hunter. He left Richmond during the April 1865 evacuation, and later fled his home, the Wildway plantation.

Postwar career
As the war ended at nearby Appomattox Court House, Bocock owned more than twenty slaves. He did not want to pay his former slaves as workers, instead of telling them he would provide food and shelter, as he had under slavery. Bocock even tried to purchase several formerly enslaved people from neighbors. The African Americans appealed to the provost marshal, who said they deserved "liberal compensation."

Bocock moved to Lynchburg while maintaining Wildway as his summer home, where he practiced law and helped form the Virginia Conservative Party. He supported President Andrew Johnson for election in 1868, and later unsuccessful Democratic Presidential candidates Horace Greeley in 1872 and Samuel Tilden in 1876.

One of the architects of Jim Crow Laws, Bocock served in Virginia's House of Delegates again from 1877 to 1879. He was a delegate to the Democratic National Conventions in 1868, 1876 and 1880. Bocock opposed the Virginia Readjuster Party and ultimately handed over the political reins to a younger generation, including Alexander H. H. Stuart, and concentrated on his legal practice and family.

Death and legacy
He died in Appomattox County, Virginia, on August 5, 1891, and was interred at Old Bocock Cemetery near his plantation, Wildway.

Notes

References
 Retrieved on 2009-04-29

|-

|-

|-

1815 births
1891 deaths
Burials in Virginia
Deputies and delegates to the Provisional Congress of the Confederate States
Hampden–Sydney College alumni
Members of the Confederate House of Representatives from Virginia
Democratic Party members of the Virginia House of Delegates
People from Appomattox County, Virginia
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Virginia
People from Buckingham, Virginia
Virginia lawyers
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers