[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mohammed el Gharani

deprivation;
having a cigarette extinguished on his body;
having freezing cold water thrown on him;
being suspended by his arms, with his feet hanging free from the floor, for extended periods of time;
having a soldier hold his penis in his hand, hold a pair of scissors, and threaten to cut it off.

Writ of habeas corpus
On January 14, 2009, US District Court Judge Richard Leon ordered Al Qarani's released. Leon dismissed all the US allegations that Al Garani had been observed in Afghanistan, because there was no evidence to support them—other than denunciations from two other captives—captives whose credibility he questioned.

First phone call home
Muhammad Al Qarani was allowed his first phone call home on April 16, 2009. However, instead, he phoned former captive, recently released Al Jazeera journalist Sami Al Hajj. He told Al Hajj that conditions had worsened after the election of United States President Barack Obama. Al Qarani was repatriated less than two months after the call, on June 13, 2009.

Repatriation
On June 11, 2009, the Department of Justice reported that they had repatriated an Iraqi captive and a Chadian captive from Guantanamo to their home countries.

Andy Worthington, the author of The Guantanamo Files, reported that he was still not free after his repatriation, that he being held by Chadian security forces, who described his Chadian detention as a formality.

Reuters reports that Commander Jeffrey Gordon continued to insist that Al Garani was older than he claimed.

The BBC reports that after his repatriation Al Garani has not been able to receive any official identity documents, because Chad officials are not sure he is actually a citizen.  They report that since Al Garani grew up in Saudi Arabia he is unable to speak to any other Chadians in their local language. Saudi Arabia had, as of 2009, refused to allow Al Qarani to return and be united with his parents.

Performance with Laurie Anderson

Avant Garde musician Laurie Anderson collaborated with al Garani in a work entitled Habeas Corpus, based on his life.
Al Garani can't travel to the United States, so his participation will be via telepresence.  Anderson called al Garani very articulate.

Literature and Comic Book
Jérôme Tubiana published the story from El-Gharani's point of view. This was adapted to a graphic novel drawn by  under the title . The comic is released in English, French and German (Dargaud) translation and endorsed by Amnesty International.

 Guantánamo Kid, the true story of Mohammed El-Gharani - Jérôme Tubiana & Alexandre Franc, SelfMadeHero 2019,

References

External links
Mohammed el Gharani's Guantanamo detainee assessment via Wikileaks
Memoir of a child kidnapped to Guantanamo Bay, tortured for six years, and released
Ex-Gitmo detainee struggles to build life in Chad
Mohammed El-Gharani, Guantánamo’s youngest prisoner, speaks to al-Jazeera - video
 
Guantanamo conditions 'deteriorate' - english.aljazeera.net
Guantánamo’s Youngest Prisoner Released To Chad Andy Worthington June 11, 2009
Judge Orders Release of Guantánamo’s Forgotten Child Andy Worthington January 15, 2009
Judge Richard Leon’s unclassified opinion
Human Rights First; Habeas Works: Federal Courts’ Proven Capacity to Handle Guantánamo Cases (2010)

1986 births
Living people
Chadian extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Guantanamo detainees known to have been released
Juveniles held at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp
People from Medina