[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Technetium-99m

etter production yields. A particular problem associated with the continued reuse of recycled, enriched 100Mo targets is unavoidable transmutation of the target as other Mo isotopes are generated during irradiation and cannot be easily removed post-processing.

Indirect routes of production of 99Mo 

Other particle accelerator-based isotope production techniques have been investigated. The supply disruptions of 99Mo in the late 2000s and the ageing of the producing nuclear reactors forced the industry to look into alternative methods of production. The use of cyclotrons or electron accelerators to produce 99Mo from 100Mo via (p,pn) or (γ,n) reactions, respectively, has been further investigated. The (n,2n) reaction on 100Mo yields a higher reaction cross-section for high energy neutrons than of (n,γ) on 98Mo with thermal neutrons.  In particular, this method requires accelerators that generate fast neutron spectrums, such as ones using D-T or other fusion-based reactions, or high energy spallation or knock out reactions. A disadvantage of these techniques is the necessity for enriched 100Mo targets, which are significantly more expensive than natural isotopic targets and typically require recycling of the material, which can be costly, time-consuming, and arduous.

Technetium-99m generators

Technetium-99m's short half-life of 6 hours makes storage impossible and would make transport very expensive. Instead, its parent nuclide 99Mo is supplied to hospitals after its extraction from the neutron-irradiated uranium targets and its purification in dedicated processing facilities. It is shipped by specialised radiopharmaceutical companies in the form of technetium-99m generators worldwide or directly distributed to the local market. The generators, colloquially known as moly cows, are devices designed to provide radiation shielding for transport and to minimize the extraction work done at the medical facility. A typical dose rate at 1 metre from the 99mTc generator is 20-50 μSv/h during transport. These generators' output declines with time and must be replaced weekly, since the half-life of 99Mo is still only 66 hours.

Molybdenum-99 spontaneously decays to excited states of 99Tc through beta decay. Over 87% of the decays lead to the  excited state of 99mTc. A  electron and a  electron antineutrino are emitted in the process (99Mo → 99mTc +  + ). The  electrons are easily shielded for transport, and 99mTc generators are only minor radiation hazards, mostly due to secondary X-rays produced by the electrons (also known as Bremsstrahlung).

At the hospital, the 99mTc that forms through 99Mo decay is chemically extracted from the technetium-99m generator. Most commercial 99Mo/99mTc generators use column chromatography, in which 99Mo in the form of water-soluble molybdate, MoO42− is adsorbed onto acid alumina (Al2O3). When the 99Mo decays, it forms pertechnetate TcO4−, which, because of its single charge, is less tightly bound to the alumina. Pulling normal saline solution through the column of immobilized 99MoO42− elutes the soluble 99mTcO4−, resulting in a saline solution containing the 99mTc as the dissolved sodium salt of the pertechnetate. One technetium-99m generator, holding only a few micrograms of 99Mo, can potentially diagnose 10,000 patients because it will be producing 99mTc strongly for over a week.

Preparation

Technetium exits the generator in the form of the pertechnetate ion, TcO4−. The oxidation state of Tc in this compound is +7. This is directly suitable for medical applications only in bone scans (it is taken up by osteoblasts) and some thyroid scans (it is taken up in place of iodine by normal thyroid tissues). In other types of scans relying on 99mTc, a reducing agent is added to the pertechnetate solution to bring the oxidation state of the technecium down to +3 or +4. Secondly, a ligand is added to form a coordination complex. The ligand is chosen to have an affinity for the specific organ to be targeted. For example, the exametazime complex of Tc in oxidation state +3 is able to cross the blood–brain barrier and flow through the vessels in the brain for cerebral blood flow imaging. Other ligands include sestamibi for myocardial perfusion imaging and mercapto acetyl triglycine for MAG3 scan to measure renal function.

Medical uses
In 1970, Eckelman and Richards presented the first "kit" containing all the ingredients required to release the 99mTc, "milked" from the generator, in the chemical form to be administered to the patient.

Technetium-99m is used in 20 million diagnostic nuclear medical procedures every year. Approximately 85% of diagnostic imaging procedures in nuclear medicine use this isotope as radioactive tracer. Klaus Schwochau's book Technetium lists 31 radiopharmaceuticals based on 99mTc for imaging and functional studies of the brain, myocardium, thyroid, lungs, liver, gallbladder, kidneys, skeleton, blood, and tumors. A more recent review is also available.