[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cultural references to absinthe

it arrived, he added sugar and water and slowly drank the opal fluid. It had no more perceptible kick in it than lime juice, or a diluted paregoric cough mixture which it resembled in flavour, but he knew it had hidden properties which would act like a drug in clearing and accelerating his brain.  

Absinthe figures heavily into the plot of the novel The Basic Eight (1999), by Daniel Handler, which features Bohemian characters who are drawn to absinthe by its dangerous history.
An absinthe hallucination may or may not have inspired a murder in The Second Glass of Absinthe (2003), a mystery novel by Michelle Black, set in 1880 Leadville, Colorado.
Asinthe lends the name to Kyell Gold's novel Green Fairy. The substance is the driving force in Dangerous Spirits, in which multiple protagonists make use of it to commune with spirits.
Gemma Doyle, the main character of Libba Bray's 2007 sequel Rebel Angels (set in 1895), drinks absinthe with her friends at a Christmas ball and experiences hallucinatory effects.
I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell (2006) contains a story in which the author, Tucker Max, experiences absinthe for the first time.
The Absinthe Cloud (LePage/Dupuy #1, 2012) is a spy thriller by Timothy Everhart.
The characters in Poppy Z. Brite's short story, "His Mouth Will Taste of Wormwood", discover a crate of absinthe, the consumption of which forms the backdrop against which their transgressive antics occur.  The short story can be found in Swamp Foetus. Characters in her book Lost Souls also drink absinthe.
The Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child character Aloysius Pendergast displays an affinity for absinthe in multiple novels.
Absinthe is repeatedly mentioned in Andrei Gusev's story The Writer’s Wife Likes BDSM (2016).

Music
 Absynthe Minded is a Belgian rock band.
 Barbara (1930-1997) the popular French female singer wrote and composed, with Frédéric Botton, and sang "l Absinthe", a song published in her 12th album  (1972). This song is a love song, a bit sad and nostalgic -sadness is Barbara's trademark-, where the singer explains to a lover that drinking absinthe helps, at last to feel in love, to render love joyful, just like it helped Rimbaud and Verlaine to write their poetry (a recurrent comparison, all along the song).
Blood Axis and Les Joyaux De La Princesse released a concept album called Absinthe: La Folie Verte.
 Dominic Miller has an album called "Absinthe" as an homage to French Impressionists.
 Kasabian recorded a song referred to and titled "La Fee Verte" on their fourth studio album Velociraptor!.
Marilyn Manson has been an avid fan of absinthe since the recording of the Holy Wood (In the Shadow of the Valley of Death) album. He has also developed his own brand of the drink, entitled Mansinthe.
 Mayer Hawthorne has a song entitled "Green Eyed Love" on his first album A Strange Arrangement. Although the lyrics of the song seem to reflect on his relationship with a green-eyed girl, the music video puts the lyrics in a different light, where we can see Mayer Hawthorne unconventionally preparing a glass of absinthe and suffering from hallucinations afterwards.
 Music video for Frank Ocean's song "Pyramids" opens with a sequence of four shots of absinthe consumed by Frank Ocean.
On Minus The Bear's 2002 debut album, Highly Refined Pirates, there is a track entitled "Absinthe Party At The Fly Honey Warehouse". It is one of their most popular tracks among fans.
 Patton Oswalt references absinthe on his comedy album Werewolves and Lollipops.
 Symphony X recorded a song called "Absinthe and Rue" on their first album, Symphony X.
 The band I Don't Know How But They Found Me has a song called "Absinthe", which includes the lyric "absinthe makes the heart grow fonder", a pun on the proverb "absence makes the heart grow fonder".
The band Naked City has an album named "Absinthe".
The British Extreme Metal band Cradle of Filth has a song entitled "Absinthe With Faust" on their album Nymphetamine.
 The Damned recorded a song titled "Absinthe" on their album Grave Disorder which was released in 2001. It sampled the line Gary Oldman spoke in the film Dracula referring to the green fairy.
 The Ghost song "Spirit" from the album Meliora directly references absinthe. Lyrics include "your green muse".
The Nine Inch Nails video for "The Perfect Drug" casts Trent Reznor as a grieving father who drinks absinthe as an escape.
 Mezzo-soprano and absinthe content creator Adrienne LaVey released her debut single about absinthe in 2023, “Goddess in a Glass” with a remix by the darkwave band Male Tears.
 The Blue Stars Drum and Bugle Corps 2023 production, "In Absintheia," depicts the transformative effects of absinthe as a source of inspiration and clarity. The show's props also depict the traditional method of preparing the drink, including multiple massive sugar cubes, spoons, and straws.