[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 32]
# The Republic — Plato

from Cicero’s “De Officiis”:
 “Nam cum sint duo genera decertandi, unum per disceptationem, alterum
 per vim; cumque illud proprium sit hominis, hoc beluarum; confugiendum
 est ad posterius, si uti non licet superiore.”

But it is necessary to know well how to disguise this characteristic,
and to be a great pretender and dissembler; and men are so simple, and
so subject to present necessities, that he who seeks to deceive will
always find someone who will allow himself to be deceived. One recent
example I cannot pass over in silence. Alexander the Sixth did nothing
else but deceive men, nor ever thought of doing otherwise, and he
always found victims; for there never was a man who had greater power
in asserting, or who with greater oaths would affirm a thing, yet would
observe it less; nevertheless his deceits always succeeded according to
his wishes,[3] because he well understood this side of mankind.

 [3] “Nondimanco sempre gli succederono gli inganni (ad votum).” The
 words “ad votum” are omitted in the Testina addition, 1550.

Alexander never did what he said,
Cesare never said what he did.

Italian Proverb.

Therefore it is unnecessary for a prince to have all the good qualities
I have enumerated, but it is very necessary to appear to have them. And
I shall dare to say this also, that to have them and always to observe
them is injurious, and that to appear to have them is useful; to appear
merciful, faithful, humane, religious, upright, and to be so, but with
a mind so framed that should you require not to be so, you may be able
and know how to change to the opposite.

And you have to understand this, that a prince, especially a new one,
cannot observe all those things for which men are esteemed, being often
forced, in order to maintain the state, to act contrary to fidelity,[4]
friendship, humanity, and religion. Therefore it is necessary for him
to have a mind ready to turn itself accordingly as the winds and
variations of fortune force it, yet, as I have said above, not to
diverge from the good if he can avoid doing so, but, if compelled, then
to know how to set about it.

 [4] “Contrary to fidelity” or “faith,” “contro alla fede,” and “tutto
 fede,” “altogether faithful,” in the next paragraph. It is noteworthy
 that these two phrases, “contro alla fede” and “tutto fede,” were
 omitted in the Testina edition, which was published with the sanction
 of the papal authorities. It may be that the meaning attached to the
 word “fede” was “the faith,” _i.e_. the Catholic creed, and not as
 rendered here “fidelity” and “faithful.” Observe that the word
 “religione” was suffered to stand in the text of the Testina, being
 used to signify indifferently every shade of belief, as witness “the
 religion,” a phrase inevitably employed to designate the Huguenot
 heresy. South in his Sermon IX, p. 69, ed. 1843, comments on this
 passage as follows: “That great patron and Coryphaeus of this tribe,
 Nicolo Machiavel, laid down this for a master rule in his political
 scheme: ‘That the show of religion was helpful to the politician, but
 the reality of it hurtful and pernicious.’”

For this reason a prince ought to take care that he never lets anything
slip from his lips that is not replete with the above-named five
qualities, that he may appear to him who sees and hears him altogether
merciful, faithful, humane, upright, and religious. There is nothing
more necessary to appear to have than this last quality, inasmuch as
men judge generally more by the eye than by the hand, because it
belongs to everybody to see you, to few to come in touch with you.
Every one sees what you appear to be, few really know what you are, and
those few dare not oppose themselves to the opinion of the many, who
have the majesty of the state to defend them; and in the actions of all
men, and especially of princes, which it is not prudent to challenge,
one judges by the result.

For that reason, let a prince have the credit of conquering and holding
his state, the means will always be considered honest, and he will be
praised by everybody; because the vulgar are always taken by what a
thing seems to be and by what comes of it; and in the world there are
only the vulgar, for the few find a place there only when the many have
no ground to rest on.

One prince[5] of the present time, whom it is not well to name, never
preaches anything else but peace and good faith, and to both he is most
hostile, and either, if he had kept it, would have deprived him of
reputation and kingdom many a time.

 [5] Ferdinand of Aragon. “When Machiavelli was writing _The Prince_ it
 would have been clearly impossible to mention Ferdinand’s name here
 without giving offence.” Burd’s “Il Principe,” p. 308.




CHAPTER XIX.
THAT ONE SHOULD AVOID BEING DESPISED AND HATED


Now, concerning the characteristics of which mention is made above, I
have spoken of the more important