[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 66th Infantry Division (United Kingdom)

ank guns." In particular, the division relied heavily on civilian transport. It had, prior to moving to Yorkshire, conducted little training. The move, it was hoped, would rectify this situation. Shortly after transferring, the division began platoon and company size training exercises.

Disbandment

As a result of the Battle of France and the Dunkirk evacuation, the division did not leave Britain. As soon as the British troops returned from France, the British Army began implementing lessons learnt from the campaign. This involved the decision to abandon the two-brigade motor division concept and for the basic infantry division to be based around three brigades. Four second-line TA infantry divisions were to broken-up to reinforce depleted formations and aid in transforming the Army's five motor divisions into infantry divisions. As a result, the 66th Infantry Division was chosen to be disbanded, which occurred on 23 June when its units were dispersed.

Specifically, the 197th Infantry Brigade (along with the 257 Field Company, Royal Engineers (RE), and the 110th Field Regiment, Royal Artillery (RA)) was transferred to the 59th (Staffordshire) Motor Division to finalise its re-organisation into an infantry division. These units, as part of the 59th (Staffordshire) Infantry Division, would go on to fight in the Battle of Normandy. The 198th Infantry Brigade became an independent formation that was initially attached to the 1st London Division, before being assigned to the 54th (East Anglian) Infantry Division at the end of 1940 and remained in the United Kingdom during the war. The 199th Infantry Brigade (along with the 109th Field Regiment, RA) was transferred to the 55th (West Lancashire) Motor Division to finalise its re-organisation into an infantry division. These units, as part of the 55th (West Lancashire) Infantry Division, were not deployed and remained in the United Kingdom through the end of the war. The 255th Field Company, RE, was disbanded, and the 256th Field Company, RE was eventually assigned to the 78th Infantry Division. The 111th Field Regiment, RA was transferred to the 66th Division's first line counterpart, the 42nd Division. Several days after the break-up of the division, Cunningham was assigned as GOC of the 9th (Highland) Infantry Division.

Order of battle

See also

 British Army order of battle (September 1939)
 British Army during the Second World War
 List of British divisions in World War II

Notes

Footnotes

Citations

References

Further reading

External links
 

Infantry divisions of the British Army in World War II
Military units and formations established in 1939
Military units and formations disestablished in 1940
D66
1914 establishments in the United Kingdom