[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zbeng!

which ends in various accidents. He was Stav's boyfriend.
 Maya Shalit (מאיה שליט) - A drop-dead beautiful and manipulative blonde. She is a model and is considered to be the class "queen bee". She used to be "Aya", an ugly and unpopular girl which had a crush on Asher.

Recurring characters by type

Teenagers 
 Asher Killer (אשר קילר) - A hot-tempered and dim-witted bully who tends to be very possessive about his girlfriend. His legs are tiny and because of the difference between his hands and his legs he cannot ride rollerblades.
 Yosefa Rosenblum (יוספה רוזנבלום) - Asher's girlfriend. Her inability to cook is a running joke throughout the series. She made a lot of cookies for her boyfriend, cookies which can break teeth.
 Nir Lacost (ניר לה-קוסט) - A rich narcissist snob. He looks down on his class mates because of their lower socio-economic status and considers himself superior to them. He also looks down on all Israelis in general. He enjoys trips abroad, mainly to London.
 Yitzhak "Tzachi" Hamburger (יצחק "צחי" המבורגר) - A morbidly obese teenager with an unhealthy appetite for food. 
 Golan Pines (גולן פינס) - A handsome and attractive guy. He is the male equivalent of Maya. 
 Ido Ramon (עידו רמון) - The lead singer in the rock band "My Limpy Sister". He has an extremely limited vocabulary. When not singing, all he is capable of saying is "sex, intercourse and Rock 'n' roll!".
 Ziv Ochovski-Robinson (זיו אוחובסקי-רובינסון) - The homosexual drummer in the rock band "My Limpy Sister."
 Sivan Bar-Ratzon (סיוון בר-רצון) - A liberal teenage girl with a sex addiction.
 Gili "Magili" Yefe-Nof (גילי "מגעילי" יפה-נוף) - An ugly teenager who is a big horror movie enthusiast. He loves disgusting things in general.
 Herzel Hazon (הרצל חזון) - the ultimate Ars. Herzel is a dark-skinned teenager, who at one point in the series bleaches his hair, dresses in form-fitting clothes and wears jewelry.
 Stav Harov Tany (סתיו חרוב/תאני) - A dark, gloomy, gothic teenage girl.
 Sharon Zelig (שרון זליג) - A teenage girl who is highly interested in fashion and is always up to date with the latest fashion trends.
 Ron Rockafeller (רון רוקפלר) - A compulsive troublesome pest.
 Aisha Sivan Raichel (אעישה סיון רייכל) - A teenage girl of Ethiopian origin. She is very spiritual and has a great interest in matters of the soul.
 Asaf Netanyahu (אסף נתניהו) - A homeless but optimistic teenager.
 Noga Cnaan (נגה כנען) - A dark-skinned girl with curly hair and glasses. Sigal's friend.
 Shay (שי) - A religious teenager. He is a right-wing activist. He was Sigal's boyfriend for a short while after she separated from Gal.

The School Faculty 
 Anuga Zaafani (ענוגה זעפני) - The gang's monstrous teacher and the ultimate nightmare for every student. She's married to Gershon.
 Principal Zvulon Chartzueli (המנהל זבולון חרצואלי) - The principal of the high school who is stuck in his childhood. He is a big fan of cartoons and loves to play with action figures of super heroes.
 Mrs. Za'amon (גברת זעמון) - A substitute teacher. She is a less extreme version of Za'afani.
 Avishai (אבישי) - Gal's sport teacher.

Gal's family 
 Hana/Sara/Rachel Tichon née Reshef (חנה\שרה\רחל תיכון לשעבר רשף) - Gal, Yaron and Osnat's mother. Portrayed as the stereotypical Jewish mother. She is a big worrier. She tends to obsessively color her hair.
 Yizhak Tichon (יצחק תיכון) - Gal, Yaron and Osnat's father. He is of Iraqi origin and is very proud of his heritage. He constantly tries to develop his children's sense of their Iraqi roots, without much success. He is hot tempered although most of the time he is just apathetic.
 Osnat Tichon (אסנת תיכון) - Gal's sister.
 Schwartze Tichon (שוורצה תיכון) - Gal's new dog.

The Next Generation 
Originally, In 2015, Uri Pink decide to update the comics "Zbeng!" and make new characters while the original casts are their parents, But After Complaints Pink Decide Crossover with the Old Generation and the New Generation together.

 Gal Sagiv (גל שגיב) - Daughter of Sigal and Jinji.
 Steve Tichon (סטיב תיכון) - Son of Maya and Yaron.
 Aviv (אביב) - Nerd boy who like geeks and technology.
 Mangalit (Margalit Pines) (מנגלית (מרגלית פינס)) - Adopted Daughter of Golan and Ziv. Loves TV Shows and Movies and have Imaginary Friends.
 Micha (מיכה) - The Mad Guy. Son of Ido and Sivan.
 Adina Killer (עדינה קילר) - Daughter of Asher and Yosefa
 Irad Hazon (עירד חזון) - Son of Herzel and Stav.

Characters who died in the comics 
 Mordechai "Moti" Galil (מרדכי "מוטי" גליל) - Osnat's boyfriend. He appeared for many years as the eternal soldier, coming for short visits during periods of leave from the army.
 Nezek (נזק) - Gal's first dog.
 The nurse Nightingreps-The evil school nurse. She died because of a skeleton's arm penetrated her back.