[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Edward S. Bragg

of Grover Cleveland for the presidency saying "We love him for the enemies he made."—referring to Cleveland's conflicts with the corrupt Tammany Hall organization.  The phrase became a slogan for the Cleveland campaign, and Cleveland was elected the 22nd President of the United States that November.

That same fall, Bragg again pursued the Democratic nomination for Congress at the district convention, held at Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, in September.  Daniel Sumner was seeking renomination, Arthur Delaney was again a chief rival, with Judge Hiram W. Sawyer of Washington County also in the race.  The balloting again deadlocked with no candidate able to secure the majority.  Before the 150th ballot, Sawyer and Sumner withdrew from the contest, allowing Bragg to win the nomination in a 15–13 vote over Delaney.

Bragg won the November general election with 55% over Republican Samuel S. Barney.  During the 49th United States Congress (1885–1887) Bragg was chairman of the Committee on Military Affairs.

In 1886, Bragg again faced a contested convention when seeking renomination.  Delaney was his chief rival, again. Once again, a bitter and lengthy convention fight ensued.  On the 216th ballot, Delaney was able to secure the nomination from Bragg.  Delaney went on to defeat in the general election.

Split with Democrats
Bragg resumed his law practice in Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, but returned to public office in January 1888, when he was appointed United States Minister (Ambassador) to Mexico by President Grover Cleveland.  He served in the role until his successor was appointed and confirmed, in May 1889, under the administration of President Benjamin Harrison.  As a diplomat, Bragg was said to have formed a good rapport with Mexican President Porfirio Díaz, and was fond of Mexico and his time there.  In 1893, when President Cleveland returned to office, Bragg solicited a re-appointment to the post.  Despite strong backing from the Wisconsin congressional delegation in 1893—and when the seat became open again in 1895—Cleveland did not reappoint General Bragg, in what was taken as a snub.

After returning from Mexico in 1889, Bragg again returned to his legal career and state politics.  In 1890 he was organizing for another attempt at election to the United States Senate, but ultimately made a deal with William Freeman Vilas, whereby Bragg would support Vilas in 1891 and would have the support of Vilas in the 1893 senate election, assuming Democrats still held a majority in the Wisconsin Legislature at that time. This consideration likely influenced his decision to become involved in the famous Cunningham gerrymandering cases of 1892, in which he advocated against a challenge to the Democrats' 1891 redistricting law (1891 Wis. Act 482) before the Wisconsin Supreme Court.  The Court, in a bipartisan opinion, sided with the challengers and the district map was struck down as an unconstitutional partisan gerrymander.

Despite the court loss, Democrats won massive majorities in the Wisconsin Legislature in the 1892 elections, but Bragg did not ultimately benefit from it in the senatorial election.  The Democratic caucus deadlocked in a three-way race between Bragg, John H. Knight of Ashland, and John L. Mitchell of Milwaukee.  On the 31st ballot, the Knight delegation broke in favor of Mitchell.  Bragg's supporters saw it as a betrayal by Vilas, who was seen as a supporter of Mitchell.  Subsequently, at the 1894 Democratic state convention, Bragg was favored for the nomination for Governor, but refused nomination.

In 1896, Bragg was once again one of the leaders of the Wisconsin delegation to that year's Democratic National Convention in Chicago.  Bragg was deeply bothered by the nomination of William Jennings Bryan and the ascendance of the "populist fanatics."  Bragg threatened to vote for the Republican, William McKinley.  He became one of the leaders of a Democratic schism, called the National Democratic Party, and was a candidate for president at its convention in Indianapolis in September.  McKinley went on to win the election, carrying Wisconsin by roughly the exact margin Bragg had predicted—100,000 votes.

The schism would prove permanent for Bragg, who supported McKinley for re-election in 1900, as well as state Republicans, such as gubernatorial candidates Edward Scofield in 1898 and Robert M. La Follette in 1900.  In May 1902, President Theodore Roosevelt appointed him consul general in Havana, Cuba, which had recently ratified their U.S.-backed constitution.  He was unhappy with the assignment, so, in September 1902, he was reassigned to Hong Kong, then a British crown colony, serving until 1906.

Family