[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Autumn Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China

er failing to catch up with the retreating enemy, the communists withdrew to the west for rest and regroup.  In the meantime, the communist 9th Column were order to the Jinxi and Yang's Family's Pole (Yangjia Zhangzi) for reinforcement to face the renewed nationalist attack that was certain to come.

Three days later on September 17, 1947, the expected renewed nationalist attack resumed as the nationalist 49th Army begun its push toward Jianchang from Jinzhou. When the nationalist 49th Army reached Yang's Family's Pole (Yangjia Zhangzi), it was surrounded by the waiting communist 8th Column and the 1st Independent Division.  The nationalists sent out two brigades totaling six regiments to reinforce their besieged 49th Army, but they were stopped by the communist 24th Division of the 8th Column and the communist 26th Division of the 9th Column at the region of Hongluojian, west of Jinxi and the region of Senior Border (Lao Bian), northwest of Jinxi.  On September 22, 1947, the nationalist 49th Army attempted to breakout and flee south, but was completely annihilated at the region of Senior Border (Lao Bian).  The communist 2nd frontline command then directed all of its resources to destruct the railway from Jinzhou to Shanhai Pass, which was completed successfully, thus greatly reduced the nationalist transportation capacity.

Second stage
The continuous defeats forced Chen Cheng to send the newly organized 6th Army from Tieling to reinforce Jinzhou, leaving the region between Siping and Tieling vulnerable.  The communists decided to take this advantage by concentrating three columns totaling eight divisions to attack Xifeng, Changtu, Kaiyuan, and annihilate the nationalist 53rd Army in the process.  However, as communists were massing their troops on September 29, those regrouped at Xifeng were revealed by the nationalist aerial reconnaissance and the nationalist garrisons at Xifeng and adjacent regions immediately withdrew to safety, thus avoiding being surrounded by the enemy.  communists then changed their strategy by ordering the 1st Column, 2nd Column, 6th Column, and 10th Column to be deployed to the regions to the north and south of Siping (city), and to Jiangmi Peak (Jiangmi Feng) located to the northeast of Jilin City, so that the nationalist Newly Organized 1st Army, the 60th Army and the 71st Army would be tied up.  In the morning of October 1, 1947, the communist 1st Division of the 1st Column and the communist 3rd Column had succeeded in surrounding the 116th Division of the nationalist 53rd Army at Weiyuan Bunker (Weiyuan Bao) southwest of Xifeng, and after nineteen hours of fierce battle, the 116th Division was completely annihilated.

To the south of Xifeng, the nationalist 130th Division of the 53rd Army was defeated by the communist 10th Division and the 12th Division of the 4th Column, losing an entire regiment at regions between Sable Skin Village (Diaopi Tun) and Eight Trees (Bakeshu).  Meanwhile, with the help of the communist 1st Independent Division, the communist 11th Division of the 4th Column penetrated into the region between Liaoyang and Greater Stone Bridge (Dashiqiao), taking Greater Stone Bridge (Dashiqiao),  and Haicheng, threatening Anshan and Liaoyang.  The nationalist 25th Division of the 52nd Army was defeated by the communist 1st Independent Division at regions between Ox Village (Niuzhuang) and Haicheng, and was forced to retreat after losing an entire regiment.  After marching 80 km by foot in one day, the communist 21st Division of the 7th Column suddenly besieged Faku, and completely annihilated local garrison outside the city, the nationalist 7th Security Regiment after two hours of fierce fighting on October 1, 1947.  The 19th Division of the communist 7th Column, in the meantime, took Zhangwu after completely annihilated the local garrison, a regiment of the nationalist 57th Division.

The continuous communist offensives in the regions to the east and west of Kaiyuan had forced the Newly Organized 1st Army to divert from its original objective to reinforce Kaiyuan instead, and the Newly Organized 6th Army had to return to Tieling, while the nationalist main forces of Gongzhuling and Village of the Fan Family (Fanjia Tun) were ordered to Siping (city) to strengthen the defense of the city.  Well aware that the fortified strongholds were difficult to take, the communists turned their attention to destroying the railways to further hamper the nationalist transportation capacity.