[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James H. Binger

of the executive committee of the League of American Theaters (now the Broadway League, co-presenters of the Tony Awards). On the announcement of Binger's death in 2004, The League of American Theatres and Producers announced that Broadway's marquees would be dimmed at 8 PM on November 4 in tribute.

Landesman then announced that he planned to buy Jujamcyn Theatres, telling the New York Times that he had a long-standing understanding with Binger that he would buy Jujamcyn's five playhouses. The theatres had an estimated net asset value of about $30 million.

Philanthropist
Binger was a leading member of his father-in-law's McKnight foundation, and set up his own Robina Foundation on his death. He also made various other direct philanthropic donations, including:

 Yale University – probably the law school's biggest individual benefactor, he was recognized as a $1 million giver by 1987 and had continued contributions until his death.
 Minneapolis Theatre – Binger was a quiet champion of theater, often bailing out struggling organizations and building up the flagship institutions like the Guthrie Theater. In the early 1980s, Binger and Leland Lynch provided the money to bring shows to the decrepit Orpheum Theatre.
 McKnight Foundation – Binger promoted grants for the arts, international-dispute resolution and research into neuroscience. Virginia Binger's parents established the McKnight Foundation in 1953 as a private philanthropic organization. Virginia served as president of the Foundation from 1974 to 1987. During her presidency the organization gave away some $235 million, and its assets grew from less than $8 million to almost $800 million.
 Robina Foundation — made a gift of $2.85 million to the Yale School of Drama / Yale Repertory Theatre to support the development and production of new plays. The Robina Foundation supports transformational projects at four institutional partners named by Binger: Abbott Northwestern Hospital, The Council on Foreign Relations, the University of Minnesota Law School, and Yale University.

Personal life
Having dated since high school, Binger and Virginia McKnight married on June 24, 1939, slightly less than three months before her 23rd birthday. They were married for over 60 years and had three children: James (Mac), Cynthia and Judith (died 1989). The couple lived in St. Paul, Minnesota, and Ardmore, Pennsylvania, before returning to the Twin Cities, settling in Wayzata, Minnesota. On her father's death, Virginia McKnight Binger became Minneapolis's richest woman. She died on December 22, 2002. After Virginia's death, Binger sold the house they had shared and moved to downtown Minneapolis.

Jane K. Mauer was president of the Tartan Investment Company, which handled Binger's financial affairs. When Binger moved downtown, he became close to Mauer and they eventually became a couple. But as his colon cancer progressed, his mental state deteriorated. The Binger family took court action to prevent their father from making what they considered bad decisions, and specifically from endangering the McKnight Trust.

Death
Binger died of colon cancer on November 3, 2004. In December 2005, Minnesota state announced a surplus, including a death duties tax payment of $112M. It was announced that this was the largest estate tax payment state officials could recall. Minnesota Revenue Department's estate tax supervisor Greg Hoyt summed up his reaction as "WOW!" Binger's granddaughter Noa Staryk later confirmed it was from Binger's estate and that they were pursuing court action to recover $200M bequeathed to Jane K. Mauer in a late will change. A tax expert estimated that there would have been a similar payment to federal tax authorities, and estimated the size of the estate at $900M, even before including the Robina Trust fund of $200M.

The latest theory as to why so much tax was due is similar to the case involving Anna Nicole Smith: property investment, and transfer of these assets to surviving family members.

Trivia
 Binger was part of a consortium that took control of the Minnesota Vikings American football team in 1991. In 1998, the NFL approved Red McCombs's bid to become the team's sole owner.
 Binger supported the Republican Party.