[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

General Sweeney breaks up Anti-Treaty units in County Donegal. There are fire fights at Letterkenny, Buncrana and Bundoran. Casualties are reported, including at least one irregular killed and 200 taken prisoner.
Anti-Treaty IRA fighters fire on National Army billets in Tralee, killing one soldier.

July 1922
1 July – 
Free State troops take Republican outposts in the south of Dublin city and throw a cordon around their concentration on O'Connell street.Republican outposts at the Swan Hotel on Aungier Street and at Harcourt Road and Adelaide Road are cleared by National Army troops equipped with armoured cars and artillery. About 400 Anti-Treaty prisoners are taken in the operation.
In County Donegal, the National Army commandeer a train from Buncrana and move northward. Clonmany is captured without incident. Troops then move onto Carndonagh, where Irregulars occupy the workhouse. A gun battle breaks out. After one hour, the National Army open fire with a machine gun and the Irregulars surrender.
Anti-Treaty IRA in County Sligo ambush National Army troops at Carrigarat.
2 July – In Dublin, the Republican garrison of thirty men in Moran's hotel on the corner of Gardiner street and Talbot street surrender after being shelled at close range by artillery.
Fighting breaks out in Boyle, County Roscommon, when Republicans attack Free State held buildings. Casualties include National Army officer Michael Dockery. Fighting continues in Boyle for three more days.
The Free State garrison in Ballyjamesduff barracks in County Cavan is attacked with rifle fire and grenades. There are no casualties. Barracks are also attacked at Ballyshannon and Cordonoagh and troops' arms are taken by anti-Treaty fighters. 
3 July – Free State soldiers take the side streets around O'Connell street in Dublin, isolating the Republican held buildings there. They also detonate a bomb under the YMCA building held by Republicans, leaving just Oscar Traynor and a little over 100 men holding out in a "Block" of buildings at the northeastern corner of O'Connell street. Traynor evacuates most of his men, leaving just 15 in the "block" under Cathal Brugha. Casualties so far in Dublin are reported as 49 killed and 178 wounded, including combatants, civilians and one British soldier. 400 Republicans are reported taken prisoner
A National Army officer is shot dead in Nenagh, County Tipperary, causing the Free State troops to attack Republican held positions in the town. The Republicans retreat, burning the barracks they were holding.
4 July – Frank Aiken, writes to Richard Mulcahy stating the Fourth Northern Division of the IRA would stay neutral, called for an end to the fighting and for the removal of the Oath of Allegiance (Ireland) from the Free State Constitution.
In Dublin, Free State troops bring up a field gun to Henry street, within 100 metres of the remaining republican held positions to fire on them at point blank range. Incendiary bombs are also thrown into the "block", which is set ablaze.
Ernie O'Malley and 250 Anti-Treaty fighters take Enniscorthy in County Wexford after some fighting. They take the Free State garrison there captive but release them on condition that they do not fight again against Republicans. Seán Moylan and 230 republican troops occupy New Ross. 
A large Free State force takes Drogheda, County Louth. The republicans are based in Millmount Fort, which overlooks the town and also hold the railway station. National Army troops bring up mortars and 18-pounder guns to shell them. After several hours of bombardment, the Anti-Treaty fighters surrender. There is also some fighting at the railway station in the town, which again ends in the surrender of the republicans.
Free State troops from the Curragh attack the Republican post at Ballymore Eustace, County Kildare but are beaten off with 3 killed and 8 wounded.
5 July – End of the fighting in Dublin The remainder of Oscar Traynor's Anti-Treaty force in O'Connell street either slips away or surrenders. Republican leader Cathal Brugha is killed outside the Hamman hotel. Anti-Treaty Dublin forces re-group in Blessington.
The fighting in Dublin has cost sixty-five combatants killed, of whom 16 are government troops and 49 are Anti-Treaty IRA men, and 280 wounded of whom 122 are Free State soldiers and 158 are Republicans. The civilian casualties are thought to comprise over 250 killed and injured.
Republicans abandon Boyle, County Roscommon when Seán Mac Eoin arrives with Free State troops and an 18-pounder gun.
A battle takes place in Abbeyleix, County Laois. Vol. Christopher McGlynn of the Free State army is killed by a sniper's bullet.
A firefight takes place between 200 Free State troops and 30 Anti-Treaty fighters at Curraghtown, County Meath. One man on either side is killed before a priest arranges a truce and the republicans surrender. They are held in Trim and Dundalk gaols.
6 July – 
A Free State expeditionary force is sent to County Wexford to re-take the towns the