[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wardour Castle

diaeval castles, the approach to the main door was protected by a deep ditch crossed by a drawbridge, with a portcullis inside the doorway.

Between the towers at the level of the battlements are the remains of a projecting gallery or barbican which would have been used to defend the front entrance.

Above the portal over the front entrance is the Arundell coat-of-arms and a description of the Arundell's possession of Wardour, erected by Sir Matthew Arundell in 1578 to celebrate his recovery of the property after the family lost it when Sir Thomas Arundell was executed in 1552. Above the coat of arms is the head of Christ in a niche with the inscription Sub nomine tuo stet genus et domus.

Central courtyard
In the 1570s, most of the original medieval windows and doors would have been replaced. In the centre of this interior courtyard, there is a well. Evidence gathered from other castles from the same era suggests that there would have been an elaborate and impressive roof over the well, carved and painted with the emblems of the Lovells and the Arundells.

In 1644 when the south-west side of the castle was blown up during the Civil War, the courtyard changed from a dark and claustrophobic place to a light, spacious sanctuary. It was in the shape of a hexagon, surrounded by four or five storeys.

Great Hall
At the top of the stairs leading from the courtyard, any medieval visitor would have found themselves in a passageway that, on the left, led into the great hall behind a wooden screen with arched openings. This room was the formal heart of the castle, where the whole household would meet for feasts and special occasions. The walls were covered in rich fabrics that concealed machinery that controlled the two portcullises.

In the 1570s, Matthew Arundell refurbished the great hall. A new musicians' gallery was built above the wooden entrance screen. The fireplace was reshaped and new wooden panels were put in place of the wall hangings and banners. The doorway leading from the great hall into the lobby was also redesigned. The tall windows and the old wooden roof were retained, and it is thought that this was to preserve some elements of Lord Lovell's castle.

Lobby
The lobby was a narrow room which was used to entertain guests with sweetmeats after the meal while the tables were being cleared in the great hall to create space for dancing. Such spaces were popular features of medieval houses.

In the 1570s Matthew Arundell had the room fitted with new fireplaces and altered the stairs in the north tower at the same time, to give a more private approach to the upper rooms.

Upper rooms
Today, very little remains of the upper rooms, which once would have been the most inviting part of the castle. Like the great hall, they were high rooms with intricate wooden roofs. Each room would have had two tall windows looking out upon the landscape and a third looking into the courtyard.

By 1605, the upper rooms had been converted to a gallery, a long room with many windows, as was popular in the upper floors of Elizabethan houses.

Banqueting House

The Banqueting House was built between 1773 and 1774 as a place to entertain visitors. The architect was probably Capability Brown. The Banqueting House is now (2023) used as an exhibition centre.

Grotto

The grotto was built in 1792 by Josiah Lane of Tisbury utilising stones from the castle ruins. In addition to the grotto, a small stone circle incorporates three standing stones, removed from the now-vanished stone circle at Tisbury was created nearby.

In popular culture 

The castle has featured in several films.

The castle, including the grotto on the north side of its grounds, appeared in the 1991 Kevin Costner feature Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves.

The cover of Sting's album Ten Summoner's Tales was photographed inside Wardour Castle.

See also
 Castles in Great Britain and Ireland
 List of castles in England

References

Gallery

External links

English Heritage page

Buildings and structures completed in the 14th century
Castles in Wiltshire
Houses in Wiltshire
Grade I listed buildings in Wiltshire
Ruins in Wiltshire
English Heritage sites in Wiltshire
Ruined castles in England
Arundell family