[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Osman Đikić

feelings for Serbian nationalism and became a proponent of a unified South-Slavonic state (Yugoslavia). He advocated cooperation between Bosnian Muslims and Bosnian Orthodox Christians. He launched a political magazine entitled Samouprava ("Autonomy") in 1910, where he served as the editor-in-chief.

Death 
Đikić died due to tuberculosis on 30 March 1912 at the age of 33. His remains were interred at the Grand Harem cemetery in the Carina neighbourhood (mahala) of Mostar. His wife, Zora, also died from tuberculosis shortly afterward, on 14 September 1912. In 1936, Belgrade-based architect, Aleksandar Deroko, designed and constructed a brick türbe (mausoleum)  in pseudo-Moorish architecture for Đikić's remains. However, the newly constructed türbe was located within the Small Harem beside the Karagöz Bey Mosque in Mostar. Đikić's remains were, therefore, subsequently transferred to the türbe upon completion, where a sarcophagus was constructed above his grave. During World War II, the Ustaše destroyed the türbe, but it was later reconstructed following the war. The türbe also later suffered damage during the Bosnian War. In 1993, paramilitary Croat forces, known as the Croatian Defence Forces, blasted the türbe.  The resulting explosion caused the destruction of the sarcophagus, while the türbe itself only suffered partial damage. Extensive repairs were conducted on the türbe following the war and was fully restored.

Legacy 
The Yugoslav government helped establish a cultural organization, Osman-Đikić-Gajret, independent from the Gajret, in 1923, and at the same time founded a student house with the same name for Bosnian Muslims in Belgrade.

Works 
Poetry compilations
 Pobratimstvo, 1900
 Muslimanskoj mladeži, 1902
 Ašiklije, 1903

Dramas
 Zlatija, 1906
 Stana, 1906
 Muhadžir, 1909

References

Sources

1879 births
1912 deaths
Bosnia and Herzegovina Muslims
Writers from Mostar
Bosnia and Herzegovina poets
Bosnia and Herzegovina writers
Sevdalinka
People from the Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Serbian nationalists