[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Indonesian invasion of East Timor

ven by a potent mix of power politics and emerging markets." Suharto was Washington's favoured ruler of the "ultimate emerging market" who deregulated the economy and opened Indonesia to foreign investors. "He's our kind of guy," said a senior Administration official who dealt often on Asian policy.

Philip Liechty, a senior CIA officer in Indonesia, stated: "I saw intelligence that came from hard, firm sources in East Timor. There were people being herded into school buildings and set on fire. There were people herded into fields and machine-gunned. ... We knew the place was a free-fire zone and that Suharto was given the green light by the United States to do what he did. We sent the Indonesian generals everything that you need to fight a major war against somebody who doesn't have any guns. We sent them rifles, ammunition, mortars, grenades, food, helicopters. You name it; they got it. ... None of that got out in the media. No one gave a damn. It is something that I will be forever ashamed of. The only justification I ever heard for what we were doing was the concern that East Timor was on the verge of being accepted as a new member of the United Nations and there was a chance that the country was going to be either leftist or neutralist and not likely to vote [with the United States] at the UN."

UN reaction
On 12 December 1975, the United Nations General Assembly adopted a resolution that "strongly deplored" Indonesia's invasion of East Timor, demanded that Jakarta withdraw troops "without delay" and allow the inhabitants of the island to exercise their right to self-determination. The resolution also requested that the United Nations Security Council take urgent action to protect East Timor's territorial integrity.

On 22 December 1975, the UN Security Council met and unanimously passed a resolution similar to the Assembly's. The Council's resolution called upon the UN Secretary General "to send urgently a special representative to East Timor for the purpose of making on-the-spot assessment of the existing situation and of establishing contact with all parties in the Territory and all States concerned to ensure the implementation of the current resolution.

Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the US ambassador to the UN at the time, wrote in his autobiography that "China altogether backed Fretilin in Timor, and lost. In Spanish Sahara, Russia just as completely backed Algeria, and its front, known as Polisario, and lost. In both instances the United States wished things to turn out as they did, and worked to bring this about. The Department of State desired that the United Nations prove utterly ineffective in whatever measures it undertook. This task was given to me, and I carried it forward with not inconsiderable success." Later, Moynihan admitted that, as US ambassador to the UN, he had defended a "shameless" Cold War policy toward East Timor.

Memorials
There is a monument commemorating Operation Seroja in Halilulik, Tasifeto Barat (West Tasifeto), Belu Regency, East Nusa Tenggara. The monument, which contains a soldier statue and reliefs depicting the operation, was built in June 1990 and inaugurated by the regent of Belu Col. (Inf). Ignasius Sumantri on 17 August 1990.

Seroja Monument (Monumen Seroja) was built by Indonesian government under Megawati Sukarnoputri administration in June 2002 as a memorial to the Indonesian soldiers and civilians who killed in Operation Seroja. It is located within the TNI central headquarters complex in Cilangkap, East Jakarta.

Depictions in fiction
 Balibo, a 2009 Australian film about the Balibo Five, a group of Australian journalists who were captured and killed just prior to the Indonesian invasion of East Timor
 Beatriz's War (A Guerra da Beatriz), a 2013 drama film produced by East Timor set during the Indonesian invasion

See also
 East Timor (province)
 Annexation of Goa

Notes

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Taylor, John G. (2003). Chapter 8 “Encirclement and Annihilation”: The Indonesian Occupation of East Timor, in The Specter of Genocide: Mass Murder in Historical Perspective [see above]. Edited by Robert Gellately and Ben Kiernan. Cambridge University Press.
 
  updated and released in late 1999 as East Timor: The Price of Freedom
 Indonesia. Department of Foreign Affairs. Decolonization in East Timor. Jakarta: Department of Information, Republic of Indonesia, 1977. .

Further reading
 Indonesian Casualties in East Timor, 1975–1999: Analysis of an Official List
 Gendercide Watch. Case Study: East Timor (1975–99) 
 History of East Timor – Indonesia Invades
 USING ATROCITIES: U.S. Responsibility for the SLAUGHTERS IN INDONESIA and EAST TIMOR by Peter Dale Scott, PhD
 War, Genocide, and Resistance in East Timor, 1975–99: Comparative Reflections on Cambodia by Ben Kiernan
 Historical Dictionary of East Timor by Geoffrey C. Gunn