[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Customs House, Sydney

the surviving building fabric from these stages constitutes the principal source of additional evidence about the early history of the building and its occupants.

Customs House, Sydney was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

The Sydney Customs House occupies a unique symbolic and physical position on the site of the First Fleet landing. This historical event has enormous significance to the history of Australia. Its location is a physical reminder of the importance of Circular Quay as the original maritime centre for the colony and is a significant symbol of British imperial sovereignty and colonial commercial expansion. The Customs Service was the only revenue collector in an outpost of Empire struggling for economic survival. It later became a watchdog over ideas, people and goods coming into the country. The internal and external growth and change of the building reflect these changes in use.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

The Custom's House embodies the work of three successive and individually distinguished official architects of New South Wales. Although Walter Liberty Vernon and James Barnet greatly altered the work of Mortimer Lewis, they did so using similar external materials and proportions so as to generate an overall unity of construction.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The site has significance as the initial point of European invasion of the lands of Aboriginal people.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Because of the scarcity of documentary evidence about the early stages of construction, the surviving building fabric from these stages constitutes the principal source of additional evidence about the early history of the building and its occupants.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

This site has been ranked as extremely significant in its unique reflection of the commercial expansion of the colony and the nationally significant role of the Customs Service. This is especially true for the early phases of the building's evolution.

See also 

Australian non-residential architectural styles

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links

Customs House (official website of the building)
Sydney Architecture (historic photos and details)
  [CC-By-SA]

Libraries in Sydney
Government buildings in Sydney
Customs houses in Australia
Neoclassical architecture in Australia
James Barnet buildings in Sydney
Commonwealth Heritage List places in New South Wales
Government buildings completed in 1845
1845 establishments in Australia
Walter Liberty Vernon buildings in Sydney
Mortimer Lewis buildings
New South Wales State Heritage Register
Commercial buildings in New South Wales
Office buildings in New South Wales
Museums in New South Wales
Event venues in New South Wales
Articles incorporating text from the New South Wales State Heritage Register
Sydney central business district