[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Highway 1 (Israel–Palestine)

ed interchange.

Anava Interchange opened on February 4, 2009, together with the eastern section of Route 431. It is a complex interchange and the first complete freeway to freeway interchange in the country, connecting all eight directions between the two freeways without the use of traffic lights.

To relieve congestion at the entrance to Tel Aviv, a high-occupancy toll lane was built as a Build-Operate-Transfer project. The project included additional lanes between Ben Gurion Airport and Kibutz Galuyot Interchange and a large park and ride facility east of Shapirim Interchange. Shapir Engineering started the construction of the park-and-ride facility in August 2007, and the project was completed in 2010.

Ascent to Jerusalem

Motza interchange opened in 1990, and the Sha'ar HaGai Interchange opened in 1995. In 1998, the eastbound left turn to Abu Ghosh, Ma'ale HaHamisha and Kiryat Anavim was closed. Finally, in 2002, Shoresh Interchange opened, eliminating the last left turn on the highway between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem. At this point, the Sha'ar HaGai–Jerusalem section was fully grade separated. However, the road did not meet freeway standards due to narrow shoulders, dangerous turns and difficult slopes, and the speed limit on this section was .

Upgrading this section with additional lanes and gentler curves was approved by the Committee on National Projects after many years of opposition from ecological groups and local governmental authorities. Also, according to this plan, the uni-directional Kiryat Ye'arim Interchange was rebuilt to allow access to eastbound traffic, a tunnel was built under the Castel Mountain (HarEl) with more efficient entry and exit ramps and a long bridge was built to straighten the dangerous Motza curve. The soil extracted from the tunnel was used to widen the Shoresh–Sha'ar HaGai section, raising the road by five meters to straighten the curves and widen the road from four to six lanes with wider shoulders.

Opposition on ecological grounds to the Sha'ar HaGai-Shoresh section that passes through a sensitive nature reserve has been addressed by the inclusion of a 70-meter wide eco-bridge as part of the plan. Additionally, the quality of life issues raised by the leaders of the nearby communities were all rejected.

By February 2012, the National Roads Authority published requests for tender (invitation for bids) for the Sha'ar HaGai-Shoresh section and the HarEl Tunnel to be implemented as design–build projects. By January 2014 extensive infrastructure works were taking place along the entire project's route. They were completed in late 2017 at a total cost of approximately NIS 2.5 billion.

Jerusalem to the Jordan Valley

The British first built the section of the highway east of Jerusalem in the 1920s along the path of an ancient road to the Dead Sea. This section was under Jordanian control between 1948 and 1967 and renewed access to this road, which is known as the "Jericho Road" () or the Adummim Ascent (), was famously noted alongside the reunification of Jerusalem in the famous Israeli song, Jerusalem of Gold.

In the late 1980s, a new road was built north of Jericho Road, between French Hill neighbourhood in northern Jerusalem and the town of Ma'ale Adummim. This section was improved by 1995 when it was widened, and a new interchange was built at Ma'ale Adummim. A bypass of this section, designed to relieve congestion at Sha'ar Mizrah Junction, opened in 2002, connecting the highway through two 2-lane tunnels under Mount Scopus towards the Hebrew University, Bar-Ilan Street and central Jerusalem. As part of this project, the new HaZeitim interchange was built at the foot of the Mount of Olives.

The section between Ma'ale Adummim and Jericho was widened to four lanes in the early 2010s.

Through Jerusalem
The sections west and east of Jerusalem are linked by an expressway segment running north of the city centre. Known internally as Yigael Yadin road or 'Jerusalem Road 9', the stretch has divided lanes but includes several at-grade intersections alongside its interchanges.

In 2001 Moriah, the Jerusalem Development Company started building a bypass of the city's oft-congested western entrance, designated as 'Jerusalem Road 9'. Before it was built, travellers from the west of Jerusalem who wished to reach the Dead Sea, or vice versa, had no better option than to drive through congested city streets. The road was intended to improve traffic flow in Ramot and nearby neighbourhoods.

The  road descends from the purpose-built Sha'ar Moriah Interchange to allow continuous separate grade access to Yigael Yadin Interchange and the northern and eastern continuation of Highway 1. Passing through Emek HaArazim (Valley of Cedars), it includes two 400-meter tunnels (one for eastbound traffic and one for westbound), four bridges over the Sorek stream and two new interchanges.