[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neil MacKenzie

nning season, and subsequently signed a two-year contract with League Two side Notts County in May 2007. He impressed manager Steve Thompson on his debut three months later. In November that year he was taken to Munich to have a hernia operation. His recovery enabled him to play 32 games in 2007–08.

On 26 September 2008, he joined former club Kidderminster Harriers on a one-month loan. During his stay he scored one goal in four appearances. He joined Port Vale on a one-month loan on 27 November, hopeful of a permanent move later on. However, in January 2009 he was recalled by County, having played just two games with the "Valiants". Upon returning to County, MacKenzie slammed the Vale home support as 'negative', saying: "It's the worst atmosphere I've ever known at a club." His contract was terminated by County on 19 January, after he failed to hold down a first team spot.

Non-League
Facing a possible move to Burton Albion, he instead rejoined former club Mansfield Town on non-contract terms. He went on to play seven games before departing before the end of the season.

In June 2009, he moved on to Conference National club Tamworth, where he established himself as one of the fittest players at the club, despite his age. He made 27 league appearances in 2009–10, helping the "Lambs" to secure their status in the top-flight of English non-League football. Playing 25 games of the 2010–11 campaign, he left Tamworth in March 2011, only to return to the club the following month, in order to help out caretaker manager Dale Belford. He made an appearance for the club as a second-half substitute in a 4–2 defeat at Wrexham. Five days later he played a cameo role in the club's vital 2–1 win over Forest Green Rovers in the last game of the season. The match was a relegation dogfight and could have sent either club down, however the result meant that both club's survived, with Southport instead facing the drop (Southport were later reprieved following the expulsion of Rushden & Diamonds).

In July 2011, he signed with St Neots Town of the Southern League's Division One Central. However, in December 2011, he decided to take a short break from football, before deciding on his future. He then joined Evesham United of the Southern League. The club suffered relegation out of the Premier Division in 2011–12. The "Robins" posted a 14th-place finish in the Division One South & West in the 2012–13 campaign. He joined Halesowen Town of the Northern Premier League Division One South in the 2013–14 season, and helped the "Yeltz" to win promotion as the divisional champions. He made 17 appearances in the 2014–15 season. In July 2015 Mackenzie signed for Hinckley AFC.

Personal life
Mackenzie made history by becoming the first professional footballer to be a contestant on the Channel 4 show Countdown. His debut was broadcast on 30 June 2008, which he won by 71–61 on a crucial Conundrum. He won four further matches, and appeared on course to become an 'Octochamp' (winning the maximum of eight heats) before losing on his sixth appearance. He appeared in the series quarter-finals on 8 December, but lost to eventual winner Junaid Mubeen, and was therefore eliminated. He won a crystal vase for his efforts.

Tamworth teammate Bradley Pritchard described veteran MacKenzie as acting the "youngest out of all of us" and as being "by far the funniest person I've been out with".

Career statistics

Honours
Cambridge United
Football League Third Division second-place promotion: 1998–99

Scunthorpe United
League One: 2006–07

Halesowen Town
Northern Premier League Division One South: 2013–14

References

External links

1976 births
Living people
Footballers from Birmingham, West Midlands
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Stoke City F.C. players
Cambridge United F.C. players
Kidderminster Harriers F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Mansfield Town F.C. players
Macclesfield Town F.C. players
Scunthorpe United F.C. players
Hereford United F.C. players
Notts County F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Tamworth F.C. players
St Neots Town F.C. players
Evesham United F.C. players
Halesowen Town F.C. players
Hinckley A.F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Southern Football League players