[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Policy Network

Labour front bench spokesperson on Europe in the House of Lords.
 Patrick Diamond: Senior research fellow at Policy Network and former head of long-term policy in the UK Prime Minister's Office, 10 Downing Street. Formerly group director of policy at the Equality and Human Rights Commission.

Board

 Andrew Adonis, Baron Adonis: Labour member of the House of Lords. Former head of the Number 10 Policy Unit and former Minister of State for Education and former Secretary of State for Transport.
 Stephen Beer: Senior fund manager, central finance board of the Methodist Church.
 Matt Browne: Fellow at the Center for American Progress, previously director of public affairs in APCO Worldwide’s London office.
 Andrew Gamble: Professor of Politics at the University of Sheffield and emeritus professor of Politics at the University of Cambridge.
 Stephen Hockman QC: Joint head of chambers at 6 Pump Court. He specialises in regulatory law and was chairman of the bar in 2006. He is chair of the Society of Labour Lawyers.
 Jürgen Krönig: Broadcaster and author, commentator for the German weekly Die Zeit and various other publications in Germany, Switzerland and Britain.
 Giles Radice, Baron Radice: Labour member of the House of Lords, formerly Labour member of parliament for North Durham 1972–2001.
 Helen Wallace: Expert and author on the politics of European integration and has held posts at the London School of Economics, the European University Institute, the University of Sussex and at Chatham House.

Funding 
Policy Network has been given a C grade for funding transparency by Who Funds You?

Policy Network discloses the identities of its funders on its website, but does not reveal how much money each funder provided. According to its website: "In 2016, Policy Network received core funding from Lord Sainsbury of Turville. In addition, support for specific projects was received from the Barrow Cadbury Fund; European Commission; Friedrich Ebert Stiftung (FES); RSPB; Nissan Europe; Aberdeen Asset Management; Bertelsmann Stiftung and Foundation of European Progressive Studies (Feps). Event sponsorship was also received from E!Sharp; Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research;  TechUK; Deutsche Börse and Gatsby."

Publications

 Anthony Giddens, "Politics of Climate Change", 2009
 David Held and Angus Fane Hervey, "Democracy, climate change and global governance", 2009
 David Hetherington and Tim Soutphommasane, "What's the Story? Nation-building Narratives in Australian Climate Politics", 2010
 Priya Shankar, "Old Player, New Role? India in a Multi-polar World", 2010
 Lauren M. McLaren, "Cause for Concern? The Impact of Immigration on Political Trust", 2010
 Patrick Diamond and Giles Radice, "Southern Discomfort Again", 2010
 Alfredo Cabral and Priya Shankar,  "Brazil Rising: The Prospects of an Emerging Power", 2011
 Graeme Cooke, Adam Lent, Anthony Painter, and Hopi Sen, "In the Black Labour: Why Fiscal Conservatism and Social Justice Go Hand-in-hand", 2011
 Colin Crouch, "Is There a Liberalism Beyond Social Democracy?", 2011
 Jacob Hacker, "The Institutional Foundations of Middle Class Democracy", 2011
 Rebalancing What?, Mariana Mazzucato, 2012
 On Growth, Larry Summers, 2012
 Stephen Hockman, "Legislating for Responsible Capitalism", 2012
 "Immigration, Work and Welfare", Elena Jurado, Grete Brochmann, and Jon Erik Dølvik (eds), 2013
 Damian Chalmers,  "Democratic Self-Government in Europe", 2013
 Roger Liddle, "The Europe Dilemma: Britain and the Drama of EU Integration", 2014
 Sofia Vasilopoulou, Mixed feelings: Britain's conflicted attitudes to the EU before the referendum, 2015
 Patrick Diamond and Giles Radice, Can Labour Win?, 2015
 Britain's EU renegotiation: the view from our partners, 2015
 Claudia Chwalisz and Patrick Diamond, The Predistribution Agenda, 2015
 Pat McFadden and Andy Tarrant, What would 'out' look like?, 2015
 Roger Liddle, Baron Liddle, The Risk of Brexit, 2015
 Andrew Duff, Britain's special status in Europe, 2016
 Greg McClymont and Andy Tarrant, Towards a New Pensions Settlement, 2016
 Daniel Sage, Young people at risk: Challenges and policy options for the UK, 2016
 Jake Sumner, Building for Generation Rent, 2016
 Frans Timmermans,  Community: Discovering Ties That Bind, 2016
 Helen Thompson and Leila Simona Talani, The impact of Brexit on the City and the British economic model, 2016
 Jonathan Ashworth, Sunny Ways: Learning from Success and Failure in Canada, 2016
 Matthias Machnig and Oliver Schmolke,  Distributing the Future, 2016
 Andrew Duff, After Brexit, 2016
 Lucia Quaglia and Waltraud Schelkle, EU economic governance after Brexit, 2016
 Florian Ranft, Martin Adler, Patrick Diamond, Eugenia Guerrero, and Matthew Laza, Freeing the Road, 2016

See also 
Post-democracy
Precariat
Predistribution
Third Way

Partner think tanks
Center for American Progress
European Policy Centre
Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung
Progressive Policy Institute
Wiardi Beckman Stichting

References