[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Raghuram Rajan

I Do What I Do (2017), Harper Collins. A collection of speeches delivered during his stint as the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India
 The Third Pillar: How the State and Markets are leaving Communities Behind (2019), Penguin Press.
What the Economy Needs Now (2019), Juggernaut Books. Co-authored.

Rajan has also published numerous articles in finance and economics journals including the American Economic Review, Journal of Economic Perspectives, Journal of Political Economy, Journal of Financial Economics, Journal of Finance and Oxford Review of Economic Policy.
 The True Lessons of the Recession; The West Can't Borrow and Spend Its Way to Recovery by Rajan in May/June 2012 Foreign Affairs

Personal life
Raghuram Rajan is an Indian citizen and holds a USA Green Card. He is married to Radhika Puri Rajan, whom he met while they were both students at IIM Ahmedabad. Radhika teaches at University of Chicago Law School. She is also an Adjunct Associate Professor of Behavioral Science at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. They have a daughter and a son.

Rajan is a vegetarian. He likes the outdoors and plays tennis and squash. He enjoys reading Tolstoy, J. R. R. Tolkien and Upamanyu Chatterjee. Rajan appeared on Siddharth Basu's quiz show Quiz Time, telecasted on the national television channel Doordarshan, in 1985, teaming up with his batchmate Jayant Sinha to represent IIT Delhi. He has also participated in various marathons, such as the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon 2015.

References

External links

 
 
 

|-

|-

|-

1963 births
20th-century Indian economists
21st-century Indian economists
Presidents of the American Finance Association
Chief Economic Advisers to the Government of India
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Governors of the Reserve Bank of India
Hoover Institution people
Indian academics
Indian emigrants to the United States
Indian Hindus
Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad alumni
International Monetary Fund people
IIT Delhi alumni
Living people
MIT Sloan School of Management alumni
MIT Sloan School of Management faculty
People from Bhopal
University of Chicago Booth School of Business faculty
University of Chicago faculty