[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abdul Majeed al-Zindani

isrepresented.  More recently, the YouTube user TheRationalizer recorded interviews with William Hay, Alison (Pete) Palmer, Prof Tom Armstrong and Alfred Kröner in order to give them the opportunity to put forward their accounts of the events and explain their true opinions in full, without editing.

AIDS research
Al-Zindani gave a speech praising the quality of scientific and medical research carried out at the Iman University, claiming that they had successfully treated many cases of AIDS. In 20 cases, al-Zandani said that the virus had vanished completely without any side effects, and he called on the UN, which "spends enormous amounts of money to fight the disease," to send "its senior scientists to review [the university's] findings."

Dr. Jamil al-Mughales, the head of the Clinical Immunology Services of King Abdulaziz University, has disputed al-Zindani's results, saying he personally inspected blood tests, and contradicting al-Zindani's claims.

Later, Al-Zindani applied for a patent for a herbal method purporting to treat AIDS; the application was published on the World Intellectual Property Organization website in April 2011.

Vice and virtue movement
In July 2008, al-Zindani joined a panel of Islamic clerics and prominent tribal chiefs to announce the creation of a new morality authority. The Meeting for Protecting Virtue and Fighting Vice declared its intention to alert Yemen's police force to infringements of Islamic law. The declaration followed reports of vigilante activity by self-appointed 'morality guardians' in Hodeidah, Aden, and Sana'a.

Jyllands-posten cartoon controversy
In 2006, Zindani pressed charges against 21 newspapers and their editors in Yemen for reprinting the controversial Muhammad cartoons, originally printed in the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten in 2005. On November 25, 2006, al-Zidani won the first case—against the newspaper Al-Rai Al-A'm—and the newspaper was ordered to cease printing for six months, and its editor was sentenced to one year of prison.

Banned by US
On February 24, 2004, the US Treasury Department issued an order labeling Zindani a "Specially Designated Global Terrorist". The Department said that Zindani had a "long history of working with bin Laden, notably serving as one of his spiritual leaders", and that he "served as a contact for Ansar al-Islam (Al), an Iraqi and Syrian based terrorist organization linked to al-Qaeda". The Department also stated that it suspected students of his Al Iman University of assassinating three American missionaries, and "the number two leader for the Yemeni Socialist Party, Jarallah Omar". Al Awlaki also took classes and lectured at Iman University, headed by Zindani.

John Walker Lindh is also a former student of Iman University linked to terrorist groups.
However, Iman University made several press statements declaring that neither Alawlaki or Abdulmutallab have studied in the university and they even didn't attend any lecture at Iman University. The university also asked the American administration to prove their claims with evidence and proofs.

Zindani's name was subsequently submitted to the UN 1267 Committee's list of individuals belonging to or associated with al-Qaeda. Among the factors offered to Guantanamo detainee Abdul Rahman Mohamed Saleh Naser's Administrative Review Board, justifying his continued extrajudicial detention, were:
"The detainee decided to go to Afghanistan after hearing and speaking with Sheik Al Zindani."Abd Al Majid Zandani was an active supporter of Usama Bin Laden. Zandani was involved in raising funds and recruiting volunteers for the Bin Laden organization. Zandani is also a religious and legal expert for Usama Bin Laden."Executive Order 13224 designates Shaykh Abd Al Majid Al Zindani as a person who commits, threatens to commit, or supports terrorism."''

Zindani declared right after the announcement of US accusations against him, that he would appear in the Yemeni courts If the Yemeni government asks him to do so. Zindani's argument was that the US administration is using "terrorists list" for political motivations and the US administration would add anyone who raises his voice to defend the sovereignty of his country to that list.

However, after the failure of the UN and the American administration to answer the several requests of the Yemeni Government to provide them with proofs that show the involvement of Zindani in terrorist actions or attempts, the Yemeni government asked the American administration to remove Zindani's name from its "terrorists list".

In mid-January 2010, Zindani said he would call for jihad in the event that US troops were sent to Yemen. And he added that Yemen is an independent sovereign state and any foreigner attack in the Yemeni lands would be considered as an attack to all Yemenis.