[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Hellenic Police

heir frequent presence in riots.  

In July 2012, it was reported that Nils Muižnieks, Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, had placed the alleged ties of Greek Police and Golden Dawn under scrutiny, following reports of the Greek state's continued failure to acknowledge the problem.    

According to political analyst Paschos Mandravelis, "A lot of the party's backing comes from the police, young recruits who are a-political and know nothing about the Nazis or Hitler. For them, Golden Dawn supporters are their only allies on the frontline when there are clashes between riot police and leftists.
 
Following the May 6, 2012 Greek Parliamentary election, in which Golden Dawn entered the Greek parliament, it was said that more than one out of two police officers voted for the party in districts adjacent to Athens' Attica General Police Directorate (GADA) The Hellenic Police falsified those claims, some of their arguments were that "The Hellenic Police falsified those claims, some of their arguments were that "the Special Electoral Lists also included civilians and people who reside in municipalities that are different from the municipalities that are registered in their elector lists, a big number of civilians and of non-civilians include, other categories of civil servants (army, navy, airforce, coast guard, firefighting staff, etc.), while in addition many police officers vote in their local constituencies." and "1048th electoral department of the 7th District of the Municipality of Athens, in which motorcycle police unit DIAS officers / Attica Directorate of Immediate Action exercised their right to vote, golden dawn also gained 11%, ranking third (as in national elections). Finally, in the vast majority of polling stations, in which police officers also voted during the European elections, in various areas (Kaisariani, Ampelokipi, etc.) golden dawn ranked third Since the election, Greek police officers have been implicated in violent incidents between Golden Dawn members and migrants. In September, one police officer was suspended for participating in a Golden Dawn raid against migrant-owned kiosks in an open market at Mesolongi; seven other officers were identified. Anti-fascist demonstrators were allegedly tortured in police custody that same month. In October, Greek police allegedly stood by while Golden Dawn members attacked a theater holding a production of the controversial play Corpus Christi.

Police action for human rights  
The Police Action for Human Rights (DADA) union founded, in 2018 in Athens, to protect the rights of LGBT and female police officers. Some of their basic principles are the protection of human rights, the fight against prejudice and discrimination and the equal treatment of all citizens. The union has participated in events, against homophobia and racism in support of human rights, of the Athens Police Officers Association (EASYA) and representatives in the Panhellenic Federation of Police Employees. They have also participated in the pride together with those who belong to the Democratic Union Police Movement (DEKA), of the Athens Police Officers Association (EASYA) and representatives in the Panhellenic Federation of Police Employees (POASY).

Transportation

The most common police vehicles in Greece are the white with blue stripes Citroën Xsara, Škoda Octavia, Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X, Hyundai i30, Citroën C4, Citroën C4 Picasso, Suzuki SX4, Jeep Liberty, Peugeot 308, Volkswagen Golf, and Nissan Qashqai. Other vehicles that Greek Police has used throughout the years are the following:
 1984,1985 Mitsubishi Galant
 1985 Mitsubishi Lancer
 1985 Daihatsu Charmant
 1986, 1990, 1992 Nissan Sunny
 1991 Renault 19
 1991 Opel Vectra
 1991 Volvo 460
 1995 Citroën ZX
 1995, 1997 Toyota RAV4
 1995, 1996, 1999, 2000 Opel Astra
 1996 Suzuki Baleno
 1997, 1998 Nissan Primera
 1998,2000 Toyota Corolla
 1998 Citroën Saxo
 1998, 1999 Citroën Xantia
 1998, 1999 Nissan Almera
 1999, 2000 Nissan Terrano II
 2000 Kia Sportage
The original livery featured white roofs and doors, with the rest of the bodyshell in dark blue.
The current livery was first introduced on the Citroën ZX's, although the blue stripe on the earlier models was not reflective, from this became another nickname "stroumfakia"(smurfs) for the Greek police.

Most Greek police vehicles are equipped with a customized Car PC, which offers GPS guidance and is connected directly with the Hellenic "Police On Line" network.

A number of police vehicles are being modified to be equipped with onboard surveillance cameras. A number of portable body-worn cameras will be used by the motorcycle police unit DIAS officers, motorcycle police unit DRASI officers, riot police (MAT) officers, Crime Prevention and Suppression Team (OPKE) officers.