[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Milk and Honey (musical)

Reluctantly he does, but he also tells her why she must remain ("Let's Not Waste a Moment"). At a wedding ceremony that they attend, Phil and Ruth, envious of the younger people, express their deep love for each other and, forgetting the consequences for the moment, go off together ("The Wedding").

Act 2
Phil energetically feels the spirit of the new land and goes out to work the fields with the other farmers ("Like A Young Man"). Barbara, however, brings news that Ruth, realizing the consequences of living with a married man, has run off to Tel Aviv, and Phil goes off to bring her back. When they are alone, David, convinced that Barbara really longs to go back to the United States, asserts that he would go anywhere to be with her ("I Will Follow You").

In Tel Aviv, Phil finds Clara at the Cafe Hotok, but she refuses to tell him where Ruth is. When he leaves, Clara accidentally meets Sol Horowitz, a widower from Jerusalem, and they promptly show mutual interest. Alone, she seeks her late husband's permission to remarry if Sol proposes ("Hymn to Hymie").

Back at the moshav, Phil, after much inner conflict, realizes that it would be wrong to live with Ruth. Although she comes back to him, he tells her that she must leave ("As Simple as That").

At Lydda Airport, the touring widows are preparing to board the plane home. Phil and Ruth have their final, brief moment together during which he promises to fly to Paris, where his wife lives, and plead for a divorce. Ruth boards the plane with the hope that somehow Phil will succeed and she will be able to come back to him ("Finale").

Original cast and characters

Songs

Act I
 Shepherd's Song - Shepherd Boy and Phil
 Shalom - Phil and Ruth
 Independence Day Hora - The Company
 Milk and Honey - David, Adi, and Company
 There's No Reason in the World - Phil
 Chin Up, Ladies - Mrs. Weiss and Widows
 That Was Yesterday - Ruth, Phil, Adi, and Company
 Let's Not Waste a Moment - Phil
 The Wedding - Ruth, Phil, and Company

Act II
 Like A Young Man - Phil
 I Will Follow You - David
 Hymn to Hymie - Clara
 There's No Reason in the World (Reprise) - Ruth
 Milk and Honey (Reprise) - Adi and Company
 As Simple as That - Ruth and Phil
 Shalom (Reprise) - Ruth, Phil, and Company

An original cast recording was released by RCA Victor. DRG re-issued this recording in 2008.

Production history
The musical was revived in 1994 at the off-Broadway American Jewish Theatre, where it ran for 59 performances. The cast included Chevi Colton, Katy Selverstone, Ron Holgate (who had a small role in the original production), Avi Hoffman and James Barbour. In his review in The New York Times, David Richards wrote, "Jerry Herman's score is the best reason for reviving Milk and Honey... Ranging from ballads... to marches... to waltzes, the songs have none of the show-business slickness that sometimes crops up in his subsequent musicals....  When all else fails... there is always Mr. Herman's score to soar to the rescue. I wouldn't want to dismiss Hello, Dolly! or Mame. But is it possible that his very best work came first?"

In 2011 the musical opened the Magnormos 'A Jerry Herman Triptych' at Melbourne Recital Centre, which was followed by two other Herman works Dear World and Hello, Dolly!

Awards and nominations

Original Broadway production

Reference and notes
Showtune by Jerry Herman and Marilyn Stasio, published by Donald I. Fine Books (1996), pages 37–55

External links

 
Milk and Honey at Masterworks Broadway.

1961 musicals
Broadway musicals
Musicals by Jerry Herman
Original musicals
Musicals set in Israel