[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# December 1977

g respectively, 2000 Olympic gold medalist at 85 kg; in Khasavyurt, Russian SFSR, Soviet Union
Died: 
Clementine Churchill, 82, life peer in the British House of Lords and widow of Sir Winston Churchill
Frank Boucher, 76, Canadian ice hockey player and NHL star, inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame

December 13, 1977 (Tuesday)
All 29 people aboard Air Indiana Flight 216, including the 14 players and 10 other people associated with the University of Evansville basketball team, were killed when the Douglas DC-3 crashed shortly after takeoff from Evansville on a flight to Nashville. The team was scheduled to play Middle Tennessee State University in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. Another player who had missed the flight because he was out for the season with an ankle injury would be killed 14 days later in an auto accident.
A fire in a dormitory at Providence College at Providence, Rhode Island in the U.S. killed seven female students.
Born: Peter Stringer, Irish rugby union player with 98 caps for the Ireland national team; in Cork

December 14, 1977 (Wednesday)
The 591 residents of the town of Lark, Utah were given notice by Kennecott Copper Company that they would be evicted from their homes. The meeting of company officials and townspeople took place at the chapel of the town's Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints". Lark had been a company town for the U.S. Smelting and Refining Company, until U.S. Smelting sold the property to Kennecott. Most of the residents were relocated to the nearby town of Copperton. Lark became a ghost town as well as the dumping ground for Kennecott to store large quantities of overburden from nearby Bingham Canyon Mine.
Born: 
Prem Rakshith, Indian film choreographer and four-time Filmfare Award winner; in Pondicherry, Puducherry union territory
Fally Ipupa (stage name for Fally Ipupa N'simba), popular Congolese singer; in Kinshasa, Zaire
Azy, American hybrid orangutan who has been on exhibit at four different zoos in the first 45 years of his life; in Washington, D.C. in the U.S. at the National Zoo

December 15, 1977 (Thursday)
Kim Il Sung was unanimously re-elected President of North Korea by the Supreme People's Assembly of the Asian nation. Kim, leader of the nation's Communist Party since 1945, and chaired the provisional government in 1945 and had been the first, and only, president since the 1948 proclamation of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
Less than six months after becoming an independent nation, the northeast African nation of Djibouti began its transition to a dictatorship, with 17 opponents of President Hassan Gouled Aptidon being arrested for being members of the Mouvement populaire de libération, and charged with killing five people in a grenade attack on a restaurant.

December 16, 1977 (Friday)
Saturday Night Fever was released in theaters and would become the biggest most successful dance movie of all time. Made on a budget of $3.5 million, it would earn more than 65 times that much, with box office receipts of $237.1 million. The movie launched the film career of its star, John Travolta, and catapulted the Bee Gees — who performed several songs on the soundtrack — to newfound success.
The unincorporated U.S. town of Vulcan, West Virginia, received a pledge from the West Virginia State Highway Commission that a bridge would be replaced, but only after a journalist from the Soviet Union had arrived in the town to meet with a community leader who had written a request for help to the Soviet Embassy.
A serious disaster was averted in the collision of two supertankers in the Indian Ocean, roughly  from the coast of South Africa and resorts at Port Elizabeth, when the empty tanker MV Venpet struck its fully-loaded sister ship, MV Venoil. Although two of the 84-member crew of the Venoil were killed, the Venpet missed hitting the oil storage tanks directly, averting an explosion that would have killed most of the people on both ships.
Born: René Redzepi, Danish chef and restaurateur, owner of the Copenhagen's award-winning Noma restaurant; in Copenhagen
Died: 
Gustaf Aulén, 98, Swedish Lutheran theologian, author of Christus Victor
Yngve Larsson, 93, Swedish urban planner and politician