[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Ark of the Covenant

Rome by Alaric I and Gaiseric but lost when the basilica burned.

"Rabbi Eliezer ben José stated that he saw in Rome the mercy-seat of the temple. There was a bloodstain on it. On inquiry he was told that it was a stain from the blood which the high priest sprinkled thereon on the Day of Atonement."

Ireland
Between 1899 and 1902, the British-Israel Association of London carried out some excavations of the Hill of Tara in Ireland looking for the Ark of the Covenant. The Irish nationalists like Maud Gonne and the Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland (RSAI) campaigned successfully to have them stopped before they destroyed the hill. A non-invasive survey by archaeologist Conor Newman carried out from 1992 until 1995 found no evidence of the Ark.

The British Israelites believed that the Ark was located at the grave of the Egyptian princess Tea Tephi, who according to Irish legend came to Ireland in the 6th century BC and married Irish King Érimón. Because of the historical importance of Tara, Irish nationalists like Douglas Hyde and W. B. Yeats voiced their protests in newspapers and in 1902 Maud Gonne led a protest against the excavations at the site.

In popular culture
Philip Kaufman conceived of the Ark of the Covenant as the main plot device of Steven Spielberg's 1981 adventure film Raiders of the Lost Ark, where it is found by Indiana Jones in the Egyptian city of Tanis in 1936. In early 2020, a prop version made for the film (which does not actually appear onscreen) was featured on Antiques Roadshow.

In the Danish family film The Lost Treasure of the Knights Templar from 2006, the main part of the treasure found in the end is the Ark of the Covenant. The power of the Ark comes from static electricity stored in separated metal plates like a giant Leyden jar.

In Harry Turtledove's novel Alpha and Omega (2019) the ark is found by archeologists, and the characters have to deal with the proven existence of God.

Yom HaAliyah
Yom HaAliyah (Aliyah Day) () is an Israeli national holiday celebrated annually on the tenth of the Hebrew month of Nisan to commemorate the Israelites crossing the Jordan River into the Land of Israel while carrying the Ark of the Covenant.

See also

 Copper Scroll
 List of artifacts in biblical archaeology
 The Exodus Decoded (2006 television documentary)
 History of ancient Israel and Judah
 Jewish symbolism
 Mikoshi, a portable Shinto shrine
 Gihon Spring
 Josephus
 Mount Gerizim
 Temple menorah
 Pool of Siloam
 Samaritans
 Siloam Tunnel
 Solomon's Temple

Footnotes

References

Further reading
 Carew, Mairead, Tara and the Ark of the Covenant: A Search for the Ark of the Covenant by British Israelites on the Hill of Tara, 1899–1902. Royal Irish Academy, 2003. 
 Cline, Eric H. (2007), From Eden to Exile: Unravelling Mysteries of the Bible, National Geographic Society, 
 Falk, David A. (2020), The Ark of the Covenant in Its Egyptian Context: An Illustrated Journey, Hendrickson Publishers, 
 Foster, Charles, Tracking the Ark of the Covenant. Monarch, 2007.
 Grierson, Roderick & Munro-Hay, Stuart, The Ark of the Covenant. Orion Books Ltd, 2000. 
 Hancock, Graham, The Sign and the Seal: The Quest for the Lost Ark of the Covenant. Touchstone Books, 1993. 
 Haran, M., The Disappearance of the Ark, IEJ 13 (1963), pp. 46–58
 Hertz, J.H., The Pentateuch and Haftoras. Deuteronomy. Oxford University Press, 1936.
 Hubbard, David (1956) The Literary Sources of the Kebra Nagast Ph.D. dissertation, St. Andrews University, Scotland
 Munro-Hay, Stuart, The Quest For The Ark of The Covenant: The True History of The Tablets of Moses. L. B. Tauris & Co Ltd., 2006. 
 Ritmeyer, L., The Ark of the Covenant: Where It Stood in Solomon's Temple. Biblical Archaeology Review 22/1: 46–55, 70–73, 1996.
 Stolz, Fritz. "Ark of the Covenant." In The Encyclopedia of Christianity, edited by Erwin Fahlbusch and Geoffrey William Bromiley, 125. Vol. 1. Grand Rapids, Michigan: Wm. B. Eerdmans, 1999.

External links

 Portions of this article have been taken from the Jewish Encyclopedia of 1906. Ark of the Covenant
 The Catholic Encyclopedia, Volume I. Ark of the Covenant
 
 Smithsonian.com "Keepers of the Lost Ark?"'.
 Shyovitz, David, The Lost Ark of the Covenant. Jewish Virtual Library.

 
Hebrew Bible objects
Hebrew Bible words and phrases
Tabernacle and Temples in Jerusalem
Book of Exodus
Containers
Relics
Chests (furniture)
Individual wooden objects
Gold objects
Epistle to the Hebrews
Lost works of art