[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Denis Fahey

pled with a more extreme form of nationalism; such figures included Gearóid Ó Cuinneagáin, founder of far-right organisation Ailtirí na hAiséirghe and Gerry McGeough, who founded the magazine The Hibernian.

Fahey's surviving papers are housed at the Irish Spiritan Archives at Kimmage Manor, Dublin.

Character
Fahey was known to be sensitive to criticisms of his work and was even driven to physical illness by anti-Christian arguments. He avoided social gatherings and was uncomfortable meeting people, which was in part caused by his consistent bouts of migraine. Archbishop McQuaid, despite his severe criticisms of Fahey's writings, described him as "a most exemplary priest, of deep sanctity, and a man who will very generously sacrifice his time and health to help anyone: not a small sign of genuine holiness."

Positions

Economics

In economic views, Fahey was a critic of the Lockean liberal capitalist system and what he regarded as the "social good" being made subordinate to the needs of the market. He pointed to usury being contrary to Catholic social teaching and spoke out against the newspaper industry and its power to form public opinion, he claimed that finance capitalism had come to dominate politics and economics, which it was meant to be subordinate to. He criticised “the unlimited competition, unscrupulous underselling and feverish advertising of the present day” and opined that capitalism led to extreme inequality, “ruthless, unchecked […] tended towards the concentration of capital in the hands of the relatively few."

Fahey also blamed capitalism "with its excessive individualism and uncontrolled seeking for profit”, for causing a backlash which naturally attracted many people to embracing communism. Likewise, in his work The Tragedy of James Connolly he criticised James Connolly's support for “Marx’s wrong philosophy” (and reproached his involved in America with “the Jew, De Leon"). Consistent with his general conspiratorial outlook in regard to the Jewish influence in society, he saw Marxism (and in particular Bolshevism) as not a genuine attempt to address the abuses of capitalism but as, “an instrument in the hands of the Jews for the establishment of their future Messianic kingdom”. For Fahey, post-Christian European economic life oscilated between the "false" theories of “the Dutch Jew Ricardo and the German Jew Marx”, seeing “the pendulum swinging from the extreme error of Judaeo-Protestant Capitalism to the opposite extreme error of the Judaeo-Masonic Communism of Karl Marx."

In common with the aims of earlier Irish campaigns such as the Irish National Land League from the period of the Land War and having much in common with later thinkers such as Fr. John Fahy of Lia Fáil, Fahey championed the family-based smallholder farmer stating that the "Divine Plan for order" called for wide diffusion of property ownership among the people, so that families could procure sufficient material goods required for a viritous life. The heads of these families would be organised into unions of owners and workers, in guilds or corporations, "reflecting the solidarity of the Mystical Body in economic organization." Many of these ideas cross over with Catholic corporatism, guild socialism and Distributism. Like fellow Irish priests Fr. Edward Cahill and Fr. Richard Devane, he pointed to the pre-capitalist Middle Ages and the guild system as a more rightly ordered ideal. Within Fahey's worldview both economics and politics must be subordinate to the "moral law binding on members of Christ."