[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kravany nad Dunajom

Kravany nad Dunajom () is a village and municipality in the Komárno District in the Nitra Region of south-west Slovakia.

Geography
The village lies on the Danube River, at an altitude of 112 metres and covers an area of 15.901 km2.
It has a population of about 765 people.

History
In the 9th century, the territory of Kravany nad Dunajom became part of the Kingdom of Hungary. In historical records the village was first mentioned in 1245.
After the Austro-Hungarian army disintegrated in November 1918, Czechoslovak troops occupied the area, later acknowledged internationally by the Treaty of Trianon. Between 1938 and 1945 Kravany nad Dunajom once more  became part of Miklós Horthy's Hungary through the First Vienna Award. From 1945 until the Velvet Divorce, it was part of Czechoslovakia. Since then it has been part of Slovakia.

Sights 

 Church of Holy Mary - The specialty of Kravany nad Dunajom is the late-Romanesque church built around 1232, dedicated to Saint Lawrence. The most valuable monument in the church are the two red marble tombstones from 1400.
The wooden Belfry - Because the local Roman Catholic church was built without a tower, a wooden belfry was erected in the old cemetery in the 18th century. Today's belfry in front of the church was built in 1926. The lower part is masonry, the upper part is made of plank, its pyramid-shaped tin roof ends with a cross. Two bronze bells hang in the belfry today. One was a gift from Kravany nad Dunajom believers and was cast by the Fischer brothers in Trnava in 1920. The second one was made by Lőrinc Welner in 1928, during the activity of priest Imre Ambrík, with the largest donation from János Szota. These bells replaced the previous ones, which were confiscated for military purposes (cannon casting) during World War I.
The Chapel dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary of Lourdes - it is in the near to the mansion of the family Hroššo.
The former castle of the family Láng - Next to the mansion of the Hroššo family, we find the largest castle in the village, built in the last quarter of the 19th century by Sándor Braun and his wife, Józsa Hazai. In 1899, István Kobek bought the castle from them, then in 1905 it was acquired by Dr. Kálmán Fodor and his wife, Countess Jozefína Berchtold, and after 1910 by dr. Tibor Weszely and his wife, Baroness Jeanne Baich, lived in it. In 1917, the estate and the castle were bought by Gusztáv Láng, and the building was rebuilt and unified in the Art Nouveau style. He used the building as a summer residence. This was also confiscated in 1945, and since 1953 it has housed by the Agricultural School. The original castle consisted of two L-shaped ground-floor buildings, their main facade connected by a wooden-pillared corridor from the courtyard. With the reconstruction, the castle was unified by Gusztáv Láng, when the original two-storey water tower also became an entrance building. The floor was only built on it in the 1950s and the original architectural character of the building has been preserved. The smooth facades of the building are divided into windows by three starting stones in rectangular window frames, the corners are decorated with log rustic. Part of the garden facade ends with a straight attic with a former terrace decorated with teeth. In the courtyard of the castle there is a stylish technical building and a stone border of the well from the end of the 19th century.
The former castle of the family Szarvassy - In the western part of the village, next to the Danube bank, is the castle, which was probably built by the Missics family, in the second half of the 18th century. In the first half of the 19th century, the property fell into the hands of the Collectors, from whom it was bought by the owner Fridmann. From him in 1890 Sándor Szarvassy bought the estate and the castle, then in 1894 it was renovated and rebuilt in a romantic style. There was an extensive park next to the castle. After his death, until 1942, his son, Imre Szarvassy, owned the castle. Since 1959, the agricultural school has been operating in the renovated and expanded building.
The former mansion of the family Bottka - Today's Mary area was bought around 1880 by dr. Gyula Szőke is a professor from Budapest and he built a small mansion as a summer residence. In 1929, Pál Bottka and his wife, Ilona Esküdt, bought the estate and the mansion from the Szőkés and rebuilt it to its present form by adding terraces.
The former mansion of the family Hroššo - Next to the embankment of the Danube stands an insignificant building with a history worth mentioning. After the demolition of the Nedeczky mansion, Count Ferenc Gyulay had a two-story baroque castle worthy of a prince (according to Helischer) built on this site after 1710. Later the castle was built by his son Ferenc Gyulay II. At the end of the 18th century, József Kondé Benedek had a one-storey classicist mansion built on the site of the demolished castle. He acquired the estate here through his mar