[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 52]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

be; I will
die first; I will make these villains know what it is to make honest men
desperate." He then drew the sword, and was going out in a fit of
madness, which might have proved fatal either to himself or to the
bailiffs, but his wife flung herself upon her knees before him, and,
catching hold of his legs, besought him to be more composed. "Oh, for
heaven's sake, my dear, dear husband," said she, "consider what you are
doing! You can do neither me nor your children any service by this
violence; instead of that, should you be so unfortunate as to kill
either of these men, would it not be murder? and would not our lot be a
thousand times harder than it is at present?"

This remonstrance seemed to have some effect upon the farmer; his
children too, although too young to understand the cause of all this
confusion, gathered round him, and hung about him, sobbing in concert
with their mother. Little Harry too, although a stranger to the poor man
before, yet with the tenderest sympathy took him by the hand and bathed
it with his tears. At length, softened and overcome by the sorrows of
those he loved so well, and by his own cooler reflections, he resigned
the fatal instrument, and sat himself down upon a chair, covering his
face with his hands, and only saying, "The will of God be done!"

Tommy had beheld this affecting scene with the greatest attention,
although he had not said a word; and now beckoning Harry away, he went
silently out of the house, and took the road which led to Mr Barlow's.
While he was on the way, he seemed to be so full of the scene which he
had just witnessed that he did not open his lips; but when he came home
he instantly went to Mr Barlow and desired that he would directly send
him to his father's. Mr Barlow stared at the request, and asked him what
was the occasion of his being so suddenly tired with his residence at
the vicarage. "Sir," answered Tommy, "I am not the least tired, I assure
you; you have been extremely kind to me, and I shall always remember it
with the greatest gratitude; but I want to see my father immediately,
and I am sure, when you come to know the occasion, you will not
disapprove of it." Mr Barlow did not press him any further, but ordered
a careful servant to saddle a horse directly and take Tommy home before
him.

Mr and Mrs Merton were extremely surprised and over-joyed at the sight
of their son, who thus unexpectedly arrived at home; but Tommy, whose
mind was full of the project he had formed, as soon as he had answered
their first questions, accosted his father thus--"Pray, sir, will you be
angry with me if I ask you for a great favour?" "No, surely," said Mr
Merton, "that I will not." "Why, then," said Tommy, "as I have often
heard you say that you were very rich, and that if I was good I should
be rich too. Will you give me some money?" "Money!" said Mr Merton;
"yes, to be sure; how much do you want?" "Why, sir," said Tommy, "I want
a very large sum indeed." "Perhaps a guinea," answered Mr Merton.
_Tommy._--No, sir, a great deal more--a great many guineas. _Mr
Merton._--Let us however see. _T._--Why, sir, I want at least forty
pounds. "Bless the boy!" answered Mrs Merton; "surely Mr Barlow must
have taught him to be ten times more extravagant than he was before."
_T._--Indeed, madam, Mr Barlow knows nothing about the matter. "But,"
said Mr Merton, "what can such an urchin as you want with such a large
sum of money?" "Sir," answered Tommy, "that is a secret; but I am sure
when you come to hear it, you will approve of the use I intend to make
of it." _Mr M._--That I very much doubt. _T._--But, sir, if you please,
you may let me have this money, and I will pay you again by degrees. _Mr
M._--How will you ever be able to pay me such a sum? _T._--Why, sir, you
know you are so kind as frequently to give me new clothes and
pocket-money; now, if you will only let me have this money, I will
neither want new clothes nor anything else till I have made it up. _Mr
M._--But what can such a child as you want with all this money?
_T._--Pray, sir, wait a few days and you shall know; and if I make a bad
use of it, never believe me again as long as I live.

Mr Merton was extremely struck with the earnestness with which his son
persevered in the demand; and, as he was both very rich and liberal, he
determined to hazard the experiment, and comply with his request. He
accordingly went and fetched him the money which he asked for, and put
it into his hands, telling him at the same time that he expected to be
acquainted with the use he put it to; and that, if he was not satisfied
with the account, he would never trust him again. Tommy appeared in
ecstasies at the confidence that was reposed in him, and, after thanking
his father for his extraordinary goodness, he desired leave to go back
again with Mr Barlow's servant.

When he arrived at Mr Barlow's, his first care was to ask Harry to
accompany him ag