[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dual federalism

Dual federalism, also known as layer-cake federalism or divided sovereignty, is a political arrangement in which power is divided between the federal and state governments in clearly defined terms, with state governments exercising those powers accorded to them without interference from the federal government.  Dual federalism is defined in contrast to cooperative federalism ("marble-cake federalism"), in which federal and state governments collaborate on policy.

United States

Constitutional origin

The system of dual/joint federalism in the United States is a product of the backlash against the Articles of Confederation, ratified in 1781, which established a very weak federal government with the powers to declare war, make treaties, and maintain an army. Fueled by Shays' Rebellion and an economy faltering under the inability of the federal government to pay the debt from the American Revolution, a group later known as the Federalists generated support for a strong central government and called for a Constitutional Convention in 1787 to reconsider the Articles.

In 1787, the Convention almost immediately dropped its original purpose of editing the Articles and instead drafted a new Constitution of the United States. Rejecting both confederal and unitary systems, they based the new American government on a new theory of federalism, a system of shared sovereignty that delegates some powers to the federal government and reserves other powers for the states. 
Among other powers, the federal legislature could now tax citizens and maintain a standing military, and had exclusive power over regulating interstate commerce and coining currency.  In addition, while Article Six of the Constitution stipulated that federal law in pursuit of constitutionally assigned ends overrode any contradictory state law, the power of the national government was held in check by the Bill of Rights – particularly the Tenth Amendment, which limited federal governmental powers to only those specified in the Constitution.

Importantly, at the Convention, there was large debate over the structure of the legislative branch, eventually solved by the Connecticut Compromise. In the traditional understanding of the discussion, the larger states proposed the Virginia Plan, which allocated representation to each state proportional to its population. The smaller states, fearing a tyranny of the larger states, propose the New Jersey Plan, which gave each state equal representation in the legislative body. The states' motives for such a debate have been largely understood as a method for ensuring a strong voice in the federal government so as to maintain a desired degree of sovereignty. Further, political scientist Martin Diamond interprets the argument through a federalist vs antifederalist lens, discounting the question of state size. Specifically, he argues that the pure federalism of the New Jersey Plan and the pure nationalism of the Virginia Plan eventually came together to form the system of bicameralism that the framers settled on. However, his theory largely goes against the usual understanding, which some have argued is based on stronger historical evidence.

Powers

Exclusive powers of United States Federal Government 
Lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises
To pay the debts
Provide for the common defense and general welfare of the United States
Borrow money
Regulate interstate and international commerce
Establish immigration and naturalization law
Regulate bankruptcies
To coin money
Establish weights and measures
Prosecute counterfeiting
Establish a post office and post roads
Regulate patents, copyrights, and trademarks
Establish inferior courts
Regulate cases in admiralty and offences against the laws of nations
Declare war
Grant letters of marque and reprisal
Regulate the capture of prisoners of war
Raise an army
Maintain a navy
Make rules regulating the military
Provide for calling forth, regulating, and disciplining the militia
Plenary authority over the capital district
Regulating the manner of establishing full faith and credit between states
Admittance of new states
Plenary authority over all territories
Exclusive powers of state and local governments  
Regulation of intrastate commerce
Conduct elections
Ratification of amendments to the U.S. Constitution
To exercise powers neither delegated to the national government nor prohibited from the states by the Constitution as per Amendment X
Property laws
Inheritance laws
 Commercial laws
Banking laws
Corporate laws
Insurance
Family law
Morality law
Public health
Education
Land management
Criminal Law
Elections
Local government
Licensing
Create its own Constitution

19th-century Supreme Court cases