[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rafael Peralta

Rafael Peralta (April 7, 1979 – November 15, 2004) was a United States Marine killed in combat during the Second Battle of Fallujah during the Iraq War. In September 2008 his family was notified that he was awarded the Navy Cross, the second-highest award a United States Marine can receive. In February 2012, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus announced that a new  would be named .

Early life and career
Peralta was born on April 7, 1979, in Mexico City. The son of Rafael and Rosa Peralta and the oldest of four (his siblings are Icela, Karen, and Ricardo), he immigrated to the United States. Peralta's father died in a workplace accident, leaving him head of the household. After his 1997 graduation from Morse High School in San Diego he attended San Diego City College and served in the California Conservation Corps as a crewleader from 1998 to 1999. He joined the United States Marine Corps when he received his green card in 2000, and became a United States citizen while serving in the Marine Corps.

Peralta reportedly served the United States with enthusiasm and patriotism: "In his parents' home, on his bedroom walls hung only three items – a copy of the United States Constitution, the Bill of Rights and his boot camp graduation certificate. Before he set out for Fallujah he wrote to his 14-year-old brother, 'Be proud of me, bro ...and be proud of being an American.'"

Death
On November 15, 2004, the 25-year-old Peralta deployed to Iraq as a sergeant and scout team leader assigned to Company A, 1st Battalion, 3rd Marine Regiment to clear houses in the Second Battle of Fallujah. Although Peralta was not assigned to enter the buildings, he did so.

Peralta led his team through three house-clearings before charging into the fourth house. After finding two rooms empty on the ground floor he opened a third door and was hit multiple times with AK-47 fire, leaving him severely wounded. Peralta fell to the floor, moving aside to enable the Marines behind him to return fire.

The insurgents threw a hand grenade at the Marines, and the two Marines with Peralta tried to get out of the room but could not. Still conscious on the floor, despite his wounds Peralta reportedly pulled the grenade under his body, absorbing most of the blast and shrapnel. He died instantly, but saved the lives of his fellow Marines. Peralta is buried in Fort Rosecrans National Cemetery in San Diego, California.

Posthumous award
First Marine Division commander, Lieutenant General Richard F. Natonski, recommended Peralta for the Medal of Honor, based on reports by seven Marines present (or nearby) when he died.

On September 17, 2008, Natonski notified Peralta's family that he would receive the Navy Cross instead of the Medal of Honor. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates rejected the Marine Corps recommendation, saying that his panel unanimously confirmed that Peralta's actions did not meet the Medal of Honor standard "without any possibility of error or doubt". Gates' central argument related to whether the already-mortally-wounded Peralta could have intentionally reached for the grenade, shielding his fellow Marines from the blast. During a Marine Corps investigation of the attack Natonski had said, "I believe beyond a shadow of a doubt" that the gravely-wounded Peralta covered the grenade. Doubt arose when some believed that Peralta was clinically dead when the grenade was thrown.

After it was announced that Peralta would receive the Navy Cross instead, a number of people requested reconsideration, with the congressional delegations from California and Hawaii and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus requesting a presidential review of Gates' decision. Lawmakers continued their efforts; of seven nominations for the Medal of Honor reaching the Secretary of Defense, Peralta's was the only one not approved.

In March 2012 the Marine Corps Times reported that navy officials were reviewing new evidence related to Peralta's case, including two videos (one by Marine combat photographer Steve Sebby) and a pathology report. The evidence was provided by California Representative Duncan D. Hunter, who served with 1st Battalion, 11th Marines during Operation Vigilant Resolve (the first battle for Fallujah). In December 2012 the Department of Defense announced that the Navy Cross would not be upgraded, with Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta saying that he did not want to overturn his predecessor's decision. Hunter said he would appeal, introducing a resolution co-sponsored by fellow California Representative Xavier Becerra which recommended that Peralta receive the Medal of Honor. When Chuck Hagel replaced Panetta as Secretary of Defense, Hunter hoped he would be more receptive to the new evidence. However, in February 2014 Hagel announced that Peralta's Medal of Honor nomination would not be reconsidered. In June 2015 Peralta's mother, Rosa Maria, received the Navy Cross at a Camp Pendleton ceremony.