[Source: PubMed]

45. J Clin Ethics. 2014 Summer;25(2):135-47.

Chinese physicians' attitudes toward and understanding of medical 
professionalism: results of a national survey.

Hu L(1), Yin X(2), Bao X(2), Nie JB(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Ethics, Institute for Medical Humanities Peking 
University, No.38 Xueyuan Rd., Haidian, Beijing, 100191 Peoples' Republic of 
China. hulinying@bjmu.edu.cn.
(2)Division of Medical Ethics, Institute for Medical Humanities Peking 
University, No.38 Xueyuan Rd., Haidian, Beijing, 100191 Peoples' Republic of 
China.
(3)Bioethics Centre of the University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.

Comment in
    J Clin Ethics. 2014 Summer;25(2):83-95.

BACKGROUND: Medical professionalism has been developing in the Peoples' Republic 
of China as one way to better address perennial and new challenges in healthcare 
in an ever-changing society. Among many recent developments in this area is 
promotion by the national Chinese Medical Doctor Association of the principles 
and values contained in the international document, "Medical Professionalism in 
the New Millennium: A Physician Charter."
OBJECTIVE: To discover Chinese physicians' attitudes toward and understanding of 
medical professionalism.
METHODOLOGY: The authors distributed a self-reporting questionnaire that 
included 34 statements and four case scenarios concerning the general principles 
of medical professionalism: the primacy of patients' welfare, respect for 
patients' autonomy, promotion of social justice, and professional 
self-regulation. The questionnaire included controversial issues such as the 
role of the family in decision making and reporting medical errors. A total of 
2,966 practicing physicians, randomly selected from the Chinese Medical 
Association database, were surveyed, and 1,198 valid questionnaires were 
returned. Our sample covered 23 provinces and 51 cities throughout the Peoples' 
Republic of China.
RESULTS: More than 80 percent of the physicians who responded agreed that the 
physician-patient relationship should be a relationship of trust founded on 
professional altruism, and that informed consent is necessary. More than 95 
percent agreed that physicians should promote professional self-regulation as 
well as social justice. More than half agreed with the principle of the primacy 
of patients' welfare (62.8 percent), and that physicians have a responsibility 
to report medical errors and incompetent colleagues (51.0 percent). In certain 
cases, a great majority of Chinese physicians favored familism and paternalism.
LIMITATIONS: The study does not include data on how Chinese physicians practice 
medical professionalism, or the perspectives of physicians working in smaller 
cities and in rural areas.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on responses to the survey, Chinese physicians strongly 
support the majority of the fundamental principles and responsibilities of 
medical professionalism, including dedication, altruism, social justice, 
self-regulation, and informed consent. However, their support for the primacy of 
patients' welfare as a general principle, and the physician's responsibility to 
report medical errors and incompetent colleagues, is relatively low. To help 
advance medical professionalism in the People's Republic of China, professional 
development programs and medical ethics education should not only emphasize the 
general principles involved, but also formulate guidelines on how these 
principles can be carried out in practice.

Copyright 2014 The Journal of Clinical Ethics. All rights reserved.

PMID: 24972064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]