[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Prehistoric Norfolk

The prehistory of the County of Norfolk, England is broken into specific time periods, these being Palaeolithic, Mesolithic and Neolithic .

Norfolk has a very rich prehistoric past, from the Palaeolithic era 950,000 years ago, to end of the Iron Age 2000 years ago. Indeed, Norfolk has the earliest evidence of human occupation of what is now Britain, and some of the country's best-preserved archaeological sites.

Palaeolithic
The period from almost three-quarters of a million years ago until around 10,000 years ago.

During the Palaeolithic and Mesolithic periods the coast of Norfolk would have been 60–70 km further to the north than today, with much of the North Sea a wide, open plain. The size of the habitable land would have varied through the different glacial and interglacial periods up until the end of the Anglian Stage, as would have the climate, flora and fauna, and the general landscape of Norfolk. The Anglian glaciation was the 3rd from last glacial stage and occurred between 400,000 and 500,000 years ago. This stage was the last time the ice sheets reached East Anglia and it resulted in the deposits known as the Corton Formation.

The majority of the evidence for Lower and Middle Palaeolithic occupation in East Anglia survives as redeposited flakes and tools recovered from river gravel deposits. These river gravels were laid by the ancestral Thames and Bytham River systems. Large quantities of artefacts were identified from gravel quarries during the 19th and early 20th century due to the increased demand for gravel in the construction industry and the hand sorting of this gravel.

Lower Palaeolithic
 c. 950,000 BC. Homo antecessor evidence in Norfolk.
Bones and flint tools found in coastal deposits near Happisburgh. The artefacts were in situ in riverine deposits of the Cromer Forest Bed series. Experts previously thought the earliest humans arrived 700,000 years ago.

The flint assemblage consists of;
an ovate handaxe,
a thinning flake/handaxe thinning flake,
a flake,
a scraper,
29 flakes & hammerstone(?) & fragments,
retouched flint flake,
and Lower(?) Palaeolithic ovate flint hand axe.

The importance of the flint assemblage of Happisburgh is not just to the understanding the prehistory of Norfolk, but to the understanding of prehistoric Europe. This is due to the first mentioned hand axe in the assemblage. The hand axe is an ovate handaxe made from black flint with pale grey coarse-grained inclusions, one face carries two small areas of pebble cortex, and is in near perfect condition. This handaxe is believed to be the earliest tool yet found in Europe; it was probably used as a knife for cutting up carcasses.

The environmental conditions of Happisburgh, shown through pollen analysis, suggests a picture of a temperate woodland with areas of fen carr and aquatic plants growing in a maritime environment of tidal sediments. With evidence showing a preponderance of pine and alder, with oak, elm and hornbeam also present; members of the galingale, buttercup and nettle families point to fen or reedswamp environments, while water-starwort, water lilies and bulrushes are among the aquatic plants present.

Other Lower Palaeolithic sites in Norfolk include:

Whitlingham:
worked flint,
tool,
cleaver,
axe,
collection of Lower Palaeolithic flint implements, including three flint cleavers and five flint handaxes
Keswick:
axe,
flint,
Acheulian type flint hand-axe,
Early Wolstonian Stage, side scraper found with flint at the gravel pit near Keswick Mill in 1957
South Acre:
axe,
worked flint,
 flint Levallois type hand-axe, missing its tip, found with a Neolithic flint industry at South Acre,
Lower Palaeolithic lithic core of Clactonian type and a
side scraper made on a flake, found at South Acre between 1935 and 1939
Runton:
broken tip of a thin pointed Lower Palaeolithic handaxe

There is little evidence of human occupation during the subsequent Ipswichian Stage between around 180,000 and 70,000 years ago, lead.

Middle Palaeolithic
Roughly 60,000 years age to 30,000 years ago.

Well-preserved in-situ Middle Palaeolithic open-air sites are exceedingly rare in Europe and very unusual within a British context.
 Lynford Quarry, Mundford: 60,000 years ago Homo neanderthalensis (Neanderthals)
In-situ mammoth remains and associated Mousterian stone tools and debitage.  The artefactual, faunal, and environmental evidence were sealed, in-situ, within a Middle Devensian palaeochannel with a dark organic fill.
Forty-four pristine Mousterian flint handaxes, the remains of at least nine Mammuthus primigenius (woolly mammoths).

 The assemblage.