[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Leo Chiozza Money

in London's Hyde Park in a case that became a cause célèbre and had some influence on future handling by the police of such cases. Then, five years later, he was convicted on a similar charge following an incident in a railway compartment and fined a total of 50 shillings (£2.50).

The Savidge case

On the evening of St. George's Day, 23 April 1928, Money was in Hyde Park with Irene Savidge, a radio valve-tester from New Southgate in North London. Savidge was engaged to be married. A police constable spotted the exchange of what a later social historian has described as "a rather chaste kiss". The police maintained that mutual masturbation was taking place, although Money claimed that he had been offering Savidge advice on her career. They were both arrested and charged with indecent behaviour, but the case was dismissed by the Marlborough Street magistrate, who awarded costs of £10 against the police.

At the time of his arrest, Money protested to the police that he was "not the usual riff-raff" but "a man of substance" and, once in custody, was permitted to telephone the Home Secretary, Sir William Joynson-Hicks. The police suspected that his and Savidge's acquittal was an "establishment" conspiracy, this leading the Director of Public Prosecutions, Sir Archibald Bodkin, to authorise them to detain Savidge for further questioning. Her subsequent interrogation, after she had been detained at her place of work, lasted some five hours and was conducted without a female officer being present. Lilian Wyles, one of the officers to collect her, and who expected to be present during the questioning, was told to leave by Chief Inspector Alfred C. Collins, who led the interview. Savidge was required to show the police her pink petticoat, whose colour and brevity they duly noted and at a certain point Collins caressed her knee.

Savidge complained about her treatment and there followed an adjournment debate in the House of Commons on 17 May 1928, initiated by a Labour MP, Tom Johnston. Joynson-Hicks established a public inquiry under Sir John Eldon Bankes, a retired Lord Justice of Appeal, which criticised the excessive zeal of the police, but also exonerated Savidge's interrogators of improper conduct. However, the case did lead to reforms in the way that the police dealt with female suspects and enabled a number of public figures to articulate their view that the police should primarily enforce law and order, rather than "trying to be censors of public morals".

Railway incident and conviction
In September 1933 Money was travelling on the Southern Railway between Dorking and Ewell when, as A.J.P. Taylor put it in the relevant volume of the Oxford History of England, he "again conversed with a young lady". He was summonsed for taking hold of a shop girl named Ivy Buxton and kissing her face and neck. When Money appeared before Epsom magistrates on 11 September, he was fined £2 for his behaviour and a further 10 shillings (50p) for interfering with the comfort of other passengers.

Publications
 Riches and poverty (1905)
 A Nation Insured (1912)
 The Triumph of Nationalization (1920)

References

Sources

 Daunton, Martin  "Money, Sir Leo George Chiozza (1870–1944), politician and author" in Oxford Dictionary of National Biography Donaldson, William (2002) Brewer's Rogues, Villains & Eccentrics Grigg, John (2001) Lloyd George: War Leader 1916–1918 Harris, Jose (1993) Private Lives, Public Spirit: Britain 1870–1914 Pugh, Martin (2008) We Danced All Night: A Social History of Britain Between the Wars Taylor, A.J.P. (1965) The Oxford History of England: English History 1914–1945 Toye, Richard (2007) Lloyd George and Churchill''

External links 

 
 

1870 births
1944 deaths
Liberal Party (UK) MPs for English constituencies
Knights Bachelor
UK MPs 1906–1910
UK MPs 1910–1918
Writers from Genoa
Labour Party (UK) parliamentary candidates
Members of the Fabian Society
British politicians convicted of crimes
British economists
Italian emigrants to the United Kingdom