[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006 Fox journalists kidnapping

Fox News Channel journalists Olaf Wiig (born 1970), a New Zealand photojournalist, and Steve Centanni, an American reporter, were kidnapped in the Gaza Strip by the Holy Jihad Brigades, a previously unknown group of Palestinian militants, from their TV van near the Palestinian security services' headquarters on August 14, 2006.

No militant group initially claimed responsibility and no demands were made. Only on August 24, ten days after the kidnapping, was a video released of the men. The Holy Jihad Brigades demanded that all Muslim prisoners in the United States be released within 72 hours. No indication was given as to what would happen after this time if the demand was not met.

The two were released on August 27, 2006, after a video was released with the two men stating they have converted to Islam.  The two men later said they were forced to convert to Islam at gunpoint.

Kidnapping
A witness saw two vehicles blocking the journalists' transmission truck and a masked man put a gun to their bodyguard's head, forcing him to the ground.

Efforts to free the men

Media organisations
In an internal message by Fox News Channel Senior Vice President John Moody confirmed the abduction and warned about reporting on the story.  Fox sent executive Ken LaCorte to the region to press for their release. Jennifer Griffin, a Fox correspondent who was closely involved in negotiations to free the two, said "We met with warlords. We met with head of Hamas, Fatah, Al Aqsa Brigade, popular resistance committees. Islamic Jihad offered to help us." At one point, Griffin and others were taken to a tense meeting with top members of various Palestinian groups. Although a ransom of 2 million was eventually paid, Fox has denied being behind this.

Al-Jazeera called for the "immediate release" of the journalists and "in adherence to its code of ethics, reiterates its rejection of attacks of any kind on journalists from any organisation. Al Jazeera calls for the immediate release of the two kidnapped colleagues."

Journalist Fares Akram, who worked in the same building Wiig did, said he thought Palestinian officials had information on Wiig's captors and their location. Hole said he had "seen those reports too, but nothing's come through to us that changes the current situation."

New Zealand
New Zealand Prime Minister Helen Clark expressed concern for Wiig's safety and said "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was alerted by British authorities this morning. New Zealand diplomats are traveling to the region to work with other officials and governments on the release of Mr Wiig and his colleague."

Jan Henderson, NZ Ambassador to Turkey and Israel, arrived in Gaza on August 15. She met with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and other Palestinian leaders who were "very upset" about the kidnapping. Henderson said, "They assured me they are doing all they can, they take this matter extremely seriously, and we are looking for a very quick and peaceful resolution to this particular kidnapping. The Palestinian Authority has offered every cooperation. They are very upset. They have condemned the kidnapping, and they assured me they are doing everything they can for a quick and speedy resolution." After meeting with Abbas, Prime Minister Clark said, "On hearing of the kidnapping he had instructed the security apparatus of the Palestinian Authority to work to locate the kidnappers and secure the release... President Abbas was very fulsome in what he said. His parting comment was `these people are our guests and we will do whatever we can to help'."

Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade spokesman Rob Hole said there were no developments as of August 18, but said that NZ diplomats were "still active in talking but also active in waiting as well, so no breakthrough at all." Ambassador Henderson and the NZ consul to Egypt Brian Chambers have met with officials from the Palestinian, British, American and Australian foreign ministries. Senior diplomat Peter Rider is on his traveling to the Middle East and will replace Henderson, who is returning to New Zealand.

Hostages' families
During the ordeal, Wiig's then wife, Anita McNaught, told New Zealand radio from Gaza City that she had only heard "rumours, sons of rumours…none of which we give much credence to" and that kidnappings in the region were "local entrepreneurial banditry". McNaught had said that although it was unusual for so much time to pass without news, "every kidnapping is different. There is no handbook for how you do them." She expressed hope for a breakthrough in the case in the following days and met with several senior officials. McNaught had said that it was unlikely they would leave the area soon after Wiig was released.