[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Effi Eitam

cism, Eitam denounced military refusal and violence. He concluded that at the end of struggle, "If you don't listen to the call to bring back the decision to the healthy and strong people, we shall send you home, and it will be painful and shameful, that will erase the achievements of your manhood."

In March 2005, after the Israeli Southern Command issued a decree forbidding relocation to the Gaza Strip, Eitam announced his intention to go and live in Gush Katif in order to reinforce the settlers and help prevent their eviction. Eventually, over Passover, Eitam moved to the Netzer Hazani settlement in the Gaza Strip. Left-wing members of the Knesset denounced Eitam's move, but the speaker of the house, Reuven Rivlin, said that the move fell under the immunity members of the Knesset have. After the evacuation of Netzer Hazani, Eitam moved to another Gaza Strip settlement, Netzarim, and accompanied them during their evacuation.

Because of his objection to military refusal and violence, Eitam was a negotiator between the opposers to the plan and Israeli security forces. He arranged a massive weapons recall in all the settlement due to be removed, in order to prevent any chance of bullets being fired by accident or the heat of the moment. He declared that the settlers would not use violence against Israeli security officers. Eitam also insisted that the removal forces would be unarmed. He explained his actions:

"It is about the expulsion of thousands of people from their homes. It is important to reach negotiation and discussion, it is important to shape the rules of the struggle in such a way that it will be conducted with determination, and on the other hand won't pull Israel to the abyss from which there is no return. It is not about acceptance with the disengagement [plan], but on the contrary, it is a struggle of multitude of people who will struggle with responsibility."

In July 2005, Eitam initiated a "struggle treaty", and got members of the Knesset and rabbis to sign it. The treaty set the rules of struggle against the disengagement [plan] and the red lines. The treaty declared rejection of any kind of violence:

"Our struggle will be innocent of any form of violence. No one shall use physical or verbal violence against Israel Defense Forces soldiers, Israeli Police officers, and security forces members."

In addition, it was decided that the protest will be done unarmed, in order to prevent blood spilling or the use of firearms. The treaty was distributed in thousands of copies to the ten of thousands of participants of the "joining march" to Kfar Maimon.

On 25 August 2005, Eitam was quoted as explaining that the reason there was no violence was not the security forces, but the settlers' own restraint and decision not to use violence. Eitam rebuked those who said that the settlers didn't use violence because they were afraid from the multitude of officers, and said: "We were not afraid from the multitude of cops and horses. It is ridiculous to think that our people, with swift boys, war-though men, and its wives and men, are scorned by mortar shells, explosive charges. and graves, will be afraid of physical confrontation with the cops. This shallow and evil claim miss the main thing, and therefore so dangerous.

Prior to the 2009 elections, Ahi merged into Likud, allowing Eitam to pass his election financing to the party. However, Eitam decided to not run in this election.

Amona
On 2 February 2006, Eitam was injured when Israeli police tried to disperse a protest of thousands of Israeli settlers who were blocking the demolition of nine homes in the Israeli settlement of Amona in the West Bank. The protest became violent, and Eitam, who was one of three Israeli nationalist MKs amongst the crowds, was knocked down. Eitam was hospitalized with minor injuries.

Pro removal of Arabs from Israeli politics and West Bank
After being re-elected on the joint National Union-National Religious Party list, Eitam caused controversy during a memorial ceremony for a fallen Israeli soldier on 10 September 2006, saying, "We'll have to expel the overwhelming majority of West Bank Arabs from here and remove Israeli Arabs from political system", and, "We have raised a fifth column, a group of traitors". Attorney-General Menachem Mazuz warned Eitam at the time that criminal charges could be brought against him if he repeated the statements.

2008 Ahi merger with Likud
In December 2008, Eitam and his Ahi political party merged with the Likud party. In 2009–2010, he visited a series of US campuses as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's "Special Emissary" to the "Caravan for Democracy" program of the Jewish National Fund.

Ideology