[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maging Sino Ka Man (2006 TV series)

ero (Baron Geisler), a client who makes no secret of his interest in Celine. With JB's support, Celine stands up to Kevin's blackmail attempt and gains confidence in herself. But before Celine and JB's relationship can grow further, Jackie hits her head in a fall and wakes up remembering who she is.

Part 2: Jackie's Resurrection
Weeks 7 to 10 sudden return.
Eli resorts to stalking Jackie, only to realize in a chance encounter that she no longer remembers him or the three months they spent together. Eli eventually finds the strength to move on, and with Mang Oca's help, he returns to school to complete his engineering degree. 
JB finds himself torn between two loves, and does not know how to choose between Jackie and Celine. Celine is unable to deal with JB's indecision and finally realizes that she has once again lost JB to Jackie. Grieving with the loss of JB, Celine recklessly uses her charms to land a lucrative account for the company, but her actions are caught on security cameras. JB is hurt and rejects Celine completely, causing her to go on a self-destructive drinking and partying spree. 
Jackie returns to her old life bringing new preferences, new convictions, and new habits. The subtle changes at first puzzle but later infuriate JB and her father. But Jackie learns to stand up for herself. 
This part of the series also delves more into the lives of several secondary characters, particularly Jackie's estranged parents, Fidel (Christopher de Leon) and Monique (Bing Pimentel). Their troubled marital past is revealed in bits and pieces—in her loneliness, Monique had given into the temptation of an extra-marital affair because her husband was emotionally distant. When he learned of the affair, Fidel threw her out of his home and cut her off without a single cent. Monique has been living with a gay beautician friend since then. 
Also in this part of the series, Eli and JB meet for the first time when Eli comes to JB's rescue during a carnapping attempt on JB's car. In the scuffle, Eli is stabbed and JB rushes him to the hospital. Eli earns JB's respect by refusing to take money as a reward, and when the two men part ways, JB asks Eli not to hesitate to contact him if he should need anything.
All throughout, Mang Oca continues to keep in touch with Eli, and even steps in to help with Eli's tuition fees and his hospital bills after the stabbing incident.

Part 3: Six Months Later
Weeks 10 to 13 of the series is set six months after Part 2.
Celine's mother, Imelda (Irma Adlawan), finally steps in and drags her daughter to a rehabilitation center called The Haven. With time, Celine manages to complete the program and in the process meets Brian Antonio (Ryan Eigenmann), the Haven's founder, who falls in love with her even though Celine is still not completely over JB.
Fidel decides to take Jackie to the US for further check-ups ostensibly because he is disturbed by her memory loss.  When they return to Manila, Jackie is determined to start a business and eventually opens a landscaping and gardening firm called Jade Gardens. Her continued quest for independence and her insistence on seeing her mother confuse and infuriate JB, but he forces himself to adjust and accept because he is determined to make their relationship work.
At a wedding, JB and Celine cross paths for the first time since their bitter argument months earlier. Their passion for one another is still there, but they are forced by circumstances to keep their feelings buried.

Part 4: The Plot Thickens
Jackie's memory seems to be returning, as she has discovered the province where she and Eli stayed during her memory loss. However, recollections remain vague and she does not remember Eli's involvement. Meanwhile, she and Eli become closer, much to the dismay of her father. 
JB finally professes his undying love for Celine, but gives in to Corazon's emotional blackmail after her suicide attempt, and asks Jackie to marry him. A heartbroken Celine parties the nights away, until Brian comes for her.  
Jackie is dismayed when Eli decides to quit his job at Jade Gardens, out of fear that Jackie's memory will soon return. His impending departure spurs Jackie to confess her love for him. She later returns her engagement ring to JB. When JB rushes to Celine, however, he is too late; she has already married Brian.
Fidel begins a tentative reconciliation with his estranged wife, Monique, and eventually asks her to move back into the Madrigal mansion, much to Jackie's delight and Corazon's dismay. But their reconciliation is short-lived as Corazon sabotages their relationship with some well-placed photographs of Monique with another man. Fidel throws Monique out of the house.