[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jonás Gutiérrez

Jonás Manuel Gutiérrez (; born 5 July 1983) is an Argentine former professional footballer who played as a midfielder. He acquired the nickname "Spider-Man" for his goal celebration of putting on a mask of the superhero. He also calls himself "El Galgo", which means "The Greyhound" in Spanish.

He began his career with Vélez Sarsfield, moving to Mallorca in 2005 after winning the Clausura. Three years later he joined Newcastle United, winning the Championship title in 2010 and scoring the goal in 2015 which kept them in the Premier League. His later time at the club was affected by testicular cancer, from which he made a full recovery. He scored 12 goals in 205 matches across all competitions for Newcastle before his release in 2015.

A full international between 2007 and 2011, Gutiérrez won 22 caps for Argentina, representing the nation at the 2010 World Cup. He was considered a key part of the national side by coach Diego Maradona, who stated that his team was "Mascherano, Messi, Jonás, and eight more".

Club career

Vélez Sársfield
Born in Sáenz Peña, Buenos Aires, Gutiérrez played for Vélez Sársfield between 2001 and 2005. The highlight of his Vélez career was being part of the team that won the Primera División Clausura Tournament in 2005.

Mallorca
After winning the title in 2005 he signed with Spanish club Mallorca.

On 1 July 2008, Gutiérrez unilaterally rescinded his contract with the club after invoking FIFA Article 17 (commonly known as the Webster ruling). As a result, the club sought a €15 million compensation claim against the player and his new club, Newcastle United, at a tribunal.

Newcastle United

Gutiérrez signed for Newcastle United on a five-year contract for an undisclosed fee on 2 July 2008. Gutiérrez told the club's official website that instead of "Gutiérrez", the former Real Mallorca man would sport "Jonás" above his squad number 18 he said "Because I like my name."

Gutiérrez made his debut for Newcastle United on the opening day of the 2008–09 season on 17 August 2008. In the game, he impressed both fans and pundits as he helped his team to a 1–1 draw against title-holders Manchester United. Alan Hansen said on Match of the Day that Gutiérrez "was the most impressive Premier League debutant" on the opening day of the season.

Gutiérrez scored his first goal for Newcastle United in their pre-season friendly match against Darlington, which resulted in a 7–2 win for Newcastle. on 18 July 2009. Following the departure of left-sided winger Damien Duff, he switched from his usual right winger to left winger position, forming an effective left flank partnership with fellow Spanish-speaker José Enrique. His first competitive goal for Newcastle was against Peterborough United on 7 November 2009, taking on five players before scoring. He netted his second goal of the season in the 6–1 drubbing of Barnsley, smashing a right-footed shot into the net via the underside of the crossbar from 25 yards, and celebrating with his trademark Spider-Man mask. The next came at Bristol City, where he punished a defensive error to spark Newcastle's comeback from two goals down to draw 2–2. Following Newcastle's promotion to the Premier League, Gutiérrez stated that he would like to play at Newcastle for many more years. In 2010, World Footballer of the Year, Lionel Messi, lauded Gutiérrez as one of the finest players in the Premier League.

On Newcastle's return to the Premier League, he started the first four Premier League fixtures of his club in his accustomed left wing role. With the arrival of Hatem Ben Arfa to the club and the Frenchman's impressive displays, Gutiérrez was dropped to the bench for Newcastle's clashes with Everton and Stoke City. Gutiérrez scored his first goal of the 2010–11 campaign against Manchester City in a 2–1 defeat on 3 October 2010. On 3 April, he scored his second for Newcastle in the Premier League, a long-range shot in a 4–1 win over Wolverhampton Wanderers. He also scored the equaliser away at Chelsea on 15 May 2011 when a free kick from Ryan Taylor was deflected off his backside.
Gutiérrez signed a new four-year contract at the club on 27 September 2011. He maintained his impressive form in the 2011–12 season, scoring a fine solo goal in the 2–1 away victory against Wolves. He received man of the match in the victory against Stoke City on 31 October. Gutiérrez was instrumental in Newcastle's start to the season. He contributed with a last-gasp goal in the 95th minute (injury time) to defeat Blackburn Rovers 2–1 in the third round of the FA Cup on 7 January 2012. He celebrated by donning the famous red Spider-Man mask, but was booked shortly afterwards. He went on to score his third goal of the season in the home tie against Wolves with a 30-yard strike in front of the Sir John Hall Stand at St James' Park; this goal made it three goals in his last three appearances against Wolves. The season also marked a transition for Gutiérrez into a central midfield role.