[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Motor-vehicle inspection (Japan)

, a contraction of , is the name of the vehicle inspection program in Japan for motor vehicles over 250 cc in engine displacement.

Reason for existence 
Officially, the inspection system is in place to ensure that vehicles on Japanese roads are properly maintained and are safe to be on the road. Another reason is to determine if a vehicle has been illegally modified. Illegally modified vehicles and vehicles deemed unsafe will have a red sticker with the following:  (illegal vehicle) in yellow and the date the vehicle was declared not fit to be on the street.

Registration and cost 
The registration and inspection process may be performed by the owner of the vehicle, though it is most commonly contracted to a professional mechanic or a dealership. The cost for the shaken is broken up as follows:
 Paperwork fee
 Inspection fee
 Compulsory vehicle insurance
 Vehicle weight tax

For a new registration, there are also additional fees for registration and number plates.

A typical third-party shaken for a small or normal sized passenger vehicle costs between ¥100,000 (US$806) and ¥200,000 (US$1,612).  However, these prices often include large service fees so the cost of a self-performed "user" shaken is much lower, although exact prices are dependent on the size, weight and age of the vehicle.

Renewal periods 
An initial inspection occurs at the vehicle's first registration, and renewal inspections must then take place at prescribed intervals thereafter.

Vehicles with an engine displacement of  or less are exempt and therefore not required to undergo an inspection.

Testing process 
The process of the shaken involves these steps:
 An exterior inspection to ensure the vehicle meets Japanese exterior regulations and does not have illegal exterior modifications such as extreme body kits that increase the exterior dimensions.
 A wheel alignment inspection to ensure the vehicle has its wheels in-line and can turn correctly.
 A speedometer inspection to ensure the vehicle's speedometer is accurate.
 A headlamp inspection to ensure that the vehicle's headlights are correctly placed and aligned.
 A brake inspection to ensure the brakes work correctly.
 An exhaust gas/muffler inspection, which includes testing carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions along with exhaust noise levels.
 An undercarriage inspection, which includes looking at suspension parts.
Should a car not meet any of the tests, it will have to be repaired and retested before passing.

Requirements

Exterior 
Tailpipes: Tailpipes are not allowed to protrude past the car's body, however tailpipes that are built into the side of the vehicle are allowed.
Body kits/Aero parts: Aerodynamic mirrors, windage trays under the tail section of the car and body kits using front bumper scoops are allowed. However, all aerodynamic parts must fit and be molded correctly so they are flush with the car's body.
Fenders and overfenders: All fenders and overfenders (including widebody style-kits) must not inhibit the turning of the car's wheels (which must be able to turn 30 degrees inward and 50 degrees outward).
Spoilers: All spoilers (aftermarket or original equipment manufacturer) must not be wider than the car's rear and must be bolted to the car's trunk.
Lamps and reflectors: Front, side, and rear turn signals; brake lights, front and rear position lights, hazard warning lights, rear reflectors, low and high beam headlamps are all required. Sidemarker reflectors and lights and fog and driving lamps are permitted. All devices must function correctly and emit or reflect the required colours of light.
Windows: No tint can be present on driver and passenger side windows, however commercial UV window blocker is allowed. Lexan windows are not allowed unless they are approved via a case by case basis. Stickers/banners on the front windshield and rear glass are not allowed. Etching on the windows, except for vehicle identification number information, is not allowed.

Speedometer 
The speedometer of the car is tested by driving on a dynamometer. The vehicle will be accelerated to 40 km/h twice and the vehicle's speedometer reading is recorded. If the reading is different, it will not pass.

Headlamps 
All headlamps must be an approved type, designed for left-hand traffic, emit white or yellow light, and be aimed correctly. Kei cars built 2006 and older are allowed white or yellow headlights, while kei cars built 2007 and newer are only allowed to have white headlights. Incorrect headlight colour, depending on the person's knowledge during the inspection, will result in a fail.