[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Claude Berge

he perfect graph theorem, and
A graph is perfect if and only if neither it nor its complement contains an induced cycle of odd length at least five, proven by Maria Chudnovsky, Neil Robertson, Paul Seymour, and Robin Thomas in work published in 2006 and now known as the strong perfect graph theorem.

Games were a passion of Claude Berge throughout his life, whether playing them –
as in favorites such as chess, backgammon, and hex – or exploring more theoretical
aspects. This passion governed his interests in mathematics. He began writing on
game theory as early as 1951, spent a year at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey in 1957, and the same year produced his first major book, Théorie générale des jeux à n personnes. Here, one not only comes across names such as John von Neumann and John Nash, as one would expect, but also names such as Dénes Kőnig, Øystein Ore, and Richardson. Indeed, the book contains much graph theory, namely the graph theory useful for game theory; it also contains much topology, namely the topology of relevance to game theory. Thus, it was natural that Berge quickly followed up on this work with two larger volumes, Théorie des graphes et ses applications and Espaces topologiques, fonctions multivoques. The first one is a masterpiece, with its unique blend of general theory, theorems – easy and difficult, proofs, examples, applications, diagrams. It is a personal manifesto of graph theory, rather than a complete description, as attempted in the book by Kőnig. It would be an interesting project to compare the first two earlier books on graph theory, by André Sainte-Laguë and Kőnig, respectively, with the book by Berge. It is clear that Berge’s book is more leisurely and playful than Kőnig’s, in particular. It is governed by the taste of Berge and might well be subtitled ‘seduction into graph theory’ (to use the words of Gian-Carlo Rota from the preface to the English translation of Berge's book). Among the main topics in this book are factorization, matchings, and alternating paths. Here Berge relies on the fundamental paper of Tibor Gallai. Gallai was one of the greatest graph theorists – he was to some degree overlooked – but not by Berge. Gallai was among the first to emphasize min-max theorems and LP-duality in combinatorics. 

He is also known for his maximum theorem in optimization and for Berge's lemma, which states that a matching M in a graph G is maximum if and only if there is in G no augmenting path with respect to M.

Art
In addition to mathematics, Claude Berge enjoyed literature, sculpture, and art.  Berge co-founded the French literary group Oulipo with novelists and other mathematicians in 1960 to create new forms of literature. In this association, he wrote a murder mystery based on a mathematical theorem: Who killed the Duke of Densmore? In an adaptation of this story, the Duke of Densmore is killed by an explosion. Ten years later, Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson are called to investigate this unsolved case. Using the testimonies of the Duke's seven ex-wives and his knowledge of interval graphs, Holmes is able to determine which one made multiple visits to the Duke and was able to plant the bomb.

Awards and honors
Berge won the EURO Gold Medal from the Association of European Operational Research Societies in 1989, and (with Ronald Graham) the inaugural
Euler Medal from the Institute of Combinatorics and its Applications in 1993.

Selected publications

Major mathematical works
(Note: Rough English translation in parentheses)
 Théorie générale des jeux à n personnes (General theory of games for n players), 1957, trans. in Russian, 1961
 Théorie des graphes et ses applications, Wiley, 1958, trans. English, Russian, Spanish, Romanian, Chinese. English translation: The Theory of Graphs and its Applications, Wiley, 1964
 Espaces topologiques, fonctions multivoques, 1959, trans. in English, 1963.  English translation Topological Spaces: Including a Treatment of Multi-Valued Functions, Vector Spaces and Convexity, Dover Books, 2010.
 Programmes, jeux et réseaux de transport, with A. Ghouila-Houri, Wiley, 1962, trans. English, Spanish, German, Chinese. English Translation: Programming, Games and Transportation Networks, Wiley, 1965
 Graphes parfaits (Perfect graphs), 1963
 Principes de Combinatoire, Wiley, 1968. English translation: Principles of Combinatorics, Academic Press, 1971
 Graphes et Hypergraphes, in 1969 and 1970, trans. in English, Japanese.  English translation: Graphs and Hypergraphs, North-Holland Publishing Company, 1973.
 Hypergraphes. Combinatoires des ensembles finis (Hypergraphs. Combinatorial finite sets), Gauthier-Villars, 1987, trans. English

Literary work
 Sculptures Multipètres, 1961
 La Reine Aztèque (Aztec Queen), 1983
 Qui a tué le Duc de Densmore? (Who Killed the Duke of Densmore?) 1994
 Raymond Queneau et la combinatoire (Raymond Queneau and combinatorics), 1997

References