[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Lenny Hambro

in period Swing, Bebop, and Latin jazz, recordings of Hambro's efforts as a sideman continue to be promulgated, with nearly 40 retrospective albums featuring his efforts released since his death. Additionally, both Lenny Hambro Quintet albums were re-released as compact discs in 2002 (Collectables).

Hambro's favorite recording was Duke Ellington's “Warm Valley”, largely due to Johnny Hodges' saxophone. As a composer, Hambro is best known for "The Lonely One", written with Roberta Heller (then a 21-year-old lyricist for music publisher Ivan Mogull,) which Nat King Cole recorded for Capitol in 1956. It has been covered over the years by a variety of artists, including Gene Tierney, Marianne Solivan, Sil Austin, Kitty Kallen, Kelly Friesen, Lisa Ekdahl, Mark Doyle, the Robin Nolan Trio, the Music Rama Band, and by several Finnish bands, where it was a minor hit as "Tuo Onneton" (with Finnish Lyrics by Kari Tuomisaari). On the Latin side, Hambro wrote "Mamboscope" for Machito, an instrumental that has been widely licensed for Afro-Cuban and Latin jazz compilation albums.

One of Hambro's greatest accolades came from famed clarinetist and band leader Benny Goodman, who, when introduced to him by pianist Leonid Hambro (no relation), said of Hambro: "No need, I know who he is; he's the only man that makes me feel self-conscious when I play."

Musical preferences
Hambro was widely known as a versatile, accomplished musician, and an instinctual, lyrical player with a keen musical sense. He played his alto with a light, sweeping style that moved along gracefully and, on ballads, had a sweet, singing tone that was, in essence, a trimmed-down version of Johnny Hodges'  
technique. There is little doubt that Hambro was influenced by Charlie Parker, and he was once described as mixing the styles of Benny Carter and Johnny Hodges. (Lenny was Duke Ellington's first choice to sit in with his band as saxophone lead, whenever Johnny Hodges was absent.) As a jazz aficionado and "insider", Hambro was fond of the musical stylings of Charlie Parker, Johnny Hodges, and Benny Goodman. His favorite arrangers included Neal Hefti (for Woody Herman, Count Basie, Alvino Rey, Georgie Auld, and Neal Hefti), Johnny Mandel (for Alvino Rey), and Chico O'Farrill (for Machito and Chico O'Farrill).

Although Hambro played a Selmer Alto saxophone on occasion, his favorite instrument was a Martin "Magna" alto sax. He used an Arnold Brilhart "Ebolin" Streamline Model 4* mouthpiece with a Vic Olivieri #4 reed. Hambro liked the "Magna" model alto sax for its brilliant sound, and believed the "Magna"-hard reed combination was less likely to play out of tune. During the 1950s, Hambro was often photographed with a Brilhart "Tonalin" ivory-colored Lucite mouthpiece. On clarinet, he also played a harder reed - a Vandoren #4. Lenny played a Martin "The Martin" tenor saxophone. After 1967, Hambro experimented with the Selmer Varitone electronic pickup and effects unit, which can be heard on Chico O'Farrill's 1968 album, "Married Well", and 1995's "More Than Mambo: Introduction To Afro-Cuban Jazz", both from Verve.

Discography

References

External links
Lenny Hambro with The New Glenn Miller Orchestra (1961; Glenn Miller Time, CBS Television) video:
 (The dixieland combo features Ray McKinley on drums, Lenny Hambro on clarinet, Bobby Nichols on trumpet, Harry DeVito on trombone, John Worster on bass and Jim Hacker on piano.)

Ray McKinley at "Glenn Miller Orchestra"
Martin Magna Alto Saxophones at The Martin Story
Vintage Brilhart Mouthpieces at TheoWayne Classic Mouthpieces Mouthpiece Museum

1923 births
1995 deaths
Musicians from the Bronx
People from Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey
American jazz alto saxophonists
American male saxophonists
American jazz clarinetists
American jazz flautists
American people of Dutch-Jewish descent
Jewish American jazz composers
Jewish American musicians
Epic Records artists
Savoy Records artists
Jewish jazz musicians
20th-century American saxophonists
20th-century American composers
Jazz musicians from New York (state)
American male jazz composers
American jazz composers
20th-century American male musicians
James Monroe High School (New York City) alumni
20th-century jazz composers
20th-century American Jews
20th-century flautists