[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# Constructive set theory

ly unique. Powersets of finite sets exist. The finitely indexed discrete sets are just the finite sets. In particular, finitely indexed subsets of  are finite. Taking quotients or taking the binary union or Cartesian product of two sets preserve finiteness, sub-finiteness and being finitely indexed.

The set theory axioms listed so far incorporates first-order arithemtic and suffices as formalized framework for a good portion of common mathematics. The restriction to finite domains is lifted in the strictly stronger exponentiation axiom below. However, also that axiom does not entail the full induction schema for formulas with unbound quantifiers over the domain of sets, nor a dependent choice principle. Likewise, there are Collection principles that are constructively not implied by Replacement, as discussed further below. A consequence of this is that for some statements of higher complexity or indirection, even if concrete instances of interest may well be provable, the theory may not prove the universal closure.
Stronger than this theory with finite exponentiation is  plus full induction. It implies the recursion principle even for classes and such that  is unique. Already that recursion principle when restricted to  does prove finite exponentiation, and also the existence of a transitive closure for every set with respect to  (since union formation is ). With it more common constructions preserve countability. 
General unions over a finitely indexed set of finitely indexed sets are again finitely indexed, when at least assuming induction for -predicates (with respect to the set theory language, and this then holds regardless of the decidability of their equality relations.)

Induction without infinite sets 
Before discussing even classically uncountable sets, this last section takes a step back to a context more akin to . The addition of numbers, considered as relation on triples, is an infinite collection, just like collection of natural numbers themselves. But note that induction schemas may be adopted (for sets, ordinals or in conjunction with a natural number sort), without ever postulating that the collection of naturals exists as a set. As noted, Heyting arithmetic  is bi-interpretable with such a constructive set theory, in which all sets are postulated to be in bijection with an ordinal. The BIT predicate is a common means to encode sets in arithmetic.

This paragraph lists a few weak natural number induction principles studied in the proof theory of arithmetic theories with addition and multiplication in their signature. This is the framework where these principles are most well understood. The theories may be defined via bounded formulations or variations on induction schemas that may furthermore only allow for predicates of restricted complexity. On the classical first-order side, this leads to theories between the Robinson arithmetic  and Peano arithmetic : The theory  does not have any induction.  has full mathematical induction for arithmetical formulas and has ordinal , meaning the theory lets one encode ordinals of weaker theories as recursive relation on just the naturals. Theories may also include additional symbols for particular functions.
Many of the well studied arithmetic theories are weak regarding proof of totality for some more fast growing functions. Some of the most basic examples of arithmetics include elementary function arithmetic , which includes induction for just bounded arithmetical formulas, here meaning with quantifiers over finite number ranges. The theory has a proof theoretic ordinal (the least not provenly recursive well-ordering) of .
The -induction schema for arithmetical existential formulas allows for induction for those properties of naturals a validation of which is computable via a finite search with unbound (any, but finite) runtime. The schema is also classically equivalent to the -induction schema.
The relatively weak classical first-order arithmetic which adopts that schema is denoted  and proves the primitive recursive functions total. The theory  is -conservative over primitive recursive arithmetic .
Note that the -induction is also part of the second-order reverse mathematics base system , its other axioms being  plus -comprehension of subsets of naturals. The theory  is -conservative over . Those last mentioned arithmetic theories all have ordinal .