[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Matt Dunne

hilip Baruth, who had said earlier he was not planning to endorse any candidate. He was also endorsed by the Burlington Free Press, which praised his clearly articulated plans for Vermont's economy and government.

Dunne finished second in the August 9 primaries, and endorsed the winner, Sue Minter.

Positions
Dunne emphasized ethics, transparency, and campaign finance reform in his campaign, with a plan to require greater disclosure of campaign assets, close the revolving door between regulators and industry in Montpelier, improve Vermont's public campaign financing, and eliminate direct corporate contributions to campaigns. His campaign voluntarily released more campaign finance reports than required by state law, and unsuccessfully called on Dunne's opponents to do the same.

Dunne supported increasing the minimum wage to $15 per hour and investing in microfinancing; providing universal primary health care; divesting from fossil fuels and investing $100 million in efficiency, solar, and heat pump technology; improving women's equality through paid family leave, affordable state-run child care, free access to long-term birth control, and improving job training opportunities for women in the STEM fields; improving enforcement of racial and LGBTQA anti-discrimination laws; emphasizing treatment over law enforcement in addressing Vermont's opioid abuse epidemic; and legalizing and regulating marijuana. He supported universal background checks for gun sales in Vermont, but unlike his rivals has not called for a ban on assault weapons.

Climate activist Bill McKibben endorsed Dunne early in the race, but later switched his support to Dunne's rival Sue Minter after Dunne released a statement on wind power advocating more local control over projects, a position McKibben considered a dog whistle to opponents of wind expansion. Environmental group Vermont Conservation Voters, which had been neutral in the race, endorsed Minter for the same reason. Dunne's campaign manager responded that Minter had not clearly articulated her position on ridgeline wind, saying "Matt made a decision to be clear and is being attacked for it."

References

External links
Matt Dunne for Governor
Matt Dunne's 2010 gubernatorial campaign announcement video

1969 births
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Vermont House of Representatives
People from Hartland, Vermont
People from Wallingford, Connecticut
Democratic Party Vermont state senators