[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Critical reaction to 24

season was voted by TV Guide as the second most shocking death in television history, behind only Henry Blake from M*A*S*H. The season finale is frequently cited as one of the best television season finales of all-time.Kevin Fitzpatrick, "TV's Best Season Finales Ever" , UGO, May 27, 2011

Season 2

Anticipation was high for the second season, as many critics were skeptical whether the writers could come up with another story to carry 24 hours of television. Season Two, however, received near-universal critical acclaim. Of the second season, Kiefer Sutherland said "Jack doesn't really care anymore." Sutherland continued with, "Whatever boundaries he had last year are pretty much gone now. Last year's promo was great: 'I'm federal agent Jack Bauer, and today is the longest day of my life.' Now maybe it's 'I'm federal agent Jack Bauer, and today is the most violent day of my life."

Entertainment Weekly reported that the writers had "concocted a horrendously topical terrorism story line for their emotionally damaged, trigger-giddy protagonist to tackle. Bauer wasn't exactly Mr. Warmth last season, but now the grieving agent makes Andy Sipowicz look like Andy Griffith" and called the second season an "addictive, adrenaline-fueled thriller". USA Today praised the returning series, saying "What hasn't changed is 24s knack for the unexpected or its ability to pull you into its often shocking world. Believe me, by the end of the first hour, you'll know Jack is back, and you'll be eager to see where he's headed next. Looks like another great day"  One scene in the premiere of Season Two has become regarded as one of the most memorable and shocking in the entire series. In it, Bauer brings child molester "Marshal Goren" into the CTU offices, and ultimately shoots him dead; then, crouching down and inspecting Goren's head, Bauer then tells his boss, "I'm going to need a hacksaw".

In a review of the season, IGN said that "overall the second season moves at a much brisker pace, is definitely topical, contains some excellent performances, and never lets you down in the thrills department." Another DVD reviewer said that "I enjoyed season one of this inventive show. When I found out it had been picked up for another season, the only question left in my mind was "Will they be able to match the first season?" When this season started, I had my answer. They surpassed it with flying colors."

The Kim Bauer subplot received heavy criticism from fans and critics. One reviewer said, "Kim's story arc, as she runs from an overheated domestic situation to an escape from the police to a loony's basement bomb shelter—and worse (almost getting eaten by the aforementioned cougar)—operates almost as the comedy relief for an otherwise unrelentingly grim litany of violence and political turmoil that fills the other major plotlines. As silly as Kim's escapades are on their own, when placed in context, they are almost necessary to put Jack's solemn mission into sharp relief. Of course, you have to treat Kim's story as droll humor for this to work, which may not be the intentions of the producers. Fortunately, the rest of the story works pretty well without her." PopMatters said that "Definitely less well rounded, much like last season, Kim's annoying storyline stumbles from calamity to calamity. Again, she's caught up in serial dangers, so that her box is always about to break out into chaos: dashing about in her tight little top, she's always in dire need of Jack's help (that said, she does eventually come into her own, and proves wholly capable of the sort of "red meat" violence for which her father is infamous)."

Season 3

The first half of the third season was met with positive reviews, while reception to the second half of the season received critical acclaim. Season Three opens in a significantly different place than Season Two. The decision to pick up three years after Season Two and ignore Season 2's cliffhanger was criticized by fans and critics. The character of Kate Warner was dropped from the cast between seasons. One change, meant to address concerns from Season 2, was to move Kim into the Counter Terrorist Unit. Ain't It Cool News said that "Kim's role at CTU is a terrific antidote for those who maintain an abiding lust for Elisha Cuthbert, but little patience for Kim Bauer's inane predicaments."

The New York Times said of the premiere that, "One of the best series on television is 24, and it could be even better if there were less of it—if, say, the world had adopted the time-keeping system of the ancient Sumerians. The show would then be called 12 and its hero, Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland), could save the country from an apocalyptic terrorist attack in a 12-hour day—eliminating the need for some of the sillier side plots delaying the denouement. (How many times can a daughter be kidnapped, found, then captured again?)