[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Information Control Division

o shut down "all media of public expression in Germany", the second phase was to seize control of their public media operations, and the third phase sought to return the media of public expression to back German officials who, what American officials believed, displayed anti-Nazi, democratic ideals.

The ICD consisted of two divisions that facilitated: the surveil of staff work and the surveil of the operations of the division. Those within the staff division recruited necessary staff, drafted up ICD policies and strategies, sent out operational instructions and important information for other divisions within ICD, and gathered on the ground information. The operations division carried out the instructions and strategies of the staff work division to influence media within post-war Germany. The four media groups that the ICD controlled in post-war Germany were:

1. Press

2. Publications

3. Radio

4. Film, Theater, and Music.

Institutions such as publishers, libraries, radio outlets, etc. within the four categories were privy to ICD regulation based on the U.S. occupied sector in Germany they were in and each of the four media groups had corresponding control branches that oversaw the production of their respective media. The Press Control branch created regulations and policy for the operations within German newspaper organizations and controlled which publishing organizations associated with Germany's newspaper industry. One notable newspaper published by the ICD during the American occupation was Die Neue Zeitung.

The Publications Control branch concerned regulation of the production of books and magazines and drafted policy around what kind of literary works were appropriate for publishing. The ICD believed that books were one of the most influential forms of media for the German people and would be emphasized as one of the main ways in which the ICD would reinforce their reeducation ideals. The Publications branch in the American occupied zone controlled 500 publishers that would produce acceptable reeducation material for the German public. The first literary journals to be published under the monitoring of the ICD was Die Wandlung. Another important journal published under the monitoring of the ICD was Horizont, a literary piece meant to educate German youth and deemphasize German's militaristic past.

The Radio Control branch supervised what kind of media and messaging was broadcast over the radio. The United States controlled five radio outlets in Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Munich, Bremen, and Berlin. The ICD emphasized that there needed to be minimal German governmental influence over what was broadcast over the radio as this was what contributed to Nazi propaganda and influence during the war. Additionally, the ICD radio control branch was charged with preventing information monopolies and subsidies from the German government in radio media. The first radio outlet under complete ICD control was Radio Stuttgart. ICD's radio broadcasting of the Nuremberg trials followed specific requirements- like all content that came out of the radio broadcasting branch- that focused on framing military policies in the way they thought would be best for the demilitarization and reeducation of the German people. The ICD encouraged radio stations to broadcast different perspectives and opinions from German civilians on their station so as to stray further away from the monopoly that the German government had in radio broadcasting during the war. Before the official affordance of mass media control to the German people in 1949, radio stations under ICD control, like Radio Stuttgart, broadcast content that promoted American culture and music.

Lastly, the Film, Theater, and Music control branch determined which films and other media productions were allowed to be played in Germany. Through film licensing hand-outs for German producers, and through the screenings of potential American films to be broadcast, the ICD selectively chose what kind of films, music, and theater productions the German public in the U.S. occupied sector would consume. After the war, all theaters and film-viewing institutions were ordered to be shut down and many of the film studios were converted into storage spaces. The law regarding this shutdown was amended in 1945, but in the absence of the German film content and German dominance within their film industry, American films and media were shipped in and broadcast with content that emphasized democratic values and ideals for the stated purpose of reeducating the German public. Many of the films from American film industries that were banned were ones that touched on specific political topics and representations that reflected the recent events of World War II. The ICD brought in American civilians with experience in the American film industry to help the reeducation process on this front.