[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kevin Foley (footballer, born 1984)

Kevin Patrick Foley (born 1 November 1984) is a professional football coach and former player who is currently a first team coach for Brackley Town.

Foley, a right back also able to operate in midfield, previously spent twelve years at Luton Town before joining Wolverhampton Wanderers, where he played for seven and a half years. He was part of the Wolves squad which won promotion to the Premier League in 2009.

Club career

Luton Town
Born in London, to Irish parents, Foley joined hometown club Luton Town at the age of nine. He progressed through the youth ranks, winning the Luton Town Young Player of the Season award at the age of seventeen, before signing professional terms with the club at the age of eighteen. He finally broke into the first-team squad in 2002–03, making his league debut on 19 April 2003, in a 2–2 draw with Bristol City. Foley was again named Young Player of the Season for the second consecutive season. The following season, he established himself as first choice right-back at the club and was again named Young Player of the Season for the third consecutive year. Foley won promotion with Luton to the Championship in 2005, and spent two seasons at this level before the club dropped back into League One in 2007. He made a total of 151 appearances for Luton, scoring three times.

Wolverhampton Wanderers

On 14 August 2007, Foley joined Championship club Wolverhampton Wanderers on a three-year contract for an undisclosed fee, before making his club debut the following day in a League Cup tie against Bradford. He scored his first league goal for the club on 22 September 2007 against Norwich City at Molineux. He ended his first season for Wolves as a regular member of their starting XI, featuring in a total of 49 games, scoring one goal.

The 2008–09 season saw him part of the Wolves team that won the Championship, and so returned to the Premier League. He made a total of 47 appearances, scoring one goal. His performances won him Wolves' Player of the Season Award, voted by the club's fans, as well as a new four-year contract with the club that would keep him at Wolves until at least summer 2013.

Foley made his Premier League debut in the team's opening fixture against West Ham on 15 August 2009. During the 0–2 defeat though he sustained a medial knee ligament injury that kept him out for four months, meaning it was not until December 2009 that he got a sustained run in the team. When he did play it was mostly at right-midfield and central-midfield in a 4–5–1 formation, with players such as Ronald Zubar and Richard Stearman by now favoured in Foley's preferred right-back position.

During the 2010–11 season, Foley scored his only Premier League goals, when he netted in consecutive home games, against Bolton then Sunderland, respectively. He made a career-best of 33 top flight appearances, scoring two goals during the campaign as the team narrowly avoided relegation. At the conclusion of the season he signed another contract extension, due to run until summer 2015.

He began the following season but soon had to undergo surgery to treat a long-running ankle problem. Having returned to fitness in January 2012, he was part of the Wolves squad that suffered relegation under Terry Connor.

After a second successive relegation, Foley was rarely used as new manager Kenny Jackett sought to rebuild a new team. In February 2014, Foley agreed a one-month loan with Championship club Blackpool, for whom he made five appearances but was not offered the chance to remain until the end of the season. In November 2014, having not featured for Wolves in the meantime, Foley was again loaned out to Blackpool in a deal that ran until January 2015.

On 12 January 2015, the remainder of Foley's contract with Wolves was cancelled by mutual agreement. In total he made 213 appearances for the club, scoring six goals.

Copenhagen
On 12 January 2015, within hours of confirmation that he had left Wolves, Foley signed a six-months contract with the Danish club F.C. Copenhagen, where he reunited with his former Wolves manager Ståle Solbakken.

In November 2015, after a two-week trial with Shrewsbury Town, Foley began training with Reading with the view to a short-term contract. Foley left Reading without earning a contract.