[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Spirit Lake Tribe

Community College, a tribal college established in the 1970s. The two-year college provides classes in subject areas needed by the reservation and to prepare students for other jobs, as well as strengthening their Dakota culture and language. The radio station KABU 90.7 serves the Spirit Lake tribe.

Spirit Lake Casino and Resort
Since the late 20th century, the tribe has operated various gaming facilities on its reservation to generate revenues for the welfare of its people. The first casino opened in St. Michael, North Dakota with the passage of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act in 1988 when the tribe signed an agreement with the Governor of North Dakota. The first facility initially employed 35 individuals, most of whom were tribal members.  Later, in 1994, the tribe renovated a gymnasium and added a second casino in Tokio, ND. This development created employment for 191 people. The tribe had closed both of those two smaller casinos in 1996 and on June 1, 1996, after a $7 million investment opened the new 49,000 square foot casino at its present location.

The present Spirit Lake Casino and Resort is owned and operated by the tribe and is located in St. Michael, North Dakota. The casino has brought new sources of income and helped to stabilize the tribal economy employing over 300 people with 75% being Native American. It is a multi-story facility comprising 82,000 square feet of Gaming & Entertainment Floor and 112,300 square feet of Resort and Hotel on a remote island connected by a 2-lane highway off of Mission Bay, North Dakota.  After numerous renovations since its opening, it now has almost 150 hotel rooms, a 1,000-seat auditorium, a banquet hall, RV park, gift shop and a four-story aquatic center. In 2011 more job opportunities were added when the Spirit Lake Marina and Spirit Lake Grocery store were added to the grounds of the casino. The marina hosts a fishing tournament every summer.

References

Notes

Sources
Spirit Lake Nation
Treaty of 1867, Sisseton And Wahpeton Bands 
Fact Finder*Spirit Lake Reservation, North Dakota, United States Census Bureau

External links
Spirit Lake Nation, official website
Spirit Lake Casino, official website

Dakota
Federally recognized tribes in the United States
American Indian reservations in North Dakota
Native American tribes in North Dakota