[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# United Nations Disengagement Observer Force

peacekeepers were released by al-Nusra Front rebels on 11 September 2014.

On 13 October 2017, Major General Francis Vib-Sanziri of Ghana was appointed as Head of Mission and Force Commander of UNDOF. He succeeded Major General Jai Shanker Menon of India, whose assignment ended on 30 September 2017.

UNDOF's budget is approved on an annual basis by the UN General Assembly. Its budget for July 2017 – June 2018 was US$57,653,700, representing less than 1% of the UN peacekeeping budget. , there have been 58 fatalities, including one civilian staff, since 1974.

As of March 2021, UNDOF consisted of 1,096 troops provided by Nepal, India, Uruguay, Fiji, Ireland, Ghana, the Czech Republic and Bhutan. The troops are assisted by military observers from UNTSO's Observer Group Golan, along with international and local civilian staff.

Mandate and tasks

Upon establishment, UNDOF's mandate was as follows:

 Maintain the ceasefire between Israel and Syria;
 Supervise the disengagement of Israeli and Syrian forces; and
 Supervise the areas of separation and limitation, as provided in the May 1974 Agreement on Disengagement.

Since 1974, UNDOF's mandate has been renewed every six months, with the most recent extension lasting until 30 June 2021.

In recommending the current extension of the mandate, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon observed that despite the present calm in the Israeli-Syrian ceasefire line, the situation in the Middle East was likely to remain tense. Until a comprehensive settlement was reached, the Secretary-General considered the continued presence of UNDOF in the area to be essential.

Since its inception, UNDOF's tasks have included:
 Overall supervision of the buffer zone
 Monitoring of Syrian and Israeli military presence in the area (from permanent observation posts and by patrols day and night, on foot and motorized)
 Intervention in cases of entry to the separation area by military personnel from either side, or attempted operations
 Bi-weekly inspections of 500 Israeli and Syrian military locations in the areas of limitation on each side to ensure agreed limits of equipment and forces are being followed
 Assistance to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in the passing of mail and people through the area, and in the provision of medical services
 Identifying and marking of minefields
 Promotion of minefield awareness amongst civilians and support of the United Nations Children's Fund activities in this area
 Work to protect the environment and to minimize the impact of UNDOF on the area.

Commanders of the force

See also

 Demilitarized zone
 Mixed Armistice Commissions
 United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
 List of territories governed by the United Nations

References

External links

 
 UNDOF HQ – Camp Faouar

Military units and formations established in 1974
United Nations operations in the Middle East
Yom Kippur War
Golan Heights
Military operations involving India
Syria and the United Nations
Israel and the United Nations