[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Manuele Blasi

o played for the Italian senior national team, for which he debuted on 18 August 2004 in a 2–0 friendly away loss against Iceland, at the age of 24, which was also manager Marcello Lippi's first match in charge of the national side. In total he made eight appearances for Italy between 2004 and 2005.

Style of play
A dynamic, tenacious, combative, and hard-working box-to-box midfielder, with notable stamina, a powerful shot from distance, and good ball-winning abilities, Blasi is a tactically versatile player, who is capable of playing as a right-sided or central midfielder, or even as a defensive midfielder in the centre of a three-man midfield, where his main function is to break down opposition plays and distribute the ball to his teammates. He is also known for his leadership and team spirit, although he has also drawn criticism at times from his managers for committing too many rash fouls and for having a tendency to pick up cards. Primarily a midfielder, throughout his career, he has also played as a right-back on occasion. Due to his technical characteristics and wide range of skills, he has also been deployed as a deep-lying playmaker in midfield, in front of the back-line, courtesy of his good feet, distribution, and ability to switch the play.

Coaching career 
On 12 January 2017, it was announced, that Blasi had joined Italian amateur club CPC 2005 Civitavecchia. However, in September 2017, he was announced as the club's new manager.

On 23 May 2019, Blasi was named manager of the Maltese club of Hamrun Spartans for his first professional experience as a manager. despite reaching the quarter-finals in the Maltese FA Trophy, he has been sacked by the club on the beginning of February 2020.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Chennaiyin FC
 Indian Super League: 2015

References

External links

Player profile on Napoli's official website 
Profile at Football.it 
Profile at La gazzetta dello Sport 
Profile at FIGC 

1980 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Civitavecchia
Italian men's footballers
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Italy men's youth international footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
Italy men's international footballers
AS Roma players
US Lecce players
AC Perugia Calcio players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
Juventus FC players
ACF Fiorentina players
SSC Napoli players
Palermo FC players
Delfino Pescara 1936 players
SSD Varese Calcio players
Chennaiyin FC players
SSD Ischia Calcio players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Serie C players
Indian Super League players
Expatriate men's footballers in India
Men's association football midfielders
Doping cases in association football
Italian sportspeople in doping cases
Footballers from the Metropolitan City of Rome Capital
Ayia Napa FC managers