[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armenia–Greece relations

s have been partners within the framework of international organizations (United Nations, Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, Council of Europe, BSEC), whilst Greece firmly supports the community programs aimed at further developing relations between the European Union and Armenia.

Continuous visits of the highest level have shown that both countries want to continue to improve the levels of friendship and cooperation. The President of Armenia Levon Ter-Petrossian visited Greece in 1996, the President of Greece Costis Stephanopoulos visited Armenia in 1999, the President of Armenia Robert Kocharyan visited Greece in 2000 and 2005. Additionally, the President of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan visited Greece in 2011 and in 2014 Armenia welcomed the Greek President Karolos Papoulias in Yerevan.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, Greece donated 35,000 vaccines to Armenia.

Military cooperation 

Greece is, after Russia, one of the major military partners of Armenia. Armenian officers are trained in Greek military academies, and various technical assistance is supplied by Greece. Since 2003, an Armenian platoon has been deployed in Kosovo as part of KFOR's Greek battalion. In 2011 Armenia's military attaché to Greece and Cyprus, Colonel Samvel Ramazyan, said that the Armenian-Greek military cooperation continues to steadily develop.

On August 31, 2021 Armenia, Greece, and Cyprus signed the Tripartite Defence Cooperation Program. The Program sees all three militaries conduct joint training exercises, sharing of expertise and promoting military cooperation between the three countries.

Armenia and Greece signed a joint defence industry cooperation agreement on August 31, 2023. The agreement covers technology transfers, sharing experience and support for ammunition and explosive ordnance production, establishing joint industries, and researching military-grade products.

Treaties 

Both countries have signed bilateral treaties which include:

Economic, Industrial and Technological Cooperation Agreement (in force since 1 December 1994)
Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments (in force since 28 April 1995)
Cooperation Agreement in the military sector (June 1996)
Agreement on Avoidance of Double Taxation on Income (in force since 13 May 1999)

Diasporas 

Estimates on the size of the Greek community in Armenia range from 1,800 to 5,000. The declining number of Greeks in Armenia in recent years is mainly due to mass migration to Greece from the former Soviet Union and because of Armenia's economic situation as a result of the First Nagorno-Karabakh War. It was further exacerbated by the Leninakan earthquake which in December 1988 struck northwestern Armenia, the area where most of the Greeks used to live. The largest Greek communities are in Yerevan and Alaverdi, followed by Vanadzor, Gyumri, Stepanavan and Noyemberyan.

The Armenian community in Greece is much larger, numbering about 50,000. The number was even higher but migration to North America has caused an evident reduction. The largest Armenian communities are in Athens and Thessaloniki.

Diplomacy

Armenia
Athens (Embassy)
Thessaloniki (Honorary Consulate)

Greece
Yerevan (Embassy)

Country comparison

See also 

 Foreign relations of Armenia
 Foreign relations of Greece
 Armenians in Greece
 Greeks in Armenia
 Armenia–EU relations
 Recognition of the Armenian Genocide

References

External links 
 Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the relation with Armenia

 
Armenia
Greece