[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 215]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

ed
My Sheep; by which was give all Power necessary for a Pastor; as the
Power to chase away Wolves, such as are Haeretiques; the Power to shut
up Rammes, if they be mad, or push at the other Sheep with their Hornes,
such as are Evill (though Christian) Kings; and Power to give the Flock
convenient food: From whence hee inferreth, that St. Peter had these
three Powers given him by Christ. To which I answer, that the last of
these Powers, is no more than the Power, or rather Command to Teach.
For the first, which is to chase away Wolves, that is, Haeretiques, the
place hee quoteth is (Matth. 7.15.) "Beware of false Prophets which
come to you in Sheeps clothing, but inwardly are ravening Wolves."
But neither are Haeretiques false Prophets, or at all Prophets: nor
(admitting Haeretiques for the Wolves there meant,) were the Apostles
commanded to kill them, or if they were Kings, to depose them; but to
beware of, fly, and avoid them: nor was it to St. Peter, nor to any of
the Apostles, but to the multitude of the Jews that followed him into
the mountain, men for the most part not yet converted, that hee gave
this Counsell, to Beware of false Prophets: which therefore if it
conferre a Power of chasing away Kings, was given, not onely to private
men; but to men that were not at all Christians. And as to the Power
of Separating, and Shutting up of furious Rammes, (by which hee meaneth
Christian Kings that refuse to submit themselves to the Roman Pastor,)
our Saviour refused to take upon him that Power in this world himself,
but advised to let the Corn and Tares grow up together till the day of
Judgment: much lesse did hee give it to St. Peter, or can S. Peter give
it to the Popes. St. Peter, and all other Pastors, are bidden to esteem
those Christians that disobey the Church, that is, (that disobey the
Christian Soveraigne) as Heathen men, and as Publicans. Seeing then men
challenge to the Pope no authority over Heathen Princes, they ought to
challenge none over those that are to bee esteemed as Heathen.

But from the Power to Teach onely, hee inferreth also a Coercive Power
in the Pope, over Kings. The Pastor (saith he) must give his flock
convenient food: Therefore the Pope may, and ought to compell Kings to
doe their duty. Out of which it followeth, that the Pope, as Pastor of
Christian men, is King of Kings: which all Christian Kings ought indeed
either to Confesse, or else they ought to take upon themselves the
Supreme Pastorall Charge, every one in his own Dominion.

His sixth, and last Argument, is from Examples. To which I answer,
first, that Examples prove nothing; Secondly, that the Examples he
alledgeth make not so much as a probability of Right. The fact of
Jehoiada, in Killing Athaliah (2 Kings 11.) was either by the Authority
of King Joash, or it was a horrible Crime in the High Priest, which
(ever after the election of King Saul) was a mere Subject. The fact of
St. Ambrose, in Excommunicating Theodosius the Emperour, (if it were
true hee did so,) was a Capitall Crime. And for the Popes, Gregory 1.
Greg. 2. Zachary, and Leo 3. their Judgments are void, as given in their
own Cause; and the Acts done by them conformably to this Doctrine, are
the greatest Crimes (especially that of Zachary) that are incident to
Humane Nature. And thus much of Power Ecclesiasticall; wherein I had
been more briefe, forbearing to examine these Arguments of Bellarmine,
if they had been his, as a Private man, and not as the Champion of the
Papacy, against all other Christian Princes, and States.



CHAPTER XLIII. OF WHAT IS NECESSARY FOR A MANS RECEPTION INTO THE
KINGDOME OF HEAVEN.




The Difficulty Of Obeying God And Man Both At Once

The most frequent praetext of Sedition, and Civill Warre, in Christian
Common-wealths hath a long time proceeded from a difficulty, not yet
sufficiently resolved, of obeying at once, both God, and Man, then
when their Commandements are one contrary to the other. It is manifest
enough, that when a man receiveth two contrary Commands, and knows that
one of them is Gods, he ought to obey that, and not the other, though
it be the command even of his lawfull Soveraign (whether a Monarch, or
a Soveraign Assembly,) or the command of his Father. The difficulty
therefore consisteth in this, that men when they are commanded in the
name of God, know not in divers Cases, whether the command be from God,
or whether he that commandeth, doe but abuse Gods name for some private
ends of his own. For as there ware in the Church of the Jews, many false
Prophets, that sought reputation with the people, by feigned Dreams, and
Visions; so there have been in all times in the Church of Christ, false
Teachers, that seek reputation with the people, by phantasticall and
false Doctrines; and by such reputation (as is the nature of Ambition,)
to govern them for their private benefit.




Is None To Them That Distinguish Between What Is,