[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daepyeong

were recovered at Daepyeong in wide-scope, clearing horizontal excavations. Through detailed and long-term archaeobotanical research, Crawford and Lee of the University of Toronto, Canada discovered the people of Daepyeong had multiple cropping agricultural systems in place even in the Early Mumun.

Late Mumun, Protohistoric, and Korean Three Kingdoms (c. 550 BC - AD 668)
Daepyeong was an important settlement in the Mumun economic system, but as with many simple chiefdoms, it began to decline and then collapsed. The area was likely depopulated at the end of the Late Middle Mumun, c. 550-500 BC. Sangchon-ni may have had an ephemeral Late Mumun occupation, and settlements such as Naechon-ni (DAUM 2001a) appeared in the Korean Proto-historic (c. 300 BC - AD 300/400). Additionally, dry-fields dating to the early Korean Three Kingdoms period have been excavated in Okbang. The area was a part of the Gaya Confederacy during this period, and was later absorbed into the Silla state.

Importance
Daepyeong, a large, complex, and economically important settlement with multiple chronological components, is important for those trying to understand the secondary origins of agriculture in East Asia, the development of complex hunter-gatherers, nucleated settlements, intensive agriculture, incipient social ranking, and simple chiefdoms. This site is on the same scale of archaeological importance as Yoshinogari and Sannai-Maruyama in Japan, and Banpo and Jiangzhai of the Early Chinese Neolithic.

See also
Prehistory of Korea
Bronze Age
Liaoning bronze dagger culture
Megalithic tomb
Igeum-dong site

References

Works cited

Bale, Martin T.
2001   Archaeology of Early Agriculture in Korea: An Update on Recent Developments. Bulletin of the Indo-Pacific Prehistory Association 21(5):77-84. ISSN 0156-1316
Bale, Martin T. and Min-jung Ko
2006   Craft Production and Social Change in Mumun Pottery Period Korea. Asian Perspectives 45(2):159-187.
Crawford, Gary W. and Gyoung-Ah Lee
2003   Agricultural Origins in the Korean Peninsula. Antiquity 77(295):87-95.
DAUM (Dong-A University Museum)
2001a   Jinju Naechon-ni Yujeok (The Excavation Report of Naechon-ri Site, Jinju). University Museum Research Series No. 33. DAUM, Greater Busan.
DAUM (Dong-A University Museum)
2001b   Jinju Sangchon-ni Seonsayujeok (The Excavation Report of Sangchon-ri Site, Jinju). University Museum Research Series No. 34. DAUM, Greater Busan.
GARI (Gyeongnam Archaeological Research Institute)
2002   Jinju Daepyeong Okbang 1 - 9 Jigu Mumunsigae Jibrak (The Mumun Period Settlement at Okbang Localities 1 and 9 in Daepyeong, Jinju). GARI, Jinju.
JNM (Jinju National Museum)
2002   Cheongdonggi Sidae-eui Daepyeong – Daepyeong-in [Daepyeong: Organized Community of the Bronze Age]. Jinju National Museum, Jinju.
NRICH (National Research Institute of Cultural Heritage Korea)
2004   Daepyeong article, in Hanguk Gogohak Jeonmun Sajeon: Cheongdonggisidae Pyeon [Dictionary of Korean Archaeology: Bronze Age]. NRICH, Greater Daejeon, pp. 141-142, .

Archaeological sites in South Korea
Early Korean history
Jinju
Former populated places in South Korea
Buildings and structures in South Gyeongsang Province