[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Va'etchanan

JPS) (honor). To "revere" means that the child must neither stand nor sit in the parent's place, nor contradict the parent's words, nor engage in a dispute to which the parent is a party. To "honor" means that the child must give the parent food and drink and clothes, and take the parent in and out.

Rabbi Tarfon taught that God came from Mount Sinai (or others say Mount Seir) and was revealed to the children of Esau, as  says, "The Lord came from Sinai, and rose from Seir to them," and "Seir" means the children of Esau, as  says, "And Esau dwelt in Mount Seir." God asked them whether they would accept the Torah, and they asked what was written in it. God answered that it included (in  (20:13 in the NJPS) and  (5:17 in the NJPS)), "You shall do no murder." The children of Esau replied that they were unable to abandon the blessing with which Isaac blessed Esau in , "By your sword shall you live." From there, God turned and was revealed to the children of Ishmael, as  says, "He shined forth from Mount Paran," and "Paran" means the children of Ishmael, as  says of Ishmael, "And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran." God asked them whether they would accept the Torah, and they asked what was written in it. God answered that it included (in  (20:13 in the NJPS) and  (5:17 in the NJPS)), "You shall not steal." The children of Ishamel replied that they were unable to abandon their fathers’ custom, as Joseph said in  (referring to the Ishamelites’ transaction reported in ), "For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews." From there, God sent messengers to all the nations of the world asking them whether they would accept the Torah, and they asked what was written in it. God answered that it included (in  (20:3 in the NJPS) and  (5:7 in the NJPS)), "You shall have no other gods before me." They replied that they had no delight in the Torah, therefore let God give it to God's people, as  says, "The Lord will give strength [identified with the Torah] to His people; the Lord will bless His people with peace." From there, God returned and was revealed to the children of Israel, as  says, "And he came from the ten thousands of holy ones," and the expression "ten thousands" means the children of Israel, as  says, "And when it rested, he said, ‘Return, O Lord, to the ten thousands of the thousands of Israel.’" With God were thousands of chariots and 20,000 angels, and God’s right hand held the Torah, as  says, "At his right hand was a fiery law to them."

Chapter 9 of Tractate Sanhedrin in the Mishnah and Babylonian Talmud interpreted the laws of murder in  (20:13 in the NJPS) and  (5:17 in the NJPS). The Mishnah taught that one who intended to kill an animal but killed a person instead was not liable for murder. One was not liable for murder who intended to kill an unviable fetus and killed a viable child. One was not liable for murder who intended to strike the victim on the loins, where the blow was insufficient to kill, but struck the heart instead, where it was sufficient to kill, and the victim died. One was not liable for murder who intended to strike the victim on the heart, where it was enough to kill, but struck the victim on the loins, where it was not, and yet the victim died.

Interpreting the consequences of murder (prohibited in  (5:17 in NJPS) and  (20:13 in NJPS)), the Mishnah taught that God created the first human (Adam) alone to teach that Scripture imputes guilt to one who destroys a single soul of Israel as though that person had destroyed a complete world, and Scripture ascribes merit to one who preserves a single soul of Israel as though that person had preserved a complete world.

The Tanna Devei Eliyahu taught that if you live by the commandment prohibiting murder (in  (20:13 in the NJPS) and  (5:17 in the NJPS)), then (in the words of ) "the sword shall not go through your land." If, however, you transgress the commandment, then (in God's words in ) "I will draw out the sword after you."

Rav Aha of Difti said to Ravina that one can transgress the commandment not to covet in  (5:18 in NJPS) and  (20:14 in NJSP) even in connection with something for which one is prepared to pay.

The Mekhilta of Rabbi Ishmael asked whether the commandment not to covet in  (20:14 in NJSP) applied so far as to prohibit merely expressing one's desire for one's neighbor's things in words. But the Mekhilta noted that  says, "You shall not covet the silver or the gold that is on them, nor take it for yourself." And the Mekhilta reasoned that just as in  the word "covet" applies only to prohibit the carrying out of one's desire into practice, so also  (20:14 in NJSP) prohibits only the carrying out of one's desire into practice.