[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Ilerda

The Battle of Ilerda took place in June 49 BC between the forces of Julius Caesar and the Spanish army of Pompey Magnus, led by his legates Lucius Afranius and Marcus Petreius. Unlike many of the other battles of the civil war, this was more a campaign of manoeuvre than actual fighting. It allowed Caesar to eliminate the threat of Pompey's forces in Hispania and face Pompey himself in Greece at the Battle of Pharsalus (48 BC).

Background
After having driven the Optimates from Italy, in March 49 BC Caesar turned his attention to the Republican army in the Iberian provinces. On his way to Hispania, Caesar was delayed when the port city of Massilia rebelled under the leadership of Lucius Domitius Ahenobarbus in April. Leaving the siege of Massilia to Gaius Trebonius and Decimus Junius Brutus Albinus, Caesar moved to Hispania Citerior to reinforce the three legions he had sent there as an advance guard under his legate Fabius.

Ilerda Campaign
Fabius had taken control of several passes through the Pyrenees and after being reinforced by another three legions had moved into the peninsula. The Pompeians, commanded by Lucius Afranius and Marcus Petreius, encamped on a hill south of the city of Ilerda (Catalan Lleida, Spanish Lérida) in north-east Spain on the western side of the river Sicoris (modern Segre). In this way Afranius and Petreius had access to the land for foraging to the east of the river through the stone bridge by the city, and water. Fabius and his army were east of the Sicoris and decided to construct two new wooden bridges across the river upstream from Ilerda. After finishing his bridges Fabius marched his army across and also encamped on the western bank. Since the Pompeians had stripped the western bank of supplies Fabius had to send foraging parties across the river to supply his army. During these foraging missions the Caesarians fought many skirmishes with the Pompeian cavalry. On one of these missions, just after two of his legions had crossed the river, the bridge they were using was swept away. The wreckage of the bridge floated by Ilerda, and Afranius decided to lead four of his legions and his cavalry across the stone bridge to attack Fabius's isolated two legions. Lucius Plancus, the commander of the two legions, took up a position on a nearby hill, where he was soon attacked. He was only saved by the arrival of Fabius's other two legions, which had crossed the other bridge.

Two days later Caesar arrived at Fabius's camp and took command. Caesar endeavored to camp about 400 paces from the foot of the hill where the Pompeians were encamped. While the Pompeians under Afranius threatened to give battle, Caesar declined, but had his first two lines of troops form up for battle anyway, while the third line was ordered to dig a wide ditch behind the lines, unseen. As night came, Caesar withdrew his army behind the ditch and spent the night under arms.

The next day was spent creating the rest of the ditch and the rampart which would form the defences of Caesar's camp.  For this operation Caesar kept a part of his force on guard. The Pompeian forces were half a mile outside Ilerda, which held much of their supplies, with a small hill between. Caesar decided to try and seize this hill, fortify it and cut the Pompeian position in half. In the midst of the plain there was a portion of rising ground which Caesar wanted to occupy. As he tells it:
Between the city of Ilerda, and the hill where Petreius and Afranius were encamped was a plain of about three hundred paces, in the midst of which was a rising ground, which Caesar wanted to take possession of; because, by that means, he could cut off the enemy's communication with the town and bridge, and render the magazines they had in the town useless.
The contest for this hill led to a protracted battle.

Battle 
Both armies sent detachments towards the hill and the Pompeians occupied it first. This, combined with their skirmish-like combat technique, overwhelmed the Caesarian detachment and his troops were forced to give ground, eventually retreating to safety.