[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vincent Otti

uld not be allowed to speak with anyone until the LRA decided it was appropriate.

The President of Southern Sudan, Salva Kiir Mayardit, said on 7 November 2007 that  Otti's status remained unclear.  The government of Southern Sudan has sent a team to the Congolese border to investigate Otti's fate.

The government newspaper New Vision reported on 22 November, based on statements from LRA defectors, that Otti had been executed by firing squad, along with "many others", on 2 October. Defectors said that he had asked Kony to allow him to speak to his son before his execution. "To strengthen Kony's spirit", Otti's body was said to not have been buried for three days after his death. Defectors also claimed Otti had been killed because of his enthusiasm for peace, thus raising questions about Kony's commitment to the peace negotiations. On 21 December 2007 a diplomatic briefing claimed that Otti was executed on 2 October 2007 at Kony's home. According to this account, when Otti arrived there he found that the home was surrounded by Kony's guards, and before entering he made a phone call to Kony due to his concern about this, but was reassured by Kony. Inside the house, however, LRA commanders held Otti at gunpoint and told him that he was arrested; he was then bound, blindfolded and taken outside, where he was shot, despite his pleas for mercy. Kony subsequently claimed that Otti had received foreign funds and was trying to kill him. On 23 January 2008, Kony stated that Otti was dead, without giving details.

, the ICC considered the evidence for Otti's death insufficient, citing the lack of a body, a death certificate and direct witnesses.

Notes and references

External links
 Interview with Vincent Otti, LRA second in command, IRIN, June 2007
 Vincent Otti on Interpol`s List of Wanted Persons

Lord's Resistance Army rebels
People indicted by the International Criminal Court
People indicted for crimes against humanity
People indicted for war crimes
2007 deaths
Year of birth uncertain