[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elliott School of International Affairs

Resolution, Comparative Political, Economic & Social Systems, Contemporary Cultures & Societies, International Development Studies, International Economics, and International Environmental Resources. Regional concentrations include Africa, Asia, Europe & Eurasia, Latin America, and the Middle East.

Graduate programs
The School offers Master of Arts degrees in a variety of fields. There are two main categories of fields of study:
 Functional studies degrees:
 Master of Global Communications
 Master of International Affairs
 Master of International Development Studies
 Master of International Science & Technology Policy
 Master of Security Policy Studies
 Master of International Economic Policy
 Regional studies degrees:
 Master of Asian Studies
 Master of European & Eurasian Studies
 Master of Latin American & Hemispheric Studies
 Master of Middle East Studies

There are also two special programs besides the Master of Arts. One is for mid-career professionals, called a Master of International Policy and Practice (MIPP), while the other is a Master of International Studies (MIS) granted to graduate students attending Elliott School academic partner institutions abroad.

Joint and dual degrees

There are also three joint and dual-degrees programs. The Elliott School and the School of Business offer a Master of Arts and Master of Business Administration program, while it partners with the Law School to grant a Master of Arts and Juris Doctor. The third program is a Master of Arts and Master of Public Health, in partnership with George Washington's School of Public Health and Health Services.

Certificates
Global Gender Policy
International Science and Technology Policy
Nuclear Policy Studies

International studies
The school runs an independent study abroad program for its graduate students. As a part of its internationally focused education, it encourages graduate students to add an international component to their studies by living in a foreign country. The school believes that the experience is a key part of an education in international affairs because it increases understanding of the world by providing students with a variety of new and unexpected perspectives. The program functions as bilateral partnerships with a number of schools.

The undergraduate students also have the option of studying abroad during their time at the Elliott School. However, the undergraduate program utilizes GW's university-wide study abroad system. Thanks to that, these students have access to nearly 250 study abroad programs.

Reputation and rankings

Foreign Policy ranked the Elliott School as being the 8th in the Top U.S. Undergraduate Institutions to Study International Relations 2018.

Foreign Policy ranked the Elliott School's Master in International Affairs as the 7th best in the world in its 2018 Inside the Ivory Tower annual report.

In 2009, a study carried out by researchers at the College of William and Mary found that the Elliott School had the 8th best terminal master's program in the world for those interested in policy careers in international affairs.

Foreign Policy ranked the Elliott School's doctoral programs as the 17th best in the world, out of 54 schools, in its 2018 Inside the Ivory Tower annual report.

QS World University Rankings listed the Elliott School in the "Politics & International Affairs" category as the 27th best school in the world, out of 201 schools.

The Elliott School's Master in International Affairs is ranked the best in the United States in MastersStudies' Best Masters Programs in International Affairs in the United States 2018.

NPSIA is a member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs (APSIA), a group of public policy, public administration and international affairs schools.

Research

As an integral part of its academic focus and mission, the Elliott School runs a large number of research institutes in a variety of issues. 
All are run by experts in their respective fields, who lead each institution's research initiatives, conferences, lectures, discussions and other activities.

The Elliott School is home to 10 research centers and institutes, that provide an institutional framework for scholars working in regional and topical fields of study, while more than 25 initiatives connect cross-curricular faculty and research to address critical global issues.

Centers and institutes, alongside research initiatives and projects, form Elliott School's scholarly and research arm, which seeks to advance understanding of important global issues and engaging the public and the policy community, both in the United States and internationally.

The Institute for International Economic Policy (IIEP) is one of the Elliott School's premier research institutes, collaborating with organizations like the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund frequently, which are both headquartered across the street from the Elliott School.