[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Margaret Nagle

xas prison, was produced in 2015 by Bron, Kristin Hahn and Jennifer Aniston.

Nagle is currently writing a script for Maven Pictures about the life of Clementine Churchill. She is also developing a series of Tom Wolfe's classic book, "Bonfire of the Vanities" with Chuck Lorre and Warner Brothers TV.

Personal
Nagle's paternal descent is Irish. Nagle is named after her great aunt, modern dance pioneer Margaret Newell H'Doubler. Nagle, who has a brother with a brain injury from a car accident, is actively involved in furthering rights and visibility for people with disabilities and is on the board of United Cerebral Palsy of Southern California. Nagle recently received the Media Access Award from the Writers Guild of America for through her work "doubling the number" of people on network TV with disabilities. Her acceptance speech at the 9 am award show was a highlight.

Awards/Nominations
Won 2015 Writers Guild of America Paul Selvin Award for The Good Lie.
Won 2015 Jonathan Daniels Award from the Monadnock International Film Festival for The Good Lie.
Won 2014 Writers Guild of America Evan Somers Media Access Award for body of work.
Won Writers Guild of America Award for Best New Show 2011 for Boardwalk Empire.
Won the Television Academy Honors 2007 award for One hour Series writing/producing for "Side Order of Life"along with Dick Wolf for "Law and Order"  and David Kelley for "Boston Legal."
Won the Writers Guild Award for Best Original Television Movie 2006 for Warm Springs.
Nominated for the Emmy Award for Best One Hour Series for Television 2011 for Boardwalk Empire.
Nominated for the Emmy Award for Best Writing of a Television Movie 2005 for Warm Springs.
Nominated for the Humanitas Award in 2006 for Warm Springs.
Nominated for the Pen Award 2006 for Best TV movie for Warm Springs.

References

External links
 

American film producers
American television producers
American women television producers
Writers Guild of America Award winners
American women screenwriters
Living people
American women television writers
1961 births
21st-century American women