[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ralph Milne

a title-winning side two years after joining United, but had seen his side finish second in the league the previous season and now they were on a winless run in the league that saw them mid-table. Ferguson selected Milne on the left wing as Gordon Strachan was already established on the right wing.

Milne managed three goals in 22 league appearances in 1988–89. The first was a 20-yard volley on 3 December 1988 in a 3–0 home win over former club Charlton Athletic, which ended United's nine-match winless run (eight draws and a defeat) in the First Division. He also scored on Boxing Day in a 2–0 win over Nottingham Forest at Old Trafford. The following week, Milne played what he felt was his best game in a Manchester United jersey in a 3–1 New Year's victory over rivals Liverpool. However, they were unable to maintain their form and finished 11th in the league after winning only three of their last 14 league games. Milne scored his third and final United goal on 25 March 1989 in a 2–0 home win over Luton Town, once again in the league.

In September 1989, Ferguson signed left-winger Danny Wallace from Southampton. Wallace was not a particularly successful buy for United, and was soon himself struggling to hold down a place in the first team, but the progression of Lee Sharpe meant that Milne was forced out of the first team picture at Old Trafford in 1989–90, making one substitute appearance in the league. During that season, as United struggled in the league but won the FA Cup, Milne was loaned out to Lou Macari's West Ham United, where he made the final appearance of his career in a League Cup tie on 24 January 1990 away to Derby County at the age of 28. His season was ended shortly afterwards after he picked up groin injury that required surgery. Despite being given a new one-year contract he began missing reserve team games during the 1990–91 season and instead spent his time drinking.

Milne has been described as Ferguson's and even as Manchester United's worst signing, despite his low transfer fee. Ferguson defended the signing by pointing out Milne's contribution to the development of Lee Sharpe, who was playing left-back at the time. Ferguson remarked that Milne helped Sharpe by both dropping back to protect Sharpe and by giving him positional advice. Milne remained on United's payroll until 30 June 1991, when he was released.

Sing Tao
Milne had unsuccessful trials with Turkish club MKE Ankaragücü and Danish side Esbjerg fB in 1991. Later in the year he travelled to Hong Kong to play for Sing Tao SC. He spent a year there, helping the club to finish fourth in the First Division in 1991–92, before he rejected the offer of a new contract and instead returned to Britain. He had a trial spell at Derry City before quitting football at the age of 32.

International career
Milne made his debut for the Scotland under-21 side on 8 September 1981 at the age of 20, when he on came as a substitute for Alan Brazil during a 4–0 win over Sweden in Edinburgh. He made a further two appearances for the under-21 side as an overage player in the autumn of 1983, playing against Belgium (0–0 at Dundee) and East Germany (1–1 at Jena, East Germany). He was never capped for the senior team, and has been cited as one of the best Scottish footballers not to win a full senior cap. According to Milne himself the Scotland manager Jock Stein intended to take him on a warm-up tour to the United States, but was told not to by McLean, for which Milne never forgave him.

Style of play
Milne was naturally right-footed, though trained hard with his left foot as a boy to become equally skilled with both feet. Former Dundee United teammate Paul Hegarty stated that Milne possessed great pace, as well as bravery, a good work ethic, and an ability to score important goals. Another former Dundee United teammate, Davie Dodds, said that Milne was as good a finisher as any player in Scottish football during the 1980s.

Jim McLean, Milne's manager at Dundee United, summed up Milne's career and footballing ability when writing his autobiography:

"If I had an outstanding failure then it was Ralph Milne. He should have been playing in World Cups. He should have won a bundle of Scotland international honours. It was a tragedy that that boy was not playing for his country all the time. He had tremendous talent – and I failed with him. He did not have the right attitude to the game and I could not instil that into him."

Personal life
He was married to Kim from 1985 to 1988, and the couple had a son, Bradley. He also had a son, Robert, with new partner Lee in 1990. The relationship with Lee ended after ten years. In 2005, he began a relationship with Fiona Spence, 19 years his junior, who stayed with Milne for over eight years despite admitting that Milne regularly beat her.