[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moose in the City

e moose from nearby buildings. By 29 May, the moose was entirely removed from the spot.

In an August interview, Cohon commented "I don't like to talk about all the vandalism. I never expected people would damage them. It's unfortunate, but it's sort of a thing of the past. It seems to be over now."

Outside of Toronto
Lost Moose, one of the statues sponsored by BMW, was moved to Whitby to avoid the vandalism in Toronto, stationed at the entrance of Iroquois Park. During the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia, Aline Chretien officially opened a bar on Cockle Bay Wharf, to try and shake "Canada's reputation as a slightly dull—if clean and safe—place." Featured was vodka-based "moose juice", and Lastman was expected to appear. A few moose from the Moose in the City program were displayed in Darling Harbour, just west of the downtown, at "Moose Lodge". One eventually made its way to Bermuda. One of the Moose, the Tourist moose, ended up at 1405 Denison Street outside an industrial building in Markham, Ontario.

Related events
On 7 September, the United Way held a Running of the Moose event where the sculptures were raced up and down Bay Street, raising $39,600. Initial publicity had mentioned that they hoped to raise $50,000. The mayor credited his wife, Marilyn, with the idea of the event. "When she told me about it, I couldn't control myself! I said, 'Marilyn! This is the greatest idea ever! It's phenomenal!" Cohon and Lastman were dressed as matadors at the event, and the moose in the race were solid red, yellow, green, blue, or purple, not the actual ones on display.

In August, a moose calling event was held near Yonge and Bloor Streets, with judges including a two-time world champion, and contestants including George Smitherman. The Toronto Santa Claus Parade included a variety of new floats in 2000, including one based on Moose in the city. Cavalcade of Lights in Nathan Phillips Square included a special Holiday Moose on the Square, presented by Labatt Blue.

Reception
A Toronto Star poll in July found only 53.5% liked the moose. After a few months, the public received the moose with more openness. An Ipsos-Reid poll for the Globe and Mail and CFRB asked agreement to the statement "I like the 'moose in the city' campaign and think something similar should be repeated next year' drew 57% yes response, 39% no, and 4% "don't know". In comparison, only 54% felt Lastman's performance handling amalgamation was worth an A or B grade.

Commercial influence
In response to suggestions the moose were no more than corporate billboards, Cohon noted no more than 10 have logos on them; Christopher Hume questioned the validity of that assertion. Supporting sponsors like Coca-Cola were allowed "enhanced corporate identity." Participants had to follow rules on the amount of corporate presence each moose could have, rules found too restrictive by the National Hockey League and NHLPA, which did not participate. Hume noted irony in the fact that, during the Art Gallery of Ontario launch of the moose in March, Lastman touted "what exposure ... five months of advertising for your business."

As an emblem of Lastman

On Lastman's announcement that he would run again in 2000, criticism returned. "Instead of going from photo op to photo op unveiling moose, he's going to have to take on the real concerns," stated John Nunziata, then an independent MP. When endorsing Tooker Gomberg for mayor, the Ontario Public Service Employees Union Region 5 highlighted what they felt was Lastman's choice of moose over the homeless.

"He never stops talking about the moose, as though they were the highlight of his first three years in office." Globe columnist John Barber saw Toronto's attitude towards the moose as a sign of their complacency, while a Star guest writer suggested that the city has become "a place that cares more about spectacle and cheap visual thrills than it does about its citizens." Lastman's priorities were scorned even by an underfunded candidate, Enza Anderson.

Auction and legacy
By October, city officials were considering what they'd present the next year, with unicorns, air hockey tables, and UFOs on their list. In 2011, there was a similar snowman project, benefiting Starlight Children's Foundation Canada.

Expectations for the auction were to raise $25,000 on some moose.

See also
 Visit Nepal 2020, an advertising campaign featuring similarly decorated Yeti

References

Further reading
 
Winston Atwood Bronnum (Canadian original moose sculptor 1 March 1929 to 10 September 1991) Cow Bay Moose, Spring of 1959  Silver Sands Beach, Nova Scotia NB

External links
 

Public art in Toronto
Outdoor sculptures in Canada
Painted statue public art
2000 sculptures
Animal sculptures in Canada
Sculptures of deer
Vandalized works of art in Canada