[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Khmer Rouge Tribunal

ation to the VSS since its official recognition as an organ of the ECCC. The financial assistance went primarily towards legal representation for the victims, effective legal participation, and information dissemination. Germany donated in total 1.9 million euro to the VSS.

Office of Administration

The Office of Administration oversaw the Budget and Finance, Information and Communication Technology, Security and Safety, General Services, Public Affairs, and Personnel units of the ECCC and was responsible for supporting and facilitating the judicial process through the effective, efficient and coordinated provision of services. The office was also responsible for managing the ECCC's relationships with UNAKRT donors.

Directors of the Office of Administration
 Kranh Tony, Acting Director
 Knut Røsandhaug, Deputy Director

Budget and Finance:
The Budget and Finance sections were charged with the financial management and disbursement of the ECCC. Donations were managed through these offices and disbursed accordingly, and any budget adjustments and financial reports were put forth by these offices.

Court Management:
The Court Management section of the Office of Administration was responsible for running the Witness and Expert Support Unit, the Transcription Unit in charge of recording the Court's proceedings, the Translation and Interpretation Unit, the Audio Visual Unit and the Library unit, which provided lawyers and other persons in the court with access to research material to aid them in their proceedings. The Court Management Section was responsible for running these offices in order to ensure the functionality of the judicial process of the ECCC and securing the necessary means for documentation of the process.

General Services:
The General Services Unit was responsible for any logistical needs of the court, both national and international and therefore included the Building Unit, Travel Unit, Transport Unit, Asset Management Unit, Supply Unit, Mail and Pouch Unit and the Procurement Unit.

Information and Communication Technology:
The Information and Communication Technology section was responsible for maintaining a secure network for the ECCC as well as providing and maintaining equipment necessary for ECCC staff.

Personnel:
The Personnel section contained both national and international sections.  They were in charge of all human resources needs including developing and maintaining policies, procedures and manuals for personnel conduct, and providing administrative management to personnel and staff information to the Office of Administration as a whole.

Public Affairs:
The Public Affairs section was responsible for all ECCC public relations needs including outreach and information, media relations and the distribution audio/visual recordings of the trials.

Security and Safety:
The Security and Safety section was responsible for any security needs of the ECCC and protection of personnel and the Court's perimeter.

Jurisdiction and applicable law
The Law on the Establishment of the Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia for the Prosecution of Crimes Committed During the Period of Democratic Kampuchea established the crimes over which the Court has jurisdiction. It had jurisdiction over certain crimes that violate the 1956 Penal Code of Cambodia, crimes under the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, general crimes against humanity, crimes under the Geneva Conventions (war crimes), crimes under the Hague Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict, and crimes under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. If found guilty, criminals could be sentenced to prison or have their property confiscated. The Court, as with all other tribunals established by the United Nations, didn't have the power to impose the death penalty. Five people had been indicted by the Court for genocide, crimes against humanity and/or war crimes. Three had been convicted and all sentenced to life imprisonment.

Victims' role
Victims of the Khmer Rouge were defined as "any person or legal entity who has suffered from physical, psychological, or material harm as a direct consequence of the crimes committed in Cambodia by the Democratic Kampuchea regime between 17 April 1975 and 6 January 1979 that are under the jurisdiction of the ECCC". The rights provided to the victims in regards to the ECCC were stated in the Cambodian Law under the Internal Rules of the ECCC. Victims had the opportunity to actively participate in judicial proceedings through Complaints and Civil Parties, and they could seek collective and moral reparation.

The victims' role was crucial since the tribunal was an important mechanism for them to cope with their trauma. “The tribunal facilitates reconciliation and at the same time provides an opportunity for Cambodians to come to terms with their history,” ECCC spokesman Neth Pheaktra said in an interview with D+C.