[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Brookwood Labor College

2009.
Stolberg, Mary M. Bridging the River of Hatred: The Pioneering Efforts of Detroit Police Commissioner George Edwards. Detroit: Wayne State University Press, 2002.
Storch, Randi. Working Hard for the American Dream: Workers and Their Unions, World War I to the Present. Chichester, West Sussex, U.K.: John Wiley & Sons, 2013.
Tracy, James. Direct Action: Radical Pacifism From the Union Eight to the Chicago Seven. Chicago, Ill.: University of Chicago Press, 1996.
Tyler, Gus. Look for the Union Label: A History of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union. Armonk, N.Y.: M.E. Sharpe, 1995.
Weinberg, Carl R. "Brophy, John." In Encyclopedia of U.S. Labor and Working-Class History. Vol. 1. Eric Arnesen, ed. New York: CRC Press, 2007.
Weir, Robert E. "Labor Colleges." In Workers in America: A Historical Encyclopedia. Santa Barbara, Calif.: ABC-CLIO, 2013.
Williams, Jay. Stage Left. New York: Scribner's 1974.
Wolfe, Margaret Ripley. "Eleanor Cooperhaver Anderson and the Industrial Department of the National Board YWCA: Toward a New Social Order in Dixie." In The Human Tradition in the New South. James C. Klotter, ed. Lanham, Md.: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 2005.
Wong, Susan Stone. "Cohn, Fannia Mary." In Notable American Women: The Modern Period: A Biographical Dictionary. Barbara Sicherman, Carol Hurd Green, Ilene Kantrov, and Harriet Walker, eds. Cambridge: The Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1980.

Further reading
Altenbaugh, Richard J. Education for Struggle: The American Labor Colleges of the 1920s and 1930s. Philadelphia, Pa.: Temple University Press, 1990.
Bloom, Jonathan D. "Brookwood Labor College." In Contributions in Economics and Economic History, #31: The Re-Education of the American Working Class. Steven H. London, ed. Westport, Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1990.
Howlett, Charles F. Brookwood Labor College and the Struggle for Peace and Social Justice in America. Lewiston, N.Y. Edwin Mellen Press, 1993.

External links
Brookwood Labor College Records, 1921-1937. Archives of Labor and Urban Affairs. Walter P. Reuther Library. Wayne State University.
Brookwood Labor College Records: Mark and Helen Norton Starr Papers, 1917-1972. Archives of Labor and Urban Affairs. Walter P. Reuther Library. Wayne State University.
Brookwood Labor College: Pamphlets and Documents. Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation and Archives. Martin P. Catherwood Library. Cornell University.
Muste, A.J. "My Experience in the Labor and Radical Struggles of the Thirties." Speech of February 9, 1966. American Archive Pilot Project. Illinois Public Media.
Larry Rogin papers at the University of Maryland libraries. Rogin was an instructor at Brookwood Labor College and his papers contain class lectures, course outlines for instruction, and other materials from his time teaching at Brookwood Labor College.

Defunct private universities and colleges in New York (state)
Labor schools
Universities and colleges established in 1921
Educational institutions disestablished in 1937
1921 establishments in New York (state)
1937 disestablishments in New York (state)