[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pi Gamma Mu

, which substantially increases its focus on one or more areas, such as membership or activities. Each of the three listed chapter awards are conferred by the board of trustees after assessing the annual chapter reports with focus on their service, service projects, procedures and yearly activities.

The Guest Lectureship Program of Pi Gamma Mu exists for the purpose of advancing social science interaction and serves as a memorial to deceased officers of the society. Active chapters are eligible to apply for lectureship funds of $300.00 each year to cover the honoraria of guest lecturers. The topic of the lecture must be related to one or more of the fields within the scope of Pi Gamma Mu as defined by its constitution. The lecturer should have special qualifications and must be a guest, not a member, of the local faculty, administration or staff of a sheltering college or university.

Publications
Membership in Pi Gamma Mu also serves as a valued opportunity to publish in a scholarly journal. The International Social Science Review is a juried and indexed social science interdisciplinary journal which is available online free of charge to any individual or institution. Social scientists in the United States and abroad contribute articles and book reviews to the publication. Pi Gamma Mu members are encouraged to submit manuscripts to be considered for publication.

The Pi Gamma Mu Newsletter was first published in 1978. It reaches members five times a year and contains pictures and news of the programs and activities of the international society and its chapters. Reports of trustee meetings and conventions are included as well as announcements and items of interest. Contributions for the Newsletter go to headquarters operations.

Symbols and ideals

 Motto 
The motto of the society is the epigram of the Master Teacher, “Cognoscetis veritatem et veritas vos liberabit” (Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall set you free). It is traditionally recited during the initiation ceremonies for new members.

 Key 
The society’s gold key (shown above) has a wreath at the bottom to suggest that social science is the outgrowth and fulfillment of natural science. The running figure is reminiscent of the ancient Greek torch race and symbolizes humanity bringing knowledge to the solution of its own problems and passing on the light from generation to generation. The detail of the Greek torch is illustrated below. In the key are engraved the Greek letters Pi Gamma Mu and 1924, its founding year. Colors 
The official colors are royal blue and white - for truth and light. These are also the colors of the candles used during the initiation ceremonies and the honor cords or stoles worn at graduation (also shown above). Flower 
The official flower is the blue and white cineraria. Flag 
The redesigned blue flag (shown above) depicts a man and a woman jointly holding the torch of knowledge within the symbolic gold key and wreath of Pi Gamma Mu.
  RitualAn official ritual, for the most part dating back to 1925, has been adopted for optional use in initiating new members (photo), inaugurating officers, and installing new chapters.The Seven IdealsPart of the initiation and installation rituals is the declaration of the seven ideals of Pi Gamma Mu: Scholarship, Science, Social Science, Social Idealism, Sociability, Social Service, and Sacrifice.

Governance

The present constitution of the society provides for triennial conventions, with each chapter eligible to send a delegation. The convention is vested with the supreme authority of the society. During the convention, delegates elect two student representatives to the board of trustees, which exercises administrative power between conventions.

Members of the board of trustees are elected by the chapters for three-year terms to coincide with each triennium. The president of the society provides leadership to the board and executes the policies of the convention and the board. There is a vice-president for chapter development and another one for scholarships and awards. Four chancellors oversee regions made up of several provinces. Regional chancellors assume responsibility for liaison between the international organization and the chapters in their respective regions. The provinces are headed by governors who lend support and assistance to the collegiate chapters under their jurisdiction. As the situation warrants, the president shall appoint governors and vice-chancellors who hold office for three years or until their successors are chosen.