[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Office of the Pardon Attorney

nson pardoned Samuel Mudd in 1869. Mudd was imprisoned because he treated John Wilkes Booth's leg after Booth assassinated President Lincoln in 1865. This crime was not very serious, considering Mudd claimed he was unaware of Booth's actions at the time and he was doing what his profession entailed.

Lastly, referrals and recommendations from people in powerful positions like politicians, attorneys, judges, and even victims are looked over carefully to decide if an individual is worthy of a pardon. A controversial pardon was President Bill Clinton pardoning his half-brother, Roger Clinton Jr., for cocaine possession and trafficking convictions.

Posthumous pardons 
Posthumous pardons are rare because it is generally Department of Justice policy to not accept requests for non-living persons. This is due to the limited resources and personnel at the Department of Justice, and cases involving living persons take precedence over those who are deceased. The same procedure and reasoning are applied to clemency applications for federal misdemeanors, giving precedent to cases involving federal felony convictions. This structure is designed to allow the DOJ to devote its time to those who will receive the greatest benefit from Federal clemency. Only Presidents Clinton, George W. Bush, and Trump have granted posthumous pardons.

Steps and process 
The Office of the Pardon Attorney handles all and every clemency related correspondence and issue, including petitions and applications. This involves several steps. The Office receives and reviews clemency correspondences, and investigates applications along with the files sent with them to make more valid the petitioner's plea for pardoning. It then prepares a recommendation for each application, and sends it to the president for his final decision as to whether or not to grant a pardon.

For 125 years, the key adviser to the president on clemency has been the Department of Justice's Office of the Pardon Attorney (PARDON) which normally reviews all requests for pardons.

Based on government data, lawyers, advocates for criminal justice advocates, and former officials from both the White House and pardon, President Trump regularly bypassed the pardon attorney, according to a 2020 investigation by The Washington Post. Unlike previous presidents, Trump has granted clemency to "well-connected offenders who had not filed petitions with the pardon office or did not meet its requirements."

References

Further reading

External links
 

Clemency in the United States
United States Department of Justice agencies