[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Thomas L. Kane

of the Army of the Potomac, George Gordon Meade, and rose from his sickbed to join his men. On a difficult ride by railroad and buggy, he avoided capture by Maj. Gen. J.E.B. Stuart's cavalry by disguising himself as a civilian. He arrived at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, on the morning of July 2, 1863.

Kane resumed command of his brigade, occupying a position on Culp's Hill, the right of the Union line. His men did not participate in the bloody fighting of July 2 because his division, commanded by Maj. Gen. John W. Geary, was pulled out of the line and sent to defend against Confederate attacks on the Union left. (Due to bad navigation by Geary, the column took a wrong turn and never did reach the fighting that day.) However, when his men returned to their hastily constructed breastworks on Culp's Hill that night, they found Confederate soldiers occupying them and Kane's corps commander ordered an assault for early the next morning to regain the position. Before the Union attack could be launched on July 3, the Confederates struck first, and Kane and his men met and repulsed them. During the action Kane fell ill, and the brigade's second-in-command, Colonel George A. Cobham, Jr., actively assisted in command. Although his brigade was victorious, Kane was a broken man and never recovered his health. He suffered from his festering facial wound, lingering chest problems, and impaired vision. He formally relinquished command the next day. He was then posted to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where he supervised the draft depot. As he failed to recover his health, Kane resigned his commission on November 7, 1863. For his service at Gettysburg, he was named Brevet major general on March 13, 1865.

Later life and death
After the Civil War, Kane and his wife moved to the frontier in western Pennsylvania, eventually owning over  of timberland on which oil and gas were later discovered. Kane, whose father had been the attorney who incorporated the Pennsylvania Railroad, laid out railroad routes in that area and located the low summit over which the Philadelphia and Erie Railroad crosses the Alleghenies. Kane was involved in founding the community of Kane, Pennsylvania. Kane acted as a director of the Sunbury and Erie Railroad. He had served as secretary at the United States legation in Paris in 1842–1843. He was the first president of the Board of State Charities, and a member of the American Philosophical, American Geographical, and Pennsylvania Historical Societies. He was a Freemason. His later years were spent in charitable work and writing. He died of pneumonia in Philadelphia and is buried in Kane, Pennsylvania.

Legacy and memorials
Kane County, Utah was named for Thomas L. Kane, as was the Kanesville Tabernacle in Council Bluffs, Iowa. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints maintains as a historic site the Thomas L. Kane Memorial Chapel, in Kane, Pennsylvania, in recognition of Kane's friendship and assistance. Kane was a founder of the Borough and is buried in the chapel. In addition, a bronze statue of Thomas L. Kane is displayed in Utah's Capitol Building, identified as a "Friend of the Mormons".  An area of the Hooper Ward, in northeast Hooper, Utah was divided off and was named Kanesville in honor of Thomas L. Kane.  The area was known as Kanesville which was later incorporated into Hooper, Utah and Farr West, Utah.  A stone and bronze memorial stands behind a church building with his likeness.

Publications

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)
 Thomas L. Kane Memorial Chapel

References

Bibliography
 Allen, James B.; Glen M. Leonard.  The Story of the Latter-day Saints.  Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City UT, 1976.  .
 Bowen, Norman R., editor. A Gentile Account of Life in Utah's Dixie, 1872–73, Elizabeth Kane's St. George Journal.  Tanner Trust Fund, University of Utah Library, Salt Lake City UT, 1995. .
 Eicher, John H., and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands, Stanford University Press, 2001, .
 Grow, Matthew J.  "Liberty to the Downtrodden": Thomas L. Kane, Romantic Reformer.  Yale University Press, New Haven CT, 2009.
 Holmes, Gail. "Kane, Thomas Leiper" The Biographical Dictionary of Iowa. University of Iowa Press, 2009. 
 Kane, Elizabeth Wood, with Everett L. Cooley, editor, Twelve Mormon Homes:  Visited in Succession on a Journey through Utah to Arizona.  Tanner Trust Fund, University of Utah Library, Salt Lake City UT, 1974 [1874].  OCLC 1499817.
 Ludlow, Daniel H., editor. Church History, Selections from the Encyclopedia of Mormonism.  Deseret Book Co., Salt Lake City UT, 1995.  .
 Thomas L. Kane Papers.  Held by the American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia PA. Facsimile copies held by the Special Collections Department, University of Utah Library.
 Tagg, Larry, The Generals of Gettysburg, Savas Publishing, 1998, .
 Tyler, Daniel. A Concise History of the Mormon Battalion in the Mexican War, 1846-1847.  Salt Lake City, 1881.

External links