[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 29]
# List of coups and coup attempts

including former Crown Prince Hamzah bin Hussein, for involvement in an attempted coup.
2021 Malian coup d'état: On 24 May, the president, prime minister, and defense minister of Mali were detained by the military.
2021 Guinean coup d'état: On 5 September, military forces of Guinea lead by Mamady Doumbouya, invaded the presidential palace and arrested the president.
September 2021 Sudanese coup d'état attempt: On 21 September, officials and troops loyal to ousted leader Omar al-Bashir attempted a coup against the Sovereignty Council of Sudan.
 October–November 2021 Sudanese coup d'état: On 25 October, the military forces of Sudan launched a successful coup against the government. The prime minister Abdalla Hamdok was arrested, the government was dissolved and a state of emergency was declared by Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. Hamdok was later reinstated in November but resigned in 2022 amid continuing protests.
 2021 Ukrainian coup d'état attempt: In November 2021, top Ukrainian government officials outlined allegations of a plot to overthrow the government of Ukraine which was to take place in early December. The coup plot was allegedly orchestrated by Russia. Some months later, Russia launced an invasion of Ukraine, with the toppling of the Ukrainian government being one of its objectives.

2022 

 January 2022 Burkina Faso coup d'état: In late January, the Burkinabé military staged a coup against Roch Marc Christian Kaboré.
 2022 Guinea-Bissau coup d'état attempt: A coup d'état was attempted in Guinea-Bissau on 1 February 2022. President Umaro Sissoco Embalo said that "many" members of the security forces had been killed in a "failed attack against democracy".
2022 Ukrainian coup d'état attempt: Russian intelligence agency FSB and recruited ATO veterans were set to take control of various Ukrainian cities, install pro-Russian leaders in them and transfer those cities to the Russian army during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. However, as plans for coup were discovered by Ukrainian authorities, people who were set to participate in it were detained by SBU.
September 2022 Burkina Faso coup d'état: A coup d'état took place in Burkina Faso on 30 September 2022, removing Interim President Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba over his alleged inability to deal with the country's Islamist insurgency. Damiba had come to power in a coup d'état just eight months earlier. Captain Ibrahim Traoré took over as interim leader.
2022 São Tomé and Príncipe coup d'état attempt: The 2022 São Tomé and Príncipe coup d'état attempt was an attempted coup d'état that is reported to have taken place on the island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe overnight on 24–25 November 2022.
2022 German coup d'état plot: On 7 December 2022, 25 members of a suspected far-right terrorist group were arrested for allegedly planning a coup d'état in Germany. The group, called  (), which was led by a Council (), was a part of the German far-right extremist Reichsbürger movement. The group aimed to re-establish a monarchist government in Germany in the tradition of the German Reich, with the government being similar to the German Empire. The group allegedly wanted to provoke chaos and a civil war in Germany so that it could take power.
2022 Peruvian self-coup attempt: On 7 December 2022, the left-wing President of Peru Pedro Castillo attempted to dissolve the Congress in the face of imminent impeachment proceedings by the legislative body, which would have been the third impeachment attempt against the President in less than 2 years. Due to broadly interpreted wording in the 1993 Constitution of Peru, the Congress can impeach the President of Peru for "moral incapacity", among other causes, while the president can legally dissolve congress only if two cabinets have been denied a vote of confidence.