[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kerry and Kay Danes

ublications
Kay Danes has published several memoirs based on her own personal experiences and observations. Her second memoir Nightmare in Laos : The True Story of a Woman Imprisoned in a Communist Gulag.Kay Danes has mentioned suffering from diagnosed Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).

Memoirs

Afghanistan
In October / November 2008, while Warrant Officer Kerry Danes was on a tour of duty with the Australian Army, his wife Kay took the opportunity to visit Afghanistan from Australia and travel in a Toyota Hiace van through war-torn countryside as part of a small group of five mixed-gender Rotarians under United States Marine Corps protection. In 2009, Kay Danes was named Citizen of the Year in her hometown. The following year, she published her fifth memoir Beneath the Pale Blue Burqa: One Woman's Journey Through Taliban Strongholds. Chapter 1 names three women and two men on an organised two-week road trip with an Afghanistani driver. On page 38, Kay Danes refers to herself as an adrenaline junkie. In the Acknowledgements, Danes writes how honoured she is being able to risk both life and limb on this adventure.

Saudi Arabia
In 2011, Kay Danes moved to Saudi Arabia when husband Kerry was deployed there with the Australian Defence Force. The following year, Kay was employed by the Australian government as an administrative assistant at its Embassy in Riyadh. In 2012, she was named State Finalist for Australian of the Year: an award conferred on an Australian citizen by the National Australia Day Council, a not-for-profit Australian Government owned social enterprise.

Australia
In 2014, Kay Frances Danes was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia (OAM) for social justice and human rights work. The same year, she left the workforce in Saudi Arabia to complete a Master of Human Rights degree online through Curtin University (WA), and to also take advantage of the travel opportunities of the Middle East. Danes relocated to Australia in January 2015 and commenced research for a PhD (Law and Justice) two years later at Southern Cross University (SCU), City of Gold Coast, Queensland. Her thesis "Exploring the evolving professionalisation of the Australian humanitarian sector" earned her a doctorate in 2020.

See also
 Australians imprisoned or executed abroad
 Phonthong Prison
 Punishment in Laos

References

Australia–Laos relations
Australian people imprisoned abroad
Living people
Married couples
People from Redland City
Recipients of Laotian presidential pardons
Year of birth missing (living people)