[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 29]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ompletely surrounded as not to be able to extricate
themselves. Having given you this previous information, you will easily
understand the distressful situation of a Russian ship, which, as it was
sailing on those seas, was on a sudden so surrounded by ice as not to be
able to move. My extracts begin here, and you may read them.


     _Extracts from a Narrative of the Extraordinary Adventures of Four
     Russian Sailors, who were cast away on the Desert Island of East
     Spitzbergen._

"In this alarming state (that is, when the ship was surrounded with ice)
a council was held, when the mate, Alexis Hinkof, informed them, that he
recollected to have heard that some of the people of Mesen, some time
before, having formed a resolution of wintering upon this island, had
carried from that city timber proper for building a hut, and had
actually erected one at some distance from the shore. This information
induced the whole company to resolve on wintering there, if the hut, as
they hoped, still existed; for they clearly perceived the imminent
danger they were in, and that they must inevitably perish if they
continued in the ship. They despatched, therefore, four of their crew in
search of the hut, or any other succour they could meet with. These were
Alexis Hinkof, the mate, Iwan Hinkof, his godson, Stephen Scharassof,
and Feodor Weregin.

"As the shore on which they were to land was uninhabited, it was
necessary that they should make some provision for their expedition.
They had almost two miles to travel over those ridges of ice, which
being raised by the waves, and driven against each other by the wind,
rendered the way equally difficult and dangerous; prudence, therefore,
forbade their loading themselves too much, lest, by being overburdened,
they might sink in between the pieces of ice, and perish. Having thus
maturely considered the nature of their undertaking, they provided
themselves with a musket and powder-horn, containing twelve charges of
powder, with as many balls, an axe, a small kettle, a bag with about
twenty pounds of flower, a knife, a tinder-box and tinder, a bladder
filled with tobacco, and every man his wooden pipe.

"Thus accoutred, these four sailors quickly arrived on the island,
little expecting the misfortunes that would befall them. They began with
exploring the country, and soon discovered the hut they were in search
of, about an English mile and a half from the shore. It was thirty-six
feet in length, eighteen feet in height, and as many in breadth; it
contained a small antechamber, about twelve feet broad, which had two
doors, the one to shut it up from the outer air, the other to form a
communication with the inner room; this contributed greatly to keep the
large room warm when once heated. In the large room was an earthen
stove, constructed in the Russian manner; that is, a kind of oven
without a chimney, which served occasionally either for baking, for
heating the room, or, as is customary among the Russian peasants in very
cold weather, for a place to sleep upon. Our adventurers rejoiced
greatly at having discovered the hut, which had, however, suffered much
from the weather, it having now been built a considerable time; they,
however, contrived to pass the night in it.

"Early next morning they hastened to the shore, impatient to inform
their comrades of their success, and also to procure from their vessel
such provision, ammunition, and other necessaries, as might better
enable them to winter on the island. I leave my readers to figure to
themselves the astonishment and agony of mind these poor people must
have felt, when on reaching the place of their landing, they saw nothing
but an open sea, free from the ice, which but the day before had covered
the ocean. A violent storm, which had risen during the night, had
certainly been the cause of this disastrous event; but they could not
tell whether the ice, which had before hemmed in the vessel, agitated by
the violence of the waves, had been driven against her, and shattered
her to pieces; or, whether she had been carried by the current into the
main--a circumstance which frequently happens in those seas. Whatever
accident had befallen the ship, they saw her no more; and as no tidings
were ever afterwards received of her, it is most probable that she sunk,
and that all on board of her perished.

"This melancholy event depriving the unhappy wretches of all hope of
ever being able to quit the island, they returned to the hut, whence
they had come, full of horror and despair."

"Oh dear!" cried Tommy, at this passage, "what a dreadful situation
these poor people must have been in. To be in such a cold country,
covered with snow and frozen with ice, without anybody to help them, or
give them victuals; I should think they must all have died." "That you
will soon see," said Mr Barlow, "when you have read the rest of the
story; but tell me one thing, Tom