[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Religion in Nepal

d Buddhism are both Dharmic religions, their practices usually complement each other, and many people practice a combination of both. In 2015, a new constitution was adopted, and equal rights were granted to all religions in Nepal. However, influencing others to change their religion is prohibited. 

Nepal's constitution does not give anyone the right to evangelise or convert anyone to another religion. Nepal also passed a more stringent anti-conversion law in 2017.

Secularism

Nepal was declared a secular state in 2015 after the success of the Constitution of Nepal 2072 bs that saw the abolition of hinduisim and the formation of democracy as a criterion for running the nation on the path of equality, fraternity, freedom, justice, and liberty.

In 2023, the country was scored 2 out of 4 for religious freedom.

The five main provisions of secularism in Nepal are as follows:

1) A clause that says, "Religious and cultural freedom, with the protection of religion and culture practiced since ancient times," This has been questioned by some people, who say that it indirectly favours "Hinduism" as a state-sponsored religion.

2) Proselytizing remains illegal.

3) Critics say that the constitution discriminates against women in terms of passing on citizenship rights, and the citizenship policy was hotly debated during the drafting of the constitution.

4) It is against the law for the state and the courts to treat people differently because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. The constitution of Nepal has been an inspiration for Asia and beyond the world to specifically protect the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities.

5) The rhododendron is the national flower, and the cow, which is a holy animal in Hinduism, is the national animal.

Demographics

Hinduism in Nepalese culture

According to Nepalese theology, Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva came to Nepal in the form of deer.

Establishment of Nepal by Ne Muni
King Muni used to perform religious ceremonies at Teku, the confluence of the Bagmati and Bishnumati rivers. He selected Bhuktaman to be the first king in the line of the Gopal (Cowherd) Dynasty. The Gopal dynasty ruled for 300 years. Yakshya Yadav was the last king of this dynasty. The Kirat Dynasty ruled for 550 - 800 years. The first king of Kirat Yalambar and Gasti was the last king of this dynasty. The Licchavi dynasty ruled for 200 - 350 years. The Malla dynasty ruled for 400 - 600 years. The Shah dynasty ruled for 300 years.

Flag of Nepal
The current flag of Nepal was established in 1962. It depicts a white moon and crescent shape emitting eight rays above a white sun which emits 12 rays.

See also

 Buddhism in Nepal
 Newar Buddhism
 Banishment of Buddhist monks from Nepal
 Hinduism in Nepal
 Newar Hinduism
 Gurung shamanism
 Islam in Nepal
 Nepali Muslims
 Judaism in Nepal
 Christianity in Nepal
Roman Catholicism in Nepal
 Jainism in Nepal
 Bahá'í Faith in Nepal
 Sikhism in Nepal
 Irreligion in Nepal
 Freedom of religion in Nepal

References

Sources