[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1969 in the United Kingdom

a's last diplomatic relationship with the United Kingdom.
 30 June – Two members of the Mudiad Amddiffyn Cymru (Movement for the Defence of Wales) are killed when a bomb they are planting outside government offices in Abergele in an attempt to disrupt the following day's events explodes prematurely.

July
 1 July
 Prince Charles (the future Charles III), is invested as Prince of Wales at Caernarfon.
 John Lennon, Yoko Ono and their children are hospitalised at Golspie in Scotland following a car accident while on holiday.
 3 July – Swansea is granted city status.
 5 July – The Rolling Stones performs at the free festival The Stones in the Park outdoors in Hyde Park, London, in front of at least a quarter of a million fans, two days after the death of founder Brian Jones.
 10 July – Donald Crowhurst's sailing trimaran Teignmouth Electron is found drifting and unoccupied in mid-Atlantic; it is presumed that Crowhurst committed suicide (or fell overboard) at sea earlier in the month, having falsified his progress in the solo Sunday Times Golden Globe Race.
 12 July – Golfer Tony Jacklin wins The Open Championship.
 20–21 July – BBC Television continues broadcasting overnight to provide coverage of the Apollo 11 Moon landing; Neil Armstrongs first steps on the surface take place at 03:56 British Summer Time on 21 July. Television coverage to Europe is transmitted via Goonhilly Satellite Earth Station in Cornwall.
 23 July – BBC Two television first airs the Pot Black snooker tournament.
 24 July – British lecturer Gerald Brooke is freed from a Soviet prison in exchange for the spies Morris and Lona Cohen.
 25 July – The Family Law Reform Act 1969 receives royal assent and comes partly into effect in England and Wales. It reduces the age of majority from 21 to 18 (with effect from 1 January 1970); allows a bastard child to inherit on the intestacy of a parent; and allows competent 16- and 17-year-olds to consent to medical treatment.

August
 1 August – The pre-decimal halfpenny ceases to be legal tender.
 8 August – The Beatles at 11:30 have photographer Iain Macmillan take their photo on a zebra crossing on Abbey Road, London.
 12 August – The Troubles: Violence erupts after the Apprentice Boys of Derry march in Derry, Northern Ireland, resulting in a three-day communal riot known as the Battle of the Bogside, and violence elsewhere in Northern Ireland.
 13–17 August – Sectarian rioting in Northern Ireland.
 13 August – The Taoiseach of the Republic of Ireland, Jack Lynch, makes a speech on Teilifís Éireann saying that his government "can no longer stand by" and requesting a United Nations peacekeeping force for Northern Ireland.
 14 August – British troops are deployed in Northern Ireland to restore law and order.
 30–31 August – The second Isle of Wight Festival attracts 150,000 pop music fans, paying £10 2s for a 3-day ticket, with the appearance of Bob Dylan a major draw.

September
 11 September – The housing charity Shelter releases a report claiming that there are up to 3,000,000 people in need of rehousing due to poor living conditions.
 16 September – Iconic 1960s fashion store Biba reopens on Kensington High Street.
 21 September – Police evicts squatters of the London Street Commune from 144 Piccadilly.
 26 September – The Beatles release their Abbey Road album which is an enormous commercial success and, although receiving mixed reviews at this time, comes to be viewed by many as the group's best.
 28 September – The National Trust acquires ownership of the island of Lundy.

October
 1 October – The Post Office becomes a statutory corporation.
 5 October – The first episode of surreal sketch comedy series Monty Python's Flying Circus is broadcast on BBC Television.
 10 October – The Government accepts the recommendations of Lord Hunt's report on policing in Northern Ireland, including the abolition of the Ulster Special Constabulary.
 13 October – An unofficial strike amongst British mineworkers begins, over the working hours of surface workers.
 14 October 
 The new seven-sided fifty pence coin is introduced as replacement for the ten-shilling note, to a mixed reception from the British public, with many people complaining that it is easily confused with the 10p coin.
 With a general election due within the next eighteen months, opinion polls show the Conservatives comfortably ahead of Labour, by up to 24 points.
 16 October – Peter Nichols' black comedy The National Health is premiered by the National Theatre at the Old Vic in London.
 21 October – Led Zeppelin release Led Zeppelin II to critical acclaim and commercial success.
 27 October – A mass wildlife cull takes place in Surrey after 2 people are bitten by a rabid dog.