[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European University Institute

r work, and are encouraged to participate in conferences, workshops and the department's working groups.

Within the department, the Academy of European Law (AEL) offers advanced-level summer courses in Human Rights Law and EU Law. It also manages research projects and runs a publications programme.

The EUI Law Department also jointly hosts, with Harvard Law School, the Summer School on Law and Logic. This summer school was launched in 2012 and is also sponsored by the University of Bologna (Italy), the University of Groningen (the Netherlands), the European Academy of Legal Theory, and a grant from the Erasmus Lifelong Learning Programme.

Department of Political and Social Sciences
The research programme of the Department of Political and Social Sciences (SPS) places emphasis on political and social change within Europe at the national, sub-national and transnational level.
The research interests of the department range across the four sub-disciplines of comparative politics, sociology, international relations, and social and political theory.

Courses in both quantitative and qualitative methods are available as options in the first and second year, while field work and data collection normally take place in the second and third year.

School of Transnational Governance
The School of Transnational Governance was launched in 2017. The School is concerned with problems of governance beyond the state, and offers Executive Training seminars, high-level policy dialogues, fellowships, and a masters programme in transnational governance. It is supported by the Erasmus+ programme of the European Commission.

Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies
The Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies was launched by the European University Institute in 1993 building up on the experience of an already existing Policy Unit, created by Joseph Weiler. It is named for Robert Schuman. The first director of the newly established Centre was  (1993–2001), followed by Helen Wallace (2001–2006), Stefano Bartolini (2006–2013), Brigid Laffan (2013–2021) and Erik Jones (2021-). The initial set up was composed of one director, one assistant and two secretaries, but over the years the centre has grown into a larger research centre pursuing interdisciplinary research into the key political challenges facing Europe and the EU today and bringing together academics and practitioners, in both policy dialogues and executive training. The centre's mission is to "contribute to research on the major issues facing contemporary European society, including questions associated with the construction of Europe."
The centre has several main programmes.

Global Governance Programme
The Global Governance Programme brings together academics, diplomats, public officers and officials from international organisations to connect the worlds of research and policy-making. It tackles a wide range of issues, including human rights, international trade, development, climate change, internet governance and regional integration.

The programme hosts a series of events, including policy seminars, where participants can exchange ideas.

Florence School of Regulation

The Florence School of Regulation (FSR) is a centre of excellence for independent research, training and policy dialogue. The FSR was founded in 2004 as a partnership between the EUI's Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies, the Council of the European Energy Regulators (CEER) and the Independent Regulators Group (IRG). The school also works closely with the European Commission.

The FSR organises policy events dealing with key regulatory issues, provides academic training for practitioners, produces regulation research and promotes networking and the exchange of ideas in the areas of:

 Energy and Climate
 Communications and Media
 Transport
 Water

Policy and business decision-makers, regulators, regulated companies and academics from different countries are encouraged to share their experiences through the school.

European Governance and Politics Programme
The European Governance and Politics Programme (EGPP) is an international hub of theoretical and empirical academic research on Europe's politics and governance. The programme is committed to combining solid theoretical foundations to analyse the interaction between European integration and national politics with empirical analysis based on data collection. Launched in 2018, EGPP was established as the successor programme to the European Union Democracy Observatory (EUDO), active between 2006 and 2016. In 2020, Daniele Caramani took over the directorship of EGPP from Brigid Laffan, who was founding director from 2018 until 2020.