[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrei Navrozov

correctness' lack. His intelligence and learning endow his observations with a richness and breadth few writers can display. He has a nice sense of humour, essential for the perusal of human folly. He is also a poet, which lends his prose style and grace."

Italy and life as novelist (1998–present) 

In 1998 Navrozov left Britain for Italy, now describing himself as "a political refugee from Russia, a cultural refugee from the United States and a gastronomic refugee from England." After living in Rome, Florence, Venice and Palermo, he published in 2003 a book of his impressions, Italian Carousel: Scenes of Internal Exile. In 2004, a collection of verse in Russian, Strashnaya Krasota (Awful Beauty), was published in London by the last of the émigré houses, Nina Karsov. Since then Navrozov has been working on a trilogy of novels in English, entitled respectively Awful Beauty: Confessions of a Coward, Earthly Love: A Day in the Life of a Hypocrite, and Incredible Trust: When the Liar Falls Silent. Sections of the second volume have been serialised under the rubric "European Diary" in the American monthly Chronicles, a working association with whose editor, Thomas Fleming, Navrozov has maintained through most of the magazine's existence, first as its Poetry Editor, then as its European correspondent, and finally as its European Editor.  The quarter-century collaboration with Chronicles has led some commentators to name him, along with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, among paleoconservatism's literary influences, a suggestion Navrozov dismisses as spurious, insisting, as he explains it to a correspondent in a private letter, on the writer's "privilege of having two wings, a right and a left, which is the innate privilege of angels." Writing in a language other than his mother tongue, in the tradition of Joseph Conrad and Vladimir Nabokov, with every line of his prose Navrozov seeks to demonstrate that a free intellect, moving as it does above party-controlled politics and mass-produced ethics, is its own justification and the abiding aim of a writer in any epoch.

In 2009 Navrozov was asked by Vladimir Yakovlev, then heading the new Russian multimedia project "Snob," to join the publication as one its six weekly columnists, alongside Ivan Okhlobystin, Maxim Kantor, Valery Panyushkin, Michael Idov and Anton Nosik. His "Writer's Diary" column ran until December 2010, when all the columnists were reorganised out of existence by Yakovlev's successor, Masha Gessen. A group of "Snob" subscribers then took over the financing of "Writer's Diary," and in this format the column ran until August 2012, when the incoming editor, Nikolai Uskov, shut it down, claiming one of Navrozov's columns to have been anti-Semitic.

References

External links 
 My Navrozov Moments – an analysis of Navrozov's views on the American university system.

1956 births
Living people
21st-century English male writers
21st-century English novelists
British expatriates in Italy
English male journalists
English male novelists
English male poets
Naturalised citizens of the United Kingdom
Soviet expatriates in Italy
Soviet emigrants to the United Kingdom
Soviet expatriates in the United States
Yale University alumni