[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Scarred Lands

cond edition of the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, Onyx Path Publishing focused all further Scarred Lands publications strictly on the 5th Edition Open Game License system.

After the passing of Stewart Wieck in 2017, Onyx Path Publishing acquired the full rights to Scarred Lands from Nocturnal Media.

Creature Collection 5e 
In 2020, Onyx Path Publishing, working in association with Handiwork Games led by ex-Cubicle 7 creative director Jon Hodgson, released Creature Collection 5e, updating several creatures from the d20 System era to the 5th Edition Open Game License system. John Hodgson stated, "Our main task is to convert the various Creature Collections, of which there have been many volumes over the years, we're kind of taking the best bits and building a bestiary for Fifth Edition."

Creature Collection 5e "presents more than 175 creatures from the Scarred Lands setting, each painstakingly updated to work perfectly with the 5th Edition rules, each illustrated in full color."

Dead Man's Rust 
In 2022, following a successful crowdfunding campaign, Onyx Path Publishing released Dead Man's Rust. Described by the developer as "a campaign suitable for new or existing characters that takes place throughout the Hornsaw Forest region of central Ghelspad." Dead Man's Rust provides an adventure that encompasses a large region of the continent of Ghelspad and contains tables, charts, and challenges to reflect the unique nature of the corrupted lands of the Hornsaw Forest. Inclusive representation among the non-player characters was one of the stated goals of the book, with several canonically LGBTQIA+ characters presented throughout the book. Author Frances Stewart proclaims "the setting is inclusive from the ground up."

Antagonists 
The principal antagonists in Dead Man's Rust are the necromancers of Glivid-Autel, "built on top of a 1500 foot high mesa that was once a temple to some forgotten god. The necromancers of Glivid-Autel went there when they were exiled from Hollowfaust."  While Hollowfaust is "city-state built from the ruins of an ancient civilization and governed by lawful, sophisticated necromancers." the evil and exploitative Glivid-Autel employed rituals and techniques forbidden by the lawful and civil Hollowfaustians.

Plot 
Promotional materials describe Dead Man's Rust as a story in which "The necromancers of Glivid-Autel sew corruption and death throughout the Hornsaw Forest. Legionnaires, elves, and dwarves go missing. A horrific infection appears, seeming to target the legionnaires. The people of Broadreach call upon the adventurers to stand against these foul machinations that threaten peace, prosperity, and life itself across central Ghelspad. The party may find allies in the Broadreach Horizon, the Gleaming Valley, and perhaps even the bloody canopies of the Hornsaw Forest, if they are brave enough to answer the call to adventure!"

This tale begins in the city of Leoni, which is the capital of the Manticora Confederacy, a newly formed nation of the Manticora peoples. The Manticora "are semi-nomadic, so permanent settlement in the city is only now becoming more frequent." However, they are already beginning to form traditions, such as the Night of Chronicles, which is a festival where bards gather to share stories and festival goers can compete in various events. It is here that the party meets Dradoki Bronzeleaf, a Broadreach Dwarf seeking escort to the city of Freehome, "a beacon of hope and a bastion of safety for the dwarven people. Freehome is also a monument to the bond between the elves and dwarves of the Broadreach." This task is the primary means of entry for players to access the adventure, though several other options are provided in the book's Introduction to allow alternate methods of introducing players to the campaign events.

Expanded Player Options 
In addition to the story elements, monsters, and non-player characters, Dead Man's Rust includes new playable character options such as the Animator wizard, which focuses on raising undead servants, the Hornsaw Sentinel ranger who gains a Hornsaw Unicorn animal companion, and the Ragewitch Barbarian who can cast and maintain spells while raging. New magic items and spells are also introduced.

Actual Play Streams 
Actual Play content has been produced to support Dead Man's Rust, including releases from Onyx Path Publishing's official Twitch channel Red Moon Roleplaying and an ongoing stream from Devil's Luck Gaming entitled Rust & Remains

References

External links 
 Scarred Lands - Onyx Path Publishing 
  The Piazza - Scarred Lands forum 

Fantasy campaign settings