[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 166]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

uences are uniformly such as may be expected to proceed from such
polluted sources--private misery and public servitude.

"'But Selene's education was regulated by different views, and conducted
upon severer principles--if that can be called _severity_ which opens
the mind to a sense of moral and religious duties, and most effectually
arms it against the inevitable evils of life. With the rising sun she
left her bed, and accompanied me to the garden or the vineyard. Her
little hands were employed in shortening the luxurious shoots of
fruitful trees that supplied our table with wholesome and delicious
fruits, or in supporting the branches of such as sunk beneath their
load. Sometimes she collected water from a clear and constant rill that
rolled along the valley, and recruited the force of plants that were
exhausted by the sun. With what delight did I view her innocent
cheerfulness and assiduity! With what pleasure did she receive the
praises which I gave to her skill and industry; or hear the lessons of
wisdom and the examples of virtuous women, which I used to read to her
at evening, out of the writings of celebrated philosophers which I had
collected in my travels.

"'But such a life was too unchecquered with misfortune to last. The
first stroke which attacked and almost destroyed my hopes of good was
the untimely loss of my dear and virtuous wife. The pestilential heats
of autumn overpowered her tender frame, and raised a consuming fever in
her veins; for some time she struggled against the disease, but at
length her pure and innocent spirit forsook this earth for ever, and
left me comfortless and forlorn to mourn her loss!

"'I will not, my worthy hosts, attempt to describe the inexpressible
distress which seized my soul at seeing myself thus deserted. There are
some philosophers who aspire to triumph over human feelings, and
consider all tender affections as disgraceful weaknesses; for my part, I
have never pretended to that degree in insensibility. I have, indeed,
opposed as criminal that habitual acquiescence in sorrow which renders
us unfit for the discharge of our duties; but while I have endeavoured
to _act_, I have never blushed at _feeling_, like a man. Even now, that
time has mitigated the keenness of the smart, I feel the habitual
anguish of an incurable wound. But let me rather hasten to relate the
few remaining events of a uniform unvaried life than detain you with a
useless repetition of my sorrows.

"'Scarcely had time afforded me a feeble comfort, when the recollection
of past misfortunes was almost extinguished by the new ones which
overwhelmed my country. The fertile plains of Syria abounded in all the
necessaries and conveniences of life; the vine seemed to grow
spontaneously in every valley, and offer its luxuriant produce to every
hand; the industrious insect which spins the wonderful substance called
_silk_ out of its bowels, though lately introduced into that part of
Asia, seemed to receive new vigour from the mildness of the climate;
corn and oil, the noblest fruits and the most salubrious herbs, were
found in the garden of every peasant; and the herds of cattle and
horses, which wandered over our luxuriant pastures, equalled or
surpassed all I had observed in other countries. But this profusion of
blessings, instead of being attended with any beneficial effects,
produced nothing but a foolish taste for frivolous employment and
sensuality; feasts, and dances, and music, and tricks of players, and
exhibitions of buffoons, were more attended to than all the serious and
important cares of life. Every young man was a critic in the science of
adjusting the folds of his robe, or of giving a studied negligence to
his hair; every young woman was instructed in every art that serves to
consume time or endanger modesty. Repeat to them an idle tale, the
tricks of a gamester, or the adventures of a singing-girl, and every
audience listened with mute attention to the wonderful narration; but
tell them of the situation of their country, the wretched state of their
civil and military discipline, or of the numerous and warlike tribes of
barbarians which surround them, and every auditor would steal away in
silence, and leave the uninteresting theme.

"'In such a state of things, it was not long to be expected that my
countrymen would be permitted to hold the riches they abused, and wanted
firmness to defend. A warlike tribe of barbarians burst forth from the
northern mountains of Asia, and spread themselves over our fertile
plains, which they laid waste like a consuming tempest. After a few
ineffectual skirmishes, which only served to expose their weakness to
the contempt of their enemies, they yielded without opposition to the
invader; in this, indeed, more wise than to irritate him by a fruitless
resistance; and thus, in a few weeks, the leader of an obscure tribe of
barbarians saw himself become a powerful monarch, and