[Source: PubMed]

71. Front Public Health. 2018 Apr 18;6:108. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00108. 
eCollection 2018.

The Brotherhood Medical Center: Collaborative Foundation of Maternity and 
Children's Healthcare Facility for Displaced Syrians.

Aburas R(1), Najeeb A(2), Baageel L(3), Mackey TK(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Joint Masters Degree Program in Health Policy and Law, University of 
California, San Diego, San Diego, CA, United States.
(2)Brotherhood Medical Center for Women and Children, Atimah, Syria.
(3)Department of Anesthesiology, University of California, San Diego School of 
Medicine, San Diego, CA, United States.
(4)Division of Global Public Health, Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Diego School of Medicine, San Diego, CA, United States.
(5)Global Health Policy Institute, San Diego, CA, United States.

The United Nations has declared the Syrian conflict, with more than 50% of 
Syria's population currently displaced, as the worst humanitarian crisis of the 
twenty-first century. The Syrian conflict has led to a collapse of 
infrastructure, including access to critical and lifesaving healthcare services. 
Women and children account for approximately 75% of internally displaced Syrians 
and refugees. This population is also particularly vulnerable to poor health 
outcomes, a condition worsened by lack of access to maternal and child health 
services. In response to this crisis, a partnership of Saudi and Syrian 
physicians established a non-profit healthcare facility named the Brotherhood 
Medical Center (BMC) to serve women and children within a safe area near the 
Syrian-Turkish border. The project began in September 2014 and was implemented 
in three phases of establishment, phased construction and formal launch and 
operation. Currently, the BMC is working at about 70% of its capacity and is run 
in partnership with the Syrian Expatriate Medical Association. Although there 
was strong initial support from donors, the BMC continues to face many financial 
and operational challenges, including difficulties in transferring money to 
Syria, shortage of medical supplies, and lack of qualified medical personnel. 
Despite these challenges, the BMC represents a critical model and an important 
case study of the challenges of delivering healthcare services to underserved 
populations during an ongoing conflict. However, more robust support from the 
international community is needed to ensure it continues its important health 
and humanitarian mission.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2018.00108
PMCID: PMC5915476
PMID: 29721489