[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Far Cry 2

l intelligence (AI) for enemies and other creatures within the environment. When designing the missions to work in an open world environment, main missions were made simple and easy to understand, with only optional sub routes unlocked through other characters having fail states outside a game over.

The outposts, which respawn their enemies after a set period, were originally intended to slowly rebuild and repopulate over time, but the team changed the design as it was possible for players to empty the entire game world and become bored, in addition to technical problems implementing the system properly. Malaria was introduced to present the player's with a persistent challenge, though they had no point of reference for the mechanic and in hindsight Rivest felt they had made it too intrusive. The system was originally more severe, with the player losing gameplay control of the mercenary, but this was toned down in the final release. The game's notable death mechanic was incorporated by Hocking, who had been frustrated over harsh death penalties in the Splinter Cell series and wanted a less-penalizing system that allowed for recovery from mistakes while still maintaining an element of risks. The Buddy system drew inspiration from the Girlfriends of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and soldier management in XCOM, in addition to smaller influences from other companion systems in games including BioShock and Ico. The enemy AI was designed early on as a basic system that would respond to actions in the environment or from the player, but this later meant no further AI system could be created to manage planned general behaviors outside combat.

The game's scale meant local cooperative multiplayer was not incorporated. The pressures of designing the single player and multiplayer modes alongside the engine design caused problems, forcing the team to split multiplayer development into its own team. This team had several young members, who suffered further problems under peer pressure from others within Ubisoft, requiring a design consultant to be brought in and complete the multiplayer designs, though there continued to be problems with a lack of clear design goals during the game's alpha testing period and the mode was not solidified until the beta period. The console map editor used the one designed for Far Cry Instincts as a template, with the team taking what they liked and rebuilding it in the new engine.

World and art design
During early planning, various settings were proposed and rejected, including Antarctica and the planet Mars. Art director Alexandre Amancio had several favorites during the concept design stage. He wanted the game to use a wilderness without signs of human habitation, meaning settings in mainland Asia and South America were dropped. Japan was discarded due to a lack of environmental variety and overuse in popular media, and the American West was rejected due to its restrictive historical background limiting narrative opportunities. A setting in the Canadian West was dropped both due to difficulties creating a compelling survival setting outside stereotypes of the region and its planned use in Remedy Entertainment's Alan Wake. The Australian outback was similar in environment to the final African setting, but its uninhabited nature made interactions and conflict difficult to justify. The variety of environments available for use helped make Africa the final choice, as well as the ability to incorporate the presence of malaria and use of blood diamonds as currency into the design.

It was decided not to set the game in a real country, so as not to limit the in-game environmental variety. When thinking about a region to emulate in-game, the team opted for Kenya due to its variety of environments both within and around its borders with Uganda, Ethiopia, and Tanzania. In July 2007, Ubisoft sent a team of the game's developers to Africa to carry out research for the game. Their research took them to Kenya and parts of Tanzania, chosen due to their variety of environments and political stability. They spent two weeks traveling around the region and camping out on the savanna. The team chose to camp rather than stay in a hotel, desiring an authentic experience. The field trip allowed them to observe the local architecture and environment first-hand, in addition to their guides telling them about the local vegetation and weather cycles. Amancio estimated that they obtained about 40 hours of footage and over eight gigabytes of photographic reference material. Another element highlighted by Amancio was the amount of animal droppings they saw, which they took care to incorporate into the game's visual identity. Pharand said that following the trip, they realized they had gotten the design of the game "so wrong" and made several changes to properly emulate the local environment.