[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2004 unrest in Kosovo

ns. On 20 March, Kosovo's UN administrator, Harri Holkeri, told journalists that "Maybe the very beginning was spontaneous but after the beginning certain extremist groups had an opportunity to orchestrate the situation and that is why we urgently are working to get those perpetrators into justice."

According to Amnesty International, at least 27 people died—11 Albanians and 16 Serbs—and over 1,000 were injured while some 730 houses belonging to minorities, mostly Kosovo Serbs, as well as 36 Orthodox churches, monasteries and other religious and cultural sites were damaged or destroyed. In less than 48 hours, 4,100 minority community members were newly displaced (more than the total of 3,664 that had returned throughout 2003), of whom 82% were Serbs and the remaining 18% included Romani (and Ashkali) as well as an estimated 350 Albanians from the Serb-majority areas of Kosovska Mitrovica and Leposavić.

 Denmark pledged to send an additional 100 peacekeepers to the region after the violence began.
 Germany's Defence Minister Peter Struck said on March 19 that a further 600 peacekeepers were being sent to join German forces in Kosovo, with deployment to the region beginning on March 20.
 France pledged to send about 400 more troops immediately to the region after the violence began.
 Russia and Serbia-Montenegro called for an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council, which condemned the violence. On 19 March, the Russian Duma passed a resolution (397 to 0) calling for the return of Serbia-Montenegro's troops.
   Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Koštunica described the attacks as "planned in advance and co-ordinated... this was an attempted pogrom and ethnic cleansing" against Kosovo's Serbs.
 The United Kingdom sent an additional 750 peacekeeping soldiers, which arrived in the region's capital Pristina within 24 hours of the first attacks, to reinforce British troops already on the ground.
 White House spokesman Scott McClellan told reporters the Bush administration called "on all groups to end the violence and refrain from violence." The U.S. State Department also repeated its call to stop the violence, stating: "The escalating violence threatens the process of democratization and reconciliation in Kosovo and must end."

See also
Persecution of Serbs
Destruction of Serbian heritage in Kosovo
Gračanica bus bombing
Stolen Kosovo, documentary
2008 unrest in Kosovo
Destruction of Albanian heritage in Kosovo
2003 Goraždevac murders 
Kosovo Serb enclaves

References

Citations

Sources

External links

 Pictures of the violence and its aftermath 
  Christopher Deliso, "An Uncertain Future for the Serbian Refugees in Kosovo," Antiwar.com, April 7, 2004
 Christopher Deliso, "The Internationals and the Mobs: Kosovo's Moment of Truth," Antiwar.com, April 15, 2004
The reaction in Serbia, where non-Serbian property was vandalized by Serbian mobs.
SEE Security Monitor: Seven years since Albanian pogrom against Serbs in Kosovo
Caglavica during the Kosovo unrest 2004 (eng. subtitles)

2004 riots
2004 in Kosovo
2004
March 2004 events in Europe
Ethnic riots
Anti-Serbian sentiment
Attacks on churches in Europe
Persecution of Serbs
Persecution of Christians by Muslims
Persecution of Eastern Orthodox Christians
Sectarian violence
Albanian nationalism in Kosovo
Serbian–Albanian conflict
Ethnic cleansing
Attacks in Europe in 2004
Racially motivated violence in Europe