[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David P. Gushee

-evangelicalism" to define themselves. Many scholars have approached the study of evangelicalism through a sociological lens and then disagreed about who counts as an evangelical. The book explores the different roles performed by scholars in shaping evangelicals' understandings of Christian ethics.

After Evangelicalism (2020) 
In Gushee's book After Evangelicalism, he begins by saying this book is for individuals who used to be "evangelicals" but are now post-evangelicals or ex-evangelicals. He states that he is post-evangelical. The overall concern is that evangelicalism's recent declines are part of a declining Christianity in the US, with Millennials being the least religiously affiliated group ever polled. Generation Z may be even less interested in Religion. Young people are abandoning their churches, families, and friends. Some abandon Evangelical theology, while others abandon God, Jesus, the Bible, Holy Spirit, and Christianity as a whole. The evidence suggests that there is much more going on. Gushee writes this book about evangelical exiles trauma, and freedom of belief. His book has three sections: "Authorities: Listening and Learning", "Theology: Believing and Belonging", and "Ethics: Being and Behaving." In all three sections, his proposals for post-evangelicalism are discussed, and he provides key takeaways after finishing each section. Gushee explains his transformation from evangelical to post-evangelicalism and gives advice to those evangelicals who are stuck. Discussing what went wrong with the white evangelicals and the history. Introducing a new way for Christian thinking and believing in God today. Assisting those post-evangelicals find their way and know how to have a relationship with God in their life. Showing how to live a healthy Post-evangelicalism life by disconnecting from how evangelical Christianity used to be.

LGBT and activism 
In Gushee's book Changing Our Mind, he narrates his journey from a traditionalist to a passionate advocate for LGBT Christians in the church and society, using an evangelical ethical framework to redefine the issue from sexual ethics to human dignity. For Christians, the LGBT community has always been a controversial topic regarding sexual ethics. The problem surrounds the six to seven biblical passages that talk negatively about homosexuality and rather focus on a heterosexuality norm. Gushee is against this and stands in solidarity with the LGBT community. In an interview with Christians for Social Action, Gushee states his reasoning for supporting the LGBT community and sees the harm that the church's traditionalist views and practices have caused harm on so many young people and families. Gushee believes the Holy Spirit sent Christian brothers and sisters who are gay and lesbian to him which became an important part of his local church. His sister is one of the LGBT Christians, and she struggles to figure out her sexuality in a church that is not inclusive of them. Therefore, this makes it a more personal situation. The church is a community, and Gushee believes that LGBT Christians should be "invited into that sexual ethic rather than being excluded from it." As a pastor, he has been contacted by young people and families reaching out for help due to this problem. There are so many that are still suffering, and he sees it as a big change that needs to happen because we need to "love our own LGBT children and care for the hurting and the broken." Despite what other Christian ethicists might say about him or what views they have, his commitment and moral obligation to making churches feel safe for LGBT families is important to him. As all Christians are taught to love God and to love our neighbors as ourselves.

Controversy
As a Christian ethicist, Gushee has periodically been outspoken about current controversial societal topics. His positions on such issues as climate change, torture, and LGBT rights have often put him into conflict with his traditional evangelical constituency.  For example, In 2015, Russell Moore, also a well-known Evangelical ethicist, implied that Gushee was not a true Evangelical because of his change of belief supporting LGBT civil rights. Gushee describes himself as "post evangelical” and attends both Catholic Mass and Baptist services.

Books

References

External links

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
Christian ethicists
Historians of the Holocaust
College of William & Mary alumni
Southern Baptist Theological Seminary alumni
Union Theological Seminary (New York City) alumni
Constitution Project