[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Foley, Welch and Stewart

h but some undertook multiple sections. The project was completed in April 1914.

In February 1909, after another subcontractor had failed, the GTP subcontracted FW&S to complete  eastward from a point  west of the Abitibi River crossing (Cochrane, Ontario) for the National Transcontinental Railway.

In 1910, J.W. Stewart & Co was awarded the Princeton–Coalmont and Abbotsford–Hope legs of the VV&E within BC. In May 1913, the eastward advance of the Canadian Northern Railway (CNoR) rail head reached Hope. When the VV&E track reached Cannor in September 1916, the junction with the CNoR, GN acquired running rights on the Cannor–Hope leg. Consequently, the FW&S contract was substantially reduced.

In the early 1910s, FW&S was the largest railway contracting firm in the west with 50,000 workers and  of railway under construction.

In July 1911, P. Welch & Co was awarded the  Port Arthur–Sudbury leg of the CNoR in Ontario. That month, a joint venture between P. Welch & Co and Northern Construction (NorCon) was awarded the  Hope–Kamloops leg of the CNoR in BC. Northern Construction was the contracting name of partners Mackenzie and Mann.

PGE ramifications
In February 1912, the province entered an understanding with FW&S to build, own, and operate, a Vancouver–Fort George line. By this time, Timothy Foley was in his 70s, so the day-to-day management rested with Welch and Stewart, who were in their 50s. That month, the Conservative administration of Premier Richard McBride introduced legislation for the Pacific Great Eastern Railway (PGE) to create a new  railway (later corrected to ).

Financially supported but not owned by government, the PGE model defied business logic. The railway was authorized to issue 4 per cent interest bonds to a total value of $35,000 per mile of the projected mileage, upon which the government guaranteed the principal and interest.

In September 1912, P. Welch & Co was awarded the construction contract. Stewart took extended medical leave August 1912–August 1913, an extremely busy period for FW&S, when Welch divided his supervisory time between multiple major projects.

McBride allowed the PGE and FW&S to be controlled by the same parties, which removed any incentive to build as quickly and economically as possible. The former sacrificed value for money, while the latter profiteered. In fact, the PGE was only partially completed before becoming insolvent, while FW&S made a 38 per cent profit on $16,475,630 billed. The FW&S profits from land sales were handled separately.

Since both the PGE promoters and government suspected up front that the bond funding would be insufficient for the project, McBride had allegedly promised to provide additional aid to complete the project if this proved the case. Although construction began in October 1912, the first cost estimate was not prepared until late 1913, which revealed a $10 million projected funding shortfall.

To attract investors in 1913, the interest rate on new bond issues increased to  per cent. Although legally, the bond money should only have been dispensed in proportion to the work completed, the release of funds was far in excess. In February 1914, the government raised the bond issue limit from $35,000 to $42,000 per mile. The announcement of an extension into the Peace Country was intended to soften the news of huge cost over-runs to date.

Welch underwent a major operation and took medical leave November 1913–November 1915, while Stewart shouldered the daily responsibilities.

Rather than reducing or suspending operations, which could have preserved almost 70 per cent of the bond money, the government continued releasing funds. When the bond money was exhausted in November 1915, the line was only 35 per cent complete, the PGE was insolvent, and as guarantor of principal and interest on the bonds, the BC Government faced a debt burden. Squamish and Clinton became the terminals of the  line.

Stewart left for overseas service in August 1916. During World War I, he was promoted to brigadier general in order to direct railway construction in France. His skills in the rapid construction of track elevated him to command all British and Canadian rail units.

Later audits and enquiries revealed that the PGE Act, which usurped the basic checks and balances of the Railway Act, was itself laxly followed by the government, resulting in an overpayment of more than $5.7 million to FW&S.