[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stainton Beck

ce before arriving at Beehive Bridge, on the B6254 road. Strickley Bridge is just a little further to the east, where Strickley Beck passes under the same road, before joining Beehive Beck on its left bank. By the time it joins Stainton Beck on its right bank, it has descended to below the  contour.

Mills
Stainton Beck has provided power to a number of mills in the past. A corn mill at Millholme was first recorded in 1310, and it was powered by a water wheel until the First World War, when a turbine was fitted to supplement the wheel. The present mill house was first occupied by the Tarn family, and carries a stone showing "J.J.T. 1734". The mill machinery was destroyed by a fire in 1927, and although the wheel and turbine were not damaged, the cost of rebuilding was beyond the means of the owner, Mr Parkin. It was converted into a house in the 1970s. The mill race was on the left bank of the beck, and the corn mill was just above Millhouse Bridge.

At Halfpenny, a hamlet that is part of the parish of Stainton, a weir channelled water into a race on the left bank, which fed Yarn Mill. In 1849, Taylor and Company were spinning flax and tow there, as well as producing sacking. A little further south, a dam across the beck created a mill pond on the right bank, from which a race fed Millbridge Mill. The tail race passed under the road, to the west of Mill Bridge, and joined the main channel further downstream. At Stainton Mill, the mill pond was part of the main channel, next to the road. The mill race continued beside the road, while the beck fell over a weir, and looped away to the west around the mill site. The tail race of the mill and the river rejoined downstream of the mill. In 1849, the mill was operated by Greenwoods, who were carding wool, which was then used to produce stockings and blankets. Below Stainton Bridge End Bridge, a long mill race ran across fields to the south west, to reach Viver Mill. The tail race was known as Catch Water, and rejoined the river just above Deepthwaite Bridge. Viver Mill was first recorded in the 13th century as a corn mill, and remained a corn mill until 1950. Although now converted to a house, the water wheel has been retained, as have some of the cruck beams and other features.

Gill Mill, on Beehive Beck, was recorded in the 13th century. It was a corn mill, but was later used as a marble mill and then a sawmill. It continued in use into the 1920s.

Water quality
The Environment Agency measure water quality of the river systems in England. Each is given an overall ecological status, which may be one of five levels: high, good, moderate, poor and bad. There are several components that are used to determine this, including biological status, which looks at the quantity and varieties of invertebrates, angiosperms and fish. Chemical status, which compares the concentrations of various chemicals against known safe concentrations, is rated good or fail.

The water quality of the Stainton Beck system was as follows in 2019. The data covers St Sunday's Beck and Stainton Beck, as well as Beehive Beck from its source to its confluence with Stainton Beck. 

Like many waterways in the UK, the chemical status changed from good to fail in 2019, due to the presence of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDE) and mercury compounds, neither of which had previously been included in the assessment.

Bibliography

References

Rivers of Cumbria
2Stainton