[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Joseph E. Vogler

arrassed. And we can't have that, can we?"

As he had publicly promised on numerous occasions, Vogler was buried in Dawson City, Yukon, Canada, fulfilling his wish that he not be buried under the American flag. His second wife, Doris Louise, who died of cancer in 1992, is buried next to him.

Legacy

Having graduated from law school, although never formally practicing law, Vogler nonetheless engaged in actions through the courts for most of his years in Fairbanks. These ranged from his dispute with Paul Griemann, through battling the Fairbanks North Star Borough over a great many issues in its earlier years, particularly regarding subdivisions he developed, to attempting to enforce subdivision covenants, to launching the earliest salvo in the fight for ballot access for minor parties in Alaska, through to his efforts regarding seeking formal recognition of his case on statehood issues.

Vogler had launched many political and secessionist efforts behind the scenes in addition to his more high-profile runs for office. Perhaps the best known of these was the lawsuit Vogler v. Miller in 1982, a ballot access case. Vogler v. Miller would be heavily cited in succeeding ballot access cases later in the decade, such as Sykes v. Alaska, which more directly widened ballot access and party recognition beyond the two major parties.

Vogler was noted for an antipathy toward aspens, to the point where he installed covenants in his subdivisions requiring homeowners to cut and destroy all poplar, cottonwood and aspen trees on a regular basis. This particular requirement would be challenged in court, with Vogler losing after a lengthy battle through the judicial system. The term "Voglerizer" has entered into the informal vernacular around the Fairbanks area to describe brush trimmers used on highway rights-of-way.

Interest in Vogler was briefly reignited during a period in the late 2000s (decade), when intense media scrutiny of Sarah Palin during her governorship and vice-presidential candidacy turned up a Palin family connection to the AIP. Other events of note happened during the same time period, though mostly particular to Fairbanks. Fairbanks-based singer-songwriter Caleb Aronson released his debut album, Livengood, in March 2006. The first track on Disc 2, "Moving Dirt," is a story song about Vogler's life and death. On July 7, 2006, Michael Feldman's Whad'Ya Know? broadcast live from the University of Alaska Fairbanks campus. Vogler's name was brought up during the broadcast, the mention eliciting a significant cheer from the audience. Also in 2006, the AIP released a compact disc entitled Joe Was Right! Volume 1. The disc consists of an interview given on KFAR's long-running Problem Corner talk show on October 18, 1982, during his second campaign for governor.

Personal life

Vogler had a daughter (Marilyn, born at St. Joseph's Hospital on April 6, 1945) and son (Joseph Jr., born c. 1947) by his first wife, but by all accounts (including his own), he had become estranged from this part of his family. Vogler met his second wife, Doris, in 1964 and remained with her until her death from cancer in 1992. Lynn Vogler, his nephew, was named the executor of his estate in a will he wrote following the death of Doris.

Previously unknown to his Fairbanks friends, Lynn arrived in Fairbanks shortly after his death and endured a contentious battle in Fairbanks during 1993 and 1994 amongst his friends, supporters and hangers-on over his legacy as well as his physical property. Lynn Vogler continues to the present as the executor of the estate.

See also

 Legal status of Alaska

Sources

 Election Candidate Pamphlet, State of Alaska, Office of the Lieutenant Governor, 1974
 Official Election Pamphlet, State of Alaska, Office of the Lieutenant Governor, 1978, 1982 and 1986
 Official Returns By Election Precinct, State of Alaska, Office of the Lieutenant Governor, 1974, 1978 and 1982
 Official Returns, State of Alaska, Office of the Lieutenant Governor, 1986
 "Like A Tree to the Soil": A History of Farming in the Tanana Valley, 1903 to 1940. Josephine E. Papp and Josie Phillips. UAF School of Natural Resources and Agricultural Sciences, 2007.

References

External links

 Project Jukebox: Joe Vogler. Interview by Margaret Van Cleve, March 29, 1991.
 Joe Vogler: In Memoriam. From the Alaskan Independence Party.
 Battle of Weber Creek, a 1985 documentary about Vogler

1913 births
1993 deaths
1993 murders in the United States
Alaskan Independence Party politicians
American miners
American real estate businesspeople
Burials in Canada
Businesspeople from Fairbanks, Alaska
Politicians from Fairbanks, Alaska
People from Marshall County, Kansas
People from Washington County, Kansas
People murdered in Alaska
Real estate and property developers
State political party chairs of Alaska
University of Kansas School of Law alumni
20th-century American businesspeople