[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# African Union Mission to Somalia

military bases. Human Rights Watch documented cases in a 71-page report published on 8 September 2014 with recommendations to the African Union, the United Nations, the Somali government and AMISOM donors UN, EU, UK and US. The African Union dismissed the Human Rights Watch claims as isolated cases.

2015
21 March 2015: Somali National Army forces and AMISOM troops launch a security sweep in the Bulo Burde district to clear an Al-Shabaab blockade in the area. The cleanup operation commences in Beledweyne, with the joint forces removing militants from settlements on both sides of the main road leading towards the district center. Casualties include around five SNA troops and one AMISOM soldier. Local officials do not issue a statement pending arrival at Bulo Burde.
19 April 2015: Al-Shabaab insurgents attack Kenyan AMISOM troops in the southern Delbio area of Somalia. The insurgents reportedly shoot at the Kenyan soldiers' vehicle, with a gunfight ensuing. AMISOM fatalities include three dead troops. Officials indicate that eight wounded AMISOM soldiers are also being transported to Nairobi for treatment. The militants reportedly retreat into the forest. Al-Shabaab also attack AMISOM troops that are garrisoned between Lego and Baledogle. According to AMISOM Colonel Paul Njuguna, three soldiers are killed in the ensuing skirmish. He adds that the Somali National Army and AMISOM are endeavoring to liberate the remaining areas under insurgent control, with Al-Shabaab in a much weaker state than only two years prior.
 26 June 2015: At least 50 Burundian soldiers (with potential excesses of over 70) were reported killed in an attack on their base by Al-Shabab. The attack occurred in Leego near the capital of Mogadishu. It is stated that AMISOM was preparing for an offensive in the region while Al-Shabab was bringing in reinforcements to counter it.
 1 September 2015: Between 20–50 AMISOM peacekeepers are killed after the Janale base, 90  km (55 miles) south-east of the capital, is overrun by Al-Shabab militants. After bombing a bridge to eliminate a potential escape route and breaching the gate with a car bomb, Al-Shabab militants were able to enter and take over the base. AMISOM peacekeepers were stated to have withdrawn. After looting the base of weaponry, the militants withdrew and AMISOM troops were seen retaking the area. There have also been reports of troops taken captive during the assault.

2016
 On 15 January a Kenyan company base at El Adde, manned by a detachment of 9 Battalion Kenya Rifles, was overrun by al-Shabaab.  Several soldiers were captured, including Private Leonard Maingi who was later murdered by the terrorist group in August 2017.  Reports of casualties among the KDF detachment were confused but a later report suggested around 150 Kenyan soldiers died in the attack, with some of their bodies being dragged publicly through the streets of nearby towns by the terrorists.Njagi, J. (2016) 'How Al-Shabaab Raided Kenyan Military Camp', The East African (Nairobi), 18 January 2016.
 On 19 March 2016 two Kenyan soldiers were killed and five others wounded when their convoy was ambushed by terrorists in Lower Juba. During the engagement 21 al-Shabaab fighters were reported killed.
 al-Shabaab lost several of their leaders to U.S. airstrikes during May 2016.
 al-Shabaab fighters attacked an AMISOM base in June 2016.
 During November Lieutenant Dedan Karithi Karuti (26), of 17 Battalion Kenya Rifles, was killed when the vehicle in which he was traveling was struck by an improvised explosive device on the Warei–Elwak road.