[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Immigration to Singapore

ssues came under closer scrutiny in the aftermath of the 2013 Little India riot.

Behavioural incidents by foreigners
The government have also spoken out against a rising anti-foreigner sentiment after Singaporeans expressed outrage at disparaging statements made by foreigners residing in Singapore.

For example, in March 2012, Sun Xu, a scholar from China studying in the National University of Singapore, made a remark in his blog that "there are more dogs than humans in Singapore". He was eventually expelled by the university for his conduct and deported. This was also weeks after a revelation in parliament that SG$36 million worth of scholarships were awarded to 2,000 foreign students every year. The government was accused of disadvantaging local students in places for education and affordability, and in response it has made a policy change in primary education to give more priority to Singaporeans.

Further incidents have also fanned local sentiments against expatriates and foreign workers in Singapore, for example, the publicity over negative comments about the locals in 2014 by British banker Anton Casey, who was a permanent resident (PR), and in 2015 by Filipino nurse Ed Mundsel Bello Ello.

Anton Casey
British national Anton Casey had posted comments on Facebook which had abused, variously, a taxi driver and Singaporean commuters on public transport in general. Casey comments also made headlines on various news outlets in his native country of the United Kingdom, with other Britons criticising his behaviour and that he should be deported. Casey was eventually fired from his job, and had his PR revoked, subsequently moving to Perth, Western Australia. However, a report two years later in 2016 added that Casey could have possibly returned to Singapore, this time living a low-profile life.

Ello Ed Mundsel Bello
Filipino national Ello Ed Mundsel Bello suggested via online posts that "Filipinos were better and stronger", and that he would "evict Singaporeans from their country" as well as "take over their jobs, women and future". He was eventually fired from his job as a nurse at Tan Tock Seng Hospital and sentenced to four months imprisonment at the State Court for his various seditious posts and lying to the police, with the judge adding that not only did he incite "public disquiet and impassioned responses", but also potentially harmed relations between Singaporeans and Filipinos, especially when local-foreigner relations are a "challenging fault line in society". He was also subsequently deported after the end of his jail term.

Responses
The government responded that it acknowledged such social concerns, with various measures put in place within the last few years, such as the Fair Consideration Framework and the Tripartite Alliance for Fair Employment Practices and increasing support for migrant workers.

Furthermore, some foreigners who were interviewed by CNA did not feel much anti-foreigner sentiments. Singaporeans have also written in to the press to encourage fellow Singaporeans to have a mindset of being more accepting towards other cultures, reminding them that Singapore is also from immigrant stock from previous centuries. Media reports of foreign workers helping out in distress situations have also helped improve locals' perception of them.

See also
 Singaporean nationality law
 Immigration and Checkpoints Authority
 National Registration Identity Card

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links

 
Society of Singapore
Foreign workers
Economy of Singapore
Demographics of Singapore