[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ken Cuccinelli

utpatient surgical hospitals. He supported two "personhood" bills that sought to provide human embryos with legal rights.

Birtherism 
In 2010, Cuccinelli made statements that appeared to question whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States. He later backed away from the statements.

Guns 
Cuccinelli is a longtime advocate for gun rights. sponsored legislation to repeal the prohibition on carrying a concealed handgun in a restaurant or club, for Virginia to recognize concealed handgun permits from other states, and to shield concealed handgun permit application data from Freedom of Information Act requests. Under Cuccinelli's proposal a person could only be disqualified for such a permit by a court ruling based on the applicant's past actions. In the 2009 legislative session, a bill Cuccinelli introduced was passed that, for the purposes of granting a Virginia concealed handgun permit, required the state to accept as proof of "handgun competence" any certificate from an online handgun safety course featuring an NRA Certified instructor.

Cuccinelli believes that mental illness is the root cause of mass shootings, and that they can be better prevented with more access to mental health care. He has pushed for restricting mentally ill persons from obtaining guns.

Immigration
Cuccinelli has been described as an immigration hard-liner. He has supported President Trump's anti-immigration policies. While in Virginia politics, Cuccinelli pushed legislation to force employees to speak English in the workplace. He has sought to repeal birthright citizenship. He sought to ban undocumented immigrants from attending Virginia colleges.

Donald Trump
During the 2016 Republican National Convention, Cuccinelli led an effort to prevent Donald Trump from receiving the Republican presidential nomination. He was a staunch Ted Cruz supporter during the 2016 Republican primaries. In 2023, Cuccinelli launched a PAC encouraging Ron DeSantis to enter the 2024 Republican primary.

After the 2020 presidential election, according to emails obtained by American Oversight through a FOIA request, Cuccinelli exchanged emails with Ginni Thomas regarding election fraud conspiracies.

Taxes
In 2006, Cuccinelli sent out a fundraising letter that criticized the Virginia Senate's Republican majority for passing a gasoline tax increase. The letter elicited rebuke from fellow Republican Tommy Norment.
In his 2013 campaign, Cuccinelli proposed cutting the top individual income rate from 5.75 percent to 5 percent and the corporate income tax rate from 6 percent to 4 percent for a total reduction in tax revenue of about $1.4 billion a year. He has stated that he would offset that lost revenue by slowing the growth of the state's general fund spending and by eliminating unspecified tax exemptions and loopholes.

Eminent domain
In the 2005, 2006 and 2007 legislative sessions, Cuccinelli worked to pass eminent domain (compulsory purchase) laws that prevented local and state governments from taking private homes and businesses for developers' projects. In April 2010, Cuccinelli told the Roanoke Chamber of Commerce that he wanted to improve the protection of property rights in Virginia's Constitution. "There is no consistency on the application of eminent domain throughout Virginia," he said. In 2012, Cuccinelli championed a constitutional amendment to prohibit eminent domain from being used to take private land for private gain, thus restricting it to being used only for public gain. The amendment was placed on the ballot for a voter referendum in the 2012 general election, and was passed 74%–26%.

Law enforcement
In 2005, Cuccinelli was the chief patron of SB873, legislation that entitled law enforcement officers to overtime pay from local governments for hours worked while on vacation or other leave.

Abstinence-only sex education
Cuccinelli has been a strong advocate of the abstinence-only sex education programs with state funding. He stated "The longer you delay the commencement of sexual activity, you have healthier and happier kids and more successful kids."

Electoral history

Personal life
Cuccinelli is married to Alice Monteiro Davis. They met at Gonzaga College High School and were each other's prom dates. They lost touch as Cuccinelli attended UVA and Davis attended James Madison University. Cuccinelli phoned her during their senior year in college, they reconnected, and married in October 1991. They have seven children.

They live in Nokesville, Prince William County, Virginia.

See also
 Virginia elections, 2009
 Virginia elections, 2013

References

External links

 Attorney General Cuccinelli official government site
 Ken Cuccinelli for Governor
 Ken Cuccinelli at the Virginia Public Access Project
 Senator Ken Cuccinelli (R-Fairfax) at Richmond Sunlight
 

|-

|-

|-

|-