[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Armenian Nuclear Power Plant

The Armenian Nuclear Power Plant (ANPP) (), also known as the Metsamor Nuclear Power Plant, (Armenian: Մեծամորի ատոմային էլեկտրակայան) is the only nuclear power plant in the South Caucasus, located 36 kilometers west of Yerevan in Armenia. 

The ANPP complex consists of two VVER-440 Model V270 nuclear reactors, each capable of generating 407.5 megawatts (MW) of power, for a total of 815 MW.
The plant supplied approximately 40 percent of Armenia's electricity in 2015.

As with other early VVER-440 plants, and unlike Western pressurized water reactors (PWR), the ANPP lacks a secondary containment building.

History 

The ANPP complex consists of two units. 
The first unit was activated on 22 December 1976, and the second on 5 January 1980. 
Following public pressure after the Spitak Earthquake in 1988, the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union decided to shut down the existing two units. 
After the fall of the USSR, Armenia had a period of energy scarcity and the government decided to reopen the plant. 
Ahead of the reopening, the Armenian government invited leading international companies to discuss and recommend solutions for potential earthquakes. 
After lengthy discussions, they developed a solution and subsequently unit 2 restarted on 5 November 1995, six years after being shut down. 
This resulted in vast increases in the Armenian power supply, allowing power to be used day and night.

ANPP is operated by CJSC HAEK (Closed Joint Stock Company Armenian Atomic Power Plant), according to the ratification of the Republic of Armenia on the usage of nuclear energy. 
The principal goal of this company has been stated to be the ability to produce safe and cost-efficient energy.

Earthquake resistance
The plant lies close to an area prone to earthquakes with magnitudes up to 8.
However, the plant was only constructed to resist earthquakes with a magnitude of up to 7.

Main technical and economical performance indicators

Recent unit 2 developments
The EU reportedly had classified the VVER 440 Model V230 light-water-cooled reactors as the "oldest and least reliable" category of all the 66 Soviet reactors built in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. However the IAEA has found that the Metsamor NPP has adequate safety and can function beyond its design lifespan.

In December 2008, the Armenian government's progress in meeting international safety standards regarding its use of nuclear energy at the Metsamor NPP was praised by Council on Nuclear Energy Safety Chairman Adolf Birkhofer, who also praised the overall development of the energy system in the country.

In the wake of Japan's 2011 Fukushima nuclear crisis, the combination of design and location of Metsamor was again claimed to make it among the most dangerous nuclear plants in the world. The Metsamor power station is one of the few remaining nuclear reactors of its kind that were built without primary containment structures. Armenian authorities and nuclear experts have also dismissed the possibility of a repeat of Fukushima, citing numerous safety upgrades the plant has received since one of its reactors was restored into operation in 1995.

In October 2015 a life extension of unit 2 was agreed, to take place in 2017 and 2018, permitting it to operate until 2027. The work will include modernization of the turbine hall equipment enabling unit 2's power output to increase by 15-18%.

In August 2021 the reactor pressure vessels underwent thermal annealing procedure by Rosatom with the goal to extend its service life until 2026, possibly followed by another 10-year extension. The capacity was boosted to 440 MW in a $40 million deal.

Discussions on possible third unit
On 23 April 2007 Director Sergei Kiriyenko of Russia's Federal Agency for Atomic Energy (Rosatom) met with Armenia's Energy Minister Armen Movsisyan and Ecology Minister, Vardan Ayvazyan, where the Russian side indicated Moscow's willingness to help Armenia build a new nuclear power plant, in the event that Armenian officials opted to head in that direction. This statement was followed by former President Robert Kocharyan's speech given to Yerevan State University students on 27 April 2007 during which he said that serious work on the fate of Armenia's atomic energy is underway and practical steps will be taken in this direction in 2008–2009. The president considered it desirable to construct a new nuclear power plant based on the existing infrastructures and new technologies. However, in his words, it is necessary to determine the amount needed and examine what impact it will have on rates. Robert Kocharyan said that in 2012–2013, active work will be carried out to build a new nuclear power plant and modernize the current one.