[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Human rights in Ukraine

ely functions due to a highly decentralized structure spanning several government agencies and departments. The process of creating a single migration system has been slow; political interference in the system is common and abuses of migrants and asylum seekers' rights continue.

 Human trafficking 

There has been a growing awareness of human trafficking as a human rights issue in Europe. The end of communism has contributed to an increase in human trafficking, with the majority of victims being women forced into prostitution. In 2013 Ukraine was a country of origin and country of transit for persons, primarily women and children, trafficked for the purpose of sexual exploitation and forced labor. Charcoal production and pornography have been listed in the U.S. Department of Labor's List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor'' under the country of Ukraine in December 2014. The Government of Ukraine has shown some commitment to combatting trafficking but has been criticized for not fully complying with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, and for inadequate trafficking prevention efforts.

Violence against women 

Violence against women is an entrenched social problem in Ukrainian culture engendered by traditional male and female stereotypes. It was not recognized during the Soviet era, but in recent decades the issue became an important topic of discussion in Ukrainian society and among academic scholars. According to the estimation of OSCE the violence towards women is widespread in Ukraine and it is associated with three times more deaths than the ongoing armed conflict in the eastern provinces of the country.

War in Donbas

During the ongoing Russo-Ukrainian War, Ukraine has lost control of the Donbas and Crimea.  On 21 May 2015, the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine has passed a resolution declaring that it has withdrawn from some of the obligations stipulated in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (articles 2, 9, 12, 14, 17), the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (articles 5, 6, 8, 13) and European Social Charter (articles 1 p. 2, 4 p. 2-3, 8 p. 1, 14 p. 1, 15,16,17 p. 1a p. 1c, 23,30, 31 p. 1-2) at the Donbas region until "Russia cease its aggression in eastern Ukraine".

Ukrainian human rights organizations

Association "Civic Initiative" (Kirovohrad) 
Association of Ukrainian Human Rights Monitors on Law Enforcement (Association UMDPL) :uk:Association of Ukrainian Human Rights Monitors on Law Enforcement (Association UMDPL)
Civic Methodics and Information Center «Universe»
Chernigiv Committee for the Protection of Citizen's Constitutional Rights
Committee of Voters of Ukraine
Congress of National Communities of Ukraine
Donetsk Memorial
"For Professional Assistance" (Poltava region) 
Kharkiv Human Rights Protection Group
Odesa Human Rights Group "Veritas"
Ukrainian Helsinki Human Rights Union
 Road Control

International human rights organizations with branches in Ukraine
Amnesty International Ukraine, led by Oksana Pokalchuk (2017–present)
International Society for Human Rights-Ukrainian Branch 
Moscow Helsinki Group

See also 
 LGBT rights in Ukraine
 History of the Russian language in Ukraine
 Chronology of Ukrainian language suppression
 Humanitarian situation during the war in Donbas

Notes

References

External links

Amnesty International 2017/2018 Report on Ukraine
US Department of State 2006 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices: Ukraine

 
Politics of Ukraine
Ukraine
Propaganda in Russia