[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# McNeill's Rangers

machinery, engines, and railroad cars; burned nine railroad engines, some seventy-five or eighty burthern cars, two trains of cars heavily laden with commissary stores, and sent six engines with full head of steam toward New Creek. Captured the mail and mail train and 104 prisoners on the train. ...

Brigadier General Benjamin F. Kelley, the Federal commander in the area, was especially irritated at the tempo of their raids and the havoc created by each one. On May 22, 1864, in a special communique to Colonel Higgins at Green Spring, Kelley ordered: "As soon as practicable send Captain Hart with 125 or 150 men on a scout up the east side of the river, to Moorefield and vicinity, after McNeill."  Kelley continued: "It is not necessary for me to give Captain Hart any minute instructions. He is well acquainted in that vicinity. I will simply say I want McNeill killed, captured, or driven out of this valley." Kellys' 150 men were not enough, and McNeill escaped.

McNeill's Rangers also had pro-Union irregulars to contend with in western Virginia; northern Pendleton County, in particular, was pro-Union and organized itself into the "Pendleton Home Guards" which frequently confronted the roving confederate bands. On 19 July 1864 near Petersburg, a detachment of McNeill's Rangers attacked about 30 Home Guards under Captain John Boggs (whose company was known as the "Swamp Dragons"). The confederates were repulsed and their leader, Lieutenant Dolen, killed.

McNeill's Rangers played a role in May 1864 at the Battle of New Market. McNeill's unit of 18th Virginia Cavalry was among those who fought a delaying action at Rude's Hill, under the command of Col. John Imboden. The 18th Virginia Cavalry slowed the Union advance, enabling Gen. John Breckinridge to gather the main body of his Confederate forces at New Market, about 4 miles away. New Market was a decisive Confederate victory, forcing the Federals into a disorganized retreat.

In a predawn raid on 3 Oct. 1864, Captain McNeill led approximately 50 Confederate rangers against roughly 100 Union troopers of the 8th Ohio Cavalry Regiment guarding a bridge from Meems Bottom, a strategic crossing of the Valley Turnpike over the North Fork of the Shenandoah River to Mt. Jackson in the Shenandoah Valley. The attack lasted just fifteen minutes with most of the Union cavalry captured but McNeill, one of the best-known and feared Confederate partisan raiders, was mortally wounded. He was taken to a house on Rude's Hill, where his identity was later discovered by Union General Philip Sheridan, after McNeill reportedly gave himself up. Sheridan actually met with McNeill, who was being nursed by a Methodist minister's wife at the house. McNeill was later secreted away by a band of Confederates after the Federals had temporarily left, thinking him too incapacitated to move and thus no need to guard. McNeill was taken by the Confederates to Harrisonburg where he died on November 10.  Command of the Rangers passed to his son, Jesse Cunningham McNeill, who had served as Lieutenant under his father. A detachment of the 14th Pennsylvania Cavalry assisted the 8th Ohio at Meems Bottom Bridge on the October 3, 1864 raid. Many Troopers of the 14th were captured and later Paroled.

1865
In January 1865, Major Harry Gilmor came to West Virginia for recruiting and staging attacks against the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad; he used The Willows near Moorefield, West Virginia, as his command post. The McNeill Rangers used nearby Mill Island and McNeill family-owned Willow Wall as hospitals. General Philip Sheridan received intelligence about Gilmor's whereabouts and a scouting party captured him in bed on February 4, 1865.

On the night of February 21, 1865, Jesse McNeill and 65 Rangers traveled 60 miles behind enemy lines to Cumberland, Maryland. Without being detected, they captured both Union Major General George Crook and Brig. Gen. Benjamin Franklin Kelley from their beds. They evaded pursuing Federal cavalry and delivered the captured generals to Lieutenant General Jubal A. Early, who forwarded the prisoners to Richmond and commissioned Jesse McNeil as Captain of the Rangers. In the words of Gen. Sheridan,

The capture of Gilmore caused the disbandment of the party he had organized at the "camp-meeting," most of the men he had recruited returning to their homes discouraged, though some few joined the bands of Woodson and young Jesse McNeil, which, led by the latter, dashed into Cumberland, Maryland, at 3 o'clock on the morning of the 21st of February and made a reprisal by carrying off General Crook and General Kelly, and doing their work so silently and quickly that they escaped without being noticed.

On May 8, 1865, the McNeill's Rangers surrendered and were paroled.

See also
List of Virginia Civil War units
List of West Virginia Civil War Confederate units
Charles Mynn Thruston

References