[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 35]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

his young lady
acidulated drops!" he exclaimed on one occasion, when Hadria was looking
flushed and perturbed.

"Ah! shall I ever forget those acidulated drops!" she cried,
brightening.

"You don't mean to say that you would stoop to them now?"

"It is not one's oldest friends who always know one best," she replied
demurely.

"I shall test you," he said.

And on that same day, he walked into Ballochcoil, and when he returned,
he offered her, with a solemn twinkle in his eye, a good-sized paper bag
of the seductive sweetmeat; taking up his position on the top of a low
dyke, and watching her, while she proceeded to make of that plump white
bag, a lank and emaciated bag, surprising to behold. He sat and looked
on, enjoying his idleness with the zest of a hard worker. The twinkle of
amusement faded gradually from his face, and the sadness that Hadria had
noticed the day before, returned to his eyes. She was leaning against
the dyke, pensively enjoying her festive meal. The dark fresh blue of
her gown, and the unwonted tinge of colour in her cheeks, gave a
vigorous and healthful impression, in harmony with the weather-beaten
stones and the windy breadth of the northern landscape.

The Professor studied the face with a puzzled frown. He flattered
himself that he was a subtle physiognomist, but in this case, he would
not have dared to pronounce judgment. Danger and difficulty might have
been predicted, for it was a moving face, one that could not be looked
upon quite coldly. And the Professor had come to the conclusion, from
his experience of life, that the instinct of the average human being
whom another has stirred to strong emotion, is to fasten upon and
overwhelm that luckless person, to burden him with responsibilities, to
claim as much of time, and energy, and existence, as can in any way be
wrung from him, careless of the cost to the giver.

Professor Fortescue noticed, as Hadria looked down, a peculiar
dreaminess of expression, and something indefinable, which suggested a
profoundly emotional nature. At present, the expression was softened.
That this softness was not altogether trustworthy, however, the
Professor felt sure, for he had seen, at moments, when something had
deeply stirred her, expressions anything but soft come into her face.
He thought her capable of many things of which the well-brought-up young
Englishwoman is not supposed to dream. It seemed to him, that she had at
least two distinct natures that were at war with one another: the one
greedy and pleasure-loving, careless and even reckless; the other
deep-seeing and aspiring. But which of these two tendencies would
experience probably foster?

"I wonder what you like best, next to acidulated drops," he said at
length, with one of his half-bantering smiles.

"There are few things in this wide world that can be mentioned in the
same breath with them, but toffy also has its potency upon the spirit."

"I like not this mocking tone."

"Then I will not mock," she said.

"Yes, Hadria," he went on meditatively, "you have grown up, if an old
friend may make such remarks, very much as I expected, from the promise
of your childhood. You used to puzzle me even then."

"Do I puzzle you now?" she asked.

"Inexpressibly!"

"How amusing! But how?"

"One can generally see at a glance, or pretty soon, the general trend of
a character. But not with you. Nothing that I might hear of you in the
future, would very much surprise me. I should say to myself, 'Yes, the
germ was there.'"

Hadria paled a little. "Either good or bad you mean?"

"Well----"

"Yes, I understand." She drew herself together, crossing her arms, and
looking over the hills, with eyes that burned with a sort of fear and
defiance mingled. It was a singular expression, which the Professor
noted with a sense of discomfort.

Hadria slowly withdrew her eyes from the horizon, and bent them on the
ground.

"You must have read some of my thoughts," she said. "I often wonder how
it is, that the world can drill women into goodness at all." She raised
her head, and went on in a low, bitter tone: "I often wonder why it is,
that they don't, one and all, fling up their _rôles_ and revenge
themselves to the best of their ability--intentionally, I mean--upon the
world that makes them live under a permanent insult. I think, at times,
that I should thoroughly enjoy spending my life in sheer, unmitigated
vengeance, and if I did"--she clenched her hands, and her eyes
blazed--"if I did, I would not do my work by halves!"

"I am sure you would not," said the Professor dryly.

"But I shall not do anything of the kind," she added in a different
tone; "women don't. They always try to be good, always, _always_--the
more fools they! And the more they are good, the worse things get."

"Ah! I thought there was some heterodox sentiment lurking here at high
pressure!" exclaimed the Professor.

Hadria sighed. "I have jus