[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002

sed admission into the United States, but not ordered destroyed, to affix to the container of the food a label that clearly and conspicuously bears the statement: UNITED STATES: REFUSED ENTRY, and it prohibits an importer from port shopping with respect to food that has previously been denied entry.

It directs the Secretary of HHS and the Secretary of Agriculture to coordinate the surveillance of zoonotic diseases.

It authorizes the Secretary to commission employees of other federal departments or agencies, pursuant to a memorandum of understanding between the Secretary and the head of the other department or agency to conduct examinations and inspections for the Secretary under the FFDCA.

Subtitle B: Protection of Drug Supply
It amends the FFDCA to mandate electronic annual registration of foreign manufacturers and importers of drug and device products into United States.

It mandates a chain of custody for those entities that seek to import components of drugs, devices, food additives, color additives, or dietary supplements for further processing and export, and requires certificates of analysis for components containing any chemical substance or biological substance intended for export.

Subtitle C: General Provisions Relating to Upgrade of Agricultural Security
It authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to utilize existing authorities to give high priority to expanding the capacity of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to conduct inspections and allows for automated record keeping.

It authorizes the Secretary to utilize existing authorities to give high priority to expanding the capacity of the Food Safety Inspection Service to conduct inspections, and authorizes appropriations for enabling the Agricultural Research Service to upgrade buildings and modernize existing facilities.

It provides grants to universities with programs in food and agricultural sciences to review security standards and practices at their facilities in order to protect against bioterrorism.

It authorizes the Secretary to use existing research programs to protect the food supply of the United States by conducting and supporting research specified bioterrorism agricultural research and development activities.

Title IV: Drinking Water Security and Safety
Title IV amends the Safe Drinking Water Act to require community water systems serving a population of more than 3,300 to conduct an assessment of the vulnerability of its system to a terrorist attack, to certify and submit a written copy of the assessment, and to prepare an emergency response plan. It requires the review of current and future methods to prepare to respond to the intentional introduction of contaminants into community water systems.

It requires the review of methods and means by which terrorists or other individuals or groups could disrupt the supply of safe drinking water or take other actions which could render drinking water significantly less safe for human consumption, and increases penalties under the Safe Drinking Water Act for tampering with drinking water systems and authorizes appropriations.

Title V: Additional Provisions
Title V contains miscellaneous provisions, including a measure unrelated to public health and safety, in which the FCC is to direct the conversion to digital television.

Subtitle A: Prescription Drug User Fees
The Prescription Drug User Fee Amendments of 2002 amends the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to revise provisions concerning definitions and the authority to assess and use drug fees.

It provides public accountability for goals in the process for the review of human drug applications.

It revises provisions concerning reports of postmarketing studies.

Subtitle B: Funding Provisions Regarding Food and Drug Administration
It reserves specified amounts for the Office of Drug Safety from amounts appropriated to the Food and Drug Administration, and authorizes appropriations for the Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications, and the Office of Generic Drugs.

Subtitle C: Additional Provisions
It directs the Federal Communications Commission to promote the orderly transition to digital television.

References

Sources

Acts of the 107th United States Congress
Terrorism laws in the United States