[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 Chinese Grand Prix

to, taking fourth. Barrichello then braked too late at the same corner, running into the back of Heidfeld, knocking the BMW Sauber's right rear wheel askew and damaging his own front wing. This allowed de la Rosa through to take fifth, Barrichello sixth, and the furious Heidfeld limped home seventh.

Post-race
The result put Michael Schumacher equal on points with Fernando Alonso, and put him in the championship lead on countback. However, Fisichella's third place allowed Renault to regain the lead of the Constructors' Championship by one point from Ferrari, as well as vaulting Fisichella ahead of Felipe Massa in the battle for third in the Drivers' Championship, also by one point. After the race, Schumacher expressed his surprise at the performance of his car in the wet, after its dismal showing in qualifying. Alonso expressed his regret over the decision to change only the front tyres at his first stop, but also his encouragement at the pace his car had shown throughout the weekend. Both championship contenders were confident heading into the final two races of the season.

Classification

Qualifying

Notes
  – Felipe Massa and Takuma Sato each received a 10-place grid penalty for engine changes.
  – Christijan Albers was demoted to the back of the grid for failing to bring his car into the weighbridge when instructed to do so.

Race

Notes
  – Christijan Albers received a 25-second time penalty for ignoring blue flags.
  – Takuma Sato originally finished 14th, but was disqualified for ignoring blue flags.

Championship standings after the race

Drivers' Championship standings

Constructors' Championship standings

 Note: Only the top five positions are included for both sets of standings.
 Bold text and an asterisk indicates competitors who still had a theoretical chance of becoming World Champion.

References

External links

 Detailed Chinese Grand Prix results
 Trackpedia guide to driving the Shanghai Circuit

Chinese Grand Prix
Grand Prix
Chinese Grand Prix
Chinese Grand Prix