[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fushigi no Kuni no Alice

lute Player
 The Honey Elephants
 Little Bill in Love
 The Pearl of Wisdom
 The Fixit Pixie
 The Family Portrait
 The Magic Potion
 Octopus (The Vanished Light Fairy)
 All Things Nice (Many Colored Candles)
 The Non-Birthday
 Monkey Business (The Chimpanzee's Child)
 The Knight's Battle
 Queen Alice

Characters
Alice (アリス Arisu) voiced by TARAKO & Aya Beher (Tagalog GMA): In contrast to her novel counterpart, she is depicted with red hair instead of blonde, a hat, and a red and white short neck top dress similar in design to her Disney counterpart's blue and white dress. She appears younger due to her anime design (as this is the same case with Dorothy's anime depiction in the anime adaptation of the Wizard of Oz)
Benny Bunny (ベニー) voice by Masako Nozawa: Alice's rabbit companion in her adventures throughout Wonderland. Found when Alice buys a magic hat in an old shop, Benny turns out to be the nephew of the White Rabbit, so he gets along fairly well with most of the Wonderlanders. He is always uncomfortable whenever they have to go to the Jabberwocky though, as the dragon is set on making rabbit stew out of him. He is also the only character in the series not originating from Lewis Caroll's stories.
The White Rabbit: Benny's jittery uncle and one of the Queen of Hearts' associates. He has white fur as his name implies, and often worries about being late for his duties.
The Cheshire Cat (チェシャキャット Cheshire) voice by Issei Futamata: A striped cat with the power to vanish himself and others. In most versions, the Cheshire Cat is portrayed as a smart aleck. In here, he's a bit of a bumbler.
The Queen of Hearts (ハートの女王) : The usual instigator of the current adventure's problem, the Queen shares the same Rubenesque figure of her Disney counterpart. She wears a yellow dress and has a sloping, pointed nose, a contrast to her counterpart's flat face and red and black gown. Another difference that separates her from most other depictions of the character is that she is the most human out of all of them; she can be reasoned with, and while she does threaten with beheadings, she usually only sends offenders to the dungeon for a few days.
The King of Hearts: The Queen of Hearts' pushover husband and a good friend of Humpty Dumpty.
The Jabberwocky: A moody giant dragon living in a castle, beyond the forest. A loner of sorts, he doesn't like visitors that much and usually keeps to himself. Now and then he seems vaguely bent on cooking Alice's rabbit companion Benny Bunny. But he is in the end more grumpy than dangerous, and seems good-natured all in all. Sometimes ends up helping Alice with her troubles. It is possibly hinted at in "The Little Flute Player" that he may have had a lover in the past.
The Caterpillar (キャタピラ): Ostensibly the wisest out of all of the Wonderlanders, the Caterpillar can also be considered the sanest or most normal real-world-wise.  Usually found in an area filled with mushrooms, the Caterpillar smokes from his hooka while listening to the different woes of the Wonderlanders.  Alice usually comes to him for advice, which has developed into the two of them having a close friendship.
White King and White Queen: The other monarchy in Wonderland, while the White King likes to take a snooze, his wife is fixated on playing croquet.
Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum: Two chubby twin brothers who sometimes fight like in their nursery rhyme.
Duchess: Rarely seen without The Cook, she has a piglet as a child who gets casually thrown about.
Walrus: A devoted friend of The Carpenter, he is rarely seen without him and was introduced at first as a villain.
Humpty Dumpty voice by Shōzō Iizuka : An irritable living egg who often seen walking on a wall and refuses to believe that he is an egg. Though he would wobble on the wall sometimes, he's often fortunate not to fall and shatter.
Mad Hatter: The hatted man who's fond of putting up tea parties.
March Hare: The Mad Hatter's closest companion at the tea party.
Dormouse: Another tea party attendee. The Dormouse is often asleep and therefore aloof. Although he receives a lot accidental abuse from other characters, he never complains. He also seemingly does not do anything besides dozing, although he is seen playing cymbals on one occasion.
Dodo: An elderly, eccentric Dodo who has shown to have dabbled in magic, he was among the characters whom Alice met while participating in the Caucus Race.
Mock Turtle: A sensitive Wonderlander that doesn't take much to get him upset. He is usually seen without the Gryphon unlike in the book.
The Lion and the Unicorn: Two animals who used to fight like in their nursery rhyme at first, but then became friends. They are rarely seen in the show. The Lion is a bit of a coward like his counterpart in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz and the Unicorn can screw his horn back on when it comes off.