[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cottam power stations

side equipment. The coal was then  discharged into an underground hopper of approximately 609.6 tonnes (600 tons) capacity. Weighing of the fuel and empty wagons was carried out automatically while the train was moving. The time between receiving the train and its departure was less than 60 minutes.

From the underground hopper the coal could be fed either to the bunkers in the boiler house, which had a capacity of 9,348 tonnes (9,200 tons), or to the coal stocking area. ‘Stocking Out’ was accomplished by a single radial boom conveyor feeding a working stock area of 40,642 tonnes (40,000 tons) capacity. From the working stock coal was moved by mobile plant to the permanent stock which will have a capacity of about 1,016,047 tonnes (1,000,000 tons). Reclaiming from both permanent and working stock was by mobile plant which moved the coal into an underground hopper and hence to bunkers by means of duplicate conveyor belts, each of 1,524 tonnes (1,500 tons) per hour capacity. All operations on the coal plant, including signalling for the locomotive while on site, were controlled from a central room which was situated adjacent to the unloading hopper.

The last coal train delivery to Cottam power station was carried out by GB Railfreight number 66735 on 19 June 2019.

Ash and Dust Plant
The lifetime dust and ash make of the station is estimated to be in the order of 13,761,988 and 3,440,497 cubic metres (18 million and 4.5 million cubic yards) respectively. In raising the general station area to above river level borrow pits were created within the power station site. This, together with the filling of the remainder of the site, has made available approximately 6,116,439 cubic metres (8 million cubic yards) of ash disposal. In addition there were a number of disused gravel pits in the area, amounting to approximately 12,232,878 cubic metres (16 million cubic yards), which were to be reclaimed by filling with ash from Cottam and other nearby power stations, one being the Idle Valley Nature Reserve.

On full load operation of the four units, in the order of 975 tonnes (960 tons) per day of furnace bottom ash will be made. The ash is continuously quenched in the furnace and sluiced from the hoppers to crushers local to the boiler before being pumped to the ash disposal area. At the disposal area large ash is screened out and the remaining slurry is cycloned and classified. The de-watered ash is then discharged to the drainage area from which loading on to road vehicles was carried out by mechanical shovel. The effluent from the cyclones and the drainage area is pumped to ash “lagoons” on site.

The precipitator hoppers have sufficient capacity to hold the dust make for 24 hours, in which time in the order of 3,902 tonnes (3,840 tons) of dust will be made. The control of the dust extraction, pumping and disposal plant is automatic with the overall control centralised in a control room adjacent to the plant. The precipitator hopper outlets are electrically heated to facilitate dust extraction. From the hoppers the dust is fed by pneumatic air flow conveyors into a “wetting” unit which feeds into a sluice system discharging into a dust sump. The sump is emptied by single stage pumps discharging to the dust lagoons on site or in the vicinity of the station. To provide for dry dust disposal one of the three precipitators on each unit can be selected to discharge to a pneumatic conveyor feeding a 1,016 tonne (1,000 ton) capacity dry bunker. The discharge from the storage bunker can be taken dry into sealed road dust tankers, or conditioned with water into open type road vehicles.