[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Quantum nonlocality

ilistic one, in which local theories cannot even agree with quantum mechanics on which events are possible or impossible in an entangled scenario. The first proof of this kind was due to Daniel Greenberger, Michael Horne, and Anton Zeilinger in 1993 The state involved is often called the GHZ state. 

In 1993, Lucien Hardy demonstrated a logical proof of quantum nonlocality that, like the GHZ proof is a possibilistic proof. It starts with the observation that the state  defined below can be written in a few suggestive ways:

where, as above, .

The experiment consists of this entangled state being shared between two experimenters, each of whom has the ability to measure either with respect to the basis  or . We see that if they each measure with respect to , then they never see the outcome . If one measures with respect to  and the other , they never see the outcomes   However, sometimes they see the outcome  when measuring with respect to , since 

This leads to the paradox: having the outcome  we conclude that if one of the experimenters had measured with respect to the  basis instead, the outcome must have been  or , since  and  are impossible. But then, if they had both measured with respect to the  basis, by locality the result must have been , which is also impossible.

Nonlocal hidden variable models with a finite propagation speed
The work of Bancal et al. generalizes Bell's result by proving that correlations achievable in quantum theory are also incompatible with a large class of superluminal hidden variable models. In this framework, faster-than-light signaling is precluded. However, the choice of settings of one party can influence hidden variables at another party's distant location, if there is enough time for a superluminal influence (of finite, but otherwise unknown speed) to propagate from one point to the other. In this scenario, any bipartite experiment revealing Bell nonlocality can just provide lower bounds on the hidden influence's propagation speed. Quantum experiments with three or more parties can, nonetheless, disprove all such non-local hidden variable models.

Analogs of Bell’s theorem in more complicated causal structures

The random variables measured in a general experiment can depend on each other in complicated ways. In the field of causal inference, such dependencies are represented via Bayesian networks: directed acyclic graphs where each node represents a variable and an edge from a variable to another signifies that the former influences the latter and not otherwise, see the figure.
In a standard bipartite Bell experiment, Alice's (Bob's) setting  (), together with her (his) local variable  (), influence her (his) local outcome  (). Bell's theorem can thus be interpreted as a separation between the quantum and classical predictions in a type of causal structures with just one hidden node . Similar separations have been established in other types of causal structures. The characterization of the boundaries for classical correlations in such extended Bell scenarios is challenging, but there exist complete practical computational methods to achieve it.

Entanglement and nonlocality

Quantum nonlocality is sometimes understood as being equivalent to entanglement. However, this is not the case. Quantum entanglement can be defined only within the formalism of quantum mechanics, i.e., it is a model-dependent property. In contrast, nonlocality refers to the impossibility of a description of observed statistics in terms of a local hidden variable model, so it is independent of the physical model used to describe the experiment.

It is true that for any pure entangled state there exists a choice of measurements that produce Bell nonlocal correlations, but the situation is more complex for mixed states. While any Bell nonlocal state must be entangled, there exist (mixed) entangled states which do not produce Bell nonlocal correlations (although, operating on several copies of some of such states, or carrying out local post-selections, it is possible to witness nonlocal effects). Moreover, while there are catalysts for entanglement, there are none for nonlocality. Finally, reasonably simple examples of Bell inequalities have been found for which the quantum state giving the largest violation is never a maximally entangled state, showing that entanglement is, in some sense, not even proportional to nonlocality.

Quantum correlations