[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Raymond Westerling

e Moluccas. Westerling, reportedly still on his way to Ambon, subsequently distanced himself from the new party, after which his comrades brought him before an 'honour council' on suspicion of embezzlement. However, he denied all allegations and the public tribunal was cancelled for unclear reasons.

In December 1956, Westerling's confidant Ton Schilling (1919-1984), a freelance journalist and founder of the Veterans Legion of the Netherlands, was arrested by the state police. After which he was sentenced to one year in prison for swindling and embezzling substantial sums of money collected for sabotage operations in Indonesia. Westerling was acquitted of involvement. Schilling still belonged to the close circle around Westerling in 1969. Meanwhile, the Indonesian Foreign Ministry issued a 'White Paper' in early 1957, stating that investigations into far-right networks supporting the armed uprisings in the Moluccas had been ongoing since the early 1950s. Dutch government circles were also allegedly involved in the plotting, according to the Indonesians. 

Thereafter, Westerling studied voice at the Amsterdam conservatory. His début as a tenor in Puccini's Tosca in the city of Breda in 1958, however, proved unsuccessful. After that, Westerling led a seemingly unremarkable life. He said he wrote some military reports, including for a foreign oil company, but turned down offers to work as a mercenary. Yet not a year went by that the newspapers did not write about him; he was regularly mentioned in connection with foreign conflicts and planned attacks; several times he was refused entry to the country at foreign airports. When former prime minister Willem Drees spoke in 1969 about the "misdeeds" committed under Westerling's command, he unsuccessfully filed a libel complaint. A government committee concluded in 1969, partly on the basis of an earlier 1954 report, that military excesses had indeed taken place on Celebes. Van Rij and Stam's report held Westerling, along with Captain Rijborz, responsible for some of these excesses. Westerling responded with an interview in Vrij Nederland, where he defended the use of summary executions. To De Tijd, he complained about the "Westerling myth" perpetuated by the lack of an official investigation. Just hours before his death in 1987, he is said to have announced his intention to file summary proceedings against the historian Loe de Jong for accusing the Dutch forces in the Dutch East Indies of war crimes in a draft chapter and for portraying Westerling as a ruthless soldier. 

He maintained his reputation as a fire-eater; as recently as 1977, he was mentioned in connection with possible kidnapping of war-crimes suspect Pieter Menten. In 1979, he campaigned for the payment of overdue salaries to former KNIL soldiers, using strong language.

Personal life 

Westerling was married three times. From one of the first two marriages, he had a daughter. He also had a daughter, named Palmyra Westerling, from his third marriage. Around 1955, he lived in Marssum. Westerling later divorced and remarried. He moved to Amsterdam, where he ran an antiquarian bookshop in Amsterdam. He died in his hometown of Purmerend at the age of 68 in his sleep from cardiac arrest and was buried at Nieuwe Ooster Cemetery in Amsterdam.

War crimes allegations 

Westerling's life in the Netherlands was dominated by allegations of war crimes over his actions in South Celebes. Westerling continued to defend his purges and denied accusations of war crimes. That, when he saw fit, he acted ruthlessly, he never contradicted. In interviews, however, he denied being guilty of war crimes. "The introduction of martial law in South Celebes was the result of purely human reasoning, although for many people it was a bestial act. But go deeper into the reasoning of why I was forced to do it - I put myself aside, I risked martial law and public opinion - then it is the only way to restore peace and order on Celebes with a minimum of bloodshed."

His memoirs devote a chapter to his self-defense. "They painted me as a bloodthirsty monster, who attacked the people of Celebes by fire and sword and exposed all those, who in the interest of Indonesia's national independence resisted Dutch rule, to a merciless campaign of repression". Westerling stated he had based his tactics on the premise that he performed the role of policeman, combating terror: "I arrested terrorists, not because they acted as instigators of the Republican government... but because they made themselves guilty of open and unmistaken crimes...I never had them [his troops] bombard a village, nor did I take the hut of innocent under fire. I had executed some criminals, but nobody had died needlessly or wrongly by my doing.

Investigation by the Dutch government