[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kathy Castor

She applauded President Obama's 2014 announcement on immigration accountability executive action.

Climate change 
Castor chairs the House Select Committee on the Climate Crisis. As chair, she has been credited as a driving force behind the movement and helped allocate federal funding for the issue.

LGBT rights
Castor supports same-sex marriage. In 2005, she was the lone Hillsborough County commissioner to vote against a resolution to ban gay pride activities and events. In 2013, the Hillsborough County Commission unanimously reversed its position on the ban.

In 2013, Castor filed an amicus brief in support of the Supreme Court striking down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) and applauded the Court when it did so later that year.

In both 2019 and 2021, Castor co-sponsored and voted for the Equality Act, which would amend the Civil Rights Act to "prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or pregnancy, childbirth, or a related medical condition of an individual, as well as because of sex-based stereotypes."

U.S.–Cuba relations
Castor supports normalizing relations between the United States and Cuba. She visited Cuba in April 2013.

Gun policy
Castor is an outspoken advocate for gun control. After the 2016 Pulse nightclub shooting, she participated in John Lewis's Congressional sit-in to demand that any U.S. citizen on the administrative No Fly List lose their constitutional second amendment rights to purchase firearms. Castor has spoken about her perception of Florida's lacking gun legislation, saying, "My home state of Florida has some of the weakest gun laws; we lack expanded background checks that would prevent individuals on the terrorist watch list, criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill from purchasing guns." She supports a ban of high-capacity magazines and reinstating the Federal Assault Weapons Ban. While acknowledging that preventing those on the No-Fly List from buying guns or banning assault rifles might not have prevented the Pulse nightclub shooting, she said, "if we could stop another tragedy. . .I think it's reasonable to say, here are a couple of common sense laws we could pass to make Americans more safe."

In the wake of the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, Castor reiterated her support for repealing the Dickey Amendment of 1996, which discourages funding to the CDC to research gun violence prevention.

Impeachment of Donald Trump
On December 18, 2019, Castor voted to impeach President Donald Trump.

Israel's right to self defense 
Castor voted to provide Israel with support following 2023 Hamas attack on Israel.

Committee assignments
For the 118th Congress:
 Committee on Energy and Commerce
 Subcommittee on Energy, Climate, and Grid Security
 Subcommittee on Innovation, Data, and Commerce
 Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations (Ranking Member)
 Select Committee on Strategic Competition between the United States and the Chinese Communist Party

Caucus memberships
 Special Operations Caucus (co-chair)
Academic Medicine Caucus (co-chair)
Children's Health Care Caucus (co-chair)
Air Force Caucus (co-chair)
Congressional Soccer Caucus (co-chair)

Personal life
Castor is a Presbyterian.

See also
 Women in the United States House of Representatives

References

External links

Representative Kathy Castor official U.S. House website
Kathy Castor for Congress

|-

|-

1966 births
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
American Presbyterians
21st-century American women lawyers
21st-century American lawyers
American lawyers
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Florida
Emory University alumni
Female members of the United States House of Representatives
Florida State University College of Law alumni
Living people
Presbyterians from Florida
Politicians from Tampa, Florida
Politicians from Miami
Women in Florida politics