[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Melbourne Polytechnic

with Collingwood Technical College in 1988 to form the Northern Metropolitan College of TAFE.

Building B on Preston Campus, that fronts St Georges Road, has been listed on the Victorian Heritage Database for its local historic, aesthetic and social significance to Darebin City. The listing states:

Historically, the school provides evidence of the educational faciliies  established to meet the educational needs of the growing municipalities of Northcote and Preston in the Inter-war years. It is also significant as a place that illustrates the development of technical colleges during the inter-war period. It is significant as an example of a school designed under the direction of notable Chief Architect, Percy Everett. Architecturally, the former Preston Technical College is a relatively intact and good example of a substantial Education Department secondary school building from the Inter-war years. The Stripped Classical composition of its east (St Georges Road) elevation is of note, which is layered with materials and embellishment that are found on Moderne and Mediterranean style buildings, creating an interesting hybrid of styles."

Campuses

The institute's main campus and administration is located at Preston on St Georges Road.

Preston
Set on the site of Preston Technical School, this campus offers a variety of courses and facilities, including a Gym and football oval. Courses include information technology, hospitality and tourism, business and office administration, massage and hairdressing. The Hospitality Department runs a Tourism and Hospitality Training Centre which provides training bars, commercial kitchens and a simulated hotel foyer, front desk, hotel suite and the St Georges Restaurant and bistro which is run as a successful commercial venture.

The Centre of Excellence for Students who are Deaf and Hard of Hearing is based at the Preston Campus. The centre was set up in 1993 by the Office of Training and Further Education (OTFE), later renamed Skills Victoria. The Centre's aim is to provide leadership, support and research to the Vocational Education and Training (VET) sector on the needs of Deaf and hard of hearing students in Victoria.

Collingwood
Located in an 8-storey tower in Otter Street, close to Smith Street, the Collingwood campus offers courses in information technology, multimedia, video production, hairdressing and contains the International Students office. A Cafeteria is located on the 3rd floor along with the Level 3 Bistro which hospitality students run during term times. IELTS testing was conducted at Collingwood until 2016, off-site testing is conducted on market demand. The campus also features an industry standard high definition television broadcast studio. The campus temporarily shares its space with the Academy of Design Australia, a privately owned design college belonging to LaSalle College, before its relocation to Oxford Street, Collingwood.

The campus was temporarily closed in October 2022 to be renovated, with an expected opening date in early 2024.

Fairfield
Fairfield Campus is located on the site of the former Fairfield Infectious Diseases Hospital, and many of the hospital's original buildings converted for student use.  Facilities at the Fairfield Campus include photography studios and darkrooms, recording studios and fully equipped computer laboratories. Courses in illustration, visual arts, performing arts, Music Business and horticulture are based at Fairfield.

In 2008 and 2009 work was undertaken in redeveloping the old nurses quarters for student residential accommodation. Yarra House on Fairfield campus was officially opened for residential student accommodation in 2010. A common room is named after Vivian Bullwinkel, an Australian Army nurse and later the Director of Nursing at the Fairfield Hospital.

There is an AIDS Memorial Garden located in parklands adjacent to the campus where the ashes of at least 50 people are scattered. The garden was established on 22 April 1988 as a
place of tranquillity and respite for patients in the AIDS Ward at the former Fairfield Infectious Diseases Hospital and their families and friends.Fairfield Campus Parkland and AIDS Memorial Garden Management Plan, NMIT website. Retrieved 7 October 2009

Greensborough
The Greensborough Campus has gardens which are developed and maintained by students of the Landscape Gardening course.

The campus was closed in 2013 with management citing declining enrolments at the campus as the reason. Labor leader Daniel Andrews promised to re-open the campus during the 2014 Victorian state election, either by Melbourne Polytechnic or another training provider.