[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# List of smoking bans

7 of 2006 restricts smoking in many indoor public spaces, such as government departments, schools, and hospitals. The law permits smoking in designated areas of airports, hotels, and restaurants, while smoking in public transportation is banned.

Suriname
Suriname has a smoking ban in place.

Sweden

In Sweden, smoking was restricted in restaurants, cafes, bars and nightclubs in June 2005. Smoking rooms are, however, allowed in these institutions. The smoking rooms contain a few restrictions: no serving or consumption of food or beverages is allowed in the smoking rooms and it may not cover more than 25% of the institution's total area. The smoke-free law was very popular amongst the population and even the industries affected. In January 2008, the Swedish Prison and Probation Service prohibited smoking indoors in prisons.

Starting from 1 July 2019, smoking outdoors will be prohibited for restaurants with outdoor seating as well as playgrounds, sports grounds, bus stops, train platforms.

Switzerland
The Swiss Federal Assembly enacted a law for protection against second-hand smoke in 2008, which came into force on 1 May 2010. It prohibits smoking in enclosed, publicly accessible areas and in rooms that are workplaces for several persons. There are exceptions for bars and restaurants, which may allow smoking in separate, ventilated rooms or in establishments smaller than 80m2, but the federal statute allows for more stringent cantonal smoking bans. 10 cantons (Jura, Aargau, Obwalden, Nidwalden, Zug, Schwyz, Glarus, Schaffhausen, Thurgau, Appenzell Innerrhoden) have imposed only the national mandated restrictions, with the remaining 16 (Geneva, Vaud, Neuchâtel, Valais, Fribourg, Bern, Solothurn, Basel-City, Basel-Land, Zürich, Uri, Ticino, Graubünden, St. Gallen, Lucerne, Appenzell Ausserrhoden) imposing stricter laws by not excluding establishments smaller than 80 square meters. All 16 cantons however permit separate smoking rooms with 7 (Bern, Solothurn, Zürich, Uri, Ticino, Graubünden, St. Gallen) permitting service.

On Sunday, 13 February 2022, The Swiss voted on whether to prohibit practically all tobacco product advertising, with 56.7% of votes deciding in favor of a ban.

Taiwan (Republic of China) 

Smoking is regulated by the Tobacco Hazards Prevention Act (Taiwan), promulgated on 11 July 2007. In January 2009, the government of Taiwan amended the original 1997 Tobacco Hazards Prevention Act by extending smoke-free areas to include almost all enclosed work-places and public places, banning tobacco advertisements, and increasing tobacco taxes.

Thailand

Indoor smoking restrictions have been in effect in all indoor air-conditioned establishments throughout Thailand since November 2002, with entertainment areas exempted. Cigarettes have had graphic pictures since 2005, and advertising is banned. Enforcement and compliance have been strong.

On 10 January 2008, Thailand announced further restrictions that came into force on 10 February 2008, in that smoking would be banned (indoors and outdoors) in establishments open to the public, including restaurants, bars, and open-air markets. Members of the public face a 2,000 baht fines for not complying, and establishments face a 20,000 baht fine for not enforcing the ban (including not displaying mandated 'no smoking' signs). In addition to fines, those who fail to comply may be arrested. Most legal bars comply with these regulations, but in establishments that operate illegally or semi-legally they are mostly disregarded.

Timor-Leste
Timor-Leste has a ban on smoking in many indoor public places, workplaces and public transport but has some exceptions for airports, government facilities and boats.

Togo
Togo has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.

Timor

Turkey currently restricts smoking in government offices, workplaces, bars, restaurants, cafes, shopping malls, schools, hospitals, and all forms of public transport, including trains, taxis and ferries. Turkey's smoke-free law ban includes provisions for violators, where anyone caught smoking in a designated smoke-free area faces a fine of 83 liras (~€35/$47/£30) and bar owners who fail to enforce the law could be fined from 560 liras for a first offence up to 5,600 liras.

Smoking was first restricted in 1997 in public buildings with more than four workers, as well as planes and public buses.

On 3 January 2008, Turkey passed a law prohibiting smoking in all indoor spaces including bars, cafés and restaurants. It also restricts smoking in sports stadia, and the gardens of mosques, hospitals and schools. The smoking ban came into force on 19 May 2008; however, bars, restaurants and cafes were exempted until mid-July 2009. On 19 July 2009, Turkey extended the indoor public smoking restrictions to include bars, restaurants, village coffeehouses and nargile (hookah) bars.