[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# German submarine U-1105

urrendered U-boats, through the North Minch to the British naval base at Lochalsh, then to Lisahally, Northern Ireland. Given a British caretaker crew she sat at Lisshally for several months before she was turned over to the United States as a war prize for study of its unique synthetic rubber skin.

United States Navy
In 1946, re-designated U-1105, the U-boat arrived in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. The Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C., and Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Acoustic Laboratory in Cambridge, Massachusetts, conducted research on its unique rubber-tiled skin. After the research was completed, the boat was towed to Solomon's Island, Maryland for explosives testing.

 and  were assigned to tow U-1105 into Chesapeake Bay where she was temporarily sunk. Salvage and towing tests were conducted from 10 to 25 August 1946. Moored on 29 September 1946 to allow pontoons to be fixed to her sides, U-1105 underwent another series of salvage and towing tests until 18 November 1946, when she was sunk off Point No Point Light, Maryland and buoys were left to mark the spot.

In the summer of 1949 U-1105 was raised again, towed into the Potomac River and anchored off Piney Point, Maryland, for preparations for her final demolition. On 19 September 1949, a  MK.6 depth charge was detonated  from U-1105. After being lifted out of the water, she went down one last time in more than  of water, landing upright on the river bottom, her pressure hull cracked open by the explosion all the way around to the keel. Little evidence was left to mark the wreck, so for the next 36 years the submarine was lost to history.

The wreck
On 29 June 1985, the wreck of U-1105 was discovered by a team of sport divers led by Uwe Lovas, approximately one mile west of Piney Point, Maryland, at . In November 1994, it was designated as Maryland's first historic shipwreck preserve. The program, the first of its kind in the state, was designed to promote the preservation of historic shipwreck sites while making them accessible to the general public.

At the wreck site, the conning tower rises to within 68 feet of the surface. The wood covered main deck fore and aft of the conning tower is occasionally exposed by the drifting silt beds. The wreck is well preserved, and largely intact. Seasonally, thick layers of marine growth appear and then disappear on the site, often covering structural features. Between April and December, a large blue and white mooring buoy is anchored about  from the wreck, while a small, orange ball float is anchored to the stump of the forward (air-search) periscope.

The site is maintained for the Maryland Historical Trust by the Institute of Maritime History, and was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2001.

Summary of raiding history

References

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

External links

history.navy.mil: U-1105 
Maryland Historical Trust U-1105
, including undated photo, at Maryland Historical Trust
Institute of Maritime History Site

German Type VIIC/41 submarines
Ships built in Emden
1944 ships
U-boats commissioned in 1944
Captured U-boats
World War II submarines of Germany
Submarines of the Royal Navy
Submarines of the United States Navy
Research submarines of the United States
Ships sunk as targets
Maritime incidents in 1948
Maritime incidents in 1949
Shipwrecks of the Maryland coast
Shipwrecks on the National Register of Historic Places in Maryland
World War II on the National Register of Historic Places
National Register of Historic Places in St. Mary's County, Maryland