[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ben Nevis

Ben Nevis ( ; , ) is the highest mountain in Scotland, the United Kingdom and the British Isles. The summit is  above sea level and is the highest land in any direction for . Ben Nevis stands at the western end of the Grampian Mountains in the Highland region of Lochaber, close to the town of Fort William.

The mountain is a popular destination, attracting an estimated 130,000 ascents a year, around three-quarters of which use the Mountain Track from Glen Nevis.
The  cliffs of the north face are among the highest in Scotland, providing classic scrambles and rock climbs of all difficulties for climbers and mountaineers. They are also the principal locations in Scotland for ice climbing.

The summit, which is the collapsed dome of an ancient volcano, features the ruins of an observatory which was continuously staffed between 1883 and 1904. The meteorological data collected during this period is still important for understanding Scottish mountain weather.  C. T. R. Wilson was inspired to invent the cloud chamber after a period spent working at the observatory.

Etymology 
Ben Nevis is the Anglicisation of the Scottish Gaelic name . Whilst  is the common Scottish Gaelic word for 'mountain' the origin of  is unclear.

 may preserve an earlier Pictish form,  or , involving the Celtic root , meaning 'clouds' (compare: Welsh  )., thus 'Cloudy Mountain'.

 may also have an origin with the words  meaning 'heaven' (which is related to the modern Scottish Gaelic word  meaning 'bright, shining') and  meaning 'the top of a man's head'. Thus,  could derive from , "the mountain with its head in the clouds", or 'mountain of heaven'.

The Scottish Gaelic word  can be translated as 'malice', 'poison' or 'venom' giving 'venomous mountain', possibly describing the storms that envelop the summit.

 can also be the genitive form of a male name. This could refer to the god Lugh whose place of worship was often on mountain tops throughout the Celtic world, thus giving 'god's mountain'. 

As is common for many Scottish mountains, it is known both to locals and visitors as simply the Ben.

Geography 
Ben Nevis forms a massif with its neighbours to the northeast, , to which it is linked by the  Arête,  and . All four are Munros and among the eleven mountains in Scotland over  (of which nine are currently listed as Munros).

The western and southern flanks of Ben Nevis rise  in about  above the River Nevis flowing down Glen Nevis – the longest and steepest hill slope in Britain – with the result that the mountain presents an aspect of massive bulk on this side. To the north, by contrast, cliffs drop some  to  ().

A descent of 200 metres from this corrie leads to the Charles Inglis Clark Memorial Hut (known as the CIC Hut), a private mountain hut  above sea level, owned by the Scottish Mountaineering Club and used as a base for the many climbing routes on the mountain's north face. The hut is just above the confluence of  and .

In addition to the main  summit, Ben Nevis has two subsidiary "tops" listed in Munro's Tables, both of which are called  ("red hill"). The higher of these, at , is to the northwest, and is often mistaken for Ben Nevis itself in views from the Fort William area. The other  () juts out into Glen Nevis on the mountain's southwestern side. A lower hill,  (), is further west, forming a saddle with Ben Nevis which contains a small loch, . The popular tourist path from Glen Nevis skirts the side of this hill before ascending Ben Nevis's broad western flank.

Geology 
Ben Nevis is all that remains of a Devonian volcano that met a cataclysmic end in the Carboniferous period around 350 million years ago. Evidence near the summit shows light-coloured granite (which had cooled in subterranean chambers several kilometres beneath the surface) lies among dark basaltic lavas (that form only on the surface). The two lying side by side is evidence the huge volcano collapsed in on itself creating an explosion comparable to Thera (2nd millennium BC) or Krakatoa (1883).
The mountain is now all that remains of the imploded inner dome of the volcano.
Its form has been extensively shaped by glaciation.

Research has shown igneous rock from the Devonian period (around 400 million years ago) intrudes into the surrounding metamorphic schists; the intrusions take the form of a series of concentric ring dikes. The innermost of these, known as the Inner Granite, constitutes the southern bulk of the mountain above , and also the neighbouring ridge of ;  forms part of the Outer Granite, which is redder in colour. The summit dome itself, together with the steep northern cliffs, is composed of andesite and basaltic lavas.

Climate