[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Politics of the Czech Republic

o in Prague.

District courts

District courts serve as the courts of first instance in almost all civil or criminal proceedings. There is a total of 86 district courts in the Czech Republic. Notaries and executors are appointed by the minister of justice to their jurisdictions.

Regional government

The Czech Republic is divided in 14 administrative regions, including one for the capital of Prague. The older system of 73 administrative districts (okresy in Czech) and 4 municipalities was abandoned in 1999 in an administrative reform. Each of the regions has a regional council with a varied number of regional councilors and a president of the regional cabinet (hejtman in Czech) as its formal head. The capital of Prague is the only exception to this, as the City Council acts both as regional and municipal governing body and is led by a mayor. Regional councilors are elected for four-year terms similarly to deputies in the Chamber of Deputies. All adults eligible to vote are also eligible to be a candidate to a regional council.

Composition of the Senate

For the current composition of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, see List of MPs elected in the 2017 Czech legislative election.

Recent political developments 

From 1991, the Czech Republic, originally as part of Czechoslovakia and since 1993 in its own right, has been a member of the Visegrád Group and from 1995, the OECD. The Czech Republic joined NATO on 12 March 1999 and the European Union on 1 May 2004. On 21 December 2007 the Czech Republic joined the Schengen Area.

Until 2017, either the Czech Social Democratic Party or the Civic Democratic Party led the governments of the Czech Republic. In October 2017, populist movement ANO 2011, led by the country's second-richest man, Andrej Babiš, won the elections with three times more votes than its closest rival, the centre-right Civic Democrats. In December 2017, Czech President Miloš Zeman appointed Andrej Babiš as the new prime minister.

On 28 November 2021, Czech President Miloš Zeman appointed opposition leader Petr Fiala as the country's new prime minister.  The centre-right coalition Spolu (meaning Together) won tightly contested legislative elections in October 2021 against Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and his populist ANO party.  Babiš  had sought re-election after four years in power. In January 2023, Former NATO general Petr Pavel won the election runoff over Andrej Babis to succeed Miloš Zeman as the fourth president of the Czech Republic.

See also
Government of the Czech Republic
Ministry of Finance (Czech Republic)

References

External links
 Constitution of the Czech Republic
 Website with results of all elections in Czech and English
 RZB Group: Czech Republic – Election 2006 Special
 Czech 2006 Election blog by the Prague Daily Monitor
 Erik Herron's Guide to Politics of East Central Europe and Eurasia
Government
 Official governmental website English
 Official presidential website English
 Official Senate website English
 Portal of the Public Administration Czech
 Chief of State and Cabinet Members CIA library on World leaders