[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Colin Mitchell

rained personnel. Most of the Halo personnel were former servicemen. Halo became active around the world in areas such as Mozambique, Cambodia and Afghanistan. Mitchell thrived in his work with Halo. It raised his public profile once again, and in a manner that was both positive and uncontroversial.

Death
Mitchell died in his 71st year on 20 July 1996 at Westminster in London, after a short illness. His obituary in The Independent was written by his friend the Labour MP Tam Dalyell. Dalyell stated :

Personal life
Mitchell married Jean Hamilton (Sue) Phillips in April 1956. Phillips was the daughter of Wing Commander Stephen Phillips, R.A.F., and was a native of Meikleour, Perthshire. The couple had three children (2 sons and 1 daughter), the youngest of whom (Colina) was born in 1965. Their son, Dr Angus Mitchell, is a noted authority on the life of Irish revolutionary Roger Casement. One observer later described Phillips as: "his marvellous wife ... who backed him through thick and thin - mostly thin".

References

External links

 Army History The Argylls, 1945 to 1971
 700 Glengarried Men :The Argylls' 1967 tour of duty in Aden
 BBC report, 1 December 2007:a return to Aden without Mad Mitch
 Army History  Argylls in Aden
 "Tartan kitsch" 

Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders officers
British Army personnel of World War II
British military personnel of the Aden Emergency
British military personnel of the Cyprus Emergency
British Army personnel of the Korean War
British military personnel of the Palestine Emergency
Scottish Conservative MPs
Members of the Parliament of the United Kingdom for Scottish constituencies
People educated at Whitgift School
UK MPs 1970–1974
1925 births
1996 deaths
King's African Rifles officers
Graduates of the Staff College, Camberley
People from Croydon
Queen's Own Royal West Kent Regiment soldiers
British Home Guard soldiers
English people of Scottish descent
Military personnel from Surrey