[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Comebacks

The Comebacks is a 2007 American magical realism satirical comedy film directed by Tom Brady and story by Andrew Jacobson. This film is a parody of the clichés and plots of the sports film genre. It parodies 21 popular sports films along with historical real world sports events, credible live football action and excerpts from The Onion Movie inserted throughout the film. In the UK, Greece, Finland, Australia and New Zealand this film is called Sports Movie. The movie was released to theaters on October 19, 2007. It was partially filmed at the Cal State Fullerton Titan Stadium in Fullerton, California and Shepherd Stadium at Pierce College in Los Angeles, California.

Plot

Coach Lambeau Fields (David Koechner) is pathetic. He has the distinction of being the worst coach in the history of sports anyone can recall. A loser of enormous proportions, the incompetent and seemingly hopeless coach has a job he is finally proud of producing the DNA building blocks of the noble Sea Biscuit lineage, when he is convinced by fellow coach Freddie Wiseman (Carl Weathers) to return to the field for one last shot. Assuring his long suffering wife, Barb (Melora Hardin), that he will not ignore his family again, Coach moves them (after they run and catch up to the leaving Coach in the family's station wagon) to Plainfolk, Texas where he hopes to redeem himself and his reputation. Here he begins yet another attempt to improve his abysmal record – this time as the coach of the football team at Heartland State University], where he is saddled with a team of leg assaulting misfits – most of whom don't know the difference between a noseguard and an athletic cup or a line of scrimmage and a line at the cafeteria.

The first game of the season for the Comebacks is a home game but all of the townsfolk are two towns over rooting for another team while the Comebacks are pummelled 83 to 0 by a team with a stiff defense and rock hard offense. Coach warned his team that they couldn't lay down or the Boner State Trojans would really pound them, and they did.

Although the team and finger wagging townsfolk are leery of the newcomer's approach, the Coach uses his unorthodox methods and game films to whip this group of rag-tags into shape – both on and off the field. While the audience follows their winding road to the playoffs, the film pokes fun at the clichés and conventions of other sports flicks. The Coach begins ignoring his wife again due to the demands of his work watching pornographic films to prepare his team. A love triangle ensues between Coach's Olympic gymnast daughter, the team's quarterback and the Comebacks' star running back. This causes a team wide locker room brawl, exposing the conflicts inherent in the diverse group of players. Coach Fields locks them in the locker room until they sort out their differences, and after bonding over a PA system Journey song complete with a laser light show donated by the booster club, the team does make progress. So much so that they actually make it to the South-Southwest Conference Championship at the 2nd Annual Toilet Bowl, where "...the excitement is so thick in this stadium you can cut it with a knife." However, the winning season comes at the expense of Lambeau Field's marriage as Coach's Wife leaves him for an exchange student from an obscure nation.