[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# March 14 Alliance

26 electoral districts were won by March 14:
Akkar (7/7)
Minniyeh-Danniyeh (3/3)
Tripoli (8/8)
Koura (3/3)
Bcharreh (2/2)
Batroun (2/2)
Beirut 1 (5/5)
Beirut 2 (2/4)
Beirut 3 (10/10)
Aley (4/5) Jumblatt left an empty seat for Talal Arslan
Chouf (8/8)
Saida (2/2)
Zahle (7/7)
West Bekaa-Rashaya (6/6)

Progressive Socialist Party's withdrawal 
In August 2009, the Progressive Socialist Party left the alliance, claiming political neutrality after the 2008 Lebanon conflict, though they still supported lists of March 14 members, mostly the Lebanese Forces. The National Liberal Party left the March 14 movement on 22 December 2016.

Downfall of the March 14 alliance
On 12 January 2011, March 8, with the help of Jumblatt, collapsed the government, which caused March 14 prime minister Saad Hariri to step down and be replaced by a March 8 prime minister, Najib Mikati. On 17 June 2011, Michel Aoun proudly said that he sent Saad Hariri a «one way ticket».

2016 presidential elections 
The March 14 alliance surprisingly supported the election of March 8-affiliated Michel Aoun, but only if mainly the Lebanese Forces got 7/20 of the governmental seats. Since the election and the formation of a new Government headed by Prime Minister Saad Hariri, Michel Aoun and Samir Geagea signed the "Maarab agreement", and it was considered a historical peace between two rival and old political factions. Michel Aoun ended up not giving the requested seats to the Lebanese Forces, but Geagea did not seem to complain until after the "October 17 revolution" in Lebanon, which Geagea tried his best in trying to impress but to no avail. Sides that were against the election of Michel Aoun as president in the 2016 elections consisted of traditional parties such as the Kataeb party and the National Liberal Party. Since then, the political scene has been witnessing the emergence of new non-sectarian political groups such as Lihaqqi and Citizens in a State (MMFIDAWLA), as well as revolution-affiliated Taqaddom, in addition to many civil society groups who were loosely allied during the last parliamentary elections. Although they share a common goal to replace what they consider a failed political model that was introduced following the end of the civil war, leading to the 2019 protests, they are not unified in order to assimilate and conquer the prevailing government. The then-elected government was viewed as having failed its duties as a government and the Prime Minister, Saad Hariri, attempted to resign while he was in Saudi Arabia in 2017, but it was ruled unconstitutional. Later on, during the October protests he resigned as Prime Minister.

Death of the March 14 Alliance 
In 2016, the March 14 Alliance, experienced an end to its activities, without an official announcement detailing the reasons for its closure. In the 2018 elections, Future Movement decided to make an electoral alliance with the Free Patriotic Movement in North III, Beirut I and Bekaa I which caused a split between long time March 14 allies Future Movement and the Lebanese Forces. In October 2018, Saad Hariri promised to allocate the Ministry of Justice to the LF (Lebanese Forces) however, he ultimately appointed the FPM (Free Patriotic Movement) to that ministerial position instead. In October 2020, Samir Geagea refused to name Hariri to form the government.

After the 2022 elections, the March 14 Alliance was replaced by the Lebanese Opposition which was formed by the Lebanese Forces, Progressive Socialist Party, Kataeb, Renewal Bloc and sovereign independent MPs like Mark Daou and Waddah Sadek.

14march.org 
14march.org was the official March 14 alliance website. It went online on 9 March 2006 and was shut down by the Future Movement on 16 January 2019.

Claims
The principal political claims of the March 14 Alliance are:
 The exile of the former President Émile Lahoud, reputed an illegitimate president under the Syrian regime in September 2004.
 Institution of a court for a case against Prime Minister Rafic Hariri's killers.
 Pacification with Syria and review of the Syrian-Lebanese borders.
 Opposition to the Syrian interference in Lebanon.
 Institution of a weapons government monopoly, disarmament of Hezbollah and review control of the Lebanese Armed Forces by the President and general Michel Suleiman and the police by the Prime Minister.

Member parties

Current deputies

See also
List of attacks in Lebanon
March 8 Alliance

References

External links

Independence party Official Web Site
Kataeb Party Official website
National Liberal Party (Lebanon) Official website
Democratic Left Movement (Lebanon) Official website
Tajaddod/Democratic Renewal Movement Youth blog

 
2005 establishments in Lebanon
Politics of Lebanon