[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nadītu

ecoming their heiresses, and in some cases they could be married off in order to acquire bride price (terḫatum). Adopting a daughter could also serve as a way to protect a nadītu'''s belongings from being seized, for example by creditors of the estate of her father, as directly attested in one case.

Many nadītu seemingly reached elderly age, possibly because their partially secluded lifestyle made it easier for them to avoid epidemics common through the Old Babylonian period, in addition to the presumed religious regulations placed on them shielding them from possible health complications resulting from childbirth. Due to the discovery of school texts in some of their houses, it has been suggested they might have been literate.Nadītu often relied on the financial support of their families, though there is evidence that some of them took part in business transactions themselves instead. Some of these belonging to the former category at times were not provided with adequate supplies, and records of appeals to kings to save them from starvation have been discovered. Sources from Sippar indicate that nadītu were allowed to manage own economic affairs. Affluent women whose dowry included real estate and slaves were often able to become richer through the course of their life in the cloister as a result. On this basis it has been argued that while the social structures typical for the Old Babylonian period were meant to constrain their agency, and their status was not a result of free choice, in some cases at least temporarily they were unintentionally subject to economic empowerment which put them economically on pair with men. However, by the seventeenth century BCE the economic position of the entire class declined. Their number most likely remained similar as in earlier times, but in contrast with early sources, which typically dealt with the affairs of a relatively small number of wealthy members of their community, each documented in a large number of texts, most of the references pertain to less affluent women, typically mentioned only in a few documents each. It was originally assumed that the gagû in Sippar was abandoned during the reign of Samsuiluna, around 1686 BCE, though subsequent research revealed that it continued to function in the times of Samsuditana. Most likely it started to gradually decline in the aftermath of economic troubles attested during the reign of Abi-Eshuh. However, later economic texts still record many activities undertaken by nadītu, for example leasing out fields, hiring laborers, purchasing slaves, extending loans and less commonly borrowing or leasing. Seth Richardson suggests that this might be an indication that the administrative practices of their community became less centralized with time due to the lack of a strong centralized state overseeing the related institutions. A handful of texts mention what he characterizes as "corporate activity of the gagû", which is the only attestation of collective social or economic activity of women from the end of the Old Babylonian period. The decline of economic status of the nadītu is most likely part of a broader phenomenon which also impacted other classes of women, stemming from long-term impact of the numerous wars waged between 1914 and 1727 BCE, which resulted in widespread impoverishment and militarization of society in the following century.

In other cities
Outside of Sippar, groups of nadītu also existed in other cities, including Babylon, Kish, Nippur and Tell Ishchali, though they were not necessarily subject to the same regulations as in Sippar.