[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Taiwan Garrison Command

ers from then President Lee Teng-hui:

Coastal patrol duties were assumed by the Coastal Guard Command; and were later passed to the newly reformed Coast Guard Administration.

Subordinate units for military reserve mobilization were regrouped into Military Reserve District Command, and later, the .

Electronic intelligence units for telephone-wire-tapping and radio surveillance were assigned to the Military Intelligence Bureau.

Duties to suppress unauthorized radio broadcasting were then transferred to the Telecommunication Directorate of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications.

Functions for imprisoning political and dissents activists and re-educating gangsters without trial were terminated. All prison facilities were transferred to either the Military Police Command, or to the Culture Establishment Commission for memorial purposes.

Task of riot control were shared by the National Police Agency and the Military Police Command.

The defense of Taipei City were taken over by the Military Police Command.

The responsibility for censoring and confiscating questionable publications or newspapers went to the Government Information Office; such functions were later terminated after the abolishment of "the Law of Publications."

Transitional justice
The transitional justice process began shortly after the Taiwan Garrison Command was disbanded. The Transitional Justice Commission is charged with overseeing the process and as of 2019 was still in operation.

See also
 February 28 incident
 Kaohsiung Incident
 Lin Yi-hsiung
 Military Police Command
 Republic of China Armed Forces
 Taipei Broadcasting Station
 White Terror (Taiwan)

References

External links

Forum of Garrison, Military District, Coastal Patrol and Reserve 
Republic of China Military Police Forum 

Taiwan under Republic of China rule
Military history of the Republic of China (1912–1949)
Secret police
1958 establishments in Taiwan
1992 disestablishments in Taiwan
Anti-communist organizations
Taiwanese intelligence agencies
White Terror (Taiwan)