[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Shevi'it (tractate)

rticulture.

Commentaries
The major early commentaries on the Mishna are collected and printed along with the text of the Mishna in the standard Vilna editions of the Talmud, following the tractate Berakhot. New editions based on manuscripts differ significantly from the Vilna edition in many cases.

Medieval
Medieval commentaries on this tractate include the following:
 Ribmas, one of the earliest known comprehensive commentaries on Seder Zera'im, written in the early 12th century by Rabbi Isaac ben Melchizedek of Siponto
 Rash, a commentary by Rabbi Shimshon of Sens, printed in the Mutzal Me'esh edition of the Jerusalem Talmud. The commentary of Rabbenu Asher (Rosh) has been particularly abridged in the Vilna edition, which perceived it to be nothing more than glosses to the commentary of Rash. Although Rosh does follow Rash to a great extent, his reformulations of Rash makes many clarifying changes.
 Rosh, the commentary of Rabbenu Asher 
 Rambam, Maimonides' Commentary on the Mishna
 Rash Sirilio, the comprehensive commentary on a large portion of the Jerusalem Talmud by Rabbi Solomon Sirilio, appears in the Mutzal Mi’Eish edition of the Jerusalem Talmud (but not in the Vilna edition). His commentary is cited regularly, often anonymously, by Melekhet Shlomo.

Modern
During the nineteenth century, with the renewal of Jewish agricultural communities in the Land of Israel, and the re-establishment of Jewish sovereignty in the land with the State of Israel in the twentieth century, the subject of the Sabbatical year generated a large number of works. The following are some of the commentaries that have been published:

 Pe'at Ha'Shulchan by Rabbi Yisroel of Shklov, a disciple of the Vilna Gaon
 Aruch Ha'Shulchan He'Atid by Rabbi Yechiel Michel Epstein
 Chazon Ish by Rabbi Avraham Yeshayah Karelitz; 
 Maadanei Aretz by Rabbi Shlomo Zalman Auerbach
 Shabbat Ha'Aretz by Rabbi Avraham Isaac HaKohen Kook.

Works that are of assistance interpreting the many botanical references in the tractate include:

 
 (Rabbi Yosef Kafich in his notes to Rambam's Commentary in Arabic identifies numerous species by their Latin equivalents)

References

External links
Full text of the Mishnah for tractate Shevi'it on Sefaria (Hebrew and English)
Full text of the Mishna for tractate Shevi'it (Hebrew)

Mishnah
Jewish agrarian laws
Jewish ethical law
Land of Israel laws in Judaism
Talmud