[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 Hengchun earthquakes

d Wikipedia could still be used, though the network connection speed was very slow. Sri Lankan internet services were likewise affected. In Malaysia, there were problems with popular Internet services  such as Gmail and Yahoo! News; however, the situation was reported to be improving on 29 December.

Repair work
According to the Office of the Telecommunications Authority (OFTA) of Hong Kong Government, among the five cable ships deployed, two arrived at the scene. However, one of the two ships experienced a major fault on December 30 afternoon and was under urgent repair in Kaohsiung, Taiwan. The repair for the ship was estimated to take about a week. Therefore, the repair for the cables had to be postponed. It was estimated that the first part of the repair of one of the  submarine cables would be completed around 16 January 2007. For the other damaged cables, survey and assessment were being arranged and repair of most of the cables is expected to be completed progressively by the end of January 2007. IDD services and disrupted internet service in Southeast Asia were mostly restored pending the repairs and rerouted traffic.

Before the completion of the cable repair works, however, some countries had already found alternative methods to restore internet access. For example, by 3 January 2007, Singapore's SingTel had already fully restored the Internet access provided by them. SingNet, SingTel's subsidiary, which handles ISP services, released an announcement on its homepage, mentioning that "internet access to services such as gaming and video downloading may experience some delays". Whether or not this is related to the earthquake is unknown, albeit likely.

According to China Daily on 16 January, the repair work might be completed by the end of January, yet heavy winds in the Bashi Channel stirred up 10–12-meter waves, which made it impossible to resume work.

See also
 List of earthquakes in 2006
 List of earthquakes in Taiwan
 Manila Trench

References

External links
 M7.1 – Taiwan region – United States Geological Survey
 M6.9 – Taiwan region – United States Geological Survey
 Strong quake strikes off Taiwan – BBC News
 

2006 earthquakes
2006 Hengchun
2006 in Taiwan
Hengchun
December 2006 events in Asia
Tsunamis in Taiwan
2006 disasters in Taiwan