[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# List of South African slang words

terally translated from the Lebanese word for "brother"; in colloquial South African refers to "a tinted-windows, lots-of-jewellery" kinda guy (pronounced like gHAY but with a /x/, like a guttural "g" or the "ch" in Scottish loch)
 stiffle: so what: "if you don't like it stiffle!"

Special-use slang

Kasi/township slang 
 411 – giving someone the latest news and gossip.
 5 Jacket, Half clipper, 5 Tiger, pinkies, 5Ten – R50 note
 2 Bob – 20-cent coin
 442 (Four, four, two) – lies or lying.
 150 – Ladysmith/Emnambithi (KZN)
 69 (Six nine) – It is to pee.
 9 (nine) – Girlfriend as in a love relationship.
 Peepee, 45 (four five) or Ntutu – Penis.
 6 no 9 – "same difference". Like "potato, potatoe".
 99 (nine nine) – "for real"
 ayoba – expression of excitement
 bokgata  or  Bo 4 – "the police"
 cake/ikuku/kuku – Vagina or a scone depends on context.
 Chalk/choc – R20 note
 chommie – More likely to be used by young girls than guys, the word refers to a friend. A music artist goes by this name.
 clipper/lkippa – R100 note
 doing a bafana – demanding more smeka (money) for being mediocre
 doing a benni – The saying comes from the formerly much-lauded Bafana Bafana striker Benni McCarthy's "uncharitable habit of turning his back on his country" following many instances of failing to turn up to play in the South Africa national football team. Meaning "showing disloyalty / being irresponsible".
 eish – [compare Bantu usage above] (pronounced like /aysh/ but also, less often, as /ish/) – Used to express everything ranging from frustration to surprise to disapproval, but also just everyday acknowledgement of things you can't change like "Eish, the traffic is bad today". Heard frequently each and every day! Also used to indicate displeasure. For example: 'At the time I was the only black guy and I used to ask myself "Eish, what am I doing here?"'
 fong kong – cheap and fake products that one can buy from vendors on the streets.
 Tiger – R10 note (from the word "jacket") 
 Yoh – Exclamation/reaction to something shocking or surprising
 juish (pronounced /Joowish/) – refers to nice and flashy clothes that someone has on.
 moegoe – a fool, idiot or simpleton. For example: "moegoe of the week". Related to the Nigerian term mugu, fool, fraud victim.
 mzansi – from the isiXhosa words, Mzantsi Afrika; a common term which means South Africa. [Mzansi] List of colloquial South African place names first published in Y magazine.
  Pinkies – R50 note, because of its colour
 roogie – R50 note
 Ova – To talk
 O zo fa ntja! – You will die, dog 
 skoon – Kaal voël steek (without a condom). Generally unprotected sex
 starter pack – (Origins: Terminology first used by mobile-phone companies but quickly adapted by car thieves and car hijackers.) Refers to entry-level cars, especially vehicle-makes occurring commonly on the road and therefore less easy to spot as stolen. Thieves can "chop up" the parts at an illegal "chop shop" and used them for repairs on more expensive vehicles.
  Stena/isitina (from the Afrikaans word for brick) – A stack of money amounting to R1000
 umlungu – white South African or the boss (baas) of the company
 yebo – a Zulu word which means "yes".
 Z3 – refers to HIV and AIDS, because of its speed. This is a reference to the BMW Z3.
 Coconut – Referring to a self hating African black person who is dualistic in their nature. Black on the outside and White on the inside.
Machangura – Refers to cash or money.
Zaka – Money
Pompo – Tap water
Dintshang? – What's happening?
Ke shap – I am good.
Sati – Saturday
Spani – Work
Achuz – Friend (from "accused". Someone with whom you have committed a crime and appear in court alongside. "Can accused no.1 and accused no.2 please stand."
Choof – Crystal Meth

Gayle language (gay slang)