[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 1999–2000 in English football

League history when they beat Sheffield Wednesday 8–0. Alan Shearer scores five goals in this game, while Kevin Phillips scores a hat-trick in Sunderland's 5–0 win at Derby County. In a rare appearance for Manchester United, Jordi Cruyff scores a late equaliser in their 1–1 home draw with Wimbledon.

30 September 1999 – Manchester United retain their lead of the Premier League, with Leeds United now their nearest contenders by a two-point margin. Arsenal, Sunderland and Chelsea complete the top five. Sheffield Wednesday remain bottom after a terrible first two months of the season, while Newcastle United remain second from bottom despite that record-breaking victory 12 days ago, and Wimbledon now occupy the final remaining relegation position. Ipswich Town and Birmingham City are level on points at the top of Division One. Charlton Athletic, Manchester City, Fulham and Barnsley complete the top six.

2 October 1999 – Sheffield Wednesday pull together with a 5–1 home win over Wimbledon.

3 October 1999 – Chelsea crush Manchester United 5–0 – the first domestic competitive game that United have lost for nearly nine months. Alan Shearer scores twice as Newcastle beat Middlesbrough 2–1.

24 October 1999 – A Premier League thriller at Goodison Park sees Everton and Leeds United draw 4–4, a result that ends the Yorkshire club's 10-match winning streak. Elsewhere, a late Trevor Sinclair equalizer for West Ham stops ten-man Sunderland's ascension to the top; the Black Cats instead rise to third.

31 October 1999 – October draws to a close with Leeds United as the new Premier League leaders, with Manchester United in second place and trailing them by two points. Arsenal, Sunderland and Leicester City complete the top five. Sheffield Wednesday remain bottom, with Watford and Bradford City completing the bottom three. Manchester City lead Division One, with Ipswich Town, Charlton Athletic and Birmingham City level on points as their nearest rivals. Huddersfield Town and Fulham complete the top six.

13 November 1999 – Paul Scholes scores twice as England beat Scotland 2–0 at Hampden Park in the Euro 2000 qualifying playoff first leg.

17 November 1999 —
 – Arsenal announce plans to move to a new 60,000-seat stadium at Ashburton Grove near Highbury – their home since 1913. They hope to be in their new home for the 2003–04 season.
 – England qualify for Euro 2000 despite a 1–0 second leg defeat by Scotland at Wembley.

20 November 1999 – Marc Overmars scores a hat-trick in Arsenal's 5–1 home league win over Middlesbrough.

30 November 1999 – Manchester United are back on top of the Premier League as November draws to a close, with former leaders Leeds United now bracketed on points with Arsenal as their nearest rivals. Newly promoted Sunderland's excellent start to the season sees them still in fourth place, with a resurgent Liverpool standing fifth. Sheffield Wednesday and Watford continue to prop up the rest of the Premier League, accompanied in the drop zone by a Derby County side who had spent the previous two seasons chasing a place in Europe. Manchester City remain top of Division One, with Huddersfield Town now second and in the hunt for top division for the first time in nearly 30 years. Charlton Athletic, Ipswich Town, Barnsley and Fulham occupy the playoff places.

1 December 1999 – Film producer and actor Bill Kenwright, 54, completes a takeover of Everton after buying out former owner Peter Johnson.

4 December 1999 – Ole Gunnar Solskjaer scores four goals in Manchester United's 5–1 home league win over Everton.

31 December 1999 – 1999 draws to a close and as the new millennium approaches, Leeds United are back on top though with just a one-point lead over Manchester United who have a game in hand. Arsenal, Sunderland and Liverpool are the only three teams still posing a reasonable threat to the top two. Sheffield Wednesday's terrible season has continued as they remain bottom with a mere two wins and nine points from their first 20 games, while Watford and Derby County remain in the bottom three. The race for promotion to the Premier League is still headed by Manchester City and Huddersfield Town, while Charlton Athletic, Ipswich Town, Barnsley and Stockport County complete the top six.

8 January 2000 – Liverpool suffer a shock 1–0 home defeat to Blackburn Rovers (now in Division One) in the FA Cup fourth round. Tranmere Rovers, on a good run in the League Cup, progress to the fifth round of the FA Cup after a surprise 1–0 win at home to Sunderland in the fourth round. There is a major shock also for Bradford City, who are crushed 3–1 by Division Two Gillingham at Priestfield.

12 January 2000 – Liberian striker George Weah, 31, joins Chelsea on a six-month loan from A.C. Milan.

19 January 2000 – Arsenal's hopes of FA Cup glory are ended in a replay penalty shoot-out defeat by Leicester City, who boost their own bid for a cup double.