[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paul Buckle

vers fans which became physical. Buckle's position at the club became increasingly unstable following home defeats to Crewe Alexandra and Plymouth Argyle that left the club just outside the relegation zone and, on 3 January 2012, he was sacked by Bristol Rovers after a 2–0 loss to struggling Barnet.

Luton Town
On 6 April 2012, 95 days after leaving Bristol Rovers, it was announced that Buckle had been appointed the new manager of Luton Town on an initial two-year contract until June 2014. At the time, Luton were sixth in the Conference Premier, one place below the play-offs, having been on a run of one win in their prior seven league games which had ultimately seen previous manager Gary Brabin sacked on 31 March 2012. Buckle watched from the stands as Luton lost 3–1 to Braintree Town on 7 April before officially taking charge the next day. There was an immediate turnaround in Luton's playing style and results under Buckle's management with the club securing a place in the play-offs by picking up 14 points from six games, keeping five clean sheets in the process. He led the club to the play-off final at Wembley Stadium after a 3–2 aggregate win against Wrexham in the semi-final, but lost 2–1 to York City in the decisive final game.

After the defeat, Buckle announced his intention to trim the Luton squad, which had played out the 2011–12 season using 34 contracted professionals, and followed this up by allowing 12 players to leave. Stating that he wanted to "bring players into the club that are not failures", he signed, among others, former Stevenage captain Ronnie Henry, who had won two promotions in three years, striker Jon Shaw, who had scored 35 goals throughout the season, and midfielder Jonathan Smith, who had played 48 times the previous season for Swindon Town as they won promotion to League One and finished as runners-up in the Football League Trophy. After a solid start to the 2012–13 season, which saw Buckle's side keep pace with the leaders, Luton's league form soon collapsed with the club winning only three league games between November 2012 and February 2013. Buckle was in charge as Luton beat Premier League side Norwich City 1–0 away at Carrow Road on 26 January 2013 in the FA Cup fourth round, striker Scott Rendell's late goal ensuring that the club became the first non-League team in 24 years to defeat a top division side in the competition. However, just three weeks later he left the club by mutual consent for personal reasons. These were later revealed to be an imminent move abroad to the US with his wife, TV sports presenter Rebecca Lowe, who was fronting NBC's Premier League coverage in the country.

Metropolitan Oval
On 4 November 2013, the Metropolitan Oval, a United States Soccer Federation development academy and historic New York City soccer facility, announced the appointment of Buckle as technical director. He was appointed to oversee all soccer-related activities at the club, which is one of the newest affiliates to the new MLS franchise club NYCFC.

Cheltenham Town
On 26 November 2014, it was announced that Buckle had become Cheltenham Town manager and will be on a twelve-month rolling contract at the club. He left the club on 13 February 2015 after only 79 days in charge.

Sacramento Republic
On 8 July 2015, Sacramento Republic announced Buckle as the new head coach to replace the departing Preki. In September 2015, Buckle was also named technical director of the club.

Hartford Athletic
Buckle was appointed as USL Championship side Hartford Athletic's technical adviser in May 2019.

Honours

PlayerBrentford Football League Third Division: 1991–92Colchester United Football League Third Division play-offs: 1998

ManagerTorquay United Conference Premier play-offs: 2009Individual'
League Two Manager of the Month: August 2010

References

External links

1970 births
Living people
People from Hatfield, Hertfordshire
English men's footballers
Brentford F.C. players
Wycombe Wanderers F.C. players
Torquay United F.C. players
Exeter City F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Colchester United F.C. players
Aldershot Town F.C. players
Weymouth F.C. players
Tiverton Town F.C. players
English football managers
Exeter City F.C. non-playing staff
Weymouth F.C. managers
Torquay United F.C. managers
Bristol Rovers F.C. managers
Luton Town F.C. managers
Cheltenham Town F.C. managers
English Football League managers
National League (English football) managers
Sacramento Republic FC coaches
Men's association football midfielders