[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mind CTI

pany acquired GTX Messaging GmbH, a provider of enterprise messaging communication solutions, for a total consideration of approximately US$ 275 thousand in cash. In connection with the acquisition, the company recorded goodwill in an amount of approximately US$ 0.2 million.

Auction Rate Securities

Mantiloking CDO 2006 and Mind CTI Ltd.'s arbitration claim against Credit Suisse 
In the years prior to 2009, MIND CTI Ltd. had US$22.8 million, almost two-thirds of its, then, current assets, tied up in collateralized debt obligation (CDO) bond investments issued by Merrill Lynch and structured as auction rate securities (ARSs), which were subsequently written down in their entirety. In September 2009 the company recovered US$18.5 million of the failed investment in an arbitrated settlement with Credit Suisse Group AG, its financial adviser, and, subsequently, in December 2009, the company paid out an extraordinary dividend of US$0.80 per share to its shareholders.

In its Statement of Claim, filed on February 20, 2008, with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority against Credit Suisse, its investment bank, and certain Credit Suisse employees, the company alleged, among other things, "that the bank was supposed to invest [the company's] funds in highly liquid, highly safe, 28-day auction rate securities, but - without [the company's] authorization - invested the funds ... in a security called 'Mantoloking [ARSs]'" and sought recovery of US$22.8 million.

The arbitration action was related to United States vs. Butler, an indictment of two Credit Suisse bankers, Julian Tzolov and Eric Butler, for, among other things, securities and wire fraud, alleging that Tzolov and Butler represented investments in CDO-ARSs as low risk products, guaranteed by the United
States government and concealed or falsified the names of the investments to make it appear that these products were other types of ARSs than CDO-ARSs by removing the term "CDO" from the name of the investment, adding the term "student loan" or "SL," or doing both  (Tzolov pleaded guilty to in July 2009 and Butler was convicted in August 2009).

As part of the arbitration settlement, the company was also reimbursed for US$ 0.4 million of its legal costs related to the arbitration.

Suit by Sarit Tamar against Mind CTI Ltd. and certain of the company's directors and officers 
During 2009 Sarit Tamar, an individual shareholder in the company, filed a purported class action securities lawsuit against the company, certain of the company's officers, and one of the company's directors in the Southern District of New York (case 09-cv-07132-RMB), having allegedly purchased 41,900 shares of Mind CTI Ltd. and suffered losses of $21,262.08 .  The complaint sought unspecified compensatory damages for, among other things, alleged misleading statements relating primarily to the Company's investment in auction rate securities.  Federman and Sherwood (federmanlaw.publishpath.com) represented the plaintiff and Troutman Sanders represented the company.  The company defended itself against the suit, and in July 2010 the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York issued a decision, dismissing the complaint against all defendants without leave to amend.

In the order dismissing the lawsuit, the Court noted that plaintiff had failed to establish a strong inference of scienter and failed to plead facts showing a primary violation of the securities laws.

Suit by Mind CTI Ltd. against its accountant, Kesselmann and Kesselmann 
In 2009, Mind CTI Ltd. severed its ties with Kesselmann and Kesselmann,  a PricewaterhouseCoopers firm and the company's accountant during the period that the company invested in auction rate securities, after 12 years of working with the accounting firm.

On or about December 2011, Mind CTI Ltd. brought suit against Kesselmann and Kesselmann, alleging breach of contract, negligence, and breach of fiduciary duty in relation to the company's investment in the auction rate securities. The lawsuit seeks compensation equal to the difference between the compensation it received from Credit Suisse Group AG and the approximately US$ 20 million written off (for a total of US$ 1.8 million,) the cost of defending itself the purported class-action suit filed against it in relation to the auction rate securities matter, and the loss of return, economic activity, and goodwill resulting from Kesselmann and Kesselmann's actions.  In totality the claim was US$5 million (US$ 1.8 million for the investment that was written off, US$ 150,000 in costs related to claims by investors, over US$ 2 million for loss of interest and yield, and US$ 1 million for loss of business, goodwill, and waste of administrative resources.)