[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sweetwater Creek State Park

increased, creating problems with trail compaction and erosion, and unmanageable litter. The park offers several programs for public to participate in the park conservation including Rivers Alive Cleanup, P2AD-Pollution Prevention, waste management, trail maintenance, and recycling.

Visitor Center

Due to conservation efforts, the Visitor Center was built in a sustainable design in 2006. It is  building which construction cost $1.5 or $173/SF. The Visitor Center has received the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum Certification from the U.S. Green Building Council, which is the highest level attainable. In 2007, the Visitor Center was one of only twenty platinum-rated buildings in the world and it was the first in the Southeast. The building’s reduced impact: 77% reduction in water use, 51% reduction in electricity use, 80% of construction waste diverted from landfill, no increase in stormwater runoff after construction, and daylighting in 83% of interior spaces.
The building is built into a hillside to minimize the physical and visual disturbance to the land. To reduce the urban heat island effect and water runoff, two  building’s roofs are planted with native plants, green roofs. The green roofs are  deep.

The sun-controlling feature of the building allows the sun to warm the interior in winter and reduces solar energy in summer. The northern side of the building has clerestory windows that allow indirect sunlight into the building. The southern side of the building has shelves that bounce light into the interior. The building uses photocells and motion sensors for general lighting. Approximately 20% of the building electricity is produced by 10.5 kW photovoltaic arrays consisting of new and recycled solar panels. The building’s long side faces south allowing the solar panels to receive maximum sunlight. The building’s annual energy savings are 57,969 kilowatt-hours which avoid 27 tons of carbon emissions per year.

The Visitor Center uses the existing parking lot, minimizing more disturbance. The park has bioretention ponds to prevent downstream flooding and to filter storm water runoff with aquatic vegetation. The building’s construction materials such as steel structure, aluminum siding and framing are made from recycled materials. The construction waste is recycled. In order to save fuel by avoiding transportation of goods from farther away, the park used masonry stucco, fly-ash concrete and other local materials. In order to save water, the park collects rain water, has a composting toilet, Clivus multrum that uses no potable water, waterless urinals, and pervious concrete.

Facilities

 lake
Visitor Center-Museum
2 fishing docks
Playgrounds
11 picnic shelters
5 campsites
10 yurts ("glamping" facilities)
Group shelter and BBQ pit
Benches along Sweetwater Creek

Activities
Hiking, on  of trails in the park
Lake and stream fishing (electric boat motors only)
Canoe and fishing boat rental
Picnicking
Interpretive programs

Annual events
Ruins and Rapids Full Moon Hike (September through December)
New Manchester Days Festival and Arts & Crafts Show (September)
A Walk Through Time: Sweetwater Valley 75 Years Ago (September)
SweetH20 50K Trail Race (Spring)

Images

References

External links

Sweetwater Creek State Park Hiking Trail Guide
Directions to Sweetwater Creek State Park

Protected areas of Douglas County, Georgia
State parks of Georgia (U.S. state)
Ruins in the United States