[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Humanitarian aid during the 2006 Lebanon War

The evacuation by sea was expected to take around a week to complete. A group of RAF Chinook helicopters were sent from RAF Odiham in Hampshire in England to RAF Akrotiri on Cyprus. Amongst those evacuated from Beirut by the RAF was Javier Solana, the EU foreign policy commissioner.

United States 

The U.S. estimated that as many as 25,000 Americans citizens were in Lebanon, but the number finally evacuated was approximately 15,000. After hostilities began on July 12, 2006, media reports hinted that U.S. Navy ships from the Iwo Jima Expeditionary Strike Group could be moved from exercises in the Red Sea to an offshore position in Lebanon. Shortly after, the U.S. announced and began executing a plan to evacuate its nationals using military assets, as well as a chartered cruise ship, the Orient Queen, under guard by the destroyers Gonzalez (DDG 66) and Barry (DDG 52). According to Joint Task Force Lebanon/Task Force 59 spokesperson Navy Commander Darryn C. James, since hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah militants began on July 12, 2006, the "sea bridge" and "air bridge" provided by U.S. Central Command and U.S. European Command assets helped nearly 15,000 American citizens safely depart Lebanon—one of the largest evacuations in U.S. military history. Dubbed Operation "Strengthen Hope," Department of Defense (DoD) assets such as HSV-2 Swift were also instrumental in assisting in the distribution of millions of dollars (of a U.S. pledged 230 million) in humanitarian aid to the Lebanese people. Task Force 59 personnel, led by Marine Corps Brigadier General Carl B. Jensen, were the first to arrive in the "joint operation area" (JOA) region on July 16 where DoD assets evacuated 21 American citizens out of Beirut by helicopter on the first day. On July 21, DoD assets moved more than 3,000 people and brought the total of American citizens evacuated that week to more than 6,000. Sailors and Marines from the Iwo Jima (LHD 7) Expeditionary Strike Group (ESG) including Nashville (LPD 13), Whidbey Island (LSD 41), Trenton (LPD 14) and the 24th Marine Expeditionary Unit (24th MEU) arrived on station July 20 and began using utility landing craft (LCU) to safely transport American citizens wishing to depart Lebanon to avoid the hostilities. By July 24, more than 12,000 American citizens had been pulled out of Lebanon. Most of the American citizens were transported to the island nation of Cyprus. The transfer in military responsibility to the organization that would become JTF Lebanon led by Navy Vice Admiral John "Boomer" Stufflebeem, continued the DoD mission to protect American citizens, support the American Embassy in Beirut, assist the people of Lebanon through humanitarian aid, and help the multinational effort to provide lasting regional stability.

Ukraine
Ukraine has over 1,200 nationals stranded in Lebanon, 379 evacuated, 1 killed.

Humanitarian and economic aid

European Union
It was announced on July 30 that the European Commission had allocated 11 million euros ($14 million) under the EU's Rapid Reaction Mechanism to fund an appeal by the International Organisation for Migration in an effort to assist around 10,000 citizens from developing countries in fleeing Lebanon.

Armenia
On July 26, Armenia announced that it would send humanitarian aid to Lebanon. According to the Armenian government, an unspecified amount of medicines, tents and fire-fighting equipment was allocated to Lebanese authorities on July 27. They were shipped to Beirut via Syria later in the day.

Egypt
President Hosni Mubarak ordered the delivery of humanitarian aid to Lebanon in order to help the Lebanese people against Israeli attacks. Consequently, on 31 July, two Egyptian military aircraft landed in Beirut, as the first dispatch of the help promised by the Egyptian government. The first aircraft carried medical and food supplies, while the second carried in addition to the humanitarian aid, the basic equipment as well as the first personnel needed to build a field military hospital, which the Egyptian government had ordered for its construction as a gift to the Lebanese people. This hospital will be equipped by around 100 doctors and other medical professionals.

Finland
It was announced on July 30 that the Finnish Government had pledged a grant of 1.5 million euros ($1.9 million) in emergency relief for Lebanon.

France
it was announced on July 30 that the French Government had pledged 17.5 million euros ($22.4 million) in aid and is preparing 1 million euros ($1.3 million) of food aid. A boat is also being sent to Lebanon funded by private donations and state aid.