[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

North Korean leader Kim Jong-un travels overseas on one of two VIP configured Ilyushin Il-62M aircraft of the Korean People's Army Air Force operated by Air Koryo crew, known as Chammae-1. Kim Jong-un's private aircraft is known as Goshawk-1. These aircraft occasionally fly under the callsign "DPK".

Korea, South (Republic of Korea) 

Since April 2010, a Boeing 747-400, leased from Korean Air to the Republic of Korea Air Force, conducts official international travels by the President of South Korea. The aircraft is based in Seoul Air Base and operational support is provided by Korean Air. At first, even pilots and flight attendants were from Korean Air, but now, experienced pilots from the Republic of Korea Air Force operate the plane. The lease, renewed in December 2014, lasts until April 2020 and in June 2018, the government requested Korean Air and Asiana airlines to confirm their bids for the next contract. Before the 747-400 was leased, the President used a Boeing 737-300 for short-distance trips and chartered a Boeing 747 aircraft belonging to Korean Air or Asiana Airlines for longer distance trips. In the latter case, the presidential seal would be mounted on the forward passenger door to show that that aircraft is carrying the President.
 
The VIP aircraft, known by the callsign "Code One" (KAF001), has been highly modified with much of the technology onboard being classified. What is publicly known is that the VIP aircraft has infrared vision, secure satellite communication, secure telephone communications, a missile defense system, a missile deflection system, and is made out of a special metal to reduce its radar footprint. It also has had a complete renovation of the interior of the plane, turning the plane into a flying command center so the President can continue his or her duties. When in operation, another aircraft acts as a decoy and a spare.
 
The Air Force also operates one Boeing 737-300 and several CASA/IPTN CN-235s for government travel. The 737, in service since 1983, was used in the country's first presidential visit to Pyongyang in 2000.
 
A Sikorsky S-92, acquired in 2007, is used as a presidential helicopter. It has secure telephone communications, secure satellite communications, Infrared vision, missile defense system and is made out of a special metal that makes it hard to detect on radar systems. Two other helicopters fly with it as decoys and spares. The helicopter is based at Seoul Air Base.

Kyrgyzstan

The government of Kyrgyzstan operated a single Tupolev Tu-154M in 2010, which usually flies under four-digit callsigns "KGC" and "LYN".

Laos
The Lao Government uses a Lao Airlines Airbus A320 (specifically registered RDPL-34199) for government trips, and uses a Xian MA-600 for special squadron flights and private travels. The plane usually flies under the callsign "QV1".

Macau 

The Chief Executive of Macau travels abroad (and to mainland China destinations) on commercial aircraft operated by Air Macau, the de facto flag carrier of the territory. As Macau is a small locale, there is no need for air travel within the territory.

Malaysia

Malaysia's Prime Minister and Yang di-Pertuan Agong (Ruling Monarch) travel aboard aircraft operated by the Royal Malaysian Air Force. For this purpose, an Airbus ACJ319 named Perdana 1 was purchased in 2007, and an Airbus ACJ320 named Perdana 2 in 2015. Other fixed wing aircraft in use include a Dassault Falcon 900, a Bombardier Global Express BD-700, and a Boeing 737-800 BBJ. Helicopters including three S-70 Black Hawks and three S-61A4 Nuris are also used. Also latest addition to the fleet is 9M-JPM Agusta Westland AW139. The planes when carrying the Yang di-Pertuan Agong and/or the Prime Minister fly under the callsign "NR1".

Maldives
The government uses commercial aircraft for travel. In addition, the President has been known to use aircraft from the Saudi Government for religious trips.

Mongolia

The Mongolian President and Prime Minister with other Parliament members use a Boeing 767-300ER or Boeing 737-800 for short to medium range from Government owned by MIAT Mongolian Airlines, which also uses a Mongolian Airlines callsign. In domestic routes, the head of Mongolia and other government officials use Saab 340B or Fokker 50 chartered from Eznis Airways and Aero Mongolia.

Myanmar
The government uses various commercial airliners for travel, particularly airlines based in Myanmar. If that is not available, however, other commercial aircraft or government aircraft from other countries is used. Reports emerged in February 2023 that former president U Thein Sein was planning on buying a plane specifically for VIP government use, choosing a Russian Antonov 148 after sanctions prohibited the acquisition of an Airbus, Boeing, or Embraer aircraft, however this plan was scrapped after the selected plane crashed during a test flight in Eastern Russia, killing all onboard.