[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# December 1919

is opera Sì at the Teatro Quirino in Rome. 
 Born: Hans-Joachim Marseille, German air force officer, commander of Jagdgeschwader 52 and 27 for the Luftwaffe during World War II, recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross and Gold Medal of Military Valour, in Berlin (d. 1942, killed in action)

December 14, 1919 (Sunday) 
 The cartoon character Felix the Cat, created by Otto Messmer for the Paramount Studios, was first identified by that name with the release of Messmer's third animated short, The Adventures of Felix.  He had been referred to as "Master Tom" in  the first two of 's short films, Feline Follies (November 9) and Musical News (November 16).
 The football club Tord was established in Jönköping, Sweden.
Born: Jigme Palden Dorji, the first Prime Minister of Bhutan (from 1952 to 1964); in Kalimpong, Bengal Province, British India (b. 1964)

December 15, 1919 (Monday) 
 Russian Civil War – The 12th Red Army forced the White Russian Army in Kiev from their defensive positions on the Dnieper River as it started to freeze, capturing key bridges the following day and forcing the opposing side to retreat from the city.
 Meat rationing ended in the United Kingdom.
 The Swiss airline Ad Astra Aero was founded in Zürich.
 A fire destroyed the factory owned by the  B.N. Morris Canoe Company in Veazie, Maine, effectively putting the canoe manufacturer out of business.
 Born: Max Yasgur, American farmer, best known for donating the 600 acres of his dairy farm in Bethel, New York to host the Woodstock music festival in 1969, in New York City (d. 1973)

December 16, 1919 (Tuesday) 
 Russian Civil War – The 12th Red Army reoccupied Kiev that had been taken by White Army back in August. The White Army began their retreat to the Black Sea.
 Incumbent William Massey of the Reform Party won the general election in New Zealand with more than a third of the vote against rivals Joseph Ward of the New Zealand Liberal Party and Harry Holland of the New Zealand Labour Party. It was also the first time women could run for office in the country, with Ellen Melville, Rosetta Baume, and Aileen Garmson all running but failing to win their seats.
 New Zealand aviator George Bolt made the first airmail flight in New Zealand, completing a round-trip from Auckland to Dargaville on the same day for a total distance of approximately .
 Construction of the Imperial Japanese Navy aircraft carrier Hōshō began, the second ever to be designed and built.
 The German War Graves Commission was established in Kassel, Germany to look after the sites for the dead from World War I.
 Died: 
Julia Lermontova, Russian chemist, first woman in Russia to receive a doctorate in chemistry (b. 1846)
Luigi Illica, Italian composer, known for his collaborations with Giacomo Puccini (b. 1857)

December 17, 1919 (Wednesday) 
 French army officer Maurice Pellé became the first Chief of the General Staff for the Czechoslovak Army. A second French army officer Eugène Mittelhauser succeeded in the position and it was until 1926 before Jan Syrový became the first native Czech to serve in the role.
 The Kazakh language newspaper Sovereign Kazakhstan began publication in Kazakhstan.
 Born: Es'kia Mphahlele, South African writer, author of Down Second Avenue and The African Image; in Marabastad, Pretoria, South Africa (d. 2008)

December 18, 1919 (Thursday) 
 Methodist pastor Will W. Alexander established the Commission on Interracial Cooperation in Atlanta to address racial relationships and conflict in the United States following the racial violence from the Red Summer.
 British aviator John Alcock died from injuries he received after he crashed the Vickers Viking aircraft he was flying in heavy fog during a test flight at Cottévrard, France.
 Cole Porter married Linda Lee Thomas in a civil ceremony at Paris city hall. Despite Porter being gay, the two had a loving marriage that lasted until Lee's death in 1954.

December 19, 1919 (Friday)