[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cochlear nucleus

stellate neurons of the VCN, as well as from the different nuclei of the lateral lemniscus.

Most of these inputs terminate in the inferior colliculus, although there are a few small projections that bypass the inferior colliculus and project to the medial geniculate, or other forebrain structures.

Medial superior olive (MSO) via trapezoid body (TB) – Ipsilateral and contralateral stimulation for low frequency sounds.
Lateral superior olive (LSO) directly and via TB – Ipsilateral stimulation for high frequency sounds.
Medial nucleus of trapezoid body (MNTB) – Contralateral stimulation.
Inferior colliculus – Contralateral stimulation.
Periolivary nuclei (PON) – Ipsilateral and contralateral stimulation.
Lateral lemniscus (LL) and lemniscal nuclei (LN) – Ipsilateral and contralateral stimulation.

Histology
Three types of principal cells convey information out of the ventral cochlear nucleus: Bushy cells, stellate cells, and octopus cells.

 Bushy cells are found mainly in the anterior ventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN).  These can be further divided into large spherical, small spherical and globular bushy cells, depending on their appearance, and also their location.  Within the AVCN there is an area of large spherical cells; caudal to this are smaller spherical cells, and globular cells occupy the region around the nerve root. An important difference between these subtypes is that they project to differing targets in the superior olivary complex.  Large spherical bushy cells project to the ipsilateral and contralateral medial superior olive.  Globular bushy cells project to the contralateral medial nucleus of the trapezoid body, and small spherical bushy cells likely project to the lateral superior olive. They have a few (1-4) very short dendrites with numerous small branching, which cause it to resemble a “bush”.  The bushy cells have specialized electrical properties that allow them to transmit timing information from the auditory nerve to more central areas of the auditory system. Because bushy cells receive input from multiple auditory nerve fibers that are tuned to similar frequencies, bushy cells can improve the precision of the timing information by in essence averaging out jitter in timing of the inputs. Bushy cells can also be inhibited by sounds adjacent to the frequency to which they are tuned, leading to even sharper tuning than seen in auditory nerve fibers. These cells are usually innervated only by a few auditory nerve fibres, which dominate its firing pattern. These afferent nerve fibres wrap their terminal branches around the entire soma, creating a large synapse onto the bushy cells, called an  "endbulb of Held". Therefore, a single unit recording of an electrically stimulated bushy neuron characteristically produces exactly one action potential and constitutes the primary response.
 Stellate cells (aka multipolar cells), have longer dendrites that lie parallel to fascicles of auditory nerve fibers. They are also called chopper cells, in reference to their ability to fire a regularly spaced train of action potentials for the duration of a tonal or noise stimulus. The chopping pattern is intrinsic to the electrical excitability of the stellate cell, and the firing rate depends on the strength of the auditory input more than on the frequency.  Each stellate cell is narrowly tuned and has inhibitory sidebands, enabling the population of stellate cells to encode the spectrum of sounds, enhancing spectral peaks and valleys.  These neurons provide acoustic input to the DCN.
 Octopus cells are found in a small region of the posterior ventral cochlear nucleus (PVCN). The distinguishing features of these cells are their long, thick and tentacle-shaped dendrites that typically emanate from one side of the cell body. Octopus cells produce an "Onset Response" to simple tonal stimuli. That is, they respond only at the onset of a broad-band stimulus. The octopus cells can fire with some of the highest temporal precision of any neuron in the brain. Electrical stimuli to the auditory nerve evoke a graded excitatory postsynaptic potential in the octopus cells. These EPSPs are very brief. The octopus cells are thought to be important for extracting timing information. It has been reported that these cells can respond to click trains at a rate of 800 Hz.
Two types of principal cells convey information out of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) to the contralateral inferior colliculus.  The principal cells receive two systems of inputs.  Acoustic input comes to the deep layer through several paths.  Excitatory acoustic input comes from auditory nerve fibers and also from stellate cells of the VCN. Acoustic input is also conveyed through inhibitory interneurons (tuberculoventral cells of the DCN and "wide band inhibitors" in the VCN). Through the outermost molecular layer, the DCN receives other types of sensory information, most importantly information about the location of the head and ears, through parallel fi