[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Flag of Milwaukee

flag. Over 105 designs were submitted, but none met with the approval of the board, and the old design was kept. In a 2004 poll conducted by the North American Vexillological Association, the flag of Milwaukee was rated the fourth worst of all major cities in the United States.

"The People's Flag"

In 2015, in response to negative media coverage spurred by a 99% Invisible episode, Steve Kodis, a local graphic designer, partnered with Greater Together, an AIGA-affiliated non-profit, to launch a flag contest called "The People's Flag of Milwaukee". The public submitted 1,006 entries, from which five finalists were chosen in 2016. In an online poll of over 6,000 people, a design called "Sunrise Over the Lake" received the highest rating of the five. The flag's design is described as follows:

The organizers of the contest released the design into the public domain, deciding to let the flag gain popular acceptance before pushing for official recognition. Since its introduction, the People's Flag has been adopted by local businesses and used on commercial products from bicycles to microbrew labels. The Milwaukee Brewers sell merchandise featuring a combination of the flag image and their retro "mb ball-in-glove" logo.

On July 19, 2018, the Milwaukee Common Council's Steering and Rules Committee took up a proposal to designate the People's Flag of Milwaukee as the city's new official flag. That committee voted 6–2 to revisit the proposal at another meeting by the end of the year. In November of that year the City of Milwaukee's Arts Board said the original search for a new flag was not inclusive enough, as at least one Milwaukee politician charged that the process had not made enough efforts to include individuals without internet access, and that the flag may go back to the drawing board.

Opposition
Within the last decade, even before the proposed new design of 2016, the current flag has had renewed support, including those who oppose its replacement. Furthermore, the People's Flag process in general has been criticized, especially with respect to the relatively small number of judges and voters involved in the 2016 vote. During a discussion about adopting the new flag, Alderwoman Chantia Lewis said it would not be fair to let "15 people change the entire flag for 600,000 people".  Alderman Russell Stamper questioned whether the campaign represented the entire city, and then-Alderman Bob Donovan reported that only one constituent had reached out to him about the flag issue, and that person was opposed to changing the current flag.

References

External links

Flag
Flags of cities in Wisconsin
Flags introduced in 1927
Flags introduced in 1928
Flags introduced in 1954
1954 establishments in Wisconsin