[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Street literature

sitory Tracts) designed  for popular consumption and to replace other forms of street literature.
Other printed items such as advertisements, playbills, handbills, public notices, etc are sometimes listed under this term but since they are not sold they would be better described as printed ephemera.

Bibliography
Ashton, John. Modern Street Ballads. New Introduction by Leslie Shepard. London: Chatto & Windus, 1888. Reissued by Singing Tree Press, 1968.
David Atkinson, Steve Roud. Street literature of the long nineteenth century : producers, sellers, consumers , (Newcastle upon Tyne : Cambridge Scholars Publishing 2017). 9781443894999
Robert Collison. The story of street literature : forerunner of the popular press, (London : Dent 1973). 0460039741.
Charles Hindley, The True History of Tom and Jerry; or, The Day and Night Scenes of Life in London from the Start to the Finish! (London: Charles Hindley, 1886).
A Dictionary of Modern Slang, Cant, and Vulgar Words, 2nd edn (London: John Camden Hotten, 1860).
John Morrison and Harold Burdekin. Curiosities of street literature : comprising "cocks" or "catchpennies", a large and curious assortment of street-drolleries, squibs, histories, comic tales in prose and verse, broadsides on the royal family, political litanies, dialogues, catechisms, acts of parliament, street political papers, a variety of " ballads on a subject," dying speeches and confessions : to which is attached the all-important and necessary affectionate copy of verses, (London : Reeves and Turner 1871).
Leslie Shephard. The history of street literature : the story of broadside ballads, chapbooks, proclamations, news-sheets, election bills, tracts, pamphlets, cocks, catchpennies, and other ephemera / (Newton Abbott: David & Charles 1973).
Susan C. Staub. Nature's cruel stepdames : murderous women in the street literature of seventeenth century England, (Pittsburgh, Penn. : Duquesne University Press [2004]).

References

See also
https://www.bl.uk/romantics-and-victorians/articles/street-literature
The Word on the Street – Broadsides at the National Library of Scotland searchable  online database
University of Glasgow Broadside Collection
Street Ballads
  Street Ballads of Victorian England

Publications by format
Chapbooks
Street culture