[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siamanto

eased in the United States. He wrote about his yearning for his country and encouraged Armenians living abroad to return to their native soil.

"Saint Mesrop" (Armenian: Սուրբ Մեսրոպ), published in 1913, is a long poem dedicated to Saint Mesrop, the inventor of the Armenian alphabet.

Writing style 

Siamanto was a pioneer in Armenian poetry. His style was new and unique, and the methodology was exceptional. His themes were very dark and dealt extensively with death, torture, loss, misery, and sorrow. He recounted scenes of massacres, executions by hanging, bloody streets, pillaged villages, etc.; in other words, they dealt with the slaughter of Armenian men and women. The suffering of the people was continually tormenting him in turn. He spent many sleepless nights thinking about those who perished. Writing about their fate was his way of coping with the pain and making sure they were not killed in silence. Life for the Armenians was bleak under Ottoman rule and Siamanto's works described that fact of life very well.

However, his poems and writings go beyond the pain. He wrote about hope, freedom from oppression, and the possibility of a better future. His ideas also went to revolutionary themes and revenge for the murdered. Siamanto had two sides to his writing: one of lamentation, and the other of resistance. It is from this ideology of resistance that his revolutionary beliefs grew. He was convinced that the road to salvation for his people was through armed struggle. He was hoping to ignite the revolutionary spirit in the younger generation of Armenians and to make them understand that indifference and inaction was not going to save them. He was so gripped with these troubles that he seldom wrote about himself, his personal life, love, or joy.

Siamanto had a very vivid imagination. The images he created can sometimes even feel a little out of the ordinary at times. He used many aspects from the symbolic school of thought in his works. He did not know modesty; we went to extremes both while writing about desperation or about hope. His consistency in his chosen themes went to show how passionately he felt for his cause. His works give a clear image of the spirit that existed at the time in the minds of many of the Armenian populace.

Death 

In 1910, he moved to the United States as an editor of Hairenik newspaper. After a year, he returned to Constantinople. In 1913 he visited Tiflis. On his way to his destination, he visited many landmarks associated with Armenian culture and history, including Mount Ararat, Khor Virap and Ejmiadzin.

He was one of the Armenian intellectuals tortured and killed by the Ottomans in 1915 during the Armenian genocide.

See also

Armenian notables deported from the Ottoman capital in 1915
Erukhan
Krikor Zohrab
Rupen Zartarian

References

 
 Translated from Armenian: N.A. Արդի հայկական գրականութիւն, Գ հատոր, [Modern Armenian literature, Volume III], 2003, pp. 68–74

External links

 ArmenianHouse.org biography of Siamanto
 Rendered into English verse by Alice Stone Blackwell

1878 births
1915 deaths
People from Kemaliye
University of Paris alumni
19th-century Armenian poets
Siamanto
Armenians from the Ottoman Empire
Armenian male poets
Survivors of the Hamidian massacres
Mount Ararat
Writers from the Ottoman Empire