[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Operation Banner

s had fraudulently diverted up to £47,000 to the UVF, and that UVF members socialized with soldiers in their mess. Following this, two soldiers were dismissed on security grounds. The investigation was halted after a senior officer claimed it was harming morale. Details of it were uncovered in 2011.

During the 1970s, the Glenanne gang—a secret alliance of loyalist militants, British soldiers and RUC officers—carried out a string of attacks against Catholics in an area of Northern Ireland known as the "murder triangle". It also carried out some attacks in the Republic. Lethal Allies: British Collusion in Ireland claims the group killed about 120 people, almost all of whom were reportedly uninvolved Catholic civilians. The Cassel Report investigated 76 murders attributed to the group and found evidence that soldiers and policemen were involved in 74 of those. One member, RUC officer John Weir, claimed his superiors knew of the collusion but allowed it to continue. The Cassel Report also said some senior officers knew of the crimes but did nothing to prevent, investigate or punish. Attacks attributed to the group include the Dublin and Monaghan bombings (1974), the Miami Showband killings (1975) and the Reavey and O'Dowd killings (1976).

The Stevens Inquiries found that elements of the British Army had used loyalists as "proxies". Through their double-agents and informers, they helped loyalist groups to kill people, including civilians. It concluded that this had intensified and prolonged the conflict. The Army's Force Research Unit (FRU) was the main agency involved. Brian Nelson, the UDA's chief 'intelligence officer', was a FRU agent. Through Nelson, FRU helped loyalists target people for assassination. FRU commanders say they helped loyalists target only republican activists and prevented the killing of civilians. The Inquiries found evidence only two lives were saved and that Nelson/FRU was responsible for at least 30 murders and many other attacks – many of them on civilians. One victim was solicitor Pat Finucane. Nelson also supervised the shipping of weapons to loyalists from South Africa in 1988. From 1992 to 1994, loyalists were responsible for more deaths than republicans, partly due to FRU. Members of the security forces tried to obstruct the Stevens investigation.

Casualties

According to the Ministry of Defence, 1,441 serving members of the British armed forces died in Operation Banner; 722 of whom were killed in paramilitary attacks, and 719 of whom died as a result of assault, accidents, suicide or natural causes during deployment. This includes:
 814 from the regular British Army; 477 of whom were killed by paramilitaries, and 337 of whom died from other causes.
 548 from the Ulster Defence Regiment/Royal Irish Regiment; 204 of whom were killed by paramilitaries, and 344 of whom died from other causes.
 17 from the Territorial Army; 9 of whom were killed by paramilitaries, and 8 of whom died from other causes.
 26 Royal Marines; 21 of whom were killed by paramilitaries, and 5 of whom died from other causes.
 26 Royal Air Force servicemen; 4 of whom were killed by paramilitaries, and 22 of whom died from other causes.
 8 Royal Navy servicemen; 5 of whom were killed by paramilitaries, and 3 of whom died from other causes.
 2 from other branches of the Army, who were killed by paramilitaries.

A further 45 former British military personnel were killed during Operation Banner.

It was announced in July 2009 that their next of kin will be eligible to receive the Elizabeth Cross.

According to the "Sutton Index of Deaths", at the Conflict Archive on the Internet (CAIN), the British military killed 307 people (297 of whom were killed by the British Army, eight by the UDR, one by the RAF and one by the Ulster Special Constabulary) during Operation Banner.
156 (~51%) were civilians
128 (~42%) were members of republican paramilitaries, including:
111 members of the Provisional Irish Republican Army
11 members of the Official Irish Republican Army
5 members of the Irish National Liberation Army (INLA)
1 member of the Irish People's Liberation Organisation (IPLO)
14 (~5%) were members of loyalist paramilitaries, including:
7 members of the Ulster Defence Association (UDA)
7 members of the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF)
6 were members of the British Army
2 were Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) officers
1 was a member of the Ulster Defence Regiment (UDR)

Another detailed study, Lost Lives, states that the British military killed 301 people during Operation Banner.
160 (~53%) were civilians
121 (~40%) were republican paramilitaries
10 (~3%) were loyalist paramilitaries
8 (~2%) were fellow British military personnel
2 were RUC officers