[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Immigration to Peru

ists, engineers, teachers, and missionaries. Most immigrants to Peru have a work (44.5%), family (28.7%), or immigrant visa (9.1%). As of 2019, around 800,000 Venezuelan migrants and refugees were located in Peru, and more than 390,000 Venezuelans have been granted temporary residence permits there.

Immigration and Visa Process 
Citizens from nearly 100 countries and territories, such as the United States, Canada, Mexico, Jamaica, South Africa, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Brunei, and all countries in South America, the European Union, and Oceania are eligible to enter Peru without a visa and stay for up to 183 days. Other countries, such as Turkey, Georgia, Azerbaijan, United Arab Emirates, China, and every African country except South Africa, are required to apply for a visa before their arrival in Peru at a Peruvian consulate in their country or a nearby country. For a tourist visa, required documents are not limited to a valid passport, proof of citizenship, an application fee, and travel itinerary. Staying on an expired visa will result in paying US$1 for each day overstayed, which is able to be paid at a "Banco de la Nación" branch. If a person is unable to pay the fine, they will have to stay in custody until someone pays it off on their behalf.
For a business visa, every foreigner is required to apply for one in advance at a Peruvian Consulate in their country. Obtaining a student, work, or other type of visa has different requirements, depending on the situation. For a business visa, every foreigner is required to apply for one in advance at a Peruvian Consulate in their country. Obtaining a student or work visa has different requirements, depending on the situation.

To obtain permanent residency, a foreigner is required to live in Peru for at least three years. For naturalization, a foreigner must legally reside in Peru for at least two years, given that they own assets in Peru and they were not outside of the country for more than 183 days in one year. If a foreigner is married to a Peruvian citizen, the couple is required to be married for at least two years before the foreigner is able to apply for naturalization. Peru permits dual citizenship, but this does not grant birthright rights to the naturalized person.

Anyone who lives in Peru for more than 183 days in one year is required to pay for taxes, as they are considered a tax resident. The type of tax paid depends on if the person is a tax resident or a non-resident. Tax residents pay their income tax based on their global income and non-residents pay 30% of their Peruvian income on taxes. Starting residency in Peru after June 30 means that one will not become a tax resident until the following calendar year, shall that person still remain in the country after 183 days.

Immigrant population by country of birth 
As of 2021, the largest share of immigrants in Peru are from Venezuela, representing 86,8% of foreign citizens in the country.

References

Bibliography 

 
Society of Peru