[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Ziauddin Ahmad

y. Sir Ziauddin's son, Zakauddin Ahmad, had three children: Anjum Zia (female), Nigaht Zia (female), and Ahmad Ziauddin (Ahmad Zia). Ahmad Ziauddin's daughter, Dr. Aijaz Fatima, co-founded a hospital in memory of her father. She has four children (two sons and two daughters), including Asim Hussain.

Recognitions and awards
 Stratchey Gold Medal
 Tripos Wrangler in Mathematics
 Sir Isaac Newton Scholarship
 He was the secretary, Aligarh Muslim University Constitution Committee, in 1911.
 Member of Sadler Commission on Higher Education also known as Calcutta University Commission.
 Member of Skeen also known as Indian Sandhurst Committee and Shea Commission for the Indianisation of British Indian Army.
 Moved Indian Foreign Relations Act in the legislative assembly in British India
 Worked proactively to establish Reserve Bank of India and helped pass RBI Act of 1935.
 A four-storey hostel hall (dormitory hall for science and research students) is named after him Sir Ziauddin Hall at Aligarh Muslim University, in December 1982.
 Dental College is named after him at Aligarh Muslim University, India in 2003 – Dr Ziauddin Ahmad Dental College.
Ziauddin University and Dr. Ziauddin Hospitals in Karachi, Pakistan were established by Asim Hussain in his honour.
A major street in Karachi, Ziauddin Ahmad Road (formerly known as Kutchery Road), was named in his honour.
Sir Ziauddin Public School at Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, bears his name.

References

External links

1873 births
1947 deaths
Knights Bachelor
Indian Knights Bachelor
Companions of the Order of the Indian Empire
Aligarh Muslim University alumni
Academic staff of Aligarh Muslim University
University of Calcutta alumni
All India Muslim League members
Members of the Central Legislative Assembly of India
Indian logicians
19th-century Indian mathematicians
Differential geometers
19th-century Indian Muslims
20th-century Indian Muslims
19th-century Indian philosophers
Pakistan Movement activists from the United Provinces
Scholars from Allahabad
People from Meerut
Vice-Chancellors of the Aligarh Muslim University
20th-century Indian mathematicians
Scientists from Prayagraj
Mathematicians from British India
People from Karachi