[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sig Rogich

sidential contest.

Communications
Before his time in Washington, Rogich founded R&R Advertising in 1973 and built it into the largest advertising agency in Nevada. Through his creative endeavors with R&R, he has been integrally involved in the reinvention of Las Vegas' image for more than 25 years.

Following his time in Washington, Rogich returned to his native Nevada and founded The Rogich Communications Group in 1995. His company has worked with clients both nationally and globally and has been involved with most of the major gaming companies in Las Vegas. Ex-heavyweight champ Mike Tyson hired Rogich to burnish his image after biting Evander Holyfield's ear in their infamous 1997 match. Rogich is a former Nevada Athletic Commission chairman and state boxing commissioner as well as the former CEO of World Series of Fighting (WSOF).

Community
In 2000, Sig Rogich Middle School was named after him to honor his contribution to education in Nevada and was built in Summerlin, Nevada. Additionally, Rogich has served as chairman of the board for the Public Education Foundation in Clark County since 1997.

Other involvements include: the board of directors for Opportunity Village, a non-profit organization in Las Vegas that serves people with intellectual disabilities; Keep Memory Alive, a philanthropy organization which raises awareness about brain disorders and Alzheimer's; Board of Trustees for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Museum; Board of Governors for the Valley Health System in Las Vegas; Advisory board member for the Donald W. Reynolds School of Journalism, the Las Vegas Valley Water District and the Nevada Athletic Commission's Committee on Boxer Health and Safety. In October 2021, Sig Rogich and his wife Lori won a federal lawsuit against the Clark County Nevada School District on behalf of their daughter and her educational needs.

Personal
Rogich is a collector of first-edition books, papers and photographs involving his two heroes, Winston Churchill and Theodore Roosevelt.

References

External links

American marketing people
American political consultants
Living people
Ambassadors of the United States to Iceland
Nevada Republicans
1944 births
Las Vegas High School alumni
Icelandic emigrants to the United States
People from Las Vegas