[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roberto Clemente Community Academy

by the speaker of the Illinois House of Representatives to look into the school, accused it of being "controlled by radicals" and asked for it to be broken into smaller schools.

In February 1997, Irene DaMota, the principal of Whittier Elementary School, was selected as the new Clemente principal.

Chicago Sun-Times story
A February 4, 1997, article in the Chicago Sun-Times, "School funds used to push terrorist' release," had accused the school of promoting the release of terrorists. It quoted a CPS report stating that school funds were used to promote the release of the terrorist and for Puerto Rican independence movements, and that the American flag was banned from some classrooms.

The director of the Chicago Latino Institute, Migdalia Rivera, criticized the story and distributed a rebuttal. In response, the newspaper defended its reporting.

An area political strategist and businessperson, Larry Ligas, a person not of Puerto Rican origin, claimed credit for spearheading the story. He said he got information, much of it from former Puerto Rican independence movement propagandist, Rafael Marrero, and gave it to Sun-Times journalist Michelle Campbell. Campbell verified what Ligas sent her and added some information of her own. Ligas posted a press release praising the Sun-Times story prior to its release. Ben Joravsky of the Chicago Reader stated that Ligas was "relatively unknown" at the time of the story's release. Marrero, at the time, was an informant for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). He had been trying to sabotage the Juan Antonio Corretjer Puerto Rican Cultural Center, which had a working relationship with Clemente. Marrero would later give testimony in which he accused parties  of perpetrating fraud.

In regards to the story itself, Joravsky stated that at the time the story was released, people in northwest Chicago were speculating about who was responsible for spearheading the story and not so much about its veracity; in regards to that, Joravsky stated that the latter was "a point of view that varies with one's ideology."

On February 12, 1997, a group of Puerto Ricans and other Hispanics and Latinos protested at the Sun-Times offices, accusing the newspaper of anti-Latino bias and racism.

On February 18, CPS head Vallas stated that Illinois lawmakers needed to be more stringent with rules regarding spending of funds intended for poor children. Vallas criticized the programs of Clemente and the Puerto Rican center. Even though there is no concrete evidence stating that the school had associations with the Fuerzas Armadas de Liberación Nacional Puertorriqueña (FALN), at one time the FBI accused it of doing so. The FBI had asked for an investigation, and so did the US attorney based in Chicago. Several hearings were held in the Illinois Legislature.

Ultimately, no evidence of any fraud surfaced. Oscar López Rivera wrote that Marrero "wreaked havoc on the hard community work the Center had carried out at Clemente High School for years."

2000s and beyond
Clemente was one of 16 schools nationwide selected by the College Board for inclusion in the EXCELerator School Improvement Model program beginning the 2007-2008 school year. The project was funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

The school was scheduled to begin using the International Baccalaureate program by the 2013-2014 school year.

Student body
As of 2019, the school had 697 students, with significant numbers of Puerto Rican Americans, African-Americans, and Mexican Americans, and other groups of Hispanic and Latino Americans and Eastern European Americans. In 1997, it had had 2,400 students.

Academics and programs
Clemente offers six Advanced Placement classes and is also an International Baccalaureate candidate school. Clemente also has vocational education programs that focus on culinary arts and radio/television broadcasting. The latter program is taught by a journalist from Chicago's WGN-AM radio station.  In addition, students may participate in JROTC. In 2012, 92.6% of Clemente freshmen were classified as on-track to graduate.

As of 2004, the school curriculum stresses multiculturalism and aims to develop ethnic pride.

It hosts community events, such as speaking engagements and cultural programs, available to everyone in the surrounding area.

As of 2004, Clemente had a relationship with the Puerto Rican Cultural Center's Pedro Albizu Campos Alternative High School; it had once used Campos as an alternate site. Clemente also has partnerships with Vida/SIDA and the ASPIRA Association.

Campus

The school includes various murals along Division Street which portray symbols of Puerto Rican culture and Puerto Rican nationalism.

Student performance
Circa 2005, the school had one of the highest dropout rates in the United States. By 2019, the graduation rate was 84%.