[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Notifiable disease

A notifiable disease is any disease that is required by law to be reported to government authorities. The collation of information allows the authorities to monitor the disease, and provides early warning of possible outbreaks. In the case of livestock diseases, there may also be the legal requirement to kill the infected livestock upon notification. Many governments have enacted regulations for reporting of both human and animal (generally livestock) diseases.

Global

Human 

The World Health Organization's International Health Regulations 1969 require disease reporting to the organization in order to help with its global surveillance and advisory role.  The current (1969) regulations are rather limited with a focus on reporting of three main diseases: cholera, yellow fever and plague. Smallpox was a contagious disease during the 18th-20th century. It was endemic until mass vaccination, after which WHO certified Smallpox to be eradicated. This marked the first human disease to be successfully eradicated.

The revised International Health Regulations 2005 broadens this scope and is no longer limited to the notification of specific diseases.  Whilst it does identify a number of specific diseases, it also defines a limited set of criteria to assist in deciding whether an event is notifiable to WHO.

WHO states that "Notification is now based on the identification within a State Party’s territory of an "event that may constitute a public health emergency of international concern".  This non-disease specific definition of notifiable events expands the scope of the IHR (2005) to include any novel or evolving risk to international public health, taking into account the context in which the event occurs. Such notifiable events can extend beyond communicable diseases and arise from any origin or source. This broad notification requirement aims at detecting, early on, all public health events that could have serious and international consequences, and preventing or containing them at source through an adapted response before they spread across borders."

Animal 

The OIE (World Organisation for Animal Health) monitors specific animal diseases on a global scale.
 Diseases Notifiable to the OIE

Australia

Human 

The National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS) was established in 1990. Notifications are made to the States or Territory health authority and computerised, de-identified records are then supplied to the Department of Health and Ageing for collation, analysis and publication. The Australian national notifiable diseases list and case definitions are available online.

Animal 

Within Australia the Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry regulates the notification of infectious animal diseases.
 National List of Notifiable Animal Diseases
 State and Territory Notifiable Animal Diseases Lists

Brazil

Human

Notification is regulated under Brazilian Ministry of Health Ordinance number 1.271 of June 6, 2014.
 List of national notifiable diseases

Canada 
Diseases of concern to public health officials have been tracked in Canada since 1924.

A subcommittee of the National Advisory Committee on Epidemiology was set up in 1987. At the time, 34 diseases were surveyed on the list of communicable diseases while another 13 were recommended for addition to the list. As of 1 January 2000, a total of 43 diseases were given the status of notifiable. In 2006, the Final report and recommendations from the National Notifiable Diseases Working Group found that certain diseases should be added and certain diseases should not.

The Canadian Notifiable Disease Surveillance System is a searchable database tool provided by the Public Health Agency of Canada.

Human 
 List of national notifiable diseases

France

Human 

The first policies of mandatory notifiable disease originated a long time ago in France, while exact times are unclear we know that at the end of the 18th century Plague was a highly enforced notifiable disease.

The current list of notifiable diseases is written in the Code de la santé publique Article D3113-6 and Article D3113-7 (last revision has been made in 2012), it contains 36 diseases : 34 infectious ones and 2 non-infectious disease directly linked to the environment (Lead poisoning and Mesothelioma). Notifications of both the disease and the distribution of specific medicine are made to a regional desk governmental agency called Agence régionale de santé by :
 Physician and Biologists, both in public or in private workplaces,
 Physician controllers (MISP) and Administratives civil-servant from Directions départementales des affaires sanitaires et sociales (DDASS),
 Epidemiologists from the Institut de veille sanitaire (InVS),
 Drugs sellers.

Anonymous records are then used by the government health-insurance system.

Ill people must cure them and in many case are put in quarantine.

Animal