[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# History of Kentucky

is own knowledge about the gap.

Other known explorers prior to Boone's legendary expeditions in the 1760s were John Findley, trader 1752; James McBride 1754 (historian John Filson's nominee for "Discoverer of Kentucke"); and Elisha Wallen, one of the long hunters in 1762.

Early European settlement

Settlement and resistance in Kentucke country
From the time of establishment of New France, there were complex and overlapping claims to land south of the Ohio including that which would become the future state of Kentucky. Among the claimants were France, the British Crown via Royal charter of Virginia Colony, Ohio Country Shawnee and allied Algonquin tribes, the northern Iroquois Confederacy, and the Cherokee, Muscogee and allied southern tribes. French claims to Kentucky were lost after its defeat in the French and Indian War and the signing of the Treaty of Paris 1763. The Shawnee, Iroquois and Ohio Country tribes had gained dominion over their Ohio valley hunting grounds by the Treaty of Easton 1758, which also forbade colonial settlement west of the Alleghenys. Kentucky became part of the Indian Reserve of all trans-Appalachian lands acquired by Britain in the Treaty, established by the Royal Proclamation of 1763. The Iroquois claim to much of the state was purchased by the British in the Treaty of Fort Stanwix 1768.
The Treaty of Lochaber 1770 and a subsequent erroneous survey establishing Donelson's Indian Line ceding Cherokee claims to a large part of northeastern Kentucky, demarcated the boundary between Cherokee and lands open to settlement.
Virginia trans-Appalachian lands, already known as Kentucke country, were organized as Botetourt County in 1770 and Fincastle County in 1772. Their administrative reach effectively extended only to Fort Pitt and the Allegheny River basin in southwestern Pennsylvania. Numerous incidents of conflict between settlers and Native Americans in the south of Ohio lands, an expansive area including Kentucke and the Allegheny River basin upstream to southwestern Pennsylvania, eventually resulted in war.

Early Boone expeditions 1767, 1769
The legendary Daniel Boone is the most familiar frontiersman with respect to his traversal of the Cumberland Gap, and exploration and settlement of Kentucky. Boone obtained his knowledge of the Gap from Walker and Gist in the 1750s. Later, he met up with trader John Findley who also had direct Knowledge of the Gap. Boone's first expedition in 1767 was actually through the northerly pound Gap from Virginia, though he failed to reach the rich heartland of Kentucky north and west of the mountains. In 1769, starting from the Powell River valley in North Carolina, and escorted by Finley, he crossed what was then known as Cave Gap in late May and early June. In a few days they reached the area where Finley had traded with the Eskippakithiki.

 Boone's fall 1773 expedition
 Clark's spring 1774 expedition
 Harrod's spring 1774 encampment
In spring, 1774, James Harrod, with a royal charter from Lord Dunmore, led an expedition to survey land in Kentucke country promised by the British crown to soldiers who served in the French and Indian War. From Fort Redstone, Harrod and 37 men traveled down the Monongahela and Ohio Rivers to the mouth of the Kentucky River, crossing the Salt River into present-day Mercer County. On June 16, 1774, they founded Harrod's Town. The men divided the land; Harrod chose an area about  from the encampment, which he named Boiling Springs. Shawnee attacked a small party of Harrod's in the Fontainbleau area on July 8, killing two men. The others escaped to the camp, about  away.
As Harrod's men finished the settlement's first structures, Lord Dunmore summoned them to enlist for Dunmore's war. The camp and Harrod's Town settlement were abandoned.

Lord Dunmore's War

John Murray, 4th Earl of Dunmore, and Royal governor of Virginia Colony, received news in May of 1774 that fighting between settlers and Ohio country Shawnee Indians had broken out in the upper Allegheny valley and elsewhere.

The Battle of Point Pleasant (the war's only major battle) was fought on October 10, resulting in a victory for the Virginia militia. The Treaty of Camp Charlotte, signed by the Shawnee chief Cornstalk to end the war, ceded Shawnee claims to land south of the Ohio River (present-day Kentucky and West Virginia) to Virginia; the Shawnee were also required to return all European captives and stop attacking barges traveling on the Ohio River.