[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Writers' Building

notable among them are four clusters of statues, christened 'Justice', 'Commerce', 'Science' and 'Agriculture', with the respective Greek gods and goddesses of these four disciplines (Zeus, Hermes, Athena and Demeter respectively) flanked by a European and an Indian practitioner of these vocations.

Renovation
The building went under renovation in late 2013, in a project costing . To facilitate this, the state Secretariat and Chief Minister's office temporarily shifted to an abandoned skyscraper owned by the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners Office named Nabanna in Howrah. In February 2014, the project was stalled after conservation experts and the West Bengal Public Works Department found the plan submitted by an architect firm insufficient. Meanwhile, a team of Jadavpur University and Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur architects was invited to conduct tests of the structure, before the actual renovation could be started.

The renovation efforts also involved the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). The team had also sought consultations with heritage conservationists from countries like Australia and Germany before submitting a detailed proposal in late-2015. But even by mid-2016, work on ground had not started due to government indecisiveness and bureaucratic red tape.

Engineers had to fortify the structure before the East West Metro Tunnel, part of the expansion of the Kolkata Metro, was dug past the building in November-2017.

Tenders for civil engineering work in various parts of the main structure were being issued as of end-2018.

Picture gallery

References

External links

Buildings and structures in Kolkata
Government buildings in West Bengal
Administrative headquarters of state governments in India
Properties of the East India Company
Tourist attractions in Kolkata
Government buildings completed in 1777
1777 establishments in British India
1777 establishments in India
Bengali architecture
British colonial architecture in India