[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joshua ben Levi

the teaching of Rabbi Joshua.  His disciples and contemporaries quoted many such propositions in his name.

As an exegete, Rabbi Joshua ben Levi was of some importance, his interpretations often enabling him to deduce legal rulings. Some of his explanations have been accepted by later commentators.

A number of his teachings were recorded in the sixth and final chapter of Pirkei Avot (6:2-7) including his 48 attributes of excellent students—the 48th being that of attributing a saying to its original speaker. Joshua ben Levi’s emphasis of study was seen when he spoke of God as saying to David () that "better" in God’s sight is "one day" of study in the Law "than a thousand" sacrifices. Though learning was of paramount importance, still he also insisted on piety. He said that those who attends the synagogue service morning and evening will have their days prolonged, and those who move their lips in prayer will surely be heard.  He instituted a number of rules regulating the reading of the Law in the synagogue on weekdays and other matters relating to the service, many of which are to this day observed in synagogues.

Some of Joshua's philosophical and theological opinions are recorded. Speaking of the attributes of God, he represented God as "great, mighty, and awe-inspiring" (). He conceived the relation between Israel and God as most intimate, and he expresses it in the words, "Not even a wall of iron could separate Israel from his Father in heaven." In his doctrine of future reward and punishment, paradise will receive those who have performed the will of God, while the underworld becomes the home of the wicked. In  he found Biblical authority for the resurrection of the dead, and in Genesis Rabbah 26 he expressed the liberal view that immortality is the portion not only of Israel, but of all other nations as well. In a legend, Joshua inquired of the Messiah when he was coming, and Elijah answered that it will be when Israel heeds God's voice.  In another connection, he spoke of the futility of estimating the time of the coming of the Messiah.

In popular culture 
 Henry Wadsworth Longfellow's poem The Legend of Rabbi Ben Levi was published in 1863.

See also 
 Shimon bar Yochai

References

External links 
 Rachlin, I. (1906). Bar Levoi. New York: A. H. Rosenberg.

Talmud rabbis of the Land of Israel
Levites
3rd-century rabbis