[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Mount Victoria railway station

ular research significance for its staged construction over time to accommodate different staff and passenger needs. The site of the former SM's cottage also has archaeological potential.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The Mount Victoria Station group is a rare Victorian era railway station combining a number of individually significant buildings and structures. The signal box is one of a few brick on platform signal boxes remaining in the state. The Railway Refreshment Rooms, though no longer used for their original purpose, are rare examples of such railway facility associated with the station's important location.

The barracks are relatively rare in the metro area (8 in 2009) though at least 37 remain in NSW. While of later construction it is representative of the late 1890s standard design of rest-house that provided accommodation to railway staff.

The footbridge is rare as an intact example of a standard Warren Truss trestles and stairway with Hardie Board long plank timber deck and channel iron stair stringers as almost all similar footbridges have been replaced with concrete.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

Mount Victoria Railway Station Group is a representative example of a substantial railway station complex combining various types, periods and styles of buildings dating from the 19th Century and early 20th Century, each individually representing their standard designs and types.

The footbridge is an intact representative example of a standard Warren Truss trestle footbridge with stairway, Hardie Board long plank timber deck and channel iron stair stringers. The barracks, although modified still demonstrates the key characteristics of standard accommodation for railway staff constructed during the early 20th Century.

See also 

List of railway stations in New South Wales

References

Attribution

External links

Mount Victoria station details Transport for New South Wales

Railway stations in Australia opened in 1869
Articles incorporating text from the New South Wales State Heritage Register
Former Barracks in Australia
Houses in New South Wales
Main Western railway line, New South Wales
Military installations in New South Wales
Mount Victoria, New South Wales
New South Wales State Heritage Register
Regional railway stations in New South Wales
Transport in the Blue Mountains (New South Wales)