[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# ECW Anarchy Rulz (video game)

WF Attitude. Many of the moves and taunts appeared in both games, with the former having only a few additional moves. Some moves has simply been renamed (for example, the "Seated Powerbomb" was renamed "Awesome Bomb"). It also featured many duplicate moves that were stored under two different names.

In Anarchy Rulz, there are many unique moves added to the game, with none being removed. Some moves are not assigned to any in-game character or moves set, but can still be applied to user created characters. Selected moves may only be used in certain match types. For example, every corner move with the word "springboard" in the name requires access to regular ring ropes.

The damage system has also been simplified. Each move can only produce one of three different levels of damage intentsity. Low damage moves can be performed at any time. Higher damage moves require the player to have earned enough momentum. Performing certain moves on harder surfaces will raise the damage they inflict by one level. If the move causes a table to break in a tables match, it is automatically raised to 'Extreme' (maximum) damage. Finishers and Signature moves cause 'Extreme' damage too, but requires the opponent to have taken a certain amount of damage first. If two players try to execute a move at the same time, the move with the larger "Move Size" gets priority. However, Low damage moves can be used to block some High and Extreme damage move attempts.

Reception

The game received "generally unfavorable reviews" on both platforms according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. However, despite the good graphics, the Dreamcast version was reviewed more negatively than the PlayStation version.

See also

 List of licensed wrestling video games
 List of fighting games

References

External links
 

2000 video games
Dreamcast games
Anarchy Rulz
Multiplayer and single-player video games
PlayStation (console) games
Video game sequels
Video games developed in the United States
Anarchy Rulz