[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Seattle Storm (soccer)

Football Club Seattle Storm, also known as the F.C. Seattle Storm, was an American soccer team based in Seattle, Washington.  F.C. Seattle was a "super club" created to provide Seattle players an opportunity to play at a higher level than the local recreational and semi-pro leagues.  In addition to playing exhibition matches against top international teams, F.C. Seattle was a member of the short lived Western Soccer Alliance, was a founding member of the American Professional Soccer League and later spent three seasons in the Pacific Coast Soccer League.

History

1984: F.C. Seattle Challenge

In 1984, F.C. Seattle hosted the F.C. Seattle Challenge '84.  This series pitted F.C. Seattle against three NASL teams, the Vancouver Whitecaps (2–2 tie), Minnesota Strikers (0–3 loss), New York Cosmos (1–2 loss), as well as the 1984 U.S. Olympic Team.  For this challenge cup, the team filled its roster from local colleges, high schools and semi-pro teams.  However, five F.C. Seattle players had previous professional experience: Jack Brand, Jerry Cameron, Eddie Krueger, Joe James and Robbie Zipp.  The team was coached by former Sounders player Tom Jenkins and played its games in Seattle's Memorial Stadium. The series averaged just over six thousand fans per game.  At the end of it, NASL officials approached F.C. Seattle about entering the NASL for the 1985 season.  F.C. Seattle declined, noting that most NASL teams hemorrhaged money. The club's backers, including owner Bud Greer, preferred to keep it on a semi-professional basis and develop players while building a fanbase for a future professional team.

1985: Western Alliance Challenge Series
In 1985, F.C. Seattle joined with three other independent "super clubs", F.C. Portland, San Jose Earthquakes and Victoria Riptides, to create the Western Alliance Challenge Series.  This series came in response to the cancellation of games F.C. Seattle had scheduled against English teams West Bromwich Albion and Aston Villa.  In June, FIFA had banned English clubs from travelling for international games after Liverpool fans sparked massive deaths in fan violence in Belgium.

F.C. Portland hosted F.C. Seattle for the first game of the series, a game F.C. Seattle won on the strength of a Bruce Raney hat trick.  Other significant F.C. Seattle players included Jeff Durgan, the Schmetzer brothers - Andy, Brian and Walter, and Peter Hattrup.  However, Bruce Rioch, who had replaced Jack Brand as head coach in February, released Durgan from the team after he was ejected for making several flagrant fouls in the game against the Canada national team in July.

1986–1989:  Western Soccer Alliance/League
In 1986, three of the four teams from 1985, decided to form the Western Soccer Alliance.  Only Victoria declined to join the new alliance, but they were replaced by the Edmonton Brick Men.

In 1987, the WSA instituted a two-game post-season playoff series.  F.C. Seattle, which finished second in alliance standings, lost 3–0 to the San Jose Earthquakes in the wild card game.

Up to now F.C. Seattle had also been known as the F.C. Seattle Storm.  In 1988, the team officially dropped the F.C. and became the Seattle Storm.  However, they were still referred to as the F.C. Seattle Storm throughout the season and the new name was not widely used until the 1989 season.  The 1988 season was one of the most successful for the Storm when it cruised to the top of the regular season standings, then crushed the Earthquakes 5–0 in the championship game.

In 1989, the Storm failed to build on its previous year's success and finished out of playoff contention.  As a side note, the WSA changed its name to the Western Soccer League.

1990: American Professional Soccer League

In 1990, the Storm, along with the rest of the WSL merged with the American Soccer League to form the American Professional Soccer League. They would play in the North Division of the WSL Conference, which comprised all teams from the former WSL. Despite Chance Fry leading the league with 17 goals and 5 assists, the Storm finished last in the North Division of the West Conference.  Following the season, Greer announced his intention to have the Storm sit out the 1991 season. However, in February 1992, he decided to fold the team.

1993–1995: Pacific Coast Soccer League
In December 1992, Stuart Lee bought the rights to the team and entered it in the amateur Pacific Coast Soccer League. The team competed through the 1995 season then withdrew from senior competitions. It continues to operate as a local soccer club with boys and girls teams in all age competitions.

Yearly record

Ownership and staff
 Bud Greer - Chairman
 William C. Sage - President / General Manager

Coaches
Record includes both league and exhibition matches.