[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Atomic Submarine

to adapt a torpedo's guidance system to convert it into a guided water-to-air missile. When the saucer rises from the ocean, Tigershark fires the missile, destroying the UFO. Holloway and the young Neilson are reconciled, with the latter realizing that his pacifism was no match for a hostile alien.

Cast
 Arthur Franz as Lieutenant Commander Richard 'Reef' Holloway
 Dick Foran as Commander Dan Wendover
 Brett Halsey as Dr. Carl Neilson
 Paul Dubov as Lieutenant David Milburn
 Bob Steele as CPO 'Grif' Griffin
 Victor Varconi as Dr. Clifford Kent
 Joi Lansing as Julie
 Selmer Jackson as Admiral Terhune
 Jack Mulhall as Secretary of Defense Justin Murdock
 Jean Moorhead as Helen Milburn
 Richard Tyler as Seaman Don Carney
 Sid Melton as Yeoman Chester Tuttle
 Kenneth Becker as Seaman Al Powell
 Frank Watkins as Watkins
 Tom Conway as Sir Ian Hunt
 John Hilliard as Voice of Spaceman
 Pat Michaels as Narrator

Production
Principal photography for The Atomic Submarine took place from mid-June to early July 1959. Stock footage of submarines and ship explosions were interspersed with other shots.

Reception
Film historian Paul Meehan considered The Atomic Submarine as "something of a departure from the usual saucer movie formula". Reviewer David Blakeslee,  in a later assessment,  commented that "once you get past the wooden acting, creaky scripts, stilted narration, corny humor, low-budget props, and sheer implausibility of The Atomic Submarines story line, you'll find themes and ideas worth pondering a bit longer than it takes to laugh away at the non-stop unraveling of sci-fi B-movie conventions". Chief among the unusual elements is "a headier-than-expected socio-political debate between a young principled pacifist and the career military man and WWII veteran sub captain over the merits of war and peace".

Related films
Two later science fiction films also "starred" nuclear submarines: the USOS Seaview in Irwin Allen's Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea (1961) and the submarine Atragon in the Japanese film Atragon (1963). In all three, a high-tech nuclear submarine of the near-future travels to the deepest part of the ocean to save the Earth from destruction.

Actor Arthur Franz, who played  Holloway in The Atomic Submarine, guest-starred five years later on an episode of Irwin Allen's 1964 submarine TV series Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea.

Availability
The film was released by the Criterion Collection as part of their "Monsters and Madmen" DVD set on January 23, 2007.

See also
 List of films in the public domain in the United States
 List of underwater science fiction works

References

Further reading

 Meehan, Paul. Saucer Movies: A UFOlogical History of the Cinema. Lanham, Maryland: The Scarecrow Press, 1998. .
 Warren, Bill. Keep Watching the Skies: American Science Fiction Films of the Fifties, 21st Century Edition. Jefferson, North Carolina: McFarland & Company, 2009, (First Edition 1982). .
 Wingrove, David. Science Fiction Film Source Book. London: Longman Group Limited, 1985. .

External links
 
 
 
The Atomic Submarine: Saving the World on a Shoestring Budget an essay by Bruce Eder at the Criterion Collection
 The Atomic Submarine screenplay
 

1959 films
1950s science fiction films
American black-and-white films
American independent films
1950s English-language films
Films set in the Arctic
Science fiction submarine films
American science fiction films
1959 independent films
Films directed by Spencer Gordon Bennet
1950s American films