[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anthelme Thozet

fore being found the next morning by her neighbours and then taken to hospital.  She never recovered and died on 4 August 1923. Maria Thozet was buried in the North Rockhampton Cemetery despite wanting to be buried the family cemetery on "Muellerville" alongside her husband, son and daughter-in-law.

After Maria Thozet's death, Muellerville was gradually sold off as residential allotments, the first 30 of which went to auction on 31 July 1926.  Apart from some parkland, the original Muellerville property is now a completely residential area.

In 2010, Rockhampton Regional Council and the University of Queensland conducted archeological investigations, locating three graves at the north end of Norris Park, which lies on land that was part of the original Muellerville property.

In 2012, there was a push to have Norris Park renamed to Muellerville Park.  Situated on Thozet's original Muellerville property, Norris Park was named as such as a tribute to William Norris, a long serving employee of Rockhampton City Council.  However, a petition was submitted to the council's parks and recreation committee to have it changed to Muellerville Park in recognition of Thozet's contribution to botany.  Although council decided to keep the name Norris Park, they revealed a commemorative stone would be installed in the park to give recognition of Thozet's pioneering work. As a result, the council subsequently installed a new headstone for the graves, and a memorial marker informing visitors that "this parkland is the last remaining portion of the 66 acre experimental garden known as 'Muellerville', once owned by Frenchborn botanist and botanical pioneer Anthelme Thozet".

Legacy
No photographs of Thozet are known to exist.  There was a pen-and-ink drawing of Thozet which was previously displayed in the Rockhampton School of Arts but as of 2010 its whereabouts were unknown.

However, numerous landmarks in Rockhampton bear Thozet's name or refer to his French heritage such as Thozet Road, Thozet Creek, Little Thozet Creek, Frenchmans Creek and the suburb of Frenchville.

The Rockhampton Historical Society installed a historical marker is located on Quay Street crediting Thozet with planting native plum trees along the banks of the Fitzroy River in 1867 which are still standing.

Botanist Carl Ernst Otto Kuntze in 1891, circumscribed a fungal genus in the family Chaetosphaeriaceae and named in Thozet's honour. 
The tree species, Eucalyptus thozetiana was also named in his honour in 1906.

Muellerville Walk was developed in 2014 to guide visitors around the western boundary of what was once Thozet's vast property, with the starting point being at Thozet's grave in Norris Park. Muellerville Walk was upgraded in 2017 with interpretive signage and a fully connected pathway.

Building 7 on the North Rockhampton campus of Central Queensland University was named the Thozet Building in 2003. The three-storey structure was one of the three original buildings to be constructed on the campus in 1964. With the building housing the Primary Industries Research Centre (Plant Sciences) and the Centre for Environmental Management, it was named the Thozet building on 9 October 2003 in honour of Thozet's outstanding contribution to pioneering plant science and research and in the development of horticulture in Rockhampton and Central Queensland. The building's plaque officially unveiled by Dr Joe Baker.

However, it's unclear whether the building has retained the name of Thozet Building after the installation of two murals on the eastern side of the building in 2017. Artists Bill Gannon, Luke Gannon and Jon Watson created murals of Aunty Ollie (a custodian of the Darumbal people) and Malcolm Mann (a Darumbal traditional owner) which were officially unveiled in September 2017. The "Thozet Building" signage was removed from the exterior of the building prior to the murals being painted and it has since been simply referred to as "Building 7" in the university's own online articles.  In a 2019 online article, the university stated that the structure is "now known as building 7".

In 2019, Thozet's name was short-listed as one of the top three names to be considered for the new riverside art gallery in Rockhampton City. After a period of public consultation, the Rockhampton Museum of Art was chosen as the winning name with 101 votes compared to eight votes received from those who preferred the name of the Thozet Art Gallery.

See also
 French Australian

References

Queenslander 8 June 1878 p302d, obituary

Further reading 
1922 interview with Madame Thozet  (Pattison, Evening News 1922-10-22; transcribed by Susan Cunningham 2010.)

1826 births
1878 deaths
People from Rockhampton
Australian people of French descent