[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dashdorjiin Natsagdorj

On 8 February 1937, Natsagdorj was arrested again on false charges during the early Stalinist purges in Mongolia, and was sentenced to five months of forced labor. He died of a stroke on a street in Ulaanbaatar on 13 July 1937, aged 30. A investigation into his arrest in 1989 declared him innocent.

Works 
Natsagdorj wrote poems, short stories, and dramas, and has been described as an exponent of "socialist realism" and Mongolia's "first classic of the socialist period". His best known work is Three Fateful Hills (Uchirtai gurvan tolgoi; 1934), an opera about the 1921 revolution which is still popular and performed today. Presented in verse strongly reminiscent of folk poetry, it has the common revolutionary theme of a young couple's love thwarted by tyrannical lords. Its tragic ending was rewritten after Natsagdorj's death to accord with revolutionary optimism.

Only a few works by Natsagdorj before his time in Germany survive, though a now-lost play, Monggolun ügeigüü ail-un khöbegün ("Son of a Mongolian Proletarian Family"; 1924) won an award. While living in Germany, he wrote several poems, including "From Ulan Bator to Berlin" (1926) and "To a Distant Country for Education" (1927). The latter's widely-quoted final lines read: "From lands that geese cannot attain by wing / The child of man returns, in his bosom jewels enfolding". His first prose sketch, "May Day in a Capitalist Country", expressed admiration of the labor movement in Germany and his shame that revolutionary Mongolia had not mustered the same spirit.

Natsagdorj's main period of productivity came from 1929 to his death. His iconic poem, "My Homeland" (Minii nutag; 1932 or 1933) describes the beauty of Mongolia's mountains and rivers. During his imprisonment in 1932, he scrawled poems of longing for his wife, for the beauties of nature, and for freedom. Other poems he wrote for programmatic purposes, such as promoting hygiene and modern medicine. Natsagdorj's "White Moon and Black Tears" (1932) is a story about the changes in Mongolian life after the revolution. His famous short story "Son of the Old World" or "Young Old-Timer" (Khuuchin khüü; 1930) paints a picture of the isolation and changelessness of the steppe, while "Tears of the Reverend Lama" (Lambuguain nulims) presents a portrait of a lama from the countryside arriving at Gandantegchinlen Monastery and falling in love with a fickle Chinese prostitute. His later poems and stories, written during the government's "new turn" period, show a more romantic attitude toward the life of rural herders. His last work, "History Poem", was written in 1936.

Monument 
A monument to Natsagdorj stands in the gardens in front of the Ulaanbaatar Hotel, in a spot previously occupied by a statue of Vladimir Lenin. Before 2013, the statue of Natsagdorj stood next to the city's Wedding Palace.

Notes

References 

1906 births
1937 deaths
20th-century Mongolian poets
Mongolian poets
Mongolian writers
People from Töv Province