[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Terrorism in Uganda

Terrorism in Uganda primarily occurs in the north, where the Lord's Resistance Army, a militant Christian religious cult that seeks to overthrow the Ugandan government, has attacked villages and forcibly conscripted children into the organization since 1988. The al-Shabbab jihadist group has also staged attacks in the country.

1990s
From 1997 the Allied Democratic Front, a terrorist organization based in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, threw bombs into taxis and public buildings. More than 50 people were killed and more than 160 were injured. Suspects were held in safe houses. The Uganda Human Rights Commission and other non-governmental organizations criticized this process because suspects were allegedly held for more than the legal 48 hours before being charged with a crime and were tortured. In 1998, the Uganda Salvation Front attacked Tororo Prison and abducted several inmates.

2010s
On 11 July 2010, suicide bombings were carried out against crowds watching a screening of 2010 FIFA World Cup Final match during the World Cup at two locations in Kampala. The attacks left 74 dead and 70 injured. Islamist al-Shabbab claimed responsibility for the attacks as retaliation for Ugandan support for AMISOM.

On 5 July 2014, several tribal gunmen armed with machetes and spears attacked in Kasese, Ntoroko and Bundibugyo districts killing civilians, military officers and policemen. It led to loss of 93 people and property worth millions of shillings.

2020s 
On 1 June 2021, General Katumba Wamala was travelling in a vehicle when four gunmen appeared and opened fire, wounding Wamala and killing his driver and his daughter. After a month of investigation, on July 1, 2021, authorities revealed that the attackers were Islamic extremists who were trained in a jihadist camp in North Kivu, Democratic Republic of Congo, and had links with the Allied Democratic Forces and the Islamic State.

On 24 October 2021, a deadly explosion occurred at a restaurant in Komamboga, Kampala, killing one person and wounding three more. The Islamic State later claimed responsibility for the attack. Two days later, an Allied Democratic Forces suicide bomber blew himself up at a bus in Kampala, wounding several people. On 29 October, two children were killed during a bomb explosion at a village in Nakaseke. The device looked like an exotic “jackfruit” and was given to the children while they were playing.

On 16 November 2021, twin suicide bombers exploded their improvised explosive devices (IEDs) near in the capital, Kampala. The three suicide bombers together with other three innocent victims died. Twenty-seven people were wounded and admitted at Mulago National Referral Hospital. The Islamic State later claimed the attacks through their Telegram channel.

On 16 June 2023, rebels of the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a jihadist group speculatively linked by analysts to the Islamic State, attacked a school in Mpondwe, a town in western Uganda's Kasese District on the border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Forty-two people were killed, including 38 students.

Counter-terrorism legislation

Anti-Terrorism Act 2002
The Anti-Terrorism Act 2002 makes "terrorism," and supporting or promoting terrorism, crimes punishable by capital punishment. It defines terrorism as,

"the use of violence or threat of violence with intent to promote or achieve religious, economic and cultural or social ends in an unlawful manner, and includes the use, or threat to use, violence to put the public in fear or alarm."

Livingstone Ssewannyana, Executive Director of the Foundation for Human Rights Initiative, says the act is "in conflict with international standards, particularly the freedom of expression and Association. An objective examination of the act from a human rights perspective shows that it potentially infringes on freedom of expression and assembly, including media freedom." The Minister for Internal Affairs can dissolve any organization the government designates as terrorist, and the government can then seize its assets if the cabinet agrees. In addition, the minister can designate individuals "authorized officers" who have the "right to intercept the communication of a person."

When the National Assembly debated the act, Internal Affairs Minister Eriya Kategaya said the government needed "this power to move quickly and decisively against suspected terrorists before they cause more havoc."