[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Open Veins of Latin America

Latin America remains underdeveloped. Galeano argued that Latin America was not an example of underdevelopment due to lack of modernization but rather a victim of Europe’s and the US’s exploitation. “We lost; others won. But it happens that those who won, won because we lost,” Galeano stated.

Genre

Latin American Resistance Literature 
Latin America has a long history of expressing its culture of resistance through various means; for instance, during colonization, oral tradition allowed indigenous communities to share their dissent. Since the nineteenth century, this attitude of resistance found its expression through writers who were vocal opponents of imperialist forms of power.

In the twentieth century, this notion was coupled with an increased Pan-American sentiment and led to detailed literature analyzing Latin America’s resistance culture. A common theme among this body of work was the idea of a fragmented Latin American society as a consequence of oppression and violence. Open Veins exemplifies Latin America’s resistance literature of the twentieth century.

Reception 
Shortly after the publication of Open Veins, the book quickly gained popularity throughout developed countries, but for its left-wing perspective the book was banned under the right-wing military governments of Brazil, Chile, Argentina and Uruguay.

The Library Journal review stated, "Well written and passionately stated, this is an intellectually honest and valuable study."
Since its publication in the early 1970s, Open Veins has been taught extensively in American universities, including in geography, economics, history, and anthropology courses.

In 2014, at an event in Brazil honoring the author on the 43rd anniversary of the book's publication, Galeano expressed some regrets, saying"'Open Veins’ tried to be a book of political economy, but I didn’t yet have the necessary training or preparation...I wouldn’t be capable of reading this book again; I’d keel over. For me, this prose of the traditional left is extremely leaden, and my physique can’t tolerate it."Opponents interpreted this statement as a renunciation of the book and considered it proof of the book’s inaccuracy. Carlos Alberto Montaner, exiled Cuban writer, answered with a text called: “Galeano Corrects Himself and the Idiots Lose their Bible.”
 
Galeano described these critics as "seriously ill with bad faith." In a 2014 interview with Jorge Majfud, Galeano stated, "The book, written ages ago, is still alive and kicking. I am simply honest enough to admit that at this point in my life the old writing style seems rather stodgy, and that it’s hard for me to recognize myself in it since I now prefer to be increasingly brief and untrammeled."Open Veins has been known as the “Idiot’s Bible” amongst some of its opponents and those defending free-market policies. Such a nickname stems from the publication of Guide to the Perfect Latin American Idiot, a 1996 bestseller written by authors Álvaro Vargas Llosa, Carlos Alberto Montaner, and Plinio Apuleyo Mendoza.
The book has an entire chapter on the importance of Open Veins for the “Latin American idiot”.
It reads:“For the past quarter-century, the Latin American idiot has had the notable advantage of having at his disposal a kind of sacred text, a bible filled with all the nonsense that circulates in the cultural atmosphere that the Brazilians call the 'festive left.' Naturally, we refer to Open Veins of Latin America."

Cultural and political significance 
In his analysis of the impact of Open Veins, Director of Georgetown University’s Center for Latin American Studies, Marc Chernik, stated that Eduardo Galeano’s worldview in the book has had transformational consequences for an entire generation of intellectuals, students, and politicians. One consequence was the rise of a new approach to marginalized communities, who were no longer perceived as “underdeveloped” regions but rather as areas that were striving to overcome the negative impact colonization and imperialism had in the subcontinent.
This argument, later known as the Dependency theory, was presented by several authors but it was Galeano who shared the idea with the entire region.

Mexican author Elena Poniatowska, winner of the 2013 Miguel de Cervantes Prize, said in an interview with BBC that what Galeano did in Open Veins had never been done before. "He gathered thousands of the most forgotten voices of Latin America," Poniatowska stated.
Similarly, Jorge Volpi, another Mexican author, argued that Open Veins is one of the most influential texts written in Latin America during the twentieth-century and that "it opened the eyes of many young writers and political activists regarding the exploitation of this [Latin America] part of the world."