[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arkady Andreasyan

he Netherlands, which the Soviet team won 4–0. He was a member of the Soviet Union Olympic football team that competed at the 1972 Summer Olympics. Following the Soviet national squad's only loss to Poland, they tied with East Germany in the bronze medal match, and thus both teams won bronze medals.

Managerial career
Andreasyan became a football manager in 1979. Over the years, he managed Kotayk Abovyan, Ararat Yerevan, Spartak Hoktemberyan, Zvartnots Echmiadzin, Homenmen Beirut and Mika Yerevan. Ararat Yerevan won the 1996–97 Armenian Cup when Andreasyan was managing the team. Andreasyan became the vice-president of Ararat Yerevan in 2009 and held the position until his death in 2020. He assumed the role of acting manager of Ararat in March 2009 when Ashot Kirakosyan left the manager position. Andreasyan upheld the role for the rest of the year, after which Tigran Yesayan became the new manager. On 16 February 2010, Yesayan had resigned from his post as manager of Ararat Yerevan. The reason for this was because of the low quality of the preparatory process for the team during the fall and spring collections team and the lack of serious recruitment of players that would seriously strengthen the team in matches of the Armenian Premier League. A short time before the start of the next Premier League, the team training process was led by a former assistant coach Edgar Safaryan and Alyosha Abrahamyan. However, on 5 March, in the first round of the 2011 Armenian Premier League in a match against Banants Yerevan, Andreasyan was coaching Ararat Yerevan. At that time, he had not been the official head coach. Three days later, Andreasyan officially became the manager of Ararat Yerevan once again. During a break in the 6th round match between Ararat Yerevan and Pyunik Yerevan, Andreasyan, with a group of unknown assailants, reportedly beat up a photojournalist when he photographed Andreasyan. Later, Andreasyan and a group of unidentified people were prosecuted for this event. On 28 April, during a regular meeting of the Disciplinary Committee of the Football Federation of Armenia, the question of recognizing Andreasyan as an unwelcome person in Armenian football for his hooliganic, obscene and unsportsmanlike conduct was discussed. In addition, for his disruptive behavior at halftime of the Ararat and Pyunik match, Andreasyan was banned for five matches and the club was fined 115,000 drams ($275). At the same time, the Ararat fan club demanded Andreasyan's resignation from the positions of head coach and vice-president of Ararat. In February 2012, Andreasyan was replaced by Albert Safaryan, a previous assistant coach of the club, as manager of Ararat Yerevan. Andreasyan didn't participate in the training and coaching duties in the previous month of January. This work was carried out by Safaryan then as well.

Personal life
Andreasyan came from a family of football players. His father, George Andreasyan, was a football player who played for Lokomotiv Baku in the 1937 Soviet Second League B in Group D and for Dinamo Yerevan, which won the 1936 Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic championships. He later coached Lokomotiv Baku. Arkady's uncle, Hayk Andriasyan, played for Lokomotiv Moscow and coached a number of Armenian teams. Andreasyan was married and had a son named George, who was also a football player and played for a number of Armenian clubs, including for Ararat Yerevan.

Honours

Individual
IFA Shield Player of the Tournament: 1978
Order For Merit to the Fatherland (Armenia), 2011

References

Bibliography

External links
Rusteam.permian.ru 

Sportinfo.am
Klisf.info
Statistics of games in European competition

1947 births
2020 deaths
Footballers from Baku
Soviet men's footballers
Armenian men's footballers
Soviet Top League players
FC Ararat Yerevan players
Soviet Union men's international footballers
Olympic footballers for the Soviet Union
Footballers at the 1972 Summer Olympics
Olympic bronze medalists for the Soviet Union
Olympic medalists in football
Armenian football managers
Soviet football managers
FC Ararat Yerevan managers
FC Mika managers
Soviet Armenians
Men's association football midfielders
Medalists at the 1972 Summer Olympics