[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William C. Harrop

ange for C-130s to be flown down to Katanga during the period of greatest tension. In 1968, Harrop left the Congo after being assigned to do graduate work for a year at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University as part of a "Mid Career Program" sabbatical.

Harrop returned in Washington, D.C. to become director of Regional African Affairs at the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence Research, serving there from 1969 to 1971, under Ray S. Cline, then the assistant secretary for intelligence and research.  Harrop also became involved in State Department personnel matters; he was elected to a position on the board of the American Foreign Service Association, and later became chairman, taking a yearlong leave without pay from the State Department in the year 1971. Harrop then returned to the Department of State in 1972-1973 to join the Policy Planning Council. Harrop left Policy Planning when he was chosen by U.S. Ambassador to Australia Marshall Green to serve as deputy chief of mission (DCM) in Canberra.  Harrop served as DCM in Australia from 1973 to 1975.

Harrop returned to the U.S. and was on home leave when he was appointed U.S. Ambassador to Guinea. Harrop served in this post from May 29, 1975 to July 15, 1977. As ambassador in Conakry, Guinea, Harrop faced hostility from President Ahmed Sékou Touré, leader of a radical, pan-Africanist movement.  Harrop's twelve-member mission was also dramatically outnumbered by the Soviet mission, which had 1200 people, and the Chinese mission, which had 700 people. Key issues handled during Harrop's tenure in Conakry were Soviet overflights and bases in the country and U.S. humanitarian aid in Guinea. In 1977, Harrop left Guinea and returned to the Bureau of African Affairs to become principle deputy to Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Richard M. Moose. At the Bureau of African Affairs, Harrop spent most time of issues relating to Zaire and the Horn of Africa (particularly the Ogaden War between Ethiopia and Somalia), while Moose handled most matters relating to southern Africa (South Africa, Rhodesia, Namibia, and Angola).

Harrop left the Bureau of African Affairs in 1980 and became U.S. Ambassador to Kenya, serving from July 10, 1980 to September 1, 1983. (Harrop concurrently served as U.S. Ambassador to the Seychelles, from August 26, 1980 to September 22, 1983). Kenya was then led by President Daniel arap Moi. Key issues dealt with by Harrop in this position include the application of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act to U.S. commercial ventures in Kenya; the use of Kenyan coasts by U.S. Navy ships; territorial disputes between Kenya and Somalia, Ethiopia, Uganda, and Tanzania; and human rights in the country.

Harrop returned to Washington to become Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service, serving from December 12, 1983,  to August 27, 1986. Harrop was part of a group of three diplomats appointed by Secretary of State George P. Shultz as part of a new "management team," the others being Ronald I. Spiers (Under Secretary for Management) and Alfred (Roy) Atherton (Director General of the Foreign Service). As inspector general, Harrop reformed the office's investigative and auditing functions and oversaw investigations relating to allegations of corruption and sexual harassment. Harrop oversaw investigations related to Faith Whittlesey, ambassador to Switzerland. He also clashes with Senator Jesse Helms, who Harrop stated in a later oral history was "determined to destroy the institution of the Inspector General of the Foreign Service" and carried out a "relentless campaign against career Foreign Service professionals."

While Harrop insisted on treating this as some personal vendetta by Senator Helms, the reality is that the Helms amendment was fully supported by the entire Committee on Foreign Relations, the House Foreign Affairs and Government Operations committees. In 1982 the GAO has issued a report pointing out that an Inspector General who was a Foreign Service officer seeking an onward assignment and who was, like Harrop, a key participant in management decisions lacked the requisite independence to meet US Government standards to conduct audits and investigations. The GAO quoted a member of Harrop's own staff who told the GAO "'the name of the game' in the IG office is making contacts to try to get a good assignment after leaving that office. It was his opinion that, as a result, no one in the IG office wants to push big problems through the system because it would be like 'shooting yourself in the foot' (that is, jeopardizing your chances of getting a good assignment after the IG tour)." GAO, State Department’s Office of Inspector General Should Be More Independent and Effective, AFMD-83-56 (Washington, D.C.: June 2, 1982).