[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Central Bank of Azerbaijan

The Central Bank of Azerbaijan (CBA, ) is the central bank of Azerbaijan Republic. The headquarters of the bank is located in the capital city Baku.

The National Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan was established by Decree of President of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Establishment of the National Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan dated 11 February 1992. The National Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan was renamed to “The Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan” upon enactment of the Referendum Act of the Republic of Azerbaijan on “Making additions and amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan” dated 18 March 2009.
 
The status, goals, functions and authorities, as well as management and organizational structure of the Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan, relations with public authorities and other persons as the central bank of the state, are determined by the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan “On the Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan” dated 10 December 2004. The Central Bank’s exceptional function of issue of the national currency of the country is specified in the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan. The Central Bank is also guided by other legislative acts of the Republic of Azerbaijan and international treaties seconded by the Republic of Azerbaijan.

History
The history of central banking in Azerbaijan covers the periods of: the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic (1918–1920); the soviet socialist era (1920-1991); modern banking history since Azerbaijan regained independence in 1991.
 
In the early 20th century, Azerbaijan declared its independence and established the Azerbaijan People’s Republic on 28 May 1918. Initially, Transcaucasian bonds were widely used in the independent republic along with Russian money and Baku bonds, issued to circulation by the Baku City Administration and the Municipal service of the Baku Soviet in January 1918 at the decision of the Baku Council of People’s Commissars. At the same time, the Baku branch of the former State Bank of Russia also continued its activity. The Government of the Azerbaijan People's Republic took a decision on the establishment of the Azerbaijan State Bank (central bank) on 7 March 1919. On 16 September of the same year, the Parliament of the Azerbaijan People's Republic adopted the Charter of the Azerbaijan State Bank and the Bank started functioning with the solemn opening ceremony on 30 September 1919.
 
The ‘bank of banks’, the Azerbaijan State Bank supervised existing credit institutions and issued monetary units.
 
After the collapse of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic on 28 April 1920, the Azerbaijan State Bank was renamed the Azerbaijan People’s Bank at the order of the Finance Commissariat of the new state structure – the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic on 31 May 1920. At the decision of the Revolutionary Committee of Azerbaijan dated 9 June 1920, all banks and other credit institutions were nationalized and subordinated to the People’s Bank. The banking business was under an exclusive monopoly of the state.
 
The basic function of the Azerbaijan People’s Bank was to issue banknotes. The People’s Bank, which was a part of Finance Commissariat, financed the national economy and was engaged in budgeting and budgetary forecasting. The People’s Bank halted lending and became an institution serving budget operations along with financial bodies.
 
A new economic policy of the end of 1921 necessitated the restoration of the central bank. The Azerbaijan State Bank was established by the decision of the Council of People’s Commissars of Azerbaijan dated 16 October 1921 with parallel adoption of its Charter.
 
The Federative Union of the Transcaucasian Socialist Federative Soviet Republic was established on 12 March 1922. The TSSR was included to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) on 30 December 1922. TSSR moved to a single monetary system at the Decree of the Board of Union of the TSSR of 10 January 1923, which terminated the emission activity of the Azerbaijan State Bank. By the decree of the Council of People’s Commissariat of Azerbaijan dated 3 July 1923 the Azerbaijan State Bank was renamed the Azerbaijan State Agricultural Bank and its central banking functions were terminated. Initially, the Azerbaijan State Agricultural Bank both assisted in the development of agriculture and regulated the money circulation and commodity turnover.
 
The Baku Branch on the USSR State Bank was established in 1923. Under the Constitution of the USSR, adopted in December 1936, Azerbaijan became a part of the USSR as a ‘sovereign’ republic. The Azerbaijani Office of the USSR State Bank operated from that year to the end of 1991.