[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# American Task Force on Palestine

The American Task Force on Palestine (ATFP) is an organization founded in 2003 to advocate that it is in the American national interest to promote an end to the Palestinian–Israeli conflict through the creation of a Palestinian state alongside Israel.

ATFP is funded entirely by its board of directors and supporters. It has never received funding from any government or government agency. ATFP's signed, audited financial statements are posted online on its website.

History
The American Task Force on Palestine was founded in 2003 as the successor organization to the American Committee on Jerusalem (1995–2003.) Rashid Khalidi was president of the ACJ.

In early 2004, the task force helped promote and publicize the Geneva Accords in the United States. In November 2004, ATFP President Ziad Asali was a member of the United States delegation to the funeral of Yasser Arafat. He served as an official observer of the Palestinian Presidential elections in January 2005. On February 10, 2005, Asali testified before a full committee hearing of the House International Relations Committee on "the way forward in the Middle East peace process." Asali was a member of the team that monitored the Palestinian Legislative election in January 2006. In February 2006 ATFP issued its "Vision for the State of Palestine", first published in the New York Times.

In December 2006, a 10-member delegation from ATFP's leadership traveled to the region and held substantive meetings with top political leaders including Jordan's King Abdullah II, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and acting Israeli Prime Minister Tzipi Livni.

On February 12, 2009, Asali testified at a House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on Middle East and South Asia hearing on the aftermath of the war in Gaza. At the hearing, ATFP also submitted an extensive 50-page report on the circumstances, aftermath and consequences of the war.

On March 4, 2010, Asali spoke before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations on "Middle East Peace: Ground Truths, Challenges Ahead".

Annual galas
In the fall of every year from 2006 through 2013, ATFP hosted galas in Washington DC celebrating the accomplishments of and honoring significant Palestinian Americans and hosting prominent keynote speakers. In fall 2014 it announced that it was cancelling that year's gala due to the prevailing pessimism among its supporters about the prospects for a two-state solution. At that time the organization's annual budget was approximately $1 million, and the galas typically accounted for some 50% of its fundraising.

On October 11, 2006, ATFP held its first annual in Washington, D.C., featuring keynote speaker Dr. Condoleezza Rice, also addressed by American of Palestinian descent Sen. John E. Sununu and Sen. Carl Levin.  Rice told an audience of 500, “I believe that there could be no greater legacy for America than to help to bring into being a Palestinian state for a people who have suffered too long, who have been humiliated too long, who have not reached their potential for too long, and who have so much to give to the international community and to all of us. I promise you my personal commitment to that goal.“

The 2007 gala featured Undersecretary of State Nicholas Burns, the highest-ranking Foreign Service office at the State Department, as keynote speaker and also remarks by Mr.Walter Isaacson, chairman and CEO of the Aspen Institute.

On October 12, 2008 ATFP's Third annual gala was addressed by Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad.

On October 15, 2009, National Security Advisor Gen. James L. Jones was the keynote speaker at ATFP's Fourth annual gala. "We are clear, unambiguous and consistent," said Gen. Jones, "The time has come to relaunch negotiations without preconditions to reach a final status agreement on two states." The National Security Advisor emphasized that "President Obama's dedication to achieve these goals is unshaken, is committed, and we will be relentless in our pursuit of achieving these." He said that ending the conflict and the occupation is essential because what is at stake is "nothing less than the dignity and the security of all human beings."

In 2010, ATFP's gala had former Secretary Hillary Clinton giving the keynote speech.

In 2011, ATFP gala featured former PM Salam Fayyad highlighting quest for peace.

Gala honorees
2006:
 ATFP Award for Outstanding Contributions to Government Service
Gov. John H. Sununu
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Commerce and Industry
Mr. Jesse Aweida
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Scholarship
Dr. Mujid Kazimi

2007:
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Government Service
Ambassador Theodore Kattouf
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Commerce and Industry
Mr. Farouk Shami
 ATFP Award for Excellence in Medicine
Theodore Baramki, M.D.