[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of the Jews in Sudan

ish or Catholic schools with some going to a local Sudanese school. Most Jewish boys went to the Comboni College, a private Catholic school run by Italian priests.

At its peak, between 1930 and 1950 the Jewish community in Sudan numbered between 800 and 1,000 people, with about 250 Jewish families.

Decline 
After Israeli independence in 1948, a small number of Sudanese Jews immigrated to Israel between 1948 and 1950. Most of them were among the poorer members of the Jewish community and migrated for economic reasons. The community banded together to purchase tickets to Israel for its poorest members so they could start a new life there. Rabbi Suleiman Malka died in 1949 and the community was left without a rabbi. In 1956, Sudan gained independence and hostility towards the Jewish community began to grow as the Pan-Arab ideology of Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser, with the anti-Israel rhetoric it entailed, gained popularity. Antisemitic attacks appeared in the press and Jews were accused of being fifth columnists. A Jewish woman won the Miss Khartoum beauty contest that year but was stripped of the title after it was discovered that she was Jewish. That same year, the community was bolstered when some Egyptian Jews moved to Sudan after the Suez Crisis. The community also gained a rabbi after seven years without one when Egyptian-Jewish rabbi Massoud Elbaz arrived in Sudan. However, as antisemitism intensified, many members of the community began to leave Sudan for Israel (via Greece), the United States, and European countries - mostly to the United Kingdom and Switzerland. Israel and Switzerland were the primary destinations of emigrating Sudanese Jews. Much of the community had left by 1960. In 1967, following the Six-Day War, there was a mass arrest of Jewish men and antisemitic attacks appeared in Sudanese newspapers advocating the torture and murder of prominent Jewish community leaders. Jewish emigration subsequently intensified, with the vast majority of Jews still in the country soon leaving. The last remaining Jews in Sudan left the country in the early 1970s. Overall, about 500 Sudanese Jews immigrated to Israel while the rest went to other countries.

The desecration of Jewish cemetery 
In 1975 an air-transfer of some of the human remains from the Jewish Cemetery in Khartoum was organized by several prominent members of the community and reburial was arranged in Jerusalem after reports of desecration and vandalism occurring there. The bodies were moved and reburied at the Givat Shaul Cemetery in Jerusalem. As of 2005 there were at least 15 Jewish graves left in the Jewish Cemetery at Khartoum. However, in recent years even these have been desecrated and the site was used as a dumping ground for used car parts. In the last year efforts have been made to preserve and clean up the cemetery. The Synagogue was sold and demolished in 1986 and a bank now occupies the site.

See also
Jewish history
Jewish exodus from Arab and Muslim countries

References

Further reading 
 History
 
The Jewish cemetery of Khartoum, Sudan — Philipp Breu Photography - Freelance Photojournalist