[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 24th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

Nashville.  
 Colonel Theodore S. West (March 7, 1863May 12, 1865) was acting commander until Larrabee's resignation.  He mustered out with the regiment and received an honorary brevet to brigadier general.
 Lt. Colonel Arthur MacArthur Jr. (May 12, 1865June 10, 1865) mustered out with the regiment.

Notable people
 Byron D. L. Abert, son of George Abert, was enlisted in Co. E and rose to the rank of first sergeant, and was then commissioned first lieutenant of that company in 1864.  After the war he was elected superintendent of the poor in Milwaukee.
 Louis T. Battell, father of William P. Battell, was 1st lieutenant of Co. K and later captain of Co. D.
 Henry W. Belden, son of Philo Belden and father of Ellsworth Burnett Belden, was enlisted in Co. A and wounded at Chickamauga.  He was later a captain in the 37th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment.
 Adolph Biermann was enlisted in Co. I.  He later served as the 5th Minnesota State Auditor.
 Edward Reed Blake was enlisted in Co. H and rose to the rank of sergeant.  After the war, he was a Wisconsin legislator.
 Lucien Chase, son of Enoch Chase, was enlisted in Co. B, died due to disease after Perryville.
 William Disch was enlisted in Co. K and mustered out with the regiment.  After the war, he was a Wisconsin legislator.
 Orlando Ellsworth was captain of Co. K, resigned due to illness after Stones River.  
 Charles Fingado was enlisted in Co. E and discharged due to disability in 1863.  After the war, he was a Wisconsin legislator.
 Adoniram J. Holmes was enlisted in Co. D and later 2nd lieutenant in Co. F and 1st lieutenant in Co. K.  After the war, he was elected to U.S. Congress from Iowa, and was later Sergeant at Arms of the United States House of Representatives.
 Richard W. Hubbell was sergeant in Co. I and later major in the 1st Wisconsin Heavy Artillery Regiment. After the war, he was a Wisconsin legislator and judge.  
 Henry C. Koch was enlisted in Co. B, but later detailed as a draftsman on the staff of general Philip Sheridan.  After the war, he became a prominent architect.
 Arthur MacArthur Jr. was adjutant and later lieutenant colonel of the regiment.  He was awarded the Medal of Honor for actions at the Battle of Missionary Ridge.  He continued in the U.S. Army after the war and was later Military Governor of the Philippines.  He was the father of World War II general Douglas MacArthur.
 John L. Mitchell was 2nd lieutenant in Co. I and later 1st lieutenant in Co. E.  After the war, he was elected to the United States House of Representatives and was elected United States Senator from Wisconsin (1893–1899).
 Herman L. Page was the first lieutenant colonel of the regiment, but resigned after recruitment was completed.  Before the war, he was the 11th mayor of Milwaukee.
 Duncan Reed was captain of Co. E, dismissed from service in 1863.  Before the war he had been president pro tempore of the Wisconsin Senate.
 Thomas Toohey was sergeant and later 1st sergeant in Co. F.  He was awarded the Medal of Honor for actions at the Battle of Franklin.

See also

 List of Wisconsin Civil War units
 Wisconsin in the American Civil War

References

The Civil War Archive

Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
Units and formations of the Union Army from Wisconsin
1862 establishments in Wisconsin