[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Stephen Dawson

a three match suspension, Dawson returned to the side in the last game of the season, in a 2–2 draw against Huddersfield Town, a draw that saw Barnsley's safety in the Championship. In his first full season at Barnsley, Dawson made the total of 34 appearances and scoring 4 times in all competitions.

In the 2013–14 season, Dawson continued to established himself in the midfield position and then scored his first goal of the season, in a 5–1 loss to Southampton in the second round of the League Cup. Two weeks later, on 14 September 2014, Dawson captained Barnsley for the first time in absence of Luke Steele, in a 3–2 loss against Nottingham Forest. However, Dawson found himself on the substitute bench since around late–September, due to injury inflicted and competitions. But he managed to regain his first team place following a new management of Danny Wilson. He was involved in an angry confrontation with Barnsley supporters after the team's 5–0 defeat at Huddersfield Town on 1 March 2014, for which he apologised and made a small financial donation to Barnsley Hospice. After the match, it was announced that Dawson would not face a charge by the club.

Dawson scored his first league goal of the season, in a 3–1 win over Reading on 25 March 2014. Just a month later, Dawson was named as one of seven footballers arrested in connection with alleged spot-fixing of football matches. When asked, Dawson said: "They came at 6.30 a.m. Ten officers. They searched our house from top to bottom and seized some of our belongings – my mobile phones, my laptop, my girlfriend's phone, documents. Then they said I had to go down to the station. We didn't know what was going on. It nearly broke me." Dawson's statement came three days after the National Crime Agency ended his nine-month ordeal by confirming that the case against him has been dropped. Despite the controversy, Dawson continued to remain in the first team for the rest of the season, which saw Barnsley relegated from the Championship.

At the end of the 2013–14 season, Dawson was offered a new contract by the club following their relegation. However, he turned down a new contract from the club, making him a free agent.

Rochdale

On 13 August 2014, Dawson signed for Rochdale on a one-year contract. Upon joining the club, Manager Keith Hill said of the move: "Stephen Dawson has got a lot of aggression and he's pedigree. He's played a lot of Championship and League One football and it was great to get the deal done."

Dawson made his Rochdale debut on 16 August 2014, in a 2–1 defeat against Chesterfield. He made his home debut on 23 August, in a 1–1 draw against Bristol City. Since making his debut for Rochdale, Dawson quickly established himself in the first team in the midfield position. In a 4–0 win over Crawley Town on 6 September 2014, he set up two goals for Matt Done and Calvin Andrew. He played his last game for the club in a 0–3 defeat against Oldham Athletic on 24 March 2015. Despite suffering setback that saw out of the first team, He played 30 times for Rochdale in the league that season, as they finished a very credible 8th place, their highest-ever league placing.

At the end of the 2014–15 season, Dawson was offered a new contract by the club. However, he turned down a contract from Rochdale in favour of joining Scunthorpe United.

Scunthorpe United
It was announced on 20 May 2015 that he will join Scunthorpe United on 1 July on a two-year deal with an option of a further year on a free transfer. Upon joining the club, Dawson was given a number 15 shirt ahead of the new season.

At the start of the 2015–16 season, Dawson was appointed as the club's captain. He made his Scunthorpe United debut, as well as, captain, starting the whole game, in a 2–1 loss against Burton Albion in the opening game of the season. After being sidelined from the first team over a knock, Dawson suffered a knee injury that resulted him being sidelined for three months. After returning to the substitute bench from injury for a match against Sheffield United on 19 December 2015, he returned to the first team from injury, where he played 62 minutes before being substituted, in a 1–0 win over Doncaster Rovers on 26 December 2015. Despite being out of the first team on two occasions in the first team, Dawson regained his first team place and played a vital role for the side as captain throughout the season. In his first season at Scunthorpe United, Dawson went on make the total of 25 appearances in all competitions. Nevertheless, at the end of the season, he was awarded the Dave Hardy Special Award.