[Source: PubMed]

2. Lancet Glob Health. 2022 Nov;10(11):e1675-e1683. doi: 
10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00341-2. Epub 2022 Sep 27.

Pandemic preparedness and response: exploring the role of universal health 
coverage within the global health security architecture.

Lal A(1), Abdalla SM(2), Chattu VK(3), Erondu NA(4), Lee TL(5), Singh S(6), 
Abou-Taleb H(7), Vega Morales J(8), Phelan A(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, London, UK. Electronic address: arush.lal@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Center for Interdisciplinary Research, Saveetha Institute of Medical and 
Technical Sciences, Saveetha University, Chennai, India; Department of Community 
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Wardha, India; Department of Occupational Science and Occupational Therapy, 
Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(4)O'Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law, Georgetown University 
Law Center, Washington, DC, USA; Global Health Institute for Disease 
Elimination, United Arab Emirates Global Health Programme, Chatham House, 
London, UK.
(5)Graduate Institute of Health and Biotechnology Law, Taipei Medical 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Faculty of Medical and Health 
Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(7)Health System Governance Team, Department of Universal Health Coverage/Health 
Systems, Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean, World Health 
Organization, Cairo, Egypt.
(8)Ministry of Social Development and Family, Santiago, Chile.
(9)O'Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law, Georgetown University 
Law Center, Washington, DC, USA; Center for Global Health Science and Security, 
Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Glob Health. 2023 Jan;11(1):e30. doi: 10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00516-2.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, several international initiatives have 
been developed to strengthen and reform the global architecture for pandemic 
preparedness and response, including proposals for a pandemic treaty, a Pandemic 
Fund, and mechanisms for equitable access to medical countermeasures. These 
initiatives seek to make use of crucial lessons gleaned from the ongoing 
pandemic by addressing gaps in health security and traditional public health 
functions. However, there has been insufficient consideration of the vital role 
of universal health coverage in sustainably mitigating outbreaks, and the 
importance of robust primary health care in equitably and efficiently 
safeguarding communities from future health threats. The international community 
should not repeat the mistakes of past health security efforts that ultimately 
contributed to the rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and disproportionately 
affected vulnerable and marginalised populations, especially by overlooking the 
importance of coherent, multisectoral health systems. This Health Policy paper 
outlines major (although often neglected) gaps in pandemic preparedness and 
response, which are applicable to broader health emergency preparedness and 
response efforts, and identifies opportunities to reconceptualise health 
security by scaling up universal health coverage. We then offer a comprehensive 
set of recommendations to help inform the development of key pandemic 
preparedness and response proposals across three themes-governance, financing, 
and supporting initiatives. By identifying approaches that simultaneously 
strengthen health systems through global health security and universal health 
coverage, we aim to provide tangible solutions that equitably meet the needs of 
all communities while ensuring resilience to future pandemic threats.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2214-109X(22)00341-2
PMCID: PMC9514836
PMID: 36179734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests We declare no competing 
interests.