[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ángel Di María

sports rights of Andrés Díaz. Later, in August 2008, the Portuguese club paid an extra €2  million for the remaining 20%, but re-sold 10% to GestiFute. Di María was signed by the Portuguese club with the intention of replacing Simão Sabrosa, who had just left the club to play for Atlético de Madrid.

Di María had his breakthrough in the 2009–10 season thanks to the trust placed in him by manager Jorge Jesus. On 22 October, in the Europa League group stage match against Everton, he provided an hat-trick of assist for the first time in his career, in a 5–0 thrashing at the Estádio da Luz, marking the biggest loss of an English side in a European competition. During that month, Di María signed a new deal with Benfica, adding three more years to his current deal, which was to last until 30 June 2015 with his release fee set at a minimum of €40  million. Afterwards, he was backed by Diego Maradona to become "Argentina's next superstar". He would score a brace  in Benfica's 2–1 home win over AEK Athens, to ensure Benfica's qualification to the round of thirty-two, as group winners. On 27 February 2010, Di María scored his first hat-trick in a classic 4–0 win against Leixões. The next day, he made the headlines as "Magic Tri María" in all sports newspapers in Portugal. He finished as the league's top assister that season with 11 assists, including two in a 5–0 against Olhanense, as Benfica won the national championship, adding the year's domestic League Cup, while being named Player of the Month in April.

Real Madrid

2010–11: Debut season 
On 28 June 2010, Real Madrid posted on their website that they had agreed with Benfica for the transfer of Di María. He signed a five-year contract for €25  million, plus €11  million in incentives, as announced one day later by the Portuguese Stock Exchange regulating entity. On 7 July 2010, Di María arrived to Madrid directly from Buenos Aires, and passed the medical test on 8 July.

He made his debut on 4 August 2010 in a friendly match against Mexican side América, which Real Madrid won 3–2. On 22 August, Di María scored his first goal in another friendly away against Hércules, which Real Madrid won 1–3. In the last match of the pre-season, on 24 August, after an individual play described as a "magic moment", he opened the score of the 2–0 win against Peñarol for the Trofeo Santiago Bernabéu.

His league debut came on 29 August in a 0–0 draw against Mallorca. On 18 September, Di María scored his first league goal for Real Madrid in their 1–2 away win over Real Sociedad. Ten days later, he scored his first goal in the UEFA Champions League against Auxerre in a 0–1 victory. He scored a controversial first goal against Sevilla on 19 December. Days later, Di María assisted Karim Benzema's two goals and Cristiano Ronaldo's goal in an astonishing 8–0 drubbing of Levante on 22 December. In the second leg of the Champions League round of 16 against Lyon, he scored the third and final goal in a 3–0 win to send Real Madrid through to the quarter-finals for the first time in seven years.

Di María scored Real Madrid's third goal during their first-leg Champions League quarter-final victory over Tottenham Hotspur on 5 April 2011. On 20 April, he was sent off in the 31st minute of extra time in the Copa del Rey final against rival Barcelona. Real Madrid won the match 1–0, the lone goal of the match (in the 13th minute of extra time) being a header from Cristiano Ronaldo, which came from his cross, thus obtaining his first honour with Real Madrid.

2011–12: La Liga win 
During the start of the 2011–12 season, Di María endured a tough series of matches as he struggled to adapt to the pace of the league following the summer break. As a result, Di María's early performance for the season was mixed with moments of genuinely good play interspersed with moments of sheer madness by the Argentine. This point was well illustrated during Real Madrid's 1–0 defeat to Levante, a match which saw a clearly out-of-sorts Di María commit a horror foul on Levante's Juanfran during the match. Di María caused the two teams to clash and an on-field incident ensued. However, Di María's performances would improve, including opening up a significant gap at the top of the assists table. From October 2011, Di María was being picked by Madrid head coach José Mourinho ahead of Kaká and Mesut Özil, a sign of his improving form.

On 27 November 2011, Di María played 60 minutes in a league match against city rivals Atlético Madrid, in which he scored a goal for Real Madrid. Mourinho's team won the match 4–1. On 3 December 2011, Di María scored Real's first goal from a sharp angle in a 3–0 defeat of Sporting de Gijón in La Liga. He was a constant threat and presence in the starting XI as Real Madrid won their 32nd league title, playing in their 3–0 win over Athletic Bilbao that clinched the league title.

2012–14: La Décima and Copa del Rey title