[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Fire and Rescue Services

fire and rescue services as of 2018 are Rabbi Haim Pearl. In the past they served as rabbis David Simchon and Menachem Perl [6].

Districts
The Authority is composed of seven districts according to the geographic region. Each district is subject to a number of regional stations and sub-stations [7].

North
 Tiberias: The main regional station is located in the city of Tiberias. Sub stations: Kadouri, Tzemach Regional Center, Tzalmon.
 Yizre'el: The main regional station is located in the city of Nazareth. Sub-stations: Afula, Migdal Haemek, Yokneam Illit, Beit She'an, and Tzipori Industrial Park.
 Central Galilee: The main regional station is located in Karmiel. Sub-stations: Ma'alot-Tarshiha, Shfaram, Misgav, Tefen.
 Upper Galilee: The main regional station is located in Kiryat Shmona. Sub stations: Hatzor HaGlilit, Safed, Katzrin, Bnei Yehuda, Massadeh.

Carmel Coast Regional Council
 Haifa: The main regional station is located in the city of Haifa. Sub stations: Haifa Bay, Haifa – Anielewicz Street, Haifa – Heinrich Heine Square, Carmel Park, Haifa University, Kiryat Bialik, Tirat Carmel, Kiryat Tivon, Nesher, Usfiya.
 Hadera: The main regional station is located in Hadera. Sub-stations: Meirav, Zikhron Ya'akov, Umm al-Fahm, Or Akiva.
 Zevulun: The main station is located in Karmiel. Substation: Nahariya

Center
 Rishon LeZion: The main regional station is located in Rishon LeZion. Sub-stations: Rishon LeZion East-old industrial zone.
 Rehovot: The main regional station is located in Rehovot. Substations: Yavne, Gedera.
 Ayalon: The main regional station is located on the border of the cities of Ramla and Lod. Sub-stations: Modi'in-Maccabim-Reut, Shoham.
 Petah Tikva: The main regional station is located in Petah Tikva. Sub-stations: Yehud, Rosh Ha'ayin, Elad.
 HaSharon: The main regional station is located in Kfar Saba. Sub stations: Mitzpe Sapir ( Zur Yigal ).
 Netanya: The main regional station is located in Netanya. Sub stations: Kadima-Zoran.

Ben-Gurion Airport, as an extraterritorial zone, serves as an independent department for Ben-Gurion's fire department.

Dan
 Herzliya The main regional station is located in Herzliya. Sub stations: Ramat Hasharon.
 Holon The main regional station is located in Holon. Sub stations: Bat Yam.
 Givatayim The main regional station is located in Givatayim.
 Tel Aviv-Yafo consists of a main station on Shai Agnon Street and three substations: Jaffa (Ben Zvi Boulevard), Alon (Yigal Allon Street) and Kiryat Atidim Station (Habarzel Street).
 Ramat Gan The main regional station is located in Ramat Gan. Sub stations: The stock exchange.
 Bnei Brak The main regional station is located in Bnei Brak. Sub stations: Kiryat Ono.
 The oil refineries, as an extraterritorial area, serves as the fire department of the plant as an independent department.

Judea and Samaria
 Shomron section: The main regional station is located in Ariel. Sub-stations: Karnei Shomron, Shaked, Jordan Valley, Elkana.
 Judea Sector: The main regional station is located in Gush Etzion. Sub-stations: Kiryat Arba, Beitar Illit.
 Binyamin section: The main regional station is located in Ma'ale Adumim. Sub-stations: Mattityahu (Modi'in Illit), Giv'at Ze'ev, Ofra.

Jerusalem
 Jerusalem: The main regional station is located in Jerusalem ("Hill" in Givat Mordechai ). Five sub-stations – "Rimon" ( Romema ), "Homa" ( Har Homa ), "Pisga" ( Pisgat Ze'ev ), "Nation" ( Kiryat Ha'Leom ) and "Aguz" ( Wadi Joz ).
 Beit Shemesh: The main regional station is located in Beit Shemesh. Sub-stations: Ramat ( Ramat Bet Shemesh ), Maoz ( Mevasseret Zion), Hala ( Valley of the Ella ), Nachshon ( Tzalfon ), Harim ( Nes Harim ).

South
 Ashdod: The main regional station is located in the city of Ashdod. Sub-stations: Ad Halom (at the Mada station at the entrance to the city), Kiryat Malakhi, Gan Yavne.
 Ashkelon: The main regional station is located in Ashkelon. Sub-stations: Kiryat Gat, Sderot.
 Beersheba: The main regional station is located in Beersheba. Sub-stations: Ofakim, Netivot, Dimona, Arad, Tamar ( Sodom ), Rahat, Mitzpe Ramon, Yeruham.
 Eilat: The main regional station is located in Eilat. Substation: Near Kibbutz Yotvata.

Ranks
Officers

Others

Training

Israeli firefighters are trained at the Israel Fire and Rescue Academy in Rishon LeZion. Almost all Israeli firefighters are certified in Hazardous Materials response and handling, many of whom are trained in the world class Hazmat facilities in the Netherlands, and all have certifications in extrication, heavy rescue, heavy apparatus operation, wildland interface suppression, structure fire suppression and ventilation, as well as search and rescue.