[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paddy Hopkirk

part once again in a revived edition of the London-Sydney Marathon, the Singapore Airlines London to Sydney Rally, this time driving a Citroën CX 2400, taking 3rd place overall in front of another CX driven by Claude Laurent and Jean-Claude Ogier... who had been rescued by Hopkirk and Nash in 1968.

In 1982, he won the RAC Golden 50, a historical anniversary race celebrating the 50th RAC Rally, with co-driver Brian Culcheth in the Mini Cooper with which Timo Mäkinen had won the 1965 Monte Carlo Rally. In 1990, he won the Pirelli Classic Marathon with co-driver Alec Poole. In 1994, he entered the Monte Carlo Rally again, driving a current Mini Cooper, very similar to the original car, but now produced by Rover Group, whose 1275cc engine was tuned to deliver 104 bhp and with a registration number almost identical to the victorious 1964 Mini (L33 EJB): thirty years after his famous win, Hopkirk and his co-pilot Ron Crellin finished the race in 60th place against much more modern and powerful machines.

In 2010, he was among the first four inductees into the Rally Hall of Fame, along with Mäkinen, Rauno Aaltonen and Erik Carlsson.

Other interests
Paddy Hopkirk is a brand of automotive accessories (for example, roof bars) named after Hopkirk. He had been involved in the automotive trade from his early days in rallying: by the early 1970s he was involved importing Toyotas into Northern Ireland. He also established a driving school, which along with his car accessories business was sold in the 1990s, and he subsequently set up a marketing firm, Hopkirks Ltd. He was also a consultant to BMW for their revived Mini.

Outside of his business interests, Hopkirk was a keen supporter of WheelPower, a charity promoting wheelchair sport and a vice-president of the British Racing Drivers' Club.

In 1969 and 1970 Hopkirk helped create and edit a comic strip that appeared weekly in the Sunday Mirror, intended to help make people better drivers. These were restored and published in book form as Drive with Paddy Hopkirk in October 2020.<ref>[https://www.minisport.com/blog/drive-with-paddy-hopkirk-book/ Minisport.com: Drive with Paddy Hopkirk"]</ref>

Personal life
Hopkirk married his wife Jennifer (née Manser) in 1967: they had three children Katie, Patrick and William with six grandchildren Molly, Jessica, Fenella, Amalia, Allegra and Alexander. His wife was High Sheriff of Buckinghamshire in 2005 and Vice Lord Lieutenant of Buckinghamshire 2006–2011.

Racing record

Complete WRC results

Complete British Saloon Car Championship results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap.)

† Events with 2 races staged for the different classes.

Complete Bathurst 500 results

Gallery

References

Bibliography

 Paddy Hopkirk and T R Entwistle, The Longest Drive of All: Paddy Hopkirk's story of the London-Sydney motor rally (1969), G.Chapman, 48pp, 
 Bill Price and Paddy Hopkirk, The Paddy Hopkirk Story: A Dash of the Irish'' (2005), J H Haynes & Co Ltd, 176pp,

External links
Biography 
 

1933 births
2022 deaths
Motorsport people from Belfast
Rally drivers from Northern Ireland
24 Hours of Le Mans drivers
World Sportscar Championship drivers
Members of the Order of the British Empire
People educated at Clongowes Wood College
Sportspeople with dyslexia