[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Averno (wrestler)

hair shaved off. In the end El Satánico pinned Máscara Mágica, forcing him to unmask. After losing the match Guerrero, Bucanero and Tarzan Boy became known collectively as Los Guerreros del Infierno (The Infernal Soldiers), while El Satánico, Averno and Mephisto continuing to work as Los Infernales.

In 2002, Los Infernales won the Mexican National Trios Championship in Guadalajara, Jalisco and began feuding with La Familia de Tijuana (Nicho el Millonario, Halloween, and Damián 666). The trio lost the championship to La Familia in September 2002 but continued feuding with the group into 2003. Over the summer of 2003 Los Infernales won a tournament to become the number one contenders for the CMLL World Trios Championship but lost champions Black Tiger III, Dr. Wagner Jr., and Universo 2000 on August 1. At the end of the year, Averno and Mephisto turned on El Satánico, but there was no major storyline feud between the three afterwards. In September 2004, Averno defeated Zumbido to win the vacant NWA World Middleweight Championship. Shortly after the championship win Averno was positioned as a rival or foil to the up-and-coming tecnico Místico. Averno and Mephisto also became de facto members of Los Guerreros del Infierno, joining forces with their former rivals. In February 2005, Averno lost the NWA World Middleweight Championship to Místico as part of their long running storyline. Two months later Averno and Mephisto defeated Atlantis and Blue Panther to win the CMLL World Tag Team Championship. When Shinsuke Nakamura and Hiroshi Tanahashi from New Japan Pro-Wrestling came to CMLL, Averno initially teamed up with them, the two turned on him. This led to a trios match with Averno, Último Guerrero and Rey Bucanero defeating Nakamura, Tanahashi, and Shigeo Okumura in one of the featured bouts on the CMLL 72nd Anniversary Show. In early 2006 Averno and Mephisto were the catalyst for one of CMLL's big storylines as they defended their titles against Místico and Black Warrior twice. In the first match, they won by disqualification when Black Warrior interfered in the match after already being eliminated and in the second match Black Warrior turned on Místico, attacking his partner to end the match. In April 2006, they lost the tag team championship to Místico and Negro Casas, ending their 377-day-long reign.

In 2008 Averno formed the group Los Hijos del Averno ("The Sons of Hell") alongside Mephisto and Ephesto, followed by Averno and Mephisto defeating Atlantis and Último Guerrero to win the CMLL World Tag Team Championship for a second time. On September 17, 2008, Averno defeated Negro Casas to win the CMLL World Middleweight Championship, becoming a double middleweight champion as he still held the NWA World Middleweight Championship. Their reign lasted only 38 days before Místico and Héctor Garza won the championship from them. The duo became three-time tag team champions by the end of the year as Averno and Mephisto defeated Místico and Garza on December 7, 2008. The duo's third run with the CMLL World Tag Teams Championship ended on January 16, 2009, when they lost to La Sombra and Volador Jr. On July 22, Averno lost one of his middleweight championships, the CMLL World Middleweight Championship, to Hijo del Fantasma. On July 12, 2010, at the Promociones Gutiérrez 1st Anniversary Show Averno participated in a match where 10 men put their mask on the line in a match that featured five pareja incredibles teams, with the losing team being forced to wrestle each other with their mask on the line. His partner in the match was Último Guerrero, facing off against the teams of Atlantis and Olímpico, Místico and El Oriental, Histeria and La Sombra, Volado Jr. and El Alebrije. Averno and Último Guerrero was the third team to escape the match. In mid 2010 CMLL abandoned the NWA World Middleweight Championship after repeated complaints from the National Wrestling Alliance, instead they created the NWA World Historic Middleweight Championship and made Averno the first champion. Averno was one of 14 men putting their masks on the line in a Lucha de Apuestas steel cage match, the main event of the CMLL 77th Anniversary Show. Averno was the first man to leave the steel cage with all three members of Los Hijos del Averno quickly leaving the cage, keeping their masks safe.