[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# COPS (animated TV series)

City.
 Commissioner Highwater – The female police commissioner of Empire City.
 Whitney Morgan (voiced by Jeri Craden) – ECTV top reporter who is referred to as the prettiest reporter in Empire City who Hardtop has a crush on.
 Beamer – Whitney Morgan's camera robot.
 Brian O'Malley – LongArm's son.

Minor characters
 Judge Davis – Mayor Davis' twin brother.
 Linda O'Malley – LongArm's wife.
 Mickey O'Malley – LongArm's dad, Brian's grandfather and special advisor to C.O.P.S.
 President of the United States – An unnamed African-American female.
 Suds Sparko – A criminal put away by Mickey O'Malley in the 1990s, who later became Rock Krusher's cellmate. Before he was arrested, he was able to hide his loot in a laundromat.
 Brannigan – Mayor Davis' assistant who's revealed to be a spy for Big Boss.
 Prince Baddin – A bratty spoiled foreign prince who was kidnapped for ransom by Berserko and Rock Krusher. They brought him to "Uncle Fatty Big Boss" and try to hold him for ransom only for the prince to manipulate the crooks into catering to his every whim, prompting the Boss to send him back to the COPS. Later the Prince learned his lesson when he tried to get on a broken down Ferris wheel to ride it only to find himself trapped on the Ferris wheel with the seats coming loose. After being rescued by LongArm, Baddin decides to change his ways and become a good prince rather than a spoiled bad prince leading the king to change his name to from Baddin to Goodin.
 Kathleen Diamond – Nightshade's little sister.
 Greasy – A cellmate of Rock Krusher's at Greystone Prison.
 Samantha – A tomboy who helps the COPS out during an investigation Doctor Badvibes' circus.
 Captain Crimefighter – Cindy Johnson is a teenage girl who dreams of being a superhero. She assisted the C.O.P.S. in one of their cases.
 Inspector Yukon – A police inspector attached to the RCMP. First appeared in "The Case of the Iceberg Pirates". Yukon's mission was to transport an aid package from the Canadian government to replenish Empire City's depleted water reserves.
 Agent Belson – An Executive Protection Unit agent (this show's version of the Secret Service).

Episodes

C.O.P.S. for Kids
At the end of each episode of C.O.P.S., a special Public service announcement (PSA) segment known as C.O.P.S. for Kids is shown either in animated form featuring the C.O.P.S. and CROOKS or in live action form with real-life police officers giving kids information about safety issues. These included staying away from drugs, gangs, how to be safe at home and on the street, and how to help in preventing crime. Each and every C.O.P.S. for Kids segment was made with the blessing and assistance of organizations like DARE, the National Crime Prevention Council and the California Highway Patrol. These segments were omitted from some international broadcasts of the show.

Broadcast
C.O.P.S. was broadcast in syndication from 1988 to 1990. On November 21 and 28, 1989, Record Breakers pre-empted the series. The program was re-titled Cyber C.O.P.S. and re-run on CBS from March 27 to September 4, 1993. It was re-run again on the USA Network from January 2 to March 9, 1995, under its original title.

Comics
A 15-issue series based on the show was published by DC Comics.

Home video
Sterling Entertainment released a DVD called C.O.P.S. – Fighting Crime in a Future Time on November 13, 2003. Unlike the later released boxsets, Part 1 of "The Case of C.O.P.S. File #1" includes the introduction scenes of Highway and Sundown.

Shout! Factory and Sony BMG Music Entertainment released C.O.P.S. – Volume 1 on February 28, 2006, a four-disc boxset featuring the first 22 uncut episodes on DVD in its original broadcast presentation in Region 1. It includes original concept art, storyboard-to-screen, and some of the original PSAs that were shown after the episodes. Volume 2 featuring 21 episodes was released as a Shout! Factory select title, available exclusively through their online store.

Mill Creek Entertainment acquired the rights to the series, releasing Volume 1, featuring the first 32 episodes of the series, on February 15, 2011. Volume 2, featuring the remaining 33 episodes, was released on September 13, 2011. They released C.O.P.S. – The Complete Series on DVD in Region 1 on March 14, 2017.