[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Prince Saunders

Saunders brought back smallpox vaccination, in addition to four Lancastrian teachers that helped in creating the Royal College of Haiti, in Cape Henry. In return, Christophe gave the schools furnishing that was equivalent to what could be found in England at the time.

Notable works

Haytian Papers

While in Haiti, Saunders wrote the Haytian Papers, which was then published in London. The book was his translation of the laws of Haiti, and his commentary on those laws. What interested Saunders was the value of the Haitian history that formed the laws, as their histories were not written by black Haitians. The commentary of decrees from Christophe allowed for insight into the way in which the Haitian government was run.

In the Haytian Papers, Saunders applauds the principles of the government under King Christophe, who wanted to prove that black people were just as intelligent as white people by creating an educational system on Haiti. This work is based on Christophe's Code Rural, which openly endorsed a system of forced labor, which went against the Haitian Revolution's goal of ending oppression. According to Christophe, the system of forced labor would exponentially increase farm production.

Prince Saunders authored the Haytian Papers for the British people, who had a negative view of Haiti, "in order to give them some more correct information" of the Haitian government and to throw light on the new and much improved condition of all classes of society in that kingdom. He believed it was only fair and necessary that the feelings of the Haitians should be made evident. The history of Haiti had previously have been written not by the Haitians themselves but by white Europeans who did not understand the law. The Haytian Papers were from the views of colored people without a "drop of white European blood in them."

Address before the Pennsylvania Augustine Society

In 1818, Saunders delivered "An address before the Pennsylvania Augustine Society." In his address, Saunders advocated for a Christian education for blacks, which he believed was "more transcendently excellent in that more elevated scene of human destination to which we are hastening." Saunders also argued that improvements in the lives of African Americans, intellectually, morally, and religiously, "depend on the future elevation of their standing, in the social, civil, and ecclesiastical community."

The People of Haiti and Plan of Emigration

During his time in Boston, Saunders met Thomas Paul, who was the founder of America's Black Baptist Church. Both Saunders and Paul became activists in Massachusetts for the promoting of free black emigration from the United States due to racial discrimination. After Saunders' return from Haiti to America, he began to advocate Haiti as the ideal location for emigration of blacks from America. During this time he gave his speech, The People of Haiti and Plan of Emigration.

In the same year as the address to the Augustine Society, Saunders gave a speech at the American Convention for Promoting the Abolition of Slavery and Improving the Condition of the African Race, that promoted the ending of slavery and the betterment of the lives of African Americans. In his speech, Saunders advocated not only for the ending of slavery and inequalities based on race, but also for the emigration of blacks to Haiti.

Having spent time in Haiti working under King Christophe, Saunders became familiar with the country, which led him to see Haiti as a viable option for black emigration. Saunders saw Haiti as "the paradise of the New World", which he drew from "its situation, extent, climate, and fertility peculiarly suited to become an object of interest and attention."

Social life
During his time, Saunders was known for his intelligence and eloquence, evidence of his strong educational upbringing. He was known to impress people with his knowledge from his education – an education that was rare for an African American at the time. Charles Robert Leslie recalled one instance of Prince Saunders, in his book, Autobiographical Recollections.

While in England, Saunders also earned a celebrity status among the social elite. Though Prince was his given Christian name, it was assumed by the English people that the name indicated a standing of African nobility. This was partially due to the fact that Saunders never corrected anyone who referred to him as such. Because of his "nobility standing", Saunders was a fixture in the English social circles, especially with The Countess of Cork.

Later life
After Christophe's death, biographer Harold Van Buren Voorhis claimed that Saunders was made Attorney General by Haiti's new president, Jean-Pierre Boyer.   Saunders then lived most of his remaining life in Haiti, before he died in Port-au-Prince, on January 22,1839

See also

References

External links
Blackpast.org Saunders, Prince