[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Doug Richard

Doug Richard (born 6 May 1958) is an American entrepreneur best known for his television appearances in the United Kingdom. He appeared as a "Dragon" on the first two series of Dragons' Den and was also a government adviser.

Education
Richard received his undergraduate degree from University of California at Berkeley majoring in psychology in 1980. He received his Doctorate of Law at University of California at Los Angeles in 1985. He received his Executive Management Certificate from UCLA School of Business in 1989.

Business background
Richard founded his first company, ITAL Computers in 1985, which sold services that integrated computer-aided design and manufacture systems to the southern California aerospace industry. ITAL Computers was sold in a private transaction in 1991 and the profits were used to found his second company, Visual Software. Richard co-founded, managed and sold Visual Software with his partner John Halloran.    Visual Software was sold to Micrografx, a NASDAQ listed public company for $12,000,000 in shares in 1996.  In 1997, Richard became the president and CEO of Micrografx, the company by whom he had been acquired the year before. Richard turned around the fortunes of Micrografx by shifting its focus from consumer software to business and technical marketplaces.  Micrografx was sold to Corel Corporation in 2001.

After the sale of Corel Corporation, Richard re-located to Cambridge with his family. Shortly after the move, Richard co-founded the Cambridge Angels, an angel investment group focusing on technology startups in the Cambridge region, with Robert Sansom in 2001. He retired from the Cambridge Angels in 2008.

Richard was an active angel investor from 2001 to 2008. His first investment was in a Manchester based startup, Designer Servers, known as DSVR.    Richard and the founders successfully exited from the company in 2004 when it was sold to the company that became Legend Communications, PLC.

Also in 2001, Richard co-founded Library House with a group of entrepreneurs and angel investors from the Cambridge Cluster.  Library House was founded as a buy-side research house focusing on technology startups and bespoke analysis for venture capital firms. The financial downturn in 2008 led venture firms to reduce their investments in research forcing Library House into administration as another victim of the global downturn.  Its database of transactions, which was the only database of European venture activity, was sold to Dow Jones.

In 2004, Richard co-founded Trutap with David Whitewood. It was a mobile software company offering free text and interactive messaging across the internet, prior to the introduction of smart phones. Trutap received three rounds of funding from two investors, Tudor Investments and the Cambridge Angels. The company closed in good order and the remaining investment was returned to Investors after the company was unable to pivot with the introduction and success of the iPhone.
In 2008, Richard founded School for Startups Ltd.

Dragons' Den
In late 2004, Richard was approached by the BBC to join a new reality TV show called Dragons' Den. Richard was joined by Peter Jones, Duncan Bannatyne, Rachel Elnaugh and Simon Woodroffe as the first 'Dragons'. Richard appeared on the first two series of the programme. He voluntarily stepped down after the end of the second series after accepting a position as a venture partner with the hedge fund Tudor Investments.

Awards and recognition
In 2006, he received an honorary Queen's Award for Enterprise Promotion. The award was honorary as Richard was a US citizen. 

In 2009, Richard was awarded an honorary doctorate from the University of Essex for his work supporting entrepreneurship.

In 2010, he was awarded Enterprise Educator of the Year by National Council on Graduate Entreprise.

In 2013, Richard was awarded an honorary doctorate from University of Plymouth for his work with Plymouth in supporting the growth of small business in the south west.

Richard was appointed as an ambassador for the British Library's Business and IP Centre.

He is a fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts.

Publications and government advisory work
In 2008, Richard wrote and published the Richard Report on Small Business, as the Chairman of the Conservative Party Task Force, a policy guideline on support for small business for the Conservative Party while in opposition.

In 2010, Richard published the “Entrepreneurs Manifesto”, a call-to-action to drive entrepreneurship in the UK.

In 2012, Richard published the Richard Review of Apprenticeships, a government requested review of the apprenticeship system which was supported by all political parties and formed the basis for the reform of the apprenticeship system in the UK.

In 2013, Richard published his first Book, “How to Start a Creative Business”, on entrepreneurship in the creative industries.