[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Princely abbeys and imperial abbeys of the Holy Roman Empire

a collegiate foundation or canonry, possibly belonging to a variety of different orders or to none at all, and either with or without rules and vows, for either men ("Herrenstift") or for women (Frauenstift), has been left untranslated, except when it specifically refers to the chapter of a church.

Some of the imperial abbeys were dissolved during the Reformation; others were absorbed into other territories at various times in the general course of political life. Those in Alsace and Switzerland passed out of the Empire in 1648, when Alsace was ceded to France and Switzerland became independent. The great majority of these religious bodies however were secularized during the brief period that included the French Revolution, the Napoleonic Wars, and their aftermath, especially as a result of the German mediatization (Reichsdeputationshauptschluss) of February 1803. Any that survived lost their Imperial status when the Holy Roman Empire was wound up in 1806.

Abbreviations 
 Description and Imperial status column:
 RA stands for Reichsabtei (Imperial abbey)
 RF stands for "Reichsfürstentum" (Imperial Principality)
 RP stands for "Reichspropstei" (Imperial provostry)
 Lost imm. column:
 imm. Imperial immediacy
 Sec. secularised
 Med. mediatised
 Switz. Switzerland
 Hel. Helvetic Republic
 College column:
 RC stands for "Rhenish College"
 SC stands for "Swabian College"
 RF stands for "Reichsfürst", i.e., the head of the house in question had an individual seat and voice in the Imperial Diet; there were ten of these (Fulda, Kempten, Ellwangen, Murbach-Lüders, Berchtesgaden, Weissenburg, Prüm, Stablo-Malmedy, Corvey and St. Gall).

List B: Reichsmatrikel 1521
The Matrikel of 1521 included a number of religious houses which have not been identified:

Inclusion in the 1521 Reichsmatrikel is not by itself conclusive evidence that a particular religious house was in fact an Imperial abbey, and the status of the following abbey listed in the Matrikel is questionable in the absence of further confirmation from other sources:

List C: Imperial abbeys not named in the Matrikel
For a variety of reasons a quantity of religious houses that possessed, or claimed, the status of Imperial immediacy either did not attend the Imperial Diet, or were not listed in the surviving Matrikel. The following list is very far from complete, and possibly some of those listed may not in fact have been immediate (reichsunmittelbar).

References and notes

Bibliography
In German:
 Matthäi, George, 1877: Die Klosterpolitik Kaiser Heinrichs II. Ein Beitrag zur *Geschichte der Reichsabteien. Grünberg i.Schl.
 Brennich, Max, 1908: Die Besetzung der Reichsabteien in den Jahren 1138–1209. Greifswald.
 Polzin, Johannes: Die Abtswahlen in den Reichsabteien von 1024–1056.
 Riese, Heinrich, 1911: Die Besetzung der Reichsabteien in den Jahren 1056–1137.
 Feierabend, Hans, 1913, repr. 1971: Die politische Stellung der deutschen Reichsabteien während des Investiturstreites. Breslau 1913; Aalen 1971
 Wehlt, Hans-Peter, 1970: Reichsabtei und König
 Vogtherr, Thomas, 2000: Die Reichsabteien der Benediktiner und das Königtum im hohen Mittelalter (900–1125) (Mittelalter-Forschungen, vol. 5)

External links
 Reichstag participants 1521, c. 1755 and 1792, on Heraldica website 
 1521 Reichsmatrikel 
 Sarah Hadry: Reichsstifte [Imperial Abbeys]. In: Historisches Lexikon Bayerns. Onlineversion
 Sarah Hadry: Reichsprälatenkollegium [Council of Imperial Abbeys]. In: Historisches Lexikon Bayerns. Onlineversion

Imperial abbeys
Abbeys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
History of Swabia
Former enclaves