[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Meir Feinstein

whom 
this whole country had been a gallows.  You were wrong.  You will learn that you have encountered steel, steel forged in the fire 
of love and hatred - love for the homeland and freedom, hatred for enslavement and invader. Burning steel it is. You will not 
break it. You will burn your hands.

How great is your blindness, British tyrants? Did you not notice who stands against you in this campaign, unexampled in the 
history of mankind? Shall you scare us with death? We, who have listened for years to the rattling of the wheels of them Railroad 
cars, who led our brothers, our parents, the best of our nation - to slaughter, which too had no precedent in human history? We, 
who asked, and ask ourselves everyday: in what are we better than them? From the millions of our brothers? What have we won? For 
we could have been among them and with them in the days of fear and in the moments of dying.

And to these recurring questions, there is in our conscience but one answer: we remained alive not to live and await in 
conditions of slavery and oppression, a new Treblinka. We remained alive, to ensure life, freedom and dignity for us, for our 
nation, for our children and their children for generations to come.  We remained alive so that it wouldn't matter anymore that 
which happened there and might happen under your rule, the rule of treason, the rule of blood.

Therefore we shall not be frightened, for we have learned and by countless of victims for nothing we have learned - that there is 
life worse than death, and there is death greater than life…  

On April 21, 1947, a few hours before their scheduled execution by hanging in the Jerusalem Central Prison in the Russian Compound, now the Museum of the Underground Prisoners, could be carried out, he and his friend and fellow prisoner Moshe Barazani blew themselves up in their cells with an improvised grenade which had been smuggled to them in a hollowed-out oranges. They lit the grenade and then stood embracing each other, with the grenade lodged between them.

Legacy

The story of Feinstein and Barazani became one of the most famous tales in the history of Zionism. Menachem Begin was so moved by the deeds of the two men that he requested in his will that he be buried next to them on the Mount of Olives, which he was.

Just before his death, Feinstein gave to British prison guard Thomas Henry Goodwin, whom he and Barazani had nicknamed "the good jailer", a copy of the Bible, inscribed in Hebrew and English, "In the shadow of the gallows, 21.4.47. To the British soldier as you stand guard. Before we go to the gallows, accept this Bible as a memento and remember that we stood in dignity and marched in dignity. It is better to die with a weapon in your hands than to live with hands raised. Meir Feinstein". He then requested a moment of privacy for prayer, which prevented Goodwin from being able to stop the grenade being detonated (saving Goodwin from being injured by the grenade). In 2007, Goodwin's son Dennis donated the Bible to Feinstein's nephew Eliezer, who received it on behalf of the Museum of Underground Prisoners in Jerusalem at a commemorative state ceremony.

Menachem Begin brought up the story during a speech in 1981:
"Our Mizrahim were courageous fighters – already in the underground. Feinstein was from European origins, What's it called? Ashkenazi. Moshe Barazani was a Sephardic Jew from Iraq. In the night, after they were sentenced to death, they were due to be taken to the gallows in the early morning, the Rabbi insisted that he would come to accompany them and they didn't want to harm the Rabbi. They held close to their hearts a hand grenade – they pulled the trigger... Ashkenazi? Iraqi? Jews! Brothers! Fighters!"

References 

1927 births
1947 suicides
1947 deaths
Ashkenazi Jews in Mandatory Palestine
British Army personnel of World War II
Irgun members
People from Jerusalem
Royal Engineers soldiers
Burials at the Jewish cemetery on the Mount of Olives
Haganah members
Olei Hagardom
Jews who died in prison custody
Suicides in Mandatory Palestine
Mandatory Palestine military personnel of World War II
People who died by suicide in prison custody
Palestinian murderers
Palestinian prisoners sentenced to death
Prisoners sentenced to death by the British military
Prisoners who died in British military detention