[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Correspondence law school

l to offer Internet based and faculty led videoconferencing sessions for students for some courses.

In 1996, Abraham Lincoln University began a hybrid in-class and correspondence approach to law school, designed to offer scheduling flexibility to students, before adding an online component in 2004.

The first law school to offer a degree program completely online was Concord Law School, the law school of Purdue University Global (the online division for Purdue University), which started in 1998. As of 2006 Concord is the largest of the seven distance learning law schools. Concord graduated its first class in November 2002.

The California School of Law, founded in 2007, is the first law school to utilize synchronous technology in all courses. Such technology provides direct communication between professors and students in live “real time” virtual classrooms.

Correspondence and online legal education in California
Unlike other distance learning education institutions in the United States, law schools form a distinct subset of graduate institutions because of the unique requirements necessary to become a lawyer. The State Bar of California is currently the only state authority that "registers" and regulates distance learning law schools.

Graduates of correspondence and distance learning schools registered with the State Bar of California can sit for the California bar exam. Those who pass the California bar exam and meet the other requirements of California may practise law in California, as well as practise federal law (such as immigration law, etc.) in all states.  The other states have varying rules for graduates of the correspondence and distance learning law schools registered with the California State Bar.

California State Bar law school registration
Distance legal education in California is made up of "correspondence" and "distance learning" or online law schools.  The California State Bar website defines two classes of such schools:
 "Correspondence law schools" – which "conduct instruction primarily by correspondence". They include:
 American International School of Law (Irvine)
 California Southern University (Irvine)
 International Pacific School of Law (Los Angeles)
 MD Kirk School of Law (Los Angeles)
 Northwestern California University School of Law (Sacramento)
 Oak Brook College of Law and Government Policy (Fresno)
 Taft Law School (Santa Ana)
 University of Honolulu School of Law (Modesto)
 "Distance learning [or Online] schools" – which "conduct instruction and provide interactive classes primarily by technological means." They include:
 Abraham Lincoln University School of Law (Los Angeles)
 American Heritage University of Southern California (San Bernardino)
 American Institute of Law (Torrance)
 California School of Law (Santa Barbara)]
 Concord Law School at Purdue University Global (Los Angeles)
 St. Francis School of Law (Redwood City)

Use of Socratic Method

Traditional law schools in the United States teach by the question and answer Socratic or casebook method. Law schools using online technology are able to teach by this method through use of the Internet in live audio sessions. In this teaching method, students are assigned case opinions and statutes to read and brief before each class session. This pre-class preparation is followed by in-class (and on-line) presentations by the students. Law schools use the Socratic Method to teach students how to analyze and make legal arguments, how to properly read and brief cases and how to prepare for the pressures and rigors of a legal practice.

Synchronous and asynchronous online technologies

It is generally accepted that a crucial part of the Socratic Method process involves students being questioned by the professors, with follow-up questions. It is believed that such pedagogy helps prepare the students for the rigors of law practice, as well as teaching them how to engage in the type of analysis necessary to perform well on state bar attorney licensing exams.

Utilization of the Socratic Method pedagogy by online law schools in the traditional “interactive” direct question and answer format occurs through audio broadcast over the Internet of live sessions with professors calling on students and receiving immediate responses. There are two types of available technologies for online legal education, synchronous and asynchronous.

"Asynchronous technology” is a mode of online delivery in which the professors and students are not together at the same time and in which students receive course materials and access recorded lectures on their own schedule. Message board forums, e-mail exchanges, text messaging and recorded video are examples of asynchronous technology. This method of instruction has the advantage that the students need not be committed to be present for classes at set days and hours.