[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# NFAT

the calcium level drops, the exporting kinases in a nucleus such as PKA, CK1 or GSK-3β rephosphorylate NFAT. This causes that NFAT reverts into its inactive state and is exported back to the cytosol where maintenance kinases finish the rephosphorylation in order to keep it in the inactivated state.

NFAT proteins have weak DNA-binding capacity. Therefore, to effectively bind DNA, NFAT proteins must cooperate with other nuclear resident transcription factors generically referred to as NFATn. This important feature of NFAT transcription factors enables integration and coincidence detection of calcium signals with other signalling pathways such as ras-MAPK or PKC. In addition, this signalling integration is involved in tissue-specific gene expression during development. A screen of ncRNA sequences identified in EST sequencing projects discovered a 'ncRNA repressor of the nuclear factor of activated T cells' called NRON.

NFAT-dependent promoters and enhancers tend to have 3-5 NFAT binding sites which indicates that higher order synergistic interactions between relevant proteins in a cooperative complex is needed for effective transcription. The best known class of these complexes is composed of NFAT and AP-1 or other bZIP proteins. This NFAT:AP-1 complex binds to the conventional Rel-family proteins DNA binding sites and is involved in gene transcription in immune cells.

NFAT function in different cell types

T cells 
TCR stimulation, as stated above, causes the dephosphorylation of NFAT which in almost every kind of T cell then forms a complex with AP-1 (except in Tregs). This complex depending on the cytokine context then activates the key transcription factors of the distinct T cell subpopulations: T-bet for Th1, GATA3 for Th2, RORγ for Th17 and BATF for Tfh. T cells express almost all NFAT family members (except NFAT3). However, not every NFAT has the same significance for each subpopulation of T cells.

Upon TCR stimulation and after subsequent activation of T-bet under Th1 cytokine conditions, a complex which consists of the transcription factor T-bet and NFAT stimulates production of IFN-γ, the most prominent cytokine of Th1 cells. The TCR activation also triggers, through NFAT:AP-1 complex, production of NFAT2/αA which is a short isoform of NFATc2 which lacks the C-terminal domain and is fulfilling a role of an autoregulator because it further enhances the activation of all effector T cells. For Th1 response NFATc1 seems to be the most indispensable since knockout of NFATc1 in mice leads to extremely skewed Th2 response.

Under Th2 stimulating conditions GATA3 is activated. It subsequently also interacts with NFAT and triggers production of Th2 typical cytokines like IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13. NFATc2 seems to be the most important for Th2 mediated response since its impairment lowers the amount of the aforementioned cytokines and also decreases the amount of IgG1 and IgE. NFATc1 also plays an essential role as it forms a complex with GATA3 just like NFATc2. It further mediates the production of Th2 cytokines indirectly through regulation of CRTh2.

In line with Th1 and Th2 response, the stimulation of TCR under Th17 conditions elicits expression of RORγ. It subsequently binds to NFAT and stimulates the production of Th17 specific cytokines like IL-17A, IL-17F, IL-21, IL-22. In Th17 response probably NFATc2 plays a key role since mice with NFATc2 knockout show reduction in RORγ as well as in IL-17A, IL-17F, and IL-21.

Treg cells are the only exceptions to the NFAT:AP-1 complex formation since after their TCR stimulation NFAT binds to SMAD3 instead of AP-1. This complex then activates FOXP3 transcription, a master gene regulator in Tregs. NFAT:FOXP3 complex then regulates Treg specific cytokine production. There are two main populations of Treg cells: natural Treg (nTreg) cells which develop in Thymus and induced Treg (iTreg) cells which develop from naive CD4+ T cells in the periphery after their stimulation. iTreg cells seem to be highly dependent on NFATc1, 2 and 4 since deletion of any of these genes or their combination causes almost a complete loss of iTreg cells but not nTreg cells.