[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Dental education throughout the world

choice. Annual intake of dentists into Faculties of Medicine is a national total 160 students.

Ph.D. research is strongly encouraged and is mandatory alongside post graduate training. Post graduate training is available in all 4 universities and lasts an additional 4–6 years.

Italy

Organization 

In Italy dentists complete 6 years of undergraduate study to earn a degree. Nevertheless, it is possible to agree on certain basic clinical competences common to all member states of the European Union.

Admission to Dentistry school is regulated by an entrance test, also used for Medical schools, composed of 80 questions about five subjects: biology, chemistry, mathematics, physics and general knowledge.

Malta 

The first course leading to a degree in Dental Surgery, at the University of Malta, commenced in 1933. The qualification was recognized by the Medical Council of the United Kingdom in 1936.

Dental Surgery was established as a separate Faculty in 1954, previous to which the course was under the direction of a Board of Studies within the Faculty of Medicine and Surgery. The faculty caters for an undergraduate intake of 8 students annually. A B.Ch.D Degree is awarded at the completion of the 5-year course.

Netherlands

Organization 
All practicing dentists must be subscribed in the national medical register called the BIG-register.
The registry can be freely consulted through the internet, if one wants to check if his or her dentist has got the right credentials.

Education 
The dental curriculum was just changed from 5 years study to 6 years. There are three dental schools in the Netherlands:

Amsterdam (ACTA): a joint venture between the University of Amsterdam (UvA) and Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (VU)
Groningen University
Nijmegen University

The oldest dental education in the Netherlands used to be taught at the University of Utrecht. The faculty of dentistry in Utrecht was closed because of governmental economizing.

Norway 

The 5-year dental education is offered at three universities:

University of Oslo
University of Bergen
University of Tromsø

All dentists in Norway are organized through "Tannlegeforeningen". Dental services are free for children. Some complicated procedures such as the fitting of new prosthesis and some oral surgeries are partially covered by the national health service, usually at the rate of 50%.

Poland 
NFZ (National Health Fund) in Poland provides 100% cover only for basic dental health services.

Portugal 
All the dental schools are undergraduate entry in Portugal. After graduating from high school, students are required to take a 5-year dental program to complete their DDS/DMD degree. There are 7 dental schools with 3 being public.

Slovakia 

In Slovakia, dentists complete  6 years of undergraduate study to earn a MDDr. (lat. Medicinae Dentalis Doctor) degree. A MDDr. graduate can perform the therapeutic interventions in area of restorative dentistry, prosthodontics and endodontics.  For performing orthodontics and dentoalveolar surgery the post graduate course is required in length of 2 years. For oral and maxillofacial surgery the length of 4 yeats of post graduate course is required. Also the absolvent of general medicine (titled as MUDr.) can run course for oral and maxillofacial surgery, but the attestation course takes five years. Dental education is offered at three universities: Comenius University in Bratislava, Slovak Medical University in Bratislava and University of Pavol Jozef Safarik in Košice. Part of dental service is paid from health insurance but mostly treatment (fillings, prosthodontics) is paid cash by patients.

Sweden 
The 5-year dental education is offered at four universities:

 Malmö University 
 Karolinska Institutet, at Huddinge Hospital 
 
Most dentists in Sweden are organized through "Tandläkarförbundet" which also issues the scientific 'Swedish Dental Journal'.

Dental care is provided at public and private dental offices. Dental services are free for everyone up to 20 years of age. From the age of 20 and upwards there is a fixed state refund which usually is, depending on the dentist's fee and what type of dentistry performed, around 10% – 15% of the total cost. For more expensive dental work above the age of 65 the patients only pay 7800 SEK (~ $1,000) plus the cost of the dental material that was used.

The English title given to dental graduates in Sweden is D.D.S (University Degree in Dental Surgery) until 2013. Due to the implementation of Bologna the dental high schools changed the title D.D.S to Degree of Master of Science in Dental Surgery and also awarding a purely academic title of Master of Science (120 credits) in Dental Science.

All dentists in the European Union/EES are eligible to work in Sweden. Dentists with an exam outside EES are required to take a one-year course at Karolinska in Stockholm.
From April 15, 2016, fluent Swedish language is required also for Dentists with exam from EES.

United Kingdom