[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of the Tlingit

for occupation and government. Military rule by the Army and Navy, which lasted until 1884, was characterized by inconsistency, violence, and legal ambiguity. Historian Bobby Lain described Alaska at this time as "an insular colony, acquired before the United States was ready for overseas colonies."

The Tlingit were heavily impacted by American military rule. During the February 1869 Kake War, the  destroyed three deserted villages and two forts near present-day Kake. Before the conflict, two white trappers were killed by the Kake in retribution for the death of two Kake who were leaving the village of Sitka by canoe. Sitka was the site of a standoff between the army and the Tlingit due to the army's demand for the surrender of a chief, the Chilkat Colchika from Haines, who was involved in an altercation at Fort Sitka. Although no Kake (or possibly one old woman) died in the destruction of the villages, the loss of winter stores, canoes and shelter led to Kake deaths during the winter. The Kake did not rebuild the small villages; some moved to other villages, and others remained near Kake.

The December 1869 Wrangell Bombardment began after Lowan, a Stikine, bit off the finger of a white woman; Lowan and another Stikine were then killed by soldiers. Lowan's father, Scutd-doo, entered the fort the following morning and fatally shot trading-post operator Leon Smith. The army demanded Scutd-doo's surrender and, after a bombardment, the villagers handed Scutd-doo over to the military. He was court-martialed and hanged before the garrison and villagers on 29 December; before his death, Scutd-doo said that he had avenged Lowan's death and did not target Smith.

The October 1882 Angoon Bombardment was the destruction of the Tlingit village of Angoon by U.S. naval forces commanded by Edgar C. Merriman and the USRC Thomas Corwin under the command of Michael A. Healy. The Tlingit villagers had taken white hostages and property and demanded two hundred blankets in compensation from the North West Trading Company after the accidental death of a Tlingit shaman who died in a harpoon-cannon accident while working on a whaling ship. Although the hostages were released when the naval expedition arrived in Angoon, Merriman demanded four hundred blankets in tribute; when the Tlingit delivered only eighty-one blankets, his forces destroyed the village. In 1973, the Indian Claims Commission awarded the Angoon clans $90,000 in compensation for clan property destroyed in 1882. The Angoon Tlingit continue to press for an apology from the navy. Governor of Alaska Jay Hammond commemorated the 100th anniversary of the bombardment as Tlingit Remembrance Day.

The American administration had recruited Tlingit to police the indigenous population by the 1880s, particularly in Sitka. Although some prominent Tlingit (such as Anaxóots) became police officers, their legal authority sometimes clashed with Tlingit norms of inter-clan conflict resolution.

Early fishing industry
The first American industrial fish canneries were established in Tlingit territory in 1878 in Klawock (Lawáak) and Sitka. Some Tlingit sold fish to the canneries or worked processing fish. That summer, Tlingit led by Anaxóots of the Kaagwaantaan protested the arrival of eighteen Chinese workers in Sitka and demanded that they not take their jobs. The American managers reportedly resolved the conflict with promises that the Chinese would only use skills in the cannery which the Tlingit had not been taught; if the Tlingit learned those skills, they would replace the Chinese.

Alaska Native Brotherhood and recognition
Two Tlingit brothers founded the Alaska Native Brotherhood in 1912 in Sitka to pursue the privileges enjoyed by whites in the area at the time; the Alaska Native Sisterhood followed. The ANB and ANS are nonprofit organizations which assist in societal development, preservation of native culture, and equality.

Elizabeth Peratrovich was an ANS member for whom Alaska designated a state holiday (February 16) in 1988. Peratrovich's brother-in-law, Frank (president of the Native Brotherhood), was of Tlingit and Serbian descent. Serbian and Montenegrin immigrants intermarried with the Tlingit during the 19th century due to their common religion, and St. Nicholas Russian Orthodox Church in Juneau was built by a group of Orthodox Tlingit and Serbs.

World War II

Aleuts were interned at Funter Bay by the U.S. government during World War II.

In 2008, the Code Talkers Recognition Act revealed that speakers of several Native American languages besides Navajo had served as code talkers. Among them were five Tlingit men:  Richard Bean Sr. of Hoonah, Robert "Jeff" David Sr. of Haines, brothers Mark Jacobs Jr. and Harvey Jacobs of Sitka, and George Lewis Jr. of Sitka.