[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ruth Arnon

ases such as multiple sclerosis.  In fact, studies by Arnon et al. have shown an increase in myelination as a result of Cop 1.  In a 2004 article, Arnon and Aharoni state that glatiramer acetate is "highly effective in the suppression of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in various species."

Current Research
Arnon is researching a universal, recombinant influenza vaccination, as well as a cancer vaccine.  A 2009 paper discusses the use of virus-like particles (VLP) to induce an immune response. These particles cannot replicate, but possess the specific antigen-presenting proteins that immune cells use to identify viruses.  Therefore, a vaccine could introduce VLPs to an individual's immune system and bring about the production of memory cells.  Arnon and Ben-Yedidia hypothesize that these vaccines would be effective against H5N1, a pandemic virus more commonly known as bird flu.  They have tested the various synthetic vaccinations on mice and observed a significant immune response.  In addition, they have put human lymphocytes in mice and also observed an immune response.  Their research formed the basis of the company BiondVax, who have taken the universal flu vaccine into human clinical trials.

In 2017 Arnon was appointed co-chair of the UK-Israel Science Council, alongside Prof. Lord Robert Winston. She has been a founding member of the council since 2010.

Summary 
Ruth Rosenberg (later Arnon) was the youngest of three children born in Tel Aviv. [1] Alexander Rosenberg, her father, travelled to Toulouse with his family to pursue degrees in electrical engineering and mathematics. He went to work for the Israel Electric Corporation after they returned to Israel. Her father, according to Arnon, sparked her interest in science. Arnon's work has mostly focused on the creation of vaccines and cancer studies. Working on the development of Copaxone, a medication for multiple sclerosis, with Professor Michael Sela was one of her most significant contributions to science. Copaxone's development began with the successful creation of the first synthetic antigen. They discovered that a substance synthesised in the lab might inhibit a condition observed in animals which is a paradigm for multiple sclerosis, along with Devorah Tietelbaum, who was a doctorate student at the time. Copaxone was licensed for medical use after thirty years of research. Copolymer 1 is a novel medication application created by Arnon and Sela for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Glatiramer acetate is its chemical name. On June 14, 1995, the TEVA Pharmaceutical Company submitted it to the FDA for approval under the name Copaxone. Cop 1 is an immunospecific medication, which makes sense given that multiple sclerosis is an immunological illness. Arnon has spent the majority of her career working in the field of immunology. It promotes neuroprotection and generation while also preventing axon demyelination, which is a characteristic of illnesses like multiple sclerosis. In fact, research by Arnon et al. have found that Cop 1 causes an increase in myelination. Currently, Arnon is working on a recombinant influenza vaccine that is universal as well as a cancer vaccine. The use of virus-like particles (VLP) to generate an immune response was discussed in a 2009 research. She has won 12 awards and recognitions in her career.

Awards and recognition
 1979 - Robert Koch Prize in Medical Sciences, Germany
 1986 - Jimenez Diaz Award, Spain
 1990 - Elected Member of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities
 1991 - Hadassah Women of Distinction Award
 1994 - Chevalier de l'Ordre de la Légion d'Honneur, France
 1998 - Wolf Prize in Medicine for the development of Cop1, or Copaxone
 1998 - Rothschild Prize in Life Sciences
 2001 - Israel Prize in medicine
 2009 - Elected member of the American Philosophical Society
 2010 - First female president of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities
 2020 - OurCrowd Maimonides Award for Lifetime Achievement in Science, Leadership and Menschlichkeit
 2021 - Honorary Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE)

See also
Women of Israel

References

External links
Homepage at the Weizmann Institute

1933 births
Living people
Israeli biochemists
Israeli Jews
Israel Prize in medicine recipients
Israel Prize women recipients
Women biologists
Israeli immunologists
Medical educators
Wolf Prize in Medicine laureates
Academic staff of Weizmann Institute of Science
Members of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities
Jewish chemists
Women inventors
Presidents of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities
Israeli women scientists
Women biochemists
Israeli women physicians
Israeli women chemists
Members of the American Philosophical Society
Honorary Officers of the Order of the British Empire