[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Energy policy of Canada

il price shocks: the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 oil crisis, From the mid-1970s to mid-1980s, energy policies—particularly policy regarding the oil and gas industry—was a very "contentious", and "high profile" intergovernmental issue, which had a "deletrious effect on federal-provincial relations".

By 1986, during the Premiership of Brian Mulroney, provincial-federal relationships improved with greater cooperation regarding energy policies, largely because the international energy situation had changed. Prime Minister Mulroney entered into three "important intergovernmental agreements in the energy sector". Federal-provincial accords and agreements included policies related to "management of Newfoundland's offshore resources, oil pricing and taxation in the western provinces, and natural gas pricing in western Canada." The NEP was dismantled through the Western Accord, market oriented agreement which brought in full deregulation of oil prices, "abolished import subsidies, the export tax on crude and oil products, and the petroleum compensation charge. It also phased out PIP grants and the PGRT. In addition, controls were lifted on oil exports."

Other major agreements and accords between the provinces and the federal government include the 1994 Agreement on Internal Trade (AIT), the 1999 Social Union Framework Agreement (SUFA) and the 2003 Council of the Federation (COF).

Energy production, energy resource marketing, equity investment in the energy sector, environmental issues, relationships First Nations peoples, are more complex because of the nature of Canadian federalism. Throughout Canada's history, federal powers and policies have fluctuated between centralizaton and de-centralization. By 2015, Canada faced a deepening dilemma regarding energy export potential.

In 2014, under the Premiership of Stephen Harper, the federal government focused on three main principles underlying its energy policies—market orientation, "respect for jurisdictional authority and the role of the provinces", and when necessary, "targeted intervention in the market process to achieve specific policy objectives through regulation or other means." In 2014, Canada Natural Resources described how federal-provincial agreements and accords had informed Canada's energy policy including the Western Accord on oil and gas pricing and taxation with the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, the Agreement on Natural Gas Markets and Prices with Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, and the Atlantic Accords with Nova Scotia, Newfoundland and Labrador, which included the creation of the Offshore Boards. International agreements that impact on Canada's energy policy include the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). In 2014, the NRC listed the National Energy Board (NEB) (1959-2019) the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, the Atomic Energy of Canada Limited, and the Program on Energy Research and Development as contributors to the development of Canada's energy policy.

During the Premiership of Justin Trudeau, Canada entered into the Canada-EU Strategic Partnership Agreement in 2018, which includes the High Level Energy Dialogue (HLED), on "energy policy issues, such as market transparency, maintaining a safe, sustainable and competitive energy supply, as well as research and development in the energy industries with a focus on "transition toward a low carbon future, addressing market barriers and 'clean financing'." The EU's 2018 modern energy policy legislative framework called "Clean Energy for All Europeans" includes "regulatory certainty" with "binding renewable energy and energy efficiency targets", "national energy and climate plans", creates a "new energy ecosystem" and a market for Canadian "transition fuels (e.g. LNG), clean technologies, and services."

During the 2019 federal election campaign, both the Liberals and Conservatives had "agreed to try to hit existing Paris commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 per cent by 2030." The Canada research chair in climate and energy policy, Nicholas Rivers, said that there is not enough discussion of "renewable technologies such as wind power, solar and zero-emissions aluminum" in the electricity sector. Rivers said that, "Canadian governments have a terrible record at hitting their climate targets...What matters is what impact the policies will have on these emissions....We should be pretty cautious, because we haven't got a great deal of data to look at in terms of what the effects of these policies will actually be...Things are changing more rapidly than we imagined." Rivers said that the "federal government’s climate goals and Canada's oil and gas industry are [not] fundamentally incompatible." There is, however, "some tension between them."