[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Weil, Gotshal & Manges

Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP is an American international law firm with approximately 1,100 attorneys, headquartered in New York City. With a gross annual revenue in excess of $1.8 billion, it is among the world's largest law firms according to The American Lawyer's AmLaw 100 survey.

Overview 
The firm was founded in New York City in 1931 by Frank Weil, Sylvan Gotshal, and Horace Manges. Since 1968, Weil has been headquartered in the General Motors building, overlooking Central Park, in New York City's Manhattan borough.
 
After its founding in 1931, the firm grew steadily in the following decades, taking on clients including General Electric and General Motors, and becoming one of the largest law firms in the country. In 1975, the firm opened an office in Washington, D.C., its first outside New York City, followed in the 1980s by locations in Miami, Houston and Dallas. In 1991, the year that the internet became publicly available, Weil was the first global, non-California law firm to open a Silicon Valley office, in Redwood Shores, California. Later, the firm further spread its practice, notably in non-contentious finance and private equity practice.

The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and the subsequent move by Central and Eastern European countries toward market-based economies prompted the firm to launch its international expansion. It established offices in Budapest, Prague and Warsaw in the early 1990s, followed by the establishment of offices in Frankfurt, London, Munich and Paris. In the 21st century, the firm established offices in Beijing, Dubai, Hong Kong, and Shanghai. , one-quarter of the firm's lawyers have practiced outside the U.S.

Notable cases

 Olympus Corporation's, Olympus scandal deal for British medical-equipment maker Gyrus earned Weil an undisclosed portion of the extraordinary $687 million fee; the $2 billion acquisition was the largest in Olympus's history; the fee was shared with the deal's financial advisor and its broker. The auditor KPMG refused to issue an unqualified audit report due to issues with the Gyrus deal, for which a 21-attorney Weil team was legal advisor
 General Electric's $11.6 billion sale of GE Plastics to Saudi Basic Industries
 DirecTV's $25 billion stock-for-stock merger with Liberty Entertainment
 Sanofi Aventis's $18 billion acquisition of Genzyme
 General Electric's $35 billion joint venture with Comcast for ownership of NBC Universal
 Apple Inc.'s favorable settlement of litigation with Burst.com
 Sears Holdings 2018 Restructuring Plan 
 CBS Corporation's successful defense against a lawsuit filed by former reporter and news anchorman Dan Rather
 ExxonMobil's successful breach of contract suit against Saudi Basic Industries resulting in a $400 million jury award, one of the largest in history
 eBay's successful defense in trademark litigation with Tiffany & Co.
 Enron bankruptcy
 Lehman Brothers bankruptcy
 Washington Mutual bankruptcy
 WorldCom bankruptcy
 General Motors bankruptcy
 DirecTV's $49 billion sale to AT&T
 Lenovo's $2.9 billion acquisition of Motorola from Google
 Verizon's $4.4 billion acquisition of AOL
 Intel's $16 billion acquisition of Altera
 Facebook's $19 billion acquisition of WhatsApp
 Oracle's $9 billion acquisition of NetSuite

Notable alumni