[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Việt Tân

s

Internet Freedom Campaign
In response to Vietnam's appeal to Internet companies Microsoft, Google and Yahoo to work with the Vietnamese government to restrict blogging about dissident material and hand over information that could lead to arrests, Viet Tan launched the "Internet Freedom Campaign".

In April 2012, the organization obtained a decree entitled Decree on the Management, Provision, Use of Internet Services and Information Content Online that was drafted by the Vietnamese government that would ask internet companies to censor blogs, release blogger information and possibly house data centers in Vietnam for the purpose of censorship and regulation of social media. Viet Tan published an editorial describing the draft policy and called for US companies to resist it. Reporters Without Borders later confirmed that the decree exists and that it was meant to be enacted in June 2012.

Programs

Friends of Viet Tan
Viet Tan started a social networking outreach program through the Friends of Viet Tan community that allows like-minded activists to follow news and activities about Vietnam and Viet Tan and also participate in the discussion. The program was first launched as a Facebook application that allowed other users to suggest their own newsworthy articles and references to a main feed that was replicated to many other websites. The application also syndicated Radio Chân Trời Mới as a podcast, and in 2009 also introduced a vodcast.

Digital activism seminars
On November 14–15, 2009, Viet Tan organized a seminar on "Digital Activism: A Tool for Change in Vietnam" held at Georgetown University, in Washington, D.C. Incidentally, in the same week, the Vietnamese government decided to block Facebook through its internet firewall. In response, seminar attendees produced viral videos and documentation on how to circumvent Vietnam's firewall to access Facebook.

The same seminar was repeated February 27–28, 2010, at Chapman University in Orange, California, which was co-sponsored by the Asian Pacific Law Student Association and the Vietnamese American Law Student Association.

The seminar also took place at Harvard University from October 16–17, 2010.

On March 9, 2010, then-Viet Tan Spokesman Hoang Tu Duy presented on "Digital Activism in Vietnam" at the Geneva Summit for Human Rights, Tolerance and Democracy and was one of the panelist to discuss 'Next Generation: Young Rights Defenders and the Blogosphere'.

See also
2011 crackdown on Vietnamese youth activists
2013 conviction of 14 Vietnamese dissidents

References

External links

 
Member of Viet Tan in Vietnam interviewed by Australian Broadcasting Corporation
Radio Chan Troi Moi – Viet Tan's internet radio program
Free Them Now – international campaign to release Viet Tan members
Viet Tan's blog on Radio Chan Troi Moi

Interview with Viet Tan chairman Do Hoang Diem on Saigon Broadcasting Television Network – Part 1 and Part 2
Interview with Viet Tan chairman Do Hoang Diem on Al Jazeera

Anti-communism in Vietnam
Banned political parties in Vietnam
Nationalist parties in Vietnam
Organizations designated as terrorist by Vietnam
Overseas Vietnamese organizations
Vietnamese community organizations
Vietnamese democracy movements