[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sugammadex

ding agent sugammadex". Eur J Anaesthesiol. 24(Suppl 39):110-111.</ref>

Efficacy
A study was carried out in Europe looking at its suitability in rapid sequence induction. It found that sugammadex provides a rapid and dose-dependent reversal of neuromuscular blockade induced by high-dose rocuronium.

A Cochrane review on sugammadex concluded that "sugammadex was shown to be more effective than placebo (no medication) or neostigmine in reversing muscle relaxation caused by neuromuscular blockade during surgery and is relatively safe. Serious complications occurred in less than 1% of the patients who received sugammadex. The results of this review article (especially the safety results) need to be confirmed by future trials on larger patient populations".  The 2017 Cochrane review concluded that sugammadex has a better safety profile than neostigmine with 40% fewer adverse events. Specifically the risks of postoperative residual paralysis, bradycardia, nausea and vomiting are reduced if sugammadex is used as a reversal agent. The British Journal of Anaesthesia'' published an article in 2015 in which the incidence of residual neuromuscular blockade could be reduced to zero if sugammadex is used as the reversal agent and the  correct dosage is selected with the use of neuromuscular monitoring. Also when the reversal times of each agent were compared "Data indicate that sugammadex was 10.22 minutes (6.6 times) faster than neostigmine (1.96 vs 12.87 minutes) in reversing moderate induced paralysis. Sugammadex was 45.78 minutes (16.8 times) faster than neostigmine (2.9 vs 48.8 minutes) in reversing deep induced paralysis." The time saved by rapid reversal and the reduction of postoperative residual paralysis may reduce the overall hospital costs and provide significant improvements in patient safety.

Tolerability
Sugammadex was generally well tolerated in clinical trials in surgical patients or healthy volunteers.  In pooled analyses, the tolerability profile of sugammadex was generally similar to that of placebo or neostigmine plus glycopyrrolate. Sugammadex may theoretically interfere with hormonal contraceptives due to evidence from in vitro binding studies which showed it may bind to progestogen.

History
Sugammadex was discovered by the pharmaceutical company Organon at the Newhouse Research Site in Scotland.  Organon was acquired by Schering-Plough in 2007; Schering-Plough merged with Merck in 2009.  Sugammadex is now owned and sold by Merck.

The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) initially rejected Schering-Plough's New Drug Application for sugammadex in 2008, but finally approved the medication for use in the United States in December 2015.
Sugammadex was approved for use in the European Union in July 2008.

References 

Anesthesia
Oligosaccharides
Merck & Co. brands
Thioethers