[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Equality and Human Rights Commission

Rebecca Hilsenrath of the EHRC said, "We know that some communities are being left behind and that the gap is widening. We know we need to do something before it’s too late and we’ve shown that it’s possible to assess public spending decisions to see if we can make the impact fairer."

Labour Party

In September 2017, EHRC Chief Executive, Rebecca Hilsenrath, demanded a zero tolerance approach to antisemitism in the Labour Party and swift action by the leadership to deal with it. In March 2019, Antony Lerman, former founding director of the Institute for Jewish Policy Research, raised concerns that Hilsenrath's September 2017 statement made her unsuitable to lead a probe into Labour, writing in OpenDemocracy: "Prior to investigation, is it not worrying that the CEO already claims to know what the Labour Party needs to do?" Hilsenrath later recused herself from the decision to investigate the Labour Party as her status as “an active member of the Anglo-Jewish community" could cause a perception of bias.

In May 2019, after submissions by the Jewish Labour Movement and the Campaign Against Antisemitism (CAA), the EHRC launched a formal investigation under section 20 of the Equality Act 2006 into whether Labour had "unlawfully discriminated against, harassed or victimised people because they are Jewish": specifically, whether "unlawful acts have been committed by the party and/or its employees and/or its agents, and; whether the party has responded to complaints of unlawful acts in a lawful, efficient and effective manner."

The CAA was represented in its case to the EHRC by Doughty Street Chambers barrister Adam Wagner, a member of the EHRC's panel of counsel.

According to Middle East Eye, Jewish Voice for Labour (JVL) welcomed the investigation but argued that, without making public the complaints the EHRC received and Labour's initial response, the EHRC have violated the Equality Act 2006 which requires that they specify who is being investigated and "the nature of the unlawful act" they are suspected of committing, as required by its own terms of reference.

In November 2019, JLM accused the Labour Party of "dirty tricks" against the EHRC for its lack of co-operation with the inquiry.

In December 2019, the JLM submission to the inquiry was leaked to the media. It included 70 sworn testimonies from current and former Party staff members, and concluded that “the Labour party is no longer a safe space for Jewish people”.

Draft findings were passed to the Labour Party in July 2020, with 28 days to respond. In October 2020, the EHRC published its report, determining that the party was "responsible for unlawful acts of harassment and discrimination". The EHRC determined that there were 23 instances of political interference by staff from the leader’s office and others and that Labour had breached the Equality Act in two cases. Former party leader Jeremy Corbyn was suspended from the party for several weeks and had the party parliamentary whip removed on 29 October 2020 "for a failure to retract" his assertion that the scale of antisemitism within Labour had been overstated by opponents.

In December 2020, Labour published its action plan on antisemitism in response to the EHRC report.

Windrush scandal
In June 2020, it was announced the Commission would investigate the UK Home Office over its hostile environment policy towards migrants under the Coalition and Conservative governments, and the ensuing Windrush scandal. The report was published in November 2020.

Conservative Party

The Muslim Council of Britain (MCB) first asked the EHRC to investigate the Conservative Party in May 2019. It received no reply and made a second request in November 2019 and again received no reply. In March 2020, the MCB submitted a dossier including 300 supposed cases of prejudiced or discriminatory language against Muslims within the Conservative Party. On 12 May, the EHRC announced that it would not be investigating the Conservative Party for racism, pending its monitoring of the party's own internal review.

Controversies around "gender-critical" views
"Gender-critical" views
In April 2021, the EHRC intervened in the legal appeal in the case of Forstater v Center for Global Development Europe, arguing that her "gender-critical" beliefs were protected under the 2010 Equality Act, and hence that the CGD's decision not to renew Forstater's contract over such actions could amount to illegal discrimination. This led to criticism of the EHRC from trans and LGBTQ+ organisations such as Mermaids and Stonewall. Following this, the EHRC revealed that it had left Stonewall's Diversity Champions scheme in March 2021.

In October 2021, a group of academics published a letter in The Times calling on the EHRC to conduct a review of UK universities where policies are discriminating, the writers say, against "gender-critical" beliefs in the debate on transgender rights.