[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lucius Marcius Philippus (consul 91 BC)

Cinna's time in power.  He even became censor with Marcus Perperna in 86 BC, and is said to have expelled his own uncle Appius Claudius from the senate. However, Philippus went over to Sulla's side after the latter's return to Italy in 83 BC, and served as Sulla's legate in Sardinia during the war.

After Sulla's victory in 82 BC, Philippus was left as one of the most senior politicians in the much-depleted Senate, and may have delivered the main oration at Sulla's grand state funeral in 79 BC. As the de facto champion of Sulla's regime, Philippus became the main senatorial opponent of Marcus Aemilius Lepidus (father of the triumvir of the same name), who in 78 BC attempted to repeal the laws and constitution left in place by Sulla. Sallust preserves a version of Philippus' speech against Lepidus in his fragmentary Histories, in which Philippus rallies the Senate and proposes the senatus consultum ultimum charging Quintus Catulus and Pompey with putting down the revolt.

Legacy as an orator
Philippus was one of the most distinguished orators of his time. His reputation continued even to the Augustan age, whence we read in Horace:

 Strenuus et fortis causisque Philippus agendis Clarus.

Cicero says that Philippus was decidedly inferior as an orator to his two great contemporaries Crassus and Antonius, but was without question next to them, but far next (sed longo intervallo tamen proxumus. itaque eum, [...], neque secundum tamen neque tertium dixerim: "I could not call him a second or a third"). In speaking he possessed much freedom and wit; he was fertile in invention, and clear in the development of his ideas; and in altercation he was witty and sarcastic.

Perhaps the most famous example of his wit came in 77 BC. Neither of the consuls Mamercus Aemilius Lepidus Livianus nor Decimus Junius Brutus wanted to be sent to Spain to fight the rebellious general Quintus Sertorius. Pompey on the other hand had just put down the revolt of Marcus Aemilius Lepidus and wanted another command immediately. Philippus spoke in the Senate in favour of Pompey, and famously quipped:

 non se illum sua sententia pro consule sed pro consulibus mittere
 I give my vote to send him not as a proconsul [pro consule], but instead of the consuls [pro consulibus]

Philippus was also remarkably acquainted with Greek literature for his time.  He was accustomed to speak extempore, and, when he rose to speak, he frequently did not know with what word he should begin: hence in his old age it was with both contempt and anger that he used to listen to the studied periods of Hortensius.

Philippus was a man of luxurious habits, which his wealth enabled him to gratify: his fish-ponds were particularly famous for their magnificence and extent, and are mentioned by the ancients along with those of Lucullus and Hortensius.

References

Bibliography 
 
 
 
 

140s BC births
70s BC deaths
2nd-century BC Romans
1st-century BC Roman augurs
1st-century BC Roman consuls
Lucius consul 663 AUC
Ancient Roman censors
Supporters of Sulla
Year of birth uncertain
Year of death uncertain