[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Danny Guthrie

then in the 2–2 draw against West Bromwich Albion. Guthrie scored two goals and was voted man of the match in a 6–1 win over Barnsley. He had his best season with Newcastle during the year in the Championship, scoring five goals from 43 games and having his team's highest number of assists, with 13.

After promotion back to the Premier League for the 2010–11 season, Guthrie took part in Newcastle's pre-season fixtures, playing in the 2–2 draw with PSV on the left wing, and in central midfield alongside Joey Barton in a 2–1 defeat to Rangers. He missed the opening fixtures of the Premier League season against Manchester United, Aston Villa, Wolverhampton Wanderers and Blackpool with a knee injury . He returned to contention in October after making a string of reserve team games. He returned to play against Wigan in a 2–2 draw, playing on the right wing. He was dropped for the next game, however, after an unimpressive display. Throughout the season, Guthrie was largely an out-of-favour player with Newcastle after the signing of Cheick Tioté in August 2010. The consistent form of Joey Barton and Kevin Nolan also kept the 24-year-old on the bench throughout much of the season, where he only registered one assist.

A knee injury suffered in pre-season kept Guthrie out of the first few months of the 2011–12 Premier League season and made his return in the 4–3 League Cup defeat to Blackburn Rovers, scoring a long-range goal in the process. Due to an injury to Tioté, Guthrie started against Stoke City and Everton. On 21 January 2012, he scored a superb long-range goal against Fulham at Craven Cottage to give Newcastle a 1–0 lead, a game they would eventually go on to lose 5–2.

Guthrie was released by Newcastle on 1 June 2012.

Reading
On 29 June 2012, Guthrie signed a three-year contract at newly promoted Premier League club Reading on a free transfer. He scored his first goal for Reading in only his second game, away at Chelsea, after goalkeeper Petr Čech spilled his free kick into the net.

In October, it was reported by local and national newspapers that Guthrie and Reading manager Brian McDermott had fallen out after he was dropped from the team for the 3–3 draw with Fulham. The claims were denied by both the player and manager. On 11 December, McDermott revealed that Guthrie had refused to travel with the team for the away game against Sunderland, as his "head was not in the right place". He was fined two weeks wages and the following day issued a full apology stating that he had "loved his time at the club" and would do everything in his power to regain a first-team spot. McDermott later stated that he was happy to draw a line under the recent events and that Guthrie still had a future at the club.

Guthrie began the 2013–14 season in good form, scoring twice against Birmingham City and earning a Championship Player of the Month nomination, although he eventually lost out to Ipswich Town striker David McGoldrick. He attributed his upturn in form to the new style of football implemented by McDermott's replacement Nigel Adkins.

Guthrie was released by Reading on 21 May 2015.

Fulham (loan)
On 26 March 2015, having dropped down the pecking order at Reading, Guthrie joined Fulham on loan until the end of the season.

Blackburn Rovers
Guthrie signed a two-year deal with Blackburn Rovers following a successful trial on 5 August 2015. He made his debut six days later in a 1–2 home defeat to Shrewsbury Town in the first round of the League Cup as a 65th-minute replacement for Corry Evans. He scored his first goal for Blackburn in a 3–1 win over Brentford on 7 May 2017, after which despite the result Blackburn were relegated.

Oakengates Athletic
After being released by Rovers at the end of the season, Guthrie rejected offers from Championship and League One clubs as he wanted to play abroad. After reaching an agreement with Indonesian Liga club, Mitra Kukar, he signed for Oakengates Athletic to keep his fitness. He left the club in January, signing for Mitra Kukar ahead of the 2018 Indonesian Liga.

Mitra Kukar
On 4 January 2018, he joined Indonesian Liga club, Mitra Kukar.

Walsall
On 11 July 2019, Guthrie returned to English football to sign for League Two club Walsall. On 1 February 2021, he left the club by mutual consent.

Fram
On 4 May 2021, Guthrie joined Icelandic 1. deild karla side Fram for the 2021 season. He played 17 matches during the 2021 season, helping them win the league and promotion to the Úrvalsdeild karla.

International career
At international level, Guthrie represented the England under-16 national team.