[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

r – The Roman Catholic Bishops of Ireland issue a formal statement, supporting the Free State as the lawful and democratic government, denouncing the Anti-Treaty campaign as an unlawful rebellion and denying their fighters access to Holy Communion or Confession.
A Free State officer is killed in an ambush between Clonmel and Cahir.
Peadar Breslin, a Republican captured after the fall of the Four Courts, is shot dead during an attempt to escape from Mountjoy Prison in Dublin. Three Free State soldiers are also killed in the fire fights during the escape attempts.
In County Wexford, a senior Free State army officer, Commandant Peter Doyle, of Ballinakill, Marshalstown, is shot in the grounds of St. Aidan's Cathedral, Enniscorthy, by Anti-Treaty I.R.A. after mass. Five girls are injured in the process, two of them seriously.
11 October – 
Two Free State soldiers are killed in ambush in County Cork, between Dunmanway and Clonakilty.
Irregulars hijack a cargo ship in Westport and direct it to Newport. Four hundred tons of flour are unloaded in Newport. The ship is then allowed to proceed to Liverpool.
13 October – A Free State soldier is killed in an ambush of a troop lorry at Ulverton Road, Dalkey, County Dublin.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in kerry, one in Rathmore, the other in Abbeydorney.
The railway hotel at Recess, County Galway, is burned down by Republicans (together with nearby Glendalough House) to prevent National troops from using them as billets.
14 October – An ambush in the Cornmarket area of Dublin leaves three civilians and four Free State soldiers wounded. In a separate ambush near Tralee, one National Army soldier is killed and another wounded.
15 October – The Public Safety Bill comes into effect. The bill called for people to hand over their weapons in a brief amnesty, after which time the possession of arms could be punishable by execution. This led to the summary executions of captured Anti-Treaty fighters.
15–16 October – In County Mayo, irregulars rob the banks in Belmullet and Bangor Erris. They also collect an "annual license duty' from the publicans in the towns.
15 October – In Swagh North, County Mayo, Irregulars attack two lorry loads of National Army Troops, one of whom is killed and another wounded.
Directives are sent to the press by Free State director of communications, Piaras Béaslaí to the effect that; Free State troops are to be referred to as the "National Army", the "Irish Army", or just "troops". The Anti-Treaty side are to be called "Irregulars" and are not to be referred to as "Republicans", "IRA", "forces", or "troops", nor are the ranks of their officers allowed to be given. No letters about the treatment of Anti-Treaty prisoners are to be published. The words "attacked, commandeered and arrested" as used to describe their actions are to be replaced by, "fired at, seized and kidnapped".
A civilian pawnbroker is shot dead by unidentified gunmen in Cork city.
17 October – 
An Anti-Treaty force attacks the National Army posts in Charleville, County Cork. They claim two soldiers are killed and one mortally wounded, National Army reports three wounded
The National Army garrison in Dundalk is 'stood to' in anticipation of night attack by anti-Treaty fighters. One Free State soldier is accidentally shot and killed.
In County Mayo, National Army Troops, based in Charlestown, surround Ballaghaderreen and arrest a number of Irregulars. An eight-man patrol is sent out to nearby Carracastle. When the troops reach the village, two Irregulars open fire. One Irregular is killed and the other is arrested.
19 October – A Free State soldier is killed by sniper near Naas, County Kildare. Another dies in an accidental shooting at Corporation Street, central Dublin.
Irregulars attack the National Army Garrison in Crossmolina, County Mayo. Free state soldiers eventually beat off the attackers after five hours.
20 October – In County Kerry, a Free State soldier is shot dead while trying to clear a blocked road at Duagh. Another is killed the following day at Lawlor's Cross.
National Army troops raid and capture a bomb making factory at Gardiner Street, Dublin. A Free State captain, Nicholas Tobin, brother of Liam Tobin is accidentally shot dead by his own troops.
22 October – 
Four soldiers of the National Army were killed when a Lancia car they were travelling in was bombed near Ferrycarrig County Wexford.Three other National Army Troops were injured in the attack.
Two National Army soldiers are killed at Woodhouse County Waterford when their lorry is ambushed The driver is also wounded. Private Larry Phelan of Kilmacthomas Waterford was shot dead. Private Patrick Foley of Waterford died from wounds. 
24 October – Three Free State soldiers are killed in an ambush at Graney, County Kildare and five wounded. Their tender is ambushed on the road to Baltinglass.
A Free State soldier is also killed in Limerick.
25 October – Éamon de Valera, at the request of the IRA Army Executive, set