[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Derick Brassard

suffered a separated shoulder during a fight with Dallas Stars forward James Neal. The injury ultimately required a season-ending surgery, bringing Brassard's break-out season to a premature end. At the time, he continued to lead all rookies in scoring with 10 goals and 15 assists through 31 games.

On September 4, 2009, the Blue Jackets signed Brassard to a four-year contract extension that would keep him under team control through the  season. Fully recovered by the beginning of the  season, Brassard rejoined Filatov and Voráček on the second offensive line. He struggled at the start of the season with the return from his shoulder injury, telling ESPN that he was "just not playing like a great player" before snapping a 14-game scoring drought with a late goal in Columbus's 3–0 win over the Florida Panthers on December 10. On February 14, Brassard burned his left hand from the thumb to the index finger while attempting to repair his hockey stick with hot glue. The burn became infected, causing Brassard to miss several games in March. Upon his return, he was offered ample playing time from new head coach Claude Noel after several other player injuries created gaps in the line-up. Brassard finished the season with nine goals and 36 points in 79 games, while his −17 plus–minus was tied with defenceman Anton Stralman for the worst on the team. Although young players like Brassard improved after Noel replaced Hitchcock, the Blue Jackets' 3–14–7 record from November 21 to January 5 kept them out of contention in the 2010 Stanley Cup playoffs.

When Scott Arniel took over coaching duties in Columbus for the  season, he placed Brassard on the top offensive line with Voráček and captain Rick Nash. In the first ten games since putting that trio together, Brassard recorded five goals and seven assists, and his face-off percentage improved significantly. On February 16, 2011, Brassard injured his left hand after being struck by a Jan Hejda slapshot in the Blue Jackets' game against the Los Angeles Kings. Although the hand was not fractured, he was placed on injured reserve regardless. At the time of the injury, Brassard had a career-high 14 goals and 39 points through 57 games, including five goals and eight assists in the last 14 games before the injury. He missed eight games with the injury before being activated on March 9. Although the Blue Jackets went only 34–35–13 for the season and missed the 2011 Stanley Cup playoffs, Brassard had a break-out season, setting career highs with 17 goals, 30 assists, and 47 points.

The Blue Jackets made a number of roster changes going into the  season: new centers Jeff Carter and Ryan Johansen moved Brassard to the wing, and then rookie Cam Atkinson usurped him on the top two offensive lines. He began the season in a slump, with only two goals and four points through his first 19 games, as well as a −10 rating, and Arniel frequently relegated Brassard to a healthy scratch by early December. On December 7, 2011, after Brassard's seventh healthy scratch of the season, his agent Allan Walsh wrote on Twitter accused Arniel of "singl[ing] out" Brasard "to be the fall guy in case things don't go well", describing the coach as having "a history of burying players and using them as scapegoats to mask his own lack of success on the ice". Brassard showed a midseason resurgence, with nine points in a 12-game stretch by mid-January that coincided with Arniel's firing. He was particularly successful with Nash around the month of February, recording 14 points in a 15-game span when paired with the captain. Brassard recorded his 100th career assist in the final game of the season, a 7–3 victory over the New York Islanders. After recording only two goals and five points through the first 24 games of the season, he finished the year with 14 goals and 41 points in 74 games.

When a lockout indefinitely delayed the beginning of the  hockey season, Brassard was one of many NHL players to sign a short-term contract with a European ice hockey team, joining EC Red Bull Salzburg of the Erste Bank Eishockey Liga. After skating in six games with Salzburg, during which he scored four goals and recorded an assist, Brassard abruptly left the team, telling reporters that he planned to return home and wait out the remainder of the lockout. At this point, Derek Dorsett, Tobias Enström, and David Clarkson had all left Red Bull on poor terms, with at least one player labelling the team "a joke". Salzburg coach Pierre Page, who had previously coached several NHL teams, had a demanding and confrontational reputation that may have played a role in his poor relationship with players like Brassard. A representative from Red Bull released a statement saying that they would be filing a breach of contract notification with the International Ice Hockey Federation, while Brassard's agent told reporters that there was "no more unprofessional organization in all of Europe" than Salzburg.