[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Asian Americans

Notable Asian Americans include:

Academia
Manjul Bhargava, mathematician
Raj Chetty, professor of economics
Leon O. Chua, computer scientist
S. I. Hayakawa, professor of English, president of San Francisco State University, and U.S. Senator 
Sumiko Hennessy, professor of social work
Hao Huang, Frankel Chair of Music, ethnomusicologist, Scripps College
Jaegwon Kim, professor of philosophy
Jagdish Natwarlal Bhagwati, professor of economics
Eswar Prasad, economist
Raghuram Rajan, economist and an international academician
Amartya Sen, economist and philosopher 
Jim Toy, gay activist & educator
S. R. Srinivasa Varadhan, NYU mathematician
Ocean Vuong, writer, poet, professor
Thomas Zacharia, computational material sciences
Astrid S. Tuminez, Utah Valley University, President
Conrado Gempesaw, Former President, St. John's University

Science

Subrahmanyan Chandrasekhar, 1983 Nobel laureate in Physics.
Min Chueh Chang, co-inventor of the combined oral contraceptive pill.
Shiing-Shen Chern, mathematician and winner of the 1983 Wolf Prize for his work in differential geometry.
Steven Chu, Nobel laureate in Physics in 1997 for research on cooling and trapping atoms using laser light and former United States Secretary of Energy.
David D. Ho, HIV/AIDS researcher
June Huh, mathematician, 2022 Fields Medal winner. 
Michio Kaku, theoretical physicist
Har Gobind Khorana, shared the Nobel laureate in "Physiology or Medicine" in 1968 for work in genetics and protein synthesis.
Tsung-Dao Lee, received the 1957 Nobel Laureate in Physics for work in particle physics along with Chen Ning Yang.
Yuan T. Lee, 1986 Nobel Prize winner in Chemistry
Syukuro Manabe, 2021 Nobel Laureate in Physics
Shuji Nakamura, 2014 Nobel Laureate in Physics
Yoichiro Nambu, 2008 Nobel laureate in Physics
Santa J. Ono, former President University of Cincinnati, immunologist and vision scientist, current President of University of Michigan
Charles J. Pedersen, 1987 Nobel laureate in Chemistry.
Ching W. Tang, inventor of the organic light-emitting diode and the hetero-junction organic photovoltaic cell. Winner of the 2011 Wolf Prize in Chemistry.
Terence Tao, mathematician, 2006 Fields Medal winner.
Samuel C.C. Ting, 1976 Nobel laureate in physics for discovering the existence of a new particle called j/psi.
Roger Y. Tsien, 2008 Nobel Prize winner in chemistry, for the discovery of the green fluorescent protein.
Daniel Tsui, 1998 Nobel laureate in Physics for contributions to the discovery of the fractional Quantum Hall effect.
Chien-Shiung Wu, winner of the 1978 Wolf Prize in Physics. First woman to be elected president of American Physical Society.
Chen Ning Yang, received the 1957 Nobel Laureate in Physics for work in particle physics along with Tsung-Dao Lee.
Shing-Tung Yau, mathematician, 1982 Fields Medal winner.

Arts/architecture/design
Fazlur Rahman Khan, a Bangladeshi-American structural engineer and architect, who was considered the "Einstein of structural engeering", he was the designer of the Willis Tower and John Hancock Center
Salma Arastu, artist
Rina Banerjee, artist
David Choe, artist
Dhairya Dand, inventor and artist
George Fan, video game designer, Plants vs. Zombies
Maya Lin, architect, designed the Vietnam Veterans Memorial
Seong Moy, artist and printmaker
Jane Ng, 3D environmental artist
Yatin Patel, photographer and artist
Gyo Obata, architect, designed the National Air and Space Museum
IM Pei, renowned architect, designed the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Louvre Pyramid
Mimi So, jewelry designer
Manick Sorcar, animator, artist
Minoru Yamasaki, architect, designed the World Trade Center
Vern Yip, interior designer, appeared on TLC's Trading Spaces and HGTV's Deserving Design and Design Star
Chanel Miller, artist
Yu-kai Chou, gamification designer and pioneer

Business and industry