[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Rodgers Meigs

the Battle of Gettysburg (July 4 to July 23), Meigs assisted in keeping the telegraph and roads open along the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) line between Washington and Harpers Ferry. His small unit of engineers skirmished with pickets of Lee's retreating forces near Harpers Ferry about July 13.

On July 23, 1863, Meigs was assigned as an engineer to the staff of Brigadier General Benjamin Franklin Kelley. He was also assigned as an engineer and acting aide-de-camp on the staff of Brigadier General (Volunteers) William W. Averell. He engaged in extensive surveying of the area and drew hundreds of topographical maps, and assisted in designing and overseeing the construction of defensive works.  He also reconnoitered on behalf of General Averell's troops on several occasions. He participated in the Battle of Rocky Gap on August 26 to 27, 1863. Meigs was made Chief Engineer of the Shenandoah Valley for the Department of West Virginia (a Union military district) on November 3, staying in the position until August 17, 1864. On November 6, he participated in the Battle of Droop Mountain in West Virginia, and the pursuit of Confederate forces after the battle from November 6 to 18. Meigs was detached from Kelley's command on November 23.

Meigs continued to participate in military action as part of Averell's command. Averell determined to break the supply line from Virginia to Tennessee, which kept General James Longstreet's Army of Tennessee supplied. From December 8 to December 25, Meigs traveled with Averell's troops through bitter cold and snow over the mountains of West Virginia to strike at the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad line at Salem, Virginia.  The "Salem Raid" culminated with a daylight dash into Salem on December 16. Reconnoitering with a small unit of engineers, Meigs ordered the first shots fired in the raid. Averell's troops destroyed  of track before rushing back to their base. Although the raid itself did little to disrupt Longstreet's supply lines, several cavalry corps of the Army of Northern Virginia fruitlessly searched for Averell's command for three months.

The Lynchburg campaign
At the start of campaigning in the spring of 1864, Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant was named commander of all Union armies. Grant resolved to strike at the Confederacy on multiple fronts, including a major attack from West Virginia southwest through the Shenandoah Valley. Scorched earth tactics would deny the Confederacy use of this vital agricultural center.  Major General Franz Sigel appointed him chief engineer and topographer of the Army of the Shenandoah. Sigel opened the Valley Campaigns of 1864 by taking the Army of the Shenandoah to destroy the railroad center at Lynchburg, Virginia. On May 15, 1864, Meigs was involved in combat at the Battle of New Market. But Sigel was defeated at Newmarket, and retreated to Strasburg, Virginia.

Sigel was replaced as commander by Brigadier General (Volunteers) David Hunter, who resumed the offensive and pushed toward Staunton, Virginia. Hunter retained Meigs as chief engineer and topographer. Meigs helped repair the bridge over Passage Creek (burned during Sigel's retreat) on May 15, which had temporarily stalled Hunter's advance. On May 28, Hunter discovered that Confederate troops had fallen some  back, and he was unopposed along his front. Without Hunter's approval, Meigs led a scouting party which returned that night confirming the lack of opposition. Meigs also informed him that he had burned the home of a Virginian who had helped capture or kill some of Sigel's retreating troops two weeks earlier, and discussed a rumor that Southern women had armed themselves to fight for the Confederacy.