[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dutchbat

a's male population of approximately 8,373 Bosniaks of different ages. On 21 July, with the entire zone already under the control of the VRS, the Dutch battalion left the enclave.

From July until November 1995 Dutchbat IV served and mainly dealt with refugees at Simin Han, near Tuzla.

Consequences

This incident had great impact on public opinion in the Netherlands. An official seven-year investigation of the incident by the Netherlands Institute for War Documentation resulted in the report Srebrenica: a ‘safe’ area, published April 10, 2002, which resulted in the resignation of Prime Minister Wim Kok six days later. The 3,400-page report criticized the political and military High Commands of the Netherlands as being guilty of criminal negligence, for not preventing the massacre. The conclusions were devastating:

The mission was not suitably prepared.
 There was no coordination between the Ministry of Defence (under Joris Voorhoeve) and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (under Hans van Mierlo).
 The contingent did not receive sufficient means to accomplish the mission. Adequate firepower and Forward Air Controllers (FACS) to direct air attacks were missing.
 The non-Dutch in charge of air support refused to give aid as requested by Karremans.
 The Dutch soldiers and the UN did not perform their duty.

The report has been referred to by international media. The Institute for War and Peace Reporting has labelled the report "controversial".

On 4 December 2006, Minister of Defence Henk Kamp gave a remembrance insignia to the soldiers of Dutchbat III, i.e. Draaginsigne DBIII. This award was severely criticized by the public as well as by some survivors and relatives of Srebrenica victims. 
In June 2007 an association of relatives of the victims of the massacre presented a denunciation in The Hague against the Government of the Netherlands and the UN for its negligence in the massacre. In October of the same year, twelve former members of DUTCHBAT III visited the Memorial for the Srebrenica massacre, paying tribute to the victims. The same group of relatives opposed their act of atonement to open dialogue.

According to testimonies of 171 of the members of the battalion, 65% left the Army, 40% of these requested psychological treatment, and 10% show symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (official figure; health professionals treating these people deem the number much higher).

References

External links 
The report's web page 
Full Report 
NU report 

Bosnian War
Srebrenica massacre
Military history of the Netherlands
Military units and formations of the Netherlands
Bosnian genocide