[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Perry Van der Beck

Perry Van der Beck (born November 5, 1959 in Florissant, Missouri) is an American former soccer midfielder, former coach and technical director, and the former Vice President of Competition and Operations for the United Soccer League.

Van der Beck began his playing career with the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the original North American Soccer League and ended it with the St. Louis Ambush of the indoor National Professional Soccer League.  He also earned twenty-three caps, scoring two goals, with the U.S. national team between 1979 and 1985. He played for various indoor and outdoor teams until 1998, when he retired from the pitch and became an assistant coach with the Tampa Bay Mutiny.

After coaching for several other clubs and youth soccer organizations, Van der Beck was hired as the technical director and youth director for the new Tampa Bay Rowdies in 2008. He was later promoted to be the club's executive vice president and director of player development. In January 2014 he was again promoted to the position of general manager. Following the hiring of former teammate Farrukh Quraishi as president and general manager, Van der Beck returned to his role as the team's technical director.

NASL
In 1978, the Tampa Bay Rowdies of the North American Soccer League (NASL) drafted Perry Van der Beck out of St. Thomas Aquinas High School in Florissant, Missouri.  At the time he was the youngest native born American playing professional soccer.  He was also the first American ever drafted out of high school.  Despite his youth and relative inexperience when he joined the Rowdies, he gradually worked himself into becoming a significant contributor to the team.  At the time, the Rowdies were a top-tier team in the NASL.  In both 1978 and 1979, they made it to the Soccer Bowl championship game.

In 1983, Van der Beck played with Team America during its dismal single season.  USSF wanted to combine all the dominant U.S. players in NASL onto one team to give them an opportunity to develop, as well as to create publicity for the national team.  While the concept attracted the support of Van der Beck and some other U.S. players, it was viewed with suspicion by many others, such as Rick Davis.  Team America went 10-20 and folded after the 1983 season.  Van der Beck then returned to the Rowdies for a single season.

During his time with the Rowdies, the NASL had played both an indoor as well as its more well known outdoor seasons.  He was member of the Rowdies' 1979–80 NASL indoor championship team as well as their 1981–82 indoor runner-up squad. However, the NASL was at heart an outdoor league and when the Major Indoor Soccer League (MISL) began operation, it quickly took over the indoor soccer market. By the time Van der Beck had returned to the Rowdies in 1984, the NASL was on its last legs and in 1985, Van Der Beck left the team to follow former Rowdies coach Gordon Jago to the Dallas Sidekicks of the MISL.

MISL
Van der Beck remained with the Sidekicks for three seasons, capping his time with the team by winning the MISL championship in 1987. On July 4, 1987, the Sidekicks announced they would not renew Van der Beck's contract and he became a free agent.  On August 11, 1987, he signed with the St. Louis Steamers.  He then moved, sometime later, to the Wichita Wings.

National Team
In 1979, Van der Beck played his first game with the U.S. national team.  He would go on to earn 23 caps, scoring two goals with the team.  He was an integral part in the U.S. failed attempts to qualify for the 1982 and 1986 FIFA World Cups.

In 1979, he was a member of the U.S. soccer team at the 1979 Pan American Games.
In 1980, he would have been the captain of the U.S. soccer team at the 1980 Summer Olympics.  Despite qualifying for the tournament, the U.S. did not send a team to Moscow when President Jimmy Carter organized a boycott of the games in response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.

In 1985, Van der Beck was selected the U.S. Soccer Athlete of the Year.

Van der Beck served on the US Soccer Board of Directors from 1986 to 1993.

In 2011, Van der Beck was inducted into the St. Louis Soccer Hall of Fame.

Van der Beck has owned and operated the original Camp Kikinthagrass since 2003.

NPSL
He served as the player/coach with the Tampa Bay Terror of the National Professional Soccer League during the 1996–97 season.