[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jonas Pleškys

er programing at the University of Washington, worked at a bank in San Francisco. In 1968, he enrolled into the International Language School to study Spanish. There he met Laura Cajas de Martinez and they married the same year. They had daughter Jennifer Plaskus and the marriage lasted five years. 

For five years, he traveled to various countries. From 1972 to 1973, he worked under contract with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) in Guatemala and Costa Rica. He briefly returned to the United States and worked as a computer programmer. In 1979, he disappeared and spent three years growing his own food and living in a remote cabin in Mexico. According to his biographer Marijona Venslauskaitė-Boyle, it was the only place where he felt safe from the KGB. In 1986, Pleškys returned to the United States and got a job as a systems management specialist with the American President Companies in Oakland. In 1988, he met his sister actress Eugenija Pleškytė in Houston when she toured with her theater troupe. The KGB approved her travels hoping they could track her brother through her. 

In 1990, he was diagnosed with a brain tumor. That year Lithuania declared independence. The Supreme Court of Lithuania vacated his death sentence in 1992, which allowed Pleškys to briefly return to Lithuania and meet his daughter Sondra for the first time. He died in his sleep a few days before April 14, 1993, when his body was found in his apartment in Oakland, California.

Legacy
Pleškys' defection was one of two incidents that inspired Tom Clancy in his writing of The Hunt for Red October. The other was the 1975 mutiny aboard the Soviet frigate Storozhevoy.

Pasmerktas myriop (Condemned to Death), a documentary about Pleškys directed by , was released in 1999. In 2005, Marijona Venslauskaitė-Boyle, who knew Pleškys in his last years, published Search For Freedom: The Man From Red October about his life.

See also
 The Defection of Simas Kudirka, a drama film based on the attempted defection by a Lithuanian merchant seaman
 List of Eastern Bloc defectors

References

Further reading

1935 births
1993 deaths
Lithuanian military personnel
Soviet defectors to the United States
Soviet Navy officers
Lithuanian emigrants to the United States
People sentenced to death in absentia by the Soviet Union