[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# I Know Who Killed Me

o admit that [I Know Who Killed Me] wears its badge of oddness honestly. And I think that's part of the reason why people are still talking about it all these years later," and contemplated writing a sequel, "I've been catching myself pondering the fate that might await Aubrey and Dakota as adults."

In 2022, Lohan also reminisced about taking on the project in an interview with Vogue: "That was really fun to do. It was my first step into doing something different and dark, which was really exciting." In 2023, Cinematic Void included the film in their annual January Giallo series with multiple screenings across the US. On January 30, the American Cinematheque held a Q&A session with Sivertson after a sold out presentation of the film in Los Angeles. In October 2023, IndieWire named I Know Who Killed Me one of the best giallo movies of all time, asserting that "the movie holds up as a shockingly scary and stylish watch today" after being "divorced from [the] vicious media spectacle" it was subjected around its release, as "the premise makes for a twisty, genuinely surprising mystery, and Sivertson's direction is crisp, stylish, and always weird."

Home media
The DVD and Blu-ray versions were released on November 27, 2007. The art cover of the DVD shows Lohan, in blue, pole-dancing, with the faces of her alter egos Aubrey Fleming and Dakota Moss on either side. Among the extras are alternate opening and ending scenes with the latter showing that the entire plot was actually written by the Aubrey character. Other extras include an extended version of Lohan's strip dance at the club and bloopers. By January, the DVD had grossed $11.99 million. The Region 2 DVD was released January 28, 2008, with different cover art showing a close-up of Lohan, in red, doing her pole-dance at the strip club. In the United States, the film has grossed over $28 million in estimated DVD sales. A Walmart exclusive Bonus Disc DVD was also included upon release, featuring two short documentaries with cast and crew interviews.

Soundtrack

The score for I Know Who Killed Me, composed by Joel McNeely, was released on July 24, 2007. It drew comparisons to the television mystery scores by Billy Goldenberg and received almost unanimously positive reviews from film music critics, with James Southall of Movie Wave saying the "unexpectedly classy score seems to go beyond the call of duty" and Clark Douglas of Movie Music UK rating it 5 stars and calling it "one of the year's best scores, a must-have for those who are willing to take a trip into a deep, dark, and sometimes terrifying musical world."

 "Prelude for a Madman"
 "Duality"
 "Fairytale Theme"
 "A Daughter Is Dead"
 "End of Innocence/Aubrey Is Gone"
 "A Mother's Grief"
 "Search for Aubrey"
 "The Bus Stop"
 "Spontaneous Bleed"
 "Going Home"
 "Jennifer's Room"
 "Some People Get Cut"
 "Investigating Stigmata"
 "The Mirror"
 "The Graveyard"
 "I Know Who Killed Me"
 "The House"
 "Dad Dies"
 "Death of Norquist"
 "Prelude/Reunited"
 "Valse Brillante, Op. 34, No. 2 in A Minor"

Accolades
I Know Who Killed Me received eight nominations at the 28th Golden Raspberry Awards and won seven. A new category "Worst Excuse for a Horror Movie" was specifically created that year and, consequently, the film set a record for the most Razzie wins in a single year, beating the previous tie held by Battlefield Earth and Showgirls with seven wins each (though Battlefield Earth had more overall wins due to two more awards won in subsequent years). The record for most wins in a single year was broken in 2012 when Jack and Jill won ten awards. Its musical score was nominated as Best Original Score for a Horror/Thriller Film by the International Film Music Critics Association.

References

External links
 
 
 
 

2007 films
2007 psychological thriller films
2000s American films
2000s English-language films
2000s serial killer films
American psychological thriller films
American serial killer films
Films about the Federal Bureau of Investigation
Films about amputees
Films about striptease
Films about twin sisters
Films directed by Chris Sivertson
Films scored by Joel McNeely
Films shot in Los Angeles
Golden Raspberry Award winning films
Scanbox Entertainment films
TriStar Pictures films
Films produced by Frank Mancuso Jr.