[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

Lithuania participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 with the song "We Are the Winners" written by Andrius Mamontovas, Saulius Urbonavičius and Viktoras Diawara. The song was performed by the group LT United. Songwriter and group member Viktoras Diawara previously represented Lithuania in the 2001 contest as part of the group SKAMP, placing 13th with the song "You Got Style". The Lithuanian broadcaster Lithuanian National Radio and Television (LRT) organised the national final "Eurovizijos" dainų konkurso nacionalinė atranka (Eurovision Song Contest national selection) in order to select the Lithuanian entry for the 2006 contest in Athens, Greece. The national final took place over eight weeks and involved 49 artists competing in two different competitive streams: newcomers and established artists. In the final, 16 entries remained and a public vote entirely selected "We Are the Winners" performed by LT United as the winner with 32,669 votes.

Lithuania competed in the semi-final of the Eurovision Song Contest which took place on 18 May 2006. Performing during the show in position 18, "We Are the Winners" was announced among the top 10 entries of the semi-final and therefore qualified to compete in the final on 20 May. This marked the first qualification to the final for Lithuania since the introduction of semi-finals in 2004. It was later revealed that Finland placed fifth out of the 23 participating countries in the semi-final with 163 points. In the final, Lithuania performed in position 14 and placed sixth out of the 24 participating countries, scoring 162 points.

Background 

Prior to the 2006 contest, Lithuania had participated in the Eurovision Song Contest six times since its first entry in 1994. The nation’s best placing in the contest was 13th, which it achieved in 2001 with the song "You Got Style" performed by Skamp. Following the introduction of semi-finals for the , Lithuania, to this point, has never managed to qualify to the final. In the 2005 contest, "Little by Little" performed by Laura and the Lovers failed to qualify to the final.
 
For the 2006 contest, the Lithuanian national broadcaster, Lithuanian National Radio and Television (LRT), broadcast the event within Lithuania and organised the selection process for the nation's entry. Other than the internal selection of their debut entry in 1994, Lithuania has selected their entry consistently through a national final procedure. LRT confirmed their intentions to participate at the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest on 5 October 2005 and announced the organization of "Eurovizijos" dainų konkurso nacionalinė atranka, which would be the national final to select Lithuania's entry for Athens.

Before Eurovision

"Eurovizijos" dainų konkurso nacionalinė atranka 
"Eurovizijos" dainų konkurso nacionalinė atranka (Eurovision Song Contest national selection) was the national final format developed by LRT in order to select Lithuania's entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2006. The competition involved an eight-week-long process that commenced on 14 January 2006 and concluded with a winning song and artist on 4 March 2006. The eight shows took place were hosted by Jurga Šeduikytė and Rolandas Vilkončius and were broadcast on LTV and LTV2 as well as online via the broadcaster's website lrt.lt.

Format 
The Lithuanian broadcaster overhauled the format of the national final from that of previous years. For the 2006 competition, entries initially competed in two different subgroups: newcomers and established artists with more than one year of active stage experience or that had participated in the Lithuanian national final for at least two years. Entries from newcomers were higher in number (28) and therefore three heats consisting of eight or 10 entries each were held during the programme Lietuvos dainų dešimtukas resulting in the top four that advanced in the competition from each show. The remaining 12 entries participated in the fourth show on 4 February where half of the entries were eliminated, leaving six entries remaining in the group. The fifth to seventh shows were the competition's semi-finals where the established artists and the remaining six newcomers participated together for the first time. Nine entries participated in each of the first two semi-finals and the top five proceeded to the final, while seven entries participated in the third semi-final and the top four proceeded to the final. LRT also selected two wildcard acts for the final out of the remaining non-qualifying acts from the semi-finals. In the final, the winner was selected from the remaining 16 entries.