[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Roman Catholic Diocese of Pinerolo

The Diocese of Pinerolo () is a Latin diocese of the Catholic Church in the administrative province of Turin of Piedmont region, Northwestern Italy. It is a suffragan of the Metropolitan archbishopric of Turin.

The bishop's seat is in the Cattedrale di S. Donato in Pinerolo (which dates from the 9th century, and has an architecturally significant campanile). The city also has a former cathedral, now called the Chiesa San Verano ad Abbadia Alpina, It also has a minor basilica, the Basilica of San Maurizio, a Gothic church.

History

French conquest

The ambitions of King Francis I of France with regard to the succession to the Duchy of Milan brought warfare into Savoy and Piedmont. The Emperor Charles V was likewise determined to retain the Duchy of Milan, and his strategy involved the occupation of Provence, making the mountain passes of Savoy of great military importance. This was especially the case at the end of the 17th century with the Duke of Savoy's fortress of Fenestrelle. French troops invaded Piedmont in 1536, and Pinerolo was conquered. The city and the diocese remained under French control until 1574. Louis XIII and Cardinal Richelieu launched a major campaign early in 1629, with the succession to the Duchy of Mantua as the pretext. They spent the Spring of 1629 in Susa, conducting a siege of Pinerolo, but, as it happened, the King fell deathly ill and had to withdraw. In 1630, at the end of the siege, Louis XIII promised the Abbot of Pinerolo that he would outlaw the Waldensian cult, and that he would use his influence with the Vatican to have Pinerolo made a bishopric. Pinerolo was officially handed over to France in 1631 with the treaty of Cherasco, which recognized Victor Amadeus I as the new Duke of Savoy, and was not freed until 1696.

In October 1685 King Louis XIV issued the Edict of Fontainebleau, which cancelled the privileges which had been granted to the Protestants in the Edict of Nantes. On 12 October 1685 the King sent instructions to his ambassador in Turin, the Marquis d'Arcy, to issue the appropriate orders to the Seigneur d'Harleville, the royal agent in Pinerolo, to engage in efforts to convert the inhabitants of the nine valleys in which the Waldensians were permitted to live. The ambassador was also to encourage the Duke of Savoy, the protector of the Waldensians, to the same purpose. Pinerolo thus became the center of efforts at conversion.

Victor Amadeus II,  Duke of Savoy, Marquis of Saluzzo, Duke of Montferrat, Prince of Piedmont, Count of Aosta, Moriana and Nice, was recognized as King of Sardinia in 1720.

In 1743, Carlo Emanuele III established in Pinerolo the Ospizio dei Catecumeni, an institute for those who were converting to the Catholic faith. By decree of the French Republic of 29 January 1799, the institution was suppressed and converted into a charity hospital. It was reestablished after the overthrow of the French, though as the 19th century progressed, increasingly liberal attitudes directed the institution more and more in the direction of charity and less in that of catechetization.

Creation of the diocese

The diocese of Pinerolo was established by Pope Benedict XIV on 23 December 1748, by the bull In sacrosancta, at the request of King Charles Emmanuel III of Sardinia, on Piemontese territories split off from its Metropolitan, the Archdiocese of Torino.

This included territory from the suppressed Abbacy nullius of Santa Maria ad Abbadia Alpina. It was founded in 1064 by Adelaide, Princess of Susa, in Abbadia Alpina, less than two miles west of Pinerolo, which was part of the Marca di Torino (March of Turin). The lands belonging to the abbey were governed by the abbots of Pinerolo, even after the city had established itself as a commune (1200). From 1235, however, Amadeus IV, Count of Savoy exercised over the town a kind of protectorate, which in 1243 became absolute, and was exercised thereafter by the house of Savoy.

In creating the diocese, Pope Benedict XIV noted that the King of Sardinia had ceded to the new diocese his rights over the monastery of Oulx, and had given the palace of the Governor in Pinerolo to be used as the episcopal residence and seminary. The new bishop, Giovanni Battista D'Orlié, however, judged that the palace was not appropriate for a seminary. In 1753 the new diocese received the bequest of his palazzo in Pinerolo from Count Luigi Piccone, the former Governor of Pinerolo and of the city and province of Asti. The bishop was able to preside over the solemn opening of the new seminary on 23 May 1753.