[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 104th Ohio Infantry Regiment

The 104th Ohio Infantry Regiment, sometimes 104th Ohio Volunteer Infantry, was an infantry regiment in the Union army during the American Civil War. It played a conspicuous role at the Battle of Franklin during the 1864 Franklin–Nashville campaign, where six members later received the Medal of Honor, most for capturing enemy flags.

Organization
The 104th OVI  was organized at Camp Massillon on August 30, 1862, under Col. James W. Reilly in response to a need for additional three-years regiments.

Staff:
Col. James Reilly,
Lt. Col. Asa Mariner,
Major Laurin Woodworth,
Adjutant J. Walter McClymonds,
Surgeon K.G. Thomas,
Chaplain M.W. Dallas

 Company A:  Captain Oscar W. Sterl
 Company B:  Captain Jesse Coates
 Company C:  Captain Andrew Bahney
 Company D:  Captain Marcus C. Horton
 Company E:  Captain A.H. Fitch
 Company F:  Captain Joseph F. Riddle
 Company G:  Captain Ezra Coppock
 Company H:  Captain Walter Scott
 Company I:  Captain John Wells
 Company K:  Captain William Jordan

Among the nearly one thousand recruits in the 104th OVI was future United States Congressman Laurin D. Woodworth.

Service record

The regiment moved to Covington, Kentucky, on September 1, 1862, in preparation for the Defense of Cincinnati against a threatened Confederate invasion by troops under Edmund Kirby Smith. It was involved in a skirmish at Fort Mitchel in northern Kentucky.

The regiment spent the rest of 1862 and most of 1863 in Kentucky defending railroads and Union installations against Confederate raiders. In August, it moved with General Ambrose E. Burnside's army to East Tennessee where it participated in the capture, occupation, and defense of Knoxville during the fall and early winter. Following a brutal winter at Strawberry Plains, TN in pursuit of James Longstreet's retreating forces, it was assigned to duty as part of the XXIII Corps for the Atlanta campaign.  It participated in skirmishes at Dallas, Resaca, and throughout the campaign in northern Georgia, including the relief of Sprague's brigade at the Battle of Decatur on July 22, 1864. 

The regiment successfully cut the Atlanta and Macon Railroad on 30 July 1864 as a part of the entire army's flanking movement on Jonesboro. The 104th played a key role in the 1st Brigade, 3rd Division's unsuccessful assault on Confederate fortifications at Utoy Creek on August 6, 1864, where it sustained its heaviest casualties of the war up to that point. 

Following the fall of Atlanta in early September, Schofield's corps was sent north to assist General George Thomas in the defense of Tennessee from General John B. Hood's advancing army.  The 104th and Schofield's army escaped Hood's trap at Spring Hill and helped repel the furious Confederate frontal assault at Franklin, TN, where the Confederate Army of Tennessee suffered over 6,000 casualties. After successfully defeating Hood's forces at Nashville in Dec 1864, Schofield's commanded transferred via Georgia, and Washington D.C., reaching North Carolina for the concluding portion of the Carolinas campaign. The regiment fought a skirmish near Wilmington, NC and was near Raleigh when word came of General Robert E. Lee's surrender at Appomattox, Va.

During its service it was assigned to:
 Reilly's 1st Brigade, Hascall's 3rd Division, Manson's XXIII Corps, Burnside's Army of the Ohio — Knoxville campaign
 Reilly's|Gault's 1st Brigade, Cox's|Reilly's 3rd Division, Cox's XXIII Corps, Schofield's Army of the Ohio —  Atlanta campaign (first phase)
 Reilly's 1st Brigade, Cox's 3rd Division, Schofield's Army of the Ohio —  Atlanta campaign (second phase)
 Reilly's 1st Brigade, Reilly's 3rd Division, Cox's XXIII Corps, Schofield's Army of the Ohio — Battle of Franklin
 Reilly's 1st Brigade, Cox's 3rd Division, Schofield'sXXIII Corps, Thomas' Army of the Cumberland — Battle of Nashville
 Sterl's 1st Brigade, Reilly's/Carter's 3rd Division, Cox's XXIII Corps, Schofield's Army of the Ohio — Carolinas campaign

The 104th OVI mustered out of the army on June 17, 1865.

Detailed service

The 104th OVI's detailed service is as follows (NOTE — Battles are Bolded, Italicized; campaigns are Italicized):

1862
Defence of Cincinnati, Ohio, against Kirby Smith's threatened attack September 2–12, 1862
 Skirmish at Fort Mitchell, Covington, Kentucky, September 10
 Pursuit to Lexington, Kentucky, September 12–15
 Duty at Lexington till December 6
 Moved to Richmond and Danville, Kentucky, in pursuit of Morgan, December 6–26
 Duty at Point Pleasant until October 15, and at Gauley Bridge until December 20
 At Frankfort, Ky., till February 1863