[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Five Eyes

nd meetings with foreign personnel to Chinese authorities. Other security measures include undergoing "pre-departure spying education" and leave their electronic devices at home and bring new ones abroad. These measures came at a time of heightened tensions between China and the Five Eyes countries.

In mid-December 2021, the United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken along with the Foreign Ministers of Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United Kingdom issued a joint statement criticising the exclusion of opposition candidates, the Hong Kong national security law, and urging China to respect human rights and freedoms in Hong Kong in accordance with the Sino-British Joint Declaration.  In response, the Chinese Government claimed the Hong Kong elections were fair and criticised the Five Eyes for interfering in Hong Kong's domestic affairs.

2023 meeting
In October 2023, the first known public meeting of the Five Eyes leaders occurred, at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, California, USA. They had been meeting in private at nearby Palo Alto. Present were:
 Australia's ASIO Director General Mike Burgess,
 Canada's CSIS head David Vigneault,
 New Zealand's NZSIS Director General Andrew Hampton,
 UK's Director General of MI5 Ken McCallum, and
 USA's FBI Director Christopher Wray.

Matters covered in public statements included:
 the death in Canada of Hardeep Singh Nijjar
 Chinese state-backed hackers

Domestic espionage sharing controversy 

One of the core principles is that members do not spy on other governments in the alliance. US Director of National Intelligence Admiral Dennis C. Blair said in 2013: "We do not spy on each other. We just ask."

In recent years, documents of the FVEY have shown that they are intentionally spying on one another's citizens and sharing the collected information with each other, although the FVEYs countries claim that all intelligence sharing was done legally, according to the domestic law of the respective nations. Shami Chakrabarti, the director of the advocacy group Liberty, claimed that the FVEY alliance increases the ability of member states to "subcontract their dirty work" to each other. The former NSA contractor Edward Snowden described the FVEY as a "supra-national intelligence organisation that doesn't answer to the laws of its own countries". While many claims of illegal intelligence sharing among FVEY nations have been made, only once has any FVEY intelligence agency been shown to have broken the law with intelligence sharing in Canada.

As a result of Snowden's disclosures, the FVEY alliance has become the subject of a growing amount of controversy in parts of the world: