[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Elazar Stern

Elazar Stern () is an Israeli politician and military general.  He was a major general (res.) in the Israel Defense Forces, serving as Head of the Manpower Directorate, commander of the IDF Officers Training School, and Chief Education Officer, as well as a combat soldier and commander in the Paratroopers Brigade. He has served as a Member of Knesset for eight years, first, as a member of the Hatnuah party, and then in 2015 he joined the Yesh Atid, and served as the Minister of Intelligence between 2021 and 2022.

Early life and family 
Stern was born in 1956 in Tel Aviv to Sara and Levi, both of whom are Holocaust survivors. He and his wife Dorit have five children and fourteen grandchildren. They live in Mitzpe Hoshaya, a community settlement in the Galilee they founded together with friends some 30 years ago.

Education

Stern holds a bachelor's degree in Land of Israel studies and economics from Bar-Ilan University, an Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA) from the Kellogg-Recanati International program of Tel Aviv and Northwestern Universities, and a master's degree in Strategic Resource Management from the National Defense University in Washington, D.C.

Parliament and Government Roles

Stern has served as an MK since the Nineteenth Knesset and has been a member of the Constitution, Law and Justice Committee; the Finance Committee; and the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee. He spearheaded parliamentary efforts to address issues of religion and state and the Jewish and democratic discourse in the Knesset.
Among other bills Stern was involved in passing, he sponsored the Conversion Law (Temporary Order); the Shabbat and Jewish Holidays Law; and the Authorization to Provide Supervision and Regulation over Kashrut Services Law. He chaired the Religion and State Caucus, the Caucus for Ethiopian Immigrant Soldiers, and the Parliamentary Caucus for Holocaust Survivors, through which he fought to expand the resources provided to Holocaust survivors in Israel. He also chaired the Caucus for the Promotion of Israeli Music.

Stern spearheaded the approval of the government resolution regarding the reform of the conversion system in Israel, which eased the conversion process by establishing tribunals headed by city rabbis. He was a prominent member of the Committee for Equal Sharing of the Burden along with the Yesh Atid parliamentary group, in which he fought to extend the military service of soldiers from Hesder Yeshivas.

In the Twentieth Knesset, he and MK Avi Dichter (then the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee) sponsored the law to freeze funds that the Palestinian Authority received from the Government of Israel and used in conjunction with terrorism.

In June 2021, Stern was appointed Minister of Intelligence in the new government. As Minister he is leading the ministry in building a national intelligence office whose main principles are future planning for crises and major events facing the State of Israel on multiple levels, with an emphasis on trends in the national-civil-international sectors for the Israeli government.

Military service
In 1974, Stern enlisted in the IDF and served with the Paratroopers Brigade, where he held a series
of command positions, including battalion commander. In 1976, he became an infantry officer after completing Officer Candidate School and returned to the Paratroopers Brigade as a platoon leader. Stern took part in various raids against terrorist camps in Lebanon, and served as a Company commander in the 890 "Efe" (Echis) paratroop company. Stern fought in the 1982 Lebanon War, and later on commanded Paratroopers Brigade's training base and the 202 paratroop battalion in South Lebanon.  In 1987, he was released from military service and became a teacher to gifted high school students in Nof HaGalil.
Several years later, Stern re-enlisted in the IDF for career service and continued to fill command
positions in the field units; deputy commander of a territorial brigade on the northern border,
brigade commander, commander of the IDF Officers Training School (Bahad 1), and commander of
an armored division (reserves).