[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Democratic media

The mass media is one of the main factors that determine the public opinion which oftentimes leads to public action. Some argue that utilizing more democratic media  sources would help to inform the people and bring the power back to the people by letting them influence the media that they consume.

Others believe that in order to truly be considered a democracy a country must have a democratic media. These believers argue that a country who considers themselves a democracy should not have a media controlled by the powerful and privileged elite. They argue that a media run in this way will misinform the public and show what will support their own agendas. A system run this way could have catastrophic effects on society and the publics perception as they will only be told what the elite want. This could lead to misinformation, poverty, or even war.

Democratic Media Struggles

Africa 
Zimbabwe sees journalists arrested regularly. Many of the news sources within the country have been banned such as The Daily News being banned in 2003 and the weekly Tribune being banned in 2004.  These news outlets were all shut down by the government for various different reasons such as violations to the Access to Information and Protection of Privacy Act and for hiring unaccredited journalists. The Zimbabwean government also limits the international press's ability to report from within the country.

In 2010, South Africa had a large stalemate over a proposed bill between the African National Congress (ANC) and print media who both had differing views on the role of media within society. The ANC argued that local news often misreported the news and the local print media argued that they accurately depicted the news and wanted to move towards a more democratic media. The argument displayed two differing views on the role of media within society. The ANC believed that media should have little freedom and be controlled by the government while the media sources believed that media should have complete freedom and be based on democracy. Within Zimbabwe, there are many policies made by the government that can sometimes favor certain demographics over others. Often when the media reports on these policies to inform the public, they are threatened or shut down by the government.

See also 
Citizen media
Independent media
Indymedia
Media democracy
Propaganda model

References 

Mass media issues
Alternative media