[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bet Tzedek Legal Services – The House of Justice

Bet Tzedek is an American non-profit human and poverty rights organization based in Los Angeles, California. 

Bet Tzedek embraces the fundamental commitment of achieving full and equal access to justice for all people. Their social justice philosophy was rooted in a central tenet of Jewish law and teaching: "Tzedek, tzedek tirdof – Justice, justice you shall pursue."

The organization offers support to the nearly two million residents of L.A. who live in poverty.

History
Bet Tzedek was founded in 1974 by a group of Jewish attorneys determined to address the human rights issues and humanitarian needs endemic to Los Angeles. The group's volunteer attorneys provided free legal representation to Los Angeles residents who would otherwise not be able to afford it. As the need skyrocketed throughout the mid-1970s, Bet Tzedek rapidly evolved from a part-time, volunteer-run organization into a comprehensive, full-service center providing free legal aid to all of Los Angeles.

By 1977, Bet Tzedek's lawyers had won several landmark cases, including successfully blocking the illegal evictions of low-income elderly residents of Venice, California's Cadillac Hotel. Bet Tzedek's victory resulted in health and safety renovations and guaranteed the residents' right to remain at the hotel for the rest of their lives at their current low rents.   
  
In 1984, Bet Tzedek won a landmark decision that provided support to thousands of low-income, elderly Holocaust survivors.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit ruled in favor of Felicia Grunfeder, a Bet Tzedek client and Holocaust survivor who had been denied disability benefits because she received a small survivors’ reparations payment.  After multiple appeals, the federal courts ruled that Holocaust reparations payments cannot preclude disability payments, and state and federal legislation subsequently codified the decision.

Bet Tzedek provided emergency legal services during and in the aftermath of the 1992 Los Angeles riots, when four LAPD officers were acquitted in the beating of black motorist Rodney King.  The issues central to the riots – racial profiling, civil rights abuses, endemic poverty, poor housing conditions, and unemployment – were also central to Bet Tzedek's work. Advocates continued to see clients at senior centers in the central city during the riots. L.A. Mayor Tom Bradley later commended Bet Tzedek for providing services during and after the civil unrest. 

In the early 1990s, Bet Tzedek sued a national HMO alleging fraud and deceptive sales practices in the HMO's racially targeted victimization of elderly Spanish-speaking enrollees. Ensuing media coverage prompted a federal investigation and a stockholder suit against the company and Bet Tzedek successfully settled the underlying case.

Following the 1994 Northridge earthquake, Bet Tzedek provided emergency assistance to earthquake victims with housing issues, home improvement fraud, and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) claims. For low-income victims, Bet Tzedek was the sole source of free advocacy.

In 1995, Bet Tzedek initiatives revealed disturbingly negligent conditions in Los Angeles area nursing homes. To address this, Bet Tzedek sponsored major state legislation that provided new standards and protections for low-income elderly residents who were most at risk for elder abuse. In 1999, Bet Tzedek's lawsuit against Hillhaven, one of the largest nursing home chains in the country, resulted in the company agreeing to change business practices that violated state and federal law and led to financial hardship for residents and their families.

In 1998, Bet Tzedek brought a major class-action suit with pro bono counsel against 16 European-based insurance companies who refused to honor insurance policies purchased by Jews who perished in the Holocaust. With up to 60% of all survivors living in poverty, this advocacy provided desperately needed resources. This advocacy continues to this day, as Bet Tzedek assists survivors with issues centered in the governments of former Nazi nations.

In 2001, when 61% of Los Angeles apparel contractors were violating wage and hour laws, Bet Tzedek opened the Employment Rights Project in the San Fernando Valley in response to the growing numbers of “working poor” in Los Angeles, who remained in poverty despite working full-time as garment workers, day laborers, domestics, carwash employees, and gardeners.

In 2002, Bet Tzedek investigated the city's most-convicted slumlord, discovering multiple fraudulent practices. After filing a lawsuit, Bet Tzedek obtained a major settlement requiring the slumlord to pay $1 million to the City of L.A. and submit to ongoing monitoring of his business practices by Bet Tzedek.

In 2004, Bet Tzedek helped pass a new state law and established a new legal precedent protecting garment workers, ensuring the safety and proper treatment of hundreds of thousands of workers in L.A. alone.