[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ecuadorian–Colombian War

imself in Cuaspud on December 3.

Battle of Cuaspud 

García Moreno orders General Flores to mobilize towards the north of Ecuador almost all of the existing battalions in the territory, around 8,200 infantrymen and 1,150 Horsemen distributed in 4 divisions: Draquea, Salvador, Maldonado and Dávalos.

The first division, Draquea, was made up of the 2nd battalions from Pichincha, 1st, 2nd, 3rd from Imbabura and Babahoyo; the second division, Salvador, from the battalions of Guayas, Yaguachi, León and Oriente; the 3rd Division, Maldonado, from the 1st, 2nd Avengers, Chimborazo and Daule, and the 4th Division, Dávalos, from the 1st and 2nd Regiments and the Artillery Brigade; The Chiefs of the battalions of the First Division were, in order: Sáenz, Dalgo, Conde, Echanique and Rivadeneira; those of the 2nd: Pereira, Viteri, Echeverría and Mata; those of the 3rd, Espinoza, Aparicio, Larrea and Campuzano; those of the 4th, Maldonado, Ventimilla and Salazar.

General Tomas Cipriano de Mosquera mobilized 4,000 soldiers and 120 horsemen, the latter commanded by Colonel Acero, in such a way that only three divisions led by Generals Sánchez, Rudensindo López, and Colonel Gregorio Rincón could be organized. The battalions that were able to get ready to fight were the Amalia, the Bomboná, the Pasto, the 2nd and 5th Vargas, the Cariaco, the Pichincha, the Voltígeros, the Tiradores, the Bogotá, the Guitarra, the Palacé and the Granaderos. The main chiefs of these corps were General Bohórquez, General Armero (head of the 4-cannon artillery), General Anzola, General Pedro Marcos de la Rosa, and Colonels Vezga, Manuel Guzmán, José Chaves, Miguel Ángel Portillo. , Escarraga, Soto and Castillo.

At the beginning of December, Mosquera took a map, and after observing the siege of Cuaspud (current department of Nariño), he pointed to it with a pin exclaiming: "here I have to annul the cavalry of Flores". At this point was located a border farm with Ecuador, which was characterized by being swampy, with its hills and mudflats completely hidden by thick wild vegetation, a natural product of stagnant moisture as in a large mud lake. On the afternoon of December 4, the Colombian army arrived at the town of Cumbal and the Ecuadorian army stationed itself at the Chautalá hacienda, in front of the first town. On December 5, Flores received the last troop reinforcement sent from Tulcán by Colonel Gómez de la Torre; all these movements announced the proximity of combat.

Flores had no campaign plan, he only moved as his adversary moved. On December 6, Mosquera ordered that the Cumbal camp be raised and he headed towards Carchi, the foregoing due to the loss of part of the horses and oxen that loaded the cannons; Flores immediately set his eight thousand soldiers on the move, sending the 1st and 2nd Avengers battalions and three hundred horsemen in the direction of Mosquera, the two sides suddenly meeting on the slopes of the hill called Cuaspud, so close that they were almost point-blank fire. With a feigned order to his lieutenant General Payan, Mosquera made believe that he would attack Quito, Flores charged and Payan feigned retreat to Cuaspud; when the Ecuadorians fell into the swamp, Payan attacked with violence while Mosquera, with fresh troops, crowned the victory.

This move by Mosquera and his army managed to place it on the hill, interposed between Flores and El Carchi and also defended to a large extent by the deep swamps that had the appearance of simple pastures. When the battle began on December 6, 1863, more than 1,200 cavalrymen of the Ecuadorian forces were trapped, being shot by Colombian riflemen. The rest of the army fled, falling more than three thousand prisoners between officers and subordinates, who under the promise of not taking up arms against Mosquera, were released.

After the failure of the battle, many Ecuadorian soldiers flee, seeking refuge in nearby houses and even in towns near the battlefield.

Mosquera, after the battle, advanced to Carlosama, where he established his military headquarters. On December 7, he received a letter from Flores, dated Tusa, in which he proposed peace. The Colombian president agreed to it, and to negotiate it he commissioned General Antonio Gonzales Carazo; On December 21, the following armistice was signed in Ibarra

Consequence 
Mosquera agreed with Ecuador, recognizing the already existing limits, non-interference in mutual internal affairs and a permanent peace agreement. Consequently, there were never any more border disputes between these two countries. Mosquera consolidated its internal power and Ecuador was able to do the same, since it fully concentrated against the Urbinist invasion.

Clarifications 
This conflict is confused with another that occurred decades before, called the "War of the Cauca"in the year of 1832

References

External links
 (Colombia) New Granada-Ecuador War 1863
 Augustine Berthe biography of Garcia Moreno