[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Institute for Transuranium Elements

the 2004 annual report from the ITU some results of the PIE on PHEBUS (FPT2) fuel are reported. PHEBUS is a series of experiments where fuel was overheated and damaged under very strictly controlled conditions, in order to obtain data on what would happen in a serious nuclear power reactor accident.

Waste forms 
The long-term performance of waste and the systems designed to isolate it from "man and his environment" are studied here. For instance the corrosion of uranium dioxide is studied at the ITU.

Spent fuel characterisation 
The ITU performs Post Irradiation Examination of spent nuclear fuel.

Partitioning and transmutation 
Partitioning is the separation of nuclear wastes into different elements, see nuclear reprocessing for more details. The ITU is involved in both aqueous and pyro separation methods. They have published papers on the DIAMEX process.

See nuclear transmutation for details.

Measurement of radioactivity in the environment 
The ITU is funded by the European Union, and theoretically has no "pro-" or "anti-nuclear" policy. The ITU is able to examine environmental samples in order to decide if dangerous levels of radioactive contamination are present. For instance hot particles found on a beach in Scotland near Dounreay were examined at the ITU.Page 375 of http://www-pub.iaea.org/MTCD/Publications/PDF/Pub1169_web.pdf

Much of this work is aimed at the measurement of very low levels of radioactivity; the ITU's analytical service uses inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry to measure most radioactive isotopes with greater sensitivity than those possible with direct radiometric measurements.

Nuclear security and safeguards 
The ITU has a service which assists police and other law enforcement organisations by examining any seized radioactive or nuclear material. Materials are analysed to discover what they are, where they come from, and what possible use they might have been.

Karlsruhe Nuclide Chart
The ITU manages the various versions and editions of the Karlsruhe Nuclide Chart.

References

External links 

 Institute for Transuranium Elements 
 Karlsruhe Nuclide Chart

Nuclear medicine organizations
International research institutes
Research institutes in Germany
Nuclear reprocessing sites
Nuclear technology in Germany
Nuclear research institutes