[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# LGBT rights in Iceland

Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) rights in Iceland rank among the highest in the world.

Same-sex couples have had equal access to adoption and IVF since 2006. In February 2009, a minority government took office, headed by Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the world's first openly gay head of government in modern times. The Icelandic Parliament amended the country's marriage law on 11 June 2010 by a unanimous vote to define marriage as between two individuals, thereby making same-sex marriage legal. The law took effect on 27 June 2010.

In 2019, Iceland made gender-affirming healthcare accessible via informed consent.

Legality of same-sex sexual activity
According to a 2020 study, "scholars have found that it was with modernization and increasing urbanization in the latter half of the nineteenth century that same-sex sexual acts between consenting men became thought of as criminal."

A law criminalizing same-sex sexual activity was repealed in 1940. In 1992, the age of consent was set at 14, and in 2007 it was raised to 15, regardless of gender and sexual orientation.

Recognition of same-sex relationships

Registered partnerships for same-sex couples became legal in 1996. The legislation, known as the Law on Registered Partnerships (), was replaced by a gender-neutral marriage law on 27 June 2010. Upon registering their partnerships, same-sex couples were granted many of the same rights, responsibilities and benefits as marriage, including the ability to adopt stepchildren.

On 23 March 2010, the Government of Iceland presented a bill which would allow same-sex couples to marry. On 11 June 2010, Parliament unanimously approved the bill, 49 votes to 0. The law took effect on 27 June. That day, Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir married her partner Jónína Leósdóttir, becoming one of the first same-sex couples to marry in Iceland.

In October 2015, the Church of Iceland voted to allow same-sex couples to marry in its churches.

Adoption and family planning

On 27 June 2006, Icelandic same-sex couples became eligible to a range of laws including public access to IVF insemination treatment and joint adoption of children. Stepchild adoption (where a person can adopt their partner's biological child) has been permitted in Iceland since 2000.

Discrimination protections
In 1996, the Althing passed amendments to the Icelandic Penal Code, adding sexual orientation to the country's non-discrimination law. This made it illegal to refuse people goods or services on account of their sexual orientation, or to attack a person or group of people publicly with mockery, defamation, abuse or threats because of their sexual orientation. In 2014, the Parliament approved an amendment to the Penal Code, adding gender identity to the list of anti-discrimination grounds.

Since 2008, it has been illegal to discriminate against people on the basis of their sexual orientation in education.

Until 2018, Iceland possessed no laws prohibiting employment discrimination on any grounds. A committee that Welfare Minister Eygló Harðardóttir founded in 2014 handed in its conclusions in November 2016, advising the Parliament to pass a general discrimination law. Such a law would include protections on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity and sex characteristics. On 11 June 2018, the Parliament approved a law banning employment discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sex characteristics, among others. The law, known as the Law on Equal Treatment in the Workplace (), took effect on 1 September 2018.

Transgender and intersex rights
On 11 June 2012, the Icelandic Parliament voted in favor of a new law relaxing rules surrounding gender identity and allowing comprehensive recognition regarding recognition of acquired gender and enacting gender identity protections. These laws were enacted on 27 June 2012. The laws state that the National University Hospital of Iceland is obligated to create a department dedicated to diagnosing gender dysphoria, as well as performing sex reassignment surgery (SRS). After successfully completing an 18-month process, including living 12 months in accordance with their gender, applicants appear before a committee of professionals. If the committee determines that a diagnosis of gender dysphoria is appropriate, the National Registry is informed and the applicant chooses a new name to reflect their gender and is issued a new ID. SRS is not required for an official name change and gender recognition.