[Source: PubMed]

76. Physiol Meas. 2020 Dec 18;41(11):11TR01. doi: 10.1088/1361-6579/abc4c7.

A review of fetal cardiac monitoring, with a focus on low- and middle-income 
countries.

Valderrama CE(1), Ketabi N(2), Marzbanrad F(3), Rohloff P(4)(5), Clifford 
GD(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Data Intelligence for Health Lab, Cumming School of Medicine, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(2)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Electrical and Computer Systems Engineering, Monash University, 
Clayton, VIC, Australia.
(4)Wuqu' Kawoq, Maya Health Alliance, Santiago Sacatepéquez, Guatemala.
(5)Division of Global Health Equity, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, 
United States of America.
(6)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA, United States of America.

There is limited evidence regarding the utility of fetal monitoring during 
pregnancy, particularly during labor and delivery. Developed countries rely on 
consensus 'best practices' of obstetrics and gynecology professional societies 
to guide their protocols and policies. Protocols are often driven by the desire 
to be as safe as possible and avoid litigation, regardless of the cost of 
downstream treatment. In high-resource settings, there may be a justification 
for this approach. In low-resource settings, in particular, interventions can be 
costly and lead to adverse outcomes in subsequent pregnancies. Therefore, it is 
essential to consider the evidence and cost of different fetal monitoring 
approaches, particularly in the context of treatment and care in low-to-middle 
income countries. This article reviews the standard methods used for fetal 
monitoring, with particular emphasis on fetal cardiac assessment, which is a 
reliable indicator of fetal well-being. An overview of fetal monitoring 
practices in low-to-middle income counties, including perinatal care access 
challenges, is also presented. Finally, an overview of how mobile technology may 
help reduce barriers to perinatal care access in low-resource settings is 
provided.

DOI: 10.1088/1361-6579/abc4c7
PMCID: PMC9216228
PMID: 33105122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]