[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mike Brant

Mike Brant (born Moshe Michael Brand, , 1 February 1947 – 25 April 1975) was an Israeli singer and songwriter who achieved fame after moving to France. His most successful hit was "Laisse-moi t'aimer" ("Let Me Love You"). Brant died by suicide at the height of his career by jumping from a window of an apartment in Paris. He was known for his vocal range going from baritone to high tenor and also a very high and powerful falsetto.

Early life
Mike Brant's Jewish parents were from Poland. His mother, Bronia Rosenberg, originally from Łódź, was a survivor of the Auschwitz concentration camp. His father, Fishel Brand, from Biłgoraj, had been a resistance fighter during World War II, and was 20 years his wife's senior. His parents married following the war, and they applied to emigrate to Mandatory Palestine, but were initially denied permission by the British authorities. They attempted to reach Mandatory Palestine by sea on an Aliyah Bet ship which was intercepted by the British, and were sent to a British internment camp for illegal Jewish immigrants at Famagusta, Cyprus. Mike was born in Cyprus on 1 February 1947. In September 1947, eight months before Israeli independence, the family arrived in Mandatory Palestine after being included in a British quota for Jewish immigration. They initially settled in kibbutz Gvat but soon moved to Haifa, where Mike grew up. In 1950, his younger brother Zvi was born. Mike Brant did not start speaking until six years of age. During his childhood, he loved to sing and dreamed of being a famous musician. Some of his early musical exposure came while attending synagogue, where he was exposed to music through prayers and religious hymns. He told his family and friends that when he grew up he'd be "a star... or a tramp!" He joined his school's choir at age 11, becoming the only boy to do so. He did not integrate well in school, and at age 13 moved to kibbutz Gesher as a boarder, where he studied and worked in agriculture for two years before returning to his family home in Haifa, claiming that life on the kibbutz did not suit him. He subsequently worked in a variety of casual jobs, including as a guard at the Clandestine Immigration and Naval Museum. He also took drama lessons at the Haifa Theater.

Musical career
When he was 17, Moshe Brand joined his brother's band, "The Chocolates", as lead singer. The band performed at parties and cafés in Haifa and Tel Aviv, and moved on to nightclubs in hotels. At age 18, he was not drafted into the Israel Defense Forces for the usual three-year period of military service expected of most Israeli Jewish men after having been granted a medical exemption due to having undergone surgery for a stomach ulcer at age 15. He had hoped to serve as a singer in a military ensemble. He carried on his musical career, and sang in English and French despite knowing only Hebrew. In 1965, he changed his name from Moshe to Mike because it sounded more international. At age 19, he was discovered by the Israeli impresario Yonatan Karmon and left The Chocolates to join Karmon's dance troupe. He toured internationally with Karmon's troupe, participating in shows in the United States, South Africa, and Australia, performing as Michael Sela. His repertoire included Israeli and French songs as well as some American songs, especially by Frank Sinatra. He also gave performances mimicking Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy. After two years, he left Karmon's troupe and returned to Israel. He performed as a solo artist at the Tel Aviv Hilton and gave shows abroad.

In May 1969, Brant performed at the Baccara Club at the Hilton Hotel in Tehran, Iran. A young French singer, Sylvie Vartan, also on the bill, was impressed and urged him to come to Paris. Brant arrived on 9 July 1969. It took ten days to find Vartan but eventually she introduced him to the producer Jean Renard, who had turned Johnny Hallyday into a star. Under Renard's guidance, he changed his surname from Brand to Brant, and recorded his biggest hit, "Laisse-moi t'aimer" ("Let Me Love You"). The song was a success at the Midem music festival in January 1970. "Laisse-moi t'aimer" sold 50,000 copies in two weeks.