[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sabarmati Riverfront

system intercepts 38 former sewage and industrial effluent discharge points and route it to sewage treatment plants south of Vasna Barrage.

It enabled the groundwater recharge and the recreational facilities like boating in the river. There are also plans to replenish river by treated sewage water.

Streets
The roads along the both banks are constructed for the easy movement of traffic along north–south direction. They are constructed with footpaths, parking bays, carriage ways and cycle tracks. The roads leading to river are strengthened for better movement and access. The West River Drive decongestants the Ashram Road and has  RoW. The East River Drive provides better north–south access to east part of the city and direct road to airport. It has  RoW.

Recreation and amenities

Amenities

The two-level promenade is planned and the lower promenade is already constructed. These promenades provide continuous  long walkway along the river on the east side and  on west side. The width of the promenade varies from 6 to 18 metres. The 31 Ghats are constructed at regular interval along the lower promenade for access to the water. The boating stations are constructed for recreational purpose and for water-based public transport in the future. Three such stations are open.

The  Events Ground is an event ground with infrastructure facilities. It serves as open venue for variety of purpose and revenue source for the project. The lawn is spread over  and can host over 50,000 people. The  laundry campus with seven blocks opened in February 2014. It has washing areas on the ground level and drying facilities on the terraces. Fourteen public utilities are constructed. A seven storey parking was opened in September 2023 near SVP Hospital.

The Sabarmati Ashram will be also connected to lower promenade and existing steps will be developed as an amphitheater. The 3.3 ha Heritage Plaza along the city walls between Ellis Bridge and Nehru Bridge will be designed as open space showcasing heritage, history and culture of the city. Some sports complexes are also proposed.

Atal Pedestrian Bridge connects both banks of the river.

Parks and gardens

Nearly 26% of the reclaimed land will be used for the parks and gardens to enhance environment and for public recreation. Some parks are already constructed and expanded while others are under construction and proposed.

The 6 ha park near Subhash Bridge built at the cost of . It is spread over an area of 60,000 sq m, has of a lotus lake, amphitheatre, stepwell and 2-km long walkway. It was opened in October 2013. The 1.8 ha park near Usmanpura were opened in October 2013. The 5 ha Riverfront Flower Park, spread over 45,000 sq m, houses 330 native and exotic flower species. It was constructed at the cost of  and opened in March 2016. The children's park near Dafnala is opened in 2019.

The 10.4 ha urban forest is built in Paldi which is divided in two parts by Ambedkar Bridge. The north part serves as garden while the south part is a biodiversity park. It will cost . The Riverfront Biodiversity Park, spread over two hectares land, houses around 7000 trees of over 120 species and 35 species of native as well as migratory birds such as boot-headed eagle, egrets, ibis, white-throated kingfisher, purple swamphen and sparrows. Some species of butterflies and snakes are also there. The SRFDL used the Miyawaki method of plantation with five saplings per square metre of land. It planted around 70,000 saplings on land between Ambedkar bridge and Sport Club.

The 0.9 ha amusement park is also proposed near Dadhichi bridge. The 1.4 ha Peace Garden at Khanpur is proposed as a park as well as location for concerts and outdoor performances.

Markets
Several markets, vending areas, business and event grounds are planned. Ravivari or Gujari Bazar, the informal Sunday Market held under Ellis Bridge is moved to the new location near Gaekwad Haveli. The open air market has function arrangement of zones and 1641 platforms for vendors. It was opened to the public in February 2014. The 5.7 ha Exhibition Centre, a trade-fair facility, is proposed on the eastern bank of the river. The 0.5 ha plaza at Vallabhsadan is also proposed as a market along upper promenade.

Sports complexes
Three sports complexes are proposed; at Paldi (7.1 ha) for city-level sports, at Pirana (4.2 ha) for informal sports and at Shahpur (2.3 ha). The Paldi and Shahpur sports complexes were opened in September 2023.