[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Firearms regulation in South Africa

vate collection

This permit allows the holder to possess any:
piece or pieces of firearms ammunition (NOTE: Not required for people who have licences for other guns)

Licence to possess firearm, and permit to possess ammunition, in public collection

Licence to possess firearm for business purposes

This licence allows the holder to possess any:
firearm that isn't prohibited
The Registrar may issue a licence in terms of this section to:
a security company;
a person who is accredited to provide training in the use of firearms;
a person who is accredited to provide firearms for use in theatrical, film or television productions;
a person who is accredited as a professional hunter;
a person who is accredited to conduct business in hunting; or
any person who is accredited to use firearms for such other business purpose as the Registrar may determine

Legal framework

The Firearms Control Act 60 of 2000 & Regulations, together with amendments and regulations form the legal framework for gun ownership in South Africa. All current firearms owners, approximately 2.6 to 3 million according to the SA Central Firearm Registry (which is less than 6% of the population), are required by the Act to re-register their firearms. Its constitutionality is currently being challenged in two high-profile cases.

The South African Hunters Association has successfully challenged the transitional provisions to the implementation of the act, meaning that the full implementation of the Act has been placed on hold for several years now. The government has failed to challenge the interim ruling of North Gauteng High Court Judge Bill Prinsloo. The South African Gunowners Association (SAGA) have applied to have Bill Prinsloo's interim judgement confirmed and made permanently binding. Other parties including Gun Owners of South Africa (GOSA) have raised constitutional challenges to aspects of the FCA in particular the government's non-compliance with compensation aspects of the law. The argument is that if a citizen is deprived of property, e.g. the surrender of a firearm, due to compliance with the act, the government must compensate the citizen for lost property, as is provided for in the act.

Criticism and legal challenges

The Black Gun Owners Association of South Africa (BGOASA) is challenging the loss of revenue and employment, and is seeking compensation for the loss of income. Furthermore, it is challenging the political motivations of the act as Abios Khoele, chairperson of the Black Gun Owners Association, told a press briefing in Johannesburg: "This government is hell-bent on disarming black people because they've made so many service delivery promises to them which they have not fulfilled. They are scared that if blacks are armed they will turn on the government."

In July 2010, the BGOASA, filed a R3.2 Billion lawsuit against the government in regard to the poor implementation of the firearms act, claiming 40,000 Black people were refused firearm licences between 2004 and 2010. which is claimed to have cost 10,000 jobs in the firearms sector and closed 800 shops. Licensing takes over two years to process before revenue can be recognised or is arbitrarily dismissed and rejected by the police. These two factors lead to many dealers not being able to maintain their businesses, in light of greatly reduced revenues.

On 30 November 2012, the Supreme Court of Appeal dismissed an order brought by a group of gun owners that would have compelled the minister of police to pay compensation for all firearms voluntarily surrendered for destruction under the Firearms Control Act 2000.

Illegal possession 
Official statistics show that more than 12,900 people were arrested for possessing illegal firearms from 2020 to 2021. The Democratic Alliance party alleges that more than 3,400 police firearms had been unaccounted for during the five years preceding 2022. Following a spate of shootings in July 2022 that killed 22 persons using weapons such as AK-47 rifles, South Africa Police Minister Bheki Cele said they would search house to house to find illegal guns.

References

External links
 Firearms Control Act, 2000 (Act 60 of 2000)
 Gun Free South Africa
 Gun Owners of South Africa
 South African Gunowners Association

South_Africa
Law of South Africa