[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Serena Deeb

was eliminated from the tournament in the second round by Piper Niven. It was announced on February 8, 2018, that Deeb has been signed by WWE to become a coach at the Performance Center in Orlando, Florida. She was released on April 15, 2020, amid company-wide cutbacks due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 All Elite Wrestling (2020–present) 
Deeb made her All Elite Wrestling (AEW) debut on September 2, 2020, episode of Dynamite, losing to NWA Women's Champion, Thunder Rosa. On September 21, AEW announced that she had signed with the promotion. On September 22, in her first appearance on AEW Dark, Deeb defeated Kilynn King, gaining her first victory in AEW. On October 27, 2020, Deeb faced Rosa again during United Wrestling Network's Primetime Live event, where Deeb defeated Rosa to become the NWA World Women's Champion for the first time in her career. Deeb also defeated Rosa on the November 18 edition of AEW Dynamite by retaining her NWA Women's title.

On the February 17, 2021, episode of Dynamite, Deeb competed in the AEW Women's World Title Eliminator Tournament, where Deeb lost to Riho in the first round at the American bracket. On March 5, Deeb confirmed that she injured her left knee. On May 19, Deeb returned to action taking on Red Velvet defending her championship, Deeb defeated Velvet resulting in Deeb retaining her NWA Women's title. At When Our Shadows Fall, Deeb lost the NWA Women's title to Kamille. On the October 6 episode of Dynamite, Deeb turned heel by attacking Hikaru Shida after she defeated her in a match. On October 27 episode of Dynamite Deeb had a rematch with Shida in the AEW TBS women's championship tournament which Deeb lost and resulted in Deeb attacking Shida again. Deeb would then start using the nickname “the professor” and hosting a “5 minute rookie challenge” where she dominates her inexperienced adversaries.

 Personal life 
Outside the ring, Deeb works as a yoga instructor. Deeb also works backstage for AEW as a coach for both men's and women's matches. In an interview with The Flagship to promote All Elite Wrestling in October 2022, Deeb mentioned, "I’ve been coaching a little less because I’ve been wrestling more."

 Championships and accomplishments 

Florida Championship Wrestling
Queen of FCW (1 time)
Great Lakes Championship Wrestling
GLCW Ladies Championship (1 time)
International Catch Wrestling Alliance
NWA France Women's Championship (1 time)
Memphis Championship Wrestling
MCW Women's Championship (1 time)
National Wrestling Alliance
NWA World Women's Championship (1 time)
Ohio Valley Wrestling
OVW Women's Championship (6 times)Pro Wrestling IllustratedRanked No. 11 in the top 150 female wrestlers in the PWI Women's 150 in 2021
 Ranked No. 16 of the top 50 female wrestlers in the  PWI Female 50'' in 2011
Wrestling New Classic
WNC Women's Championship (1 time)
WNC Women's Championship League (2013)

References

External links

 

1986 births
21st-century American women
21st-century female professional wrestlers
Living people
All Elite Wrestling personnel
American female professional wrestlers
American yoga teachers
Indiana University Southeast alumni
Oakton High School alumni
Professional wrestlers from Virginia
Professional wrestling trainers
Sportspeople from Fairfax County, Virginia
People from Oakton, Virginia
OVW Women's Champions
Queen of FCW