[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# DAM (band)

friend Booba (Hussam Abu Gazazae) was shot down and killed during a drive-by, an incident that drove Tamer to record his first protest song with a political reference.
A cover of Abd al Majeed Abdalla's song "Ya Tayeb al Galb", the song was called "Booba" and featured Ibraheem Sakallah in the hook.

(2000-2005) Second Intifada period 
With the onset of the Second Intifada in October 2000, DAM and Subliminal stopped touring together due to their opposing political opinions. That same year, DAM wrote their first direct political song, "Posheem Hapim me Peshaa' – Innocent Criminals." It was recorded over an instrumental of "Hail Mary"  by Tupac, and featured inciting lines such as "When Jews protest, the cops use clubs / When Arabs protest, the cops takes their souls" and "If it is a democracy, how come I'm not mentioned in your Anthem" followed by the chorus "Before you judge me, before you understand me, walk in my shoes, and you will hurt your feet, because we are criminal, innocent criminals." The song created controversy in the Israeli media, and it put DAM in conflict with some Israeli rappers, such as Subliminal, with much of the subsequent fall-out being recorded in the documentary Channels of Rage. Despite the controversy, the song was later remixed by the Israeli rock musician Aviv Geffen, with American-Israeli director Udi Aloni making a music video for the song in 2003.

Around that time, and after listening to the Algerian French Hip Hop CD "MBS – Micro Brise le Silence," Tamer got convinced to give it a shot in Arabic; after a few experiences, he released his first official single "Min al Ta lal Alef lal M E R – From the T to the A to the M E R" over the R. Kelly's instrumental feat Nas "Have you ever thought" the song hit number one charts in all of the Arab radios bringing DAM to the Palestinian mainstream and making them the group with the largest following and to non-stop shows in the years 2000 till 2003, a lot of Rappers and Hip Hop bands started their career after that single, the whole Palestinian Hip Hop scene started to spread, studios were opened and workshops for self-expression through rhymes started around.

"Min Erhabi? – Who's the terrorist?" (2001) 

In 2001, DAM released their breakthrough single "Min Erhabi? – Who is the terrorist?", which was soon downloaded more than a million times. It was released in the wake of a bombing in Tel Aviv, after which Israelis gathered around the Hassan Bek Mosque in Yafa, throwing stones at it and screaming "Death to the terrorist Arabs".

The song features politically charged lyrics in which DAM critiques the "racist, essentialist
notion" of "the Palestinian terrorist":

The lyrics offended some Israelis, prompting demonstrations at concerts, including one attended by the then Israeli Culture Minister Miri Regev, a former military censor, who called the song "an act of violence".

The song generated an international buzz around DAM, with Rolling Stone featuring the song and releasing a compilation alongside the magazine featured DAM's Min Erhabi and other International artists such as Manu Chao and Zebda. At that same time, Udi Aloni released his second documentary "Local Angel" that also featured DAM and they toured around Europe with the film, the tour included France, Germany, and Belgium and it was the beginning of DAM's international career.

Min Erhabi remains both one of DAM's most popular and controversial songs, giving voice as it does to the perpetual circle of violence within the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.

The pro-peace song "Summit Meeting" was also released in 2001 by Sagol 59, DAM's Tamer Nafar, and Sha’anan Street, the front man for Israeli rappers Hadag Nahash. Recorded amid spiraling violence, it was the first example of a Jewish-Arab hip-hop collaboration performed in both Hebrew and Arabic.

2003–2004

In 2003 Anat Halachmi, an Israeli film director, released the documentary Channels of Rage. The film follows Tamer Nafar and DAM on one side and Subliminal on the other. Anat followed them for almost 3 years. The film shows their relations and beefs through Hip Hop; the film won the Volgin Award for the best documentary in the Jerusalem film festival 2003.

In 2004 the group was invited by the Shateel organization to do a song that talks about discrimination in Israel, the Palestinian neighborhoods suffering from poverty, unemployment, and house demolitions by Israel, in Lyd the main entrance to the Palestinian neighborhoods is through 8 train tracks that you must cross by walking; as a result, more than 10 Palestinians were killed by trains.