[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Márta Károlyi

cs. Valeri Liukin was named as her replacement on 16 September 2016.

In 2021, the Karolyi ranch was sold to a lumber company. The Karolyis retreated from the public eye after the USA Gymnastics sex abuse scandal and their whereabouts are unknown, with some speculating that they returned to Romania.

Controversy
In November 2008, Emilia Eberle, a Romanian national team member during the Károlyi coaching era, gave an interview to KCRA-TV in Sacramento, California, claiming that while she was on the team, both Béla and Márta regularly beat her and her teammates for mistakes they made in practice or competition. "In one word, I can say it was brutal", she told KCRA. Other Romanian team members, including Ecaterina Szabo and Rodica Dunca, as well as Géza Pozsár, the Romanian team choreographer who defected with the Károlyis, have made similar charges of physical abuse. When asked in 2008 to comment on the allegations, Béla Károlyi said: "I ignore it. I'm not even commenting. These people are really trash."

On October 28, 2016, a sex abuse lawsuit was filed by a former member gymnast against USA Gymnastics including the Károlyis, alleging they turned a blind eye to molestations by the team doctor Larry Nassar. The former member claims Nassar repeatedly sexually abused her when she was on the national team from 2006–11.

In January 2018, USA Gymnastics terminated its lease of the Károlyi owned gymnastics training center Karolyi Ranch during the sentencing phase of the trial of Nassar, who was found guilty of numerous acts of sexual assault against young gymnasts, many of which took place at the facility, where parents were not allowed to be present. A lawsuit was filed against the Károlyis in 2016 alleging that they had known about and "turned a blind-eye to the sexual abuse".

On January 25, 2018, the Ranch announced the permanent closure of the facility on its website. The Karolyis and their ranch are central figures in 2020 film, Athlete A - a documentary about the scandal. On January 30, 2018, the Texas Ranger Division took over the criminal investigation of the ranch.

Bibliography
Ryan, Joan. Little Girls in Pretty Boxes. Doubleday, New York, 1995. .
Comaneci, Nadia. Letters To A Young Gymnast. Basic Books, New York, 2003. .

References

External links
"Strong and silent, the other Karolyi works on". Times of India

1942 births
Living people
American gymnastics coaches
Olympic coaches for the United States
Romanian gymnastics coaches
Romanian emigrants to the United States
American people of Hungarian-Romanian descent
Romanian sportspeople of Hungarian descent
Romanian defectors
Defectors to the United States
People from Odorheiu Secuiesc
Naturalized citizens of the United States