[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 52]
# The Republic — Plato

to
Montecarlo, and within about two miles of the enemy, and slight
skirmishes between the horse of both parties were of daily occurrence.
Owing to the illness of Uguccione, the Pisans and Lucchese delayed
coming to battle with the enemy. Uguccione, finding himself growing
worse, went to Montecarlo to be cured, and left the command of the army
in the hands of Castruccio. This change brought about the ruin of the
Guelphs, who, thinking that the hostile army having lost its captain
had lost its head, grew over-confident. Castruccio observed this, and
allowed some days to pass in order to encourage this belief; he also
showed signs of fear, and did not allow any of the munitions of the
camp to be used. On the other side, the Guelphs grew more insolent the
more they saw these evidences of fear, and every day they drew out in
the order of battle in front of the army of Castruccio. Presently,
deeming that the enemy was sufficiently emboldened, and having mastered
their tactics, he decided to join battle with them. First he spoke a
few words of encouragement to his soldiers, and pointed out to them the
certainty of victory if they would but obey his commands. Castruccio
had noticed how the enemy had placed all his best troops in the centre
of the line of battle, and his less reliable men on the wings of the
army; whereupon he did exactly the opposite, putting his most valiant
men on the flanks, while those on whom he could not so strongly rely he
moved to the centre. Observing this order of battle, he drew out of his
lines and quickly came in sight of the hostile army, who, as usual, had
come in their insolence to defy him. He then commanded his centre
squadrons to march slowly, whilst he moved rapidly forward those on the
wings. Thus, when they came into contact with the enemy, only the wings
of the two armies became engaged, whilst the center battalions remained
out of action, for these two portions of the line of battle were
separated from each other by a long interval and thus unable to reach
each other. By this expedient the more valiant part of Castruccio’s men
were opposed to the weaker part of the enemy’s troops, and the most
efficient men of the enemy were disengaged; and thus the Florentines
were unable to fight with those who were arrayed opposite to them, or
to give any assistance to their own flanks. So, without much
difficulty, Castruccio put the enemy to flight on both flanks, and the
centre battalions took to flight when they found themselves exposed to
attack, without having a chance of displaying their valour. The defeat
was complete, and the loss in men very heavy, there being more than ten
thousand men killed with many officers and knights of the Guelph party
in Tuscany, and also many princes who had come to help them, among whom
were Piero, the brother of King Ruberto, and Carlo, his nephew, and
Filippo, the lord of Taranto. On the part of Castruccio the loss did
not amount to more than three hundred men, among whom was Francesco,
the son of Uguccione, who, being young and rash, was killed in the
first onset.

This victory so greatly increased the reputation of Castruccio that
Uguccione conceived some jealousy and suspicion of him, because it
appeared to Uguccione that this victory had given him no increase of
power, but rather than diminished it. Being of this mind, he only
waited for an opportunity to give effect to it. This occurred on the
death of Pier Agnolo Micheli, a man of great repute and abilities in
Lucca, the murderer of whom fled to the house of Castruccio for refuge.
On the sergeants of the captain going to arrest the murderer, they were
driven off by Castruccio, and the murderer escaped. This affair coming
to the knowledge of Uguccione, who was then at Pisa, it appeared to him
a proper opportunity to punish Castruccio. He therefore sent for his
son Neri, who was the governor of Lucca, and commissioned him to take
Castruccio prisoner at a banquet and put him to death. Castruccio,
fearing no evil, went to the governor in a friendly way, was
entertained at supper, and then thrown into prison. But Neri, fearing
to put him to death lest the people should be incensed, kept him alive,
in order to hear further from his father concerning his intentions.
Ugucionne cursed the hesitation and cowardice of his son, and at once
set out from Pisa to Lucca with four hundred horsemen to finish the
business in his own way; but he had not yet reached the baths when the
Pisans rebelled and put his deputy to death and created Count Gaddo
della Gherardesca their lord. Before Uguccione reached Lucca he heard
of the occurrences at Pisa, but it did not appear wise to him to turn
back, lest the Lucchese with the example of Pisa before them should
close their gates against him. But the Lucchese, having heard of what
had happened at Pisa, availed themselves of this opportunity to demand
the liberation of Castruccio, notwithstanding tha