[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Llandough, Penarth

second half of the 2nd century and the middle of the 4th century. It was built of mortar with roofs of red pottery tiles and Pennant sandstone. The walls were rendered with plaster, and the floors made of bricks and crushed tiles. A well-persevered sunken bath was found in the main living quarters.

A skeleton, skull, and bones were found on the site, remains of a Romano-British family, possibly farmers.

A last-minute bid to save the villa was unsuccessful and the flats of Corinthian Close and Tuscan Close were built.

Barons Court 

Baron's Court, originally known as Cogan Pill, is a late 15th or early 16th-century hall house with 19th-century additions.

It was built for Sir Mathew Cradock (died 1531) and passed his grandson Sir George Herbert, the first Sherif of Glamorgan (1494 to 1543). His younger son William, who was sheriff in 1552 and 1567 reputedly enlarged the house. It remained in the Herbert family, who also held St Fagans Castle, for many generations, becoming a farmhouse in 1642 with the grand hall converted to a barn. In 1790 the building was purchased by Lord Bute. Restored and remodelled c 1850 by H S Corbett, relative and agent of the Marquess of Bute, as a house for himself.

Many of the current features of the building date from this restoration, but it is to be noted that it is the only surviving medieval hall building in South Wales still open from floor to roof.

It has since been a Toby Carvery chain restaurant, and is now a pub/restaurant.

Llandough Institute 

The Llandough and Leckwith War Memorial Institute was opened by the Marchioness of Bute in 1924. It was built using donations from families from the two villages. The original hall was replaced 50 years later and formally opened by Sir Cennydd Traherne. Both the original and the current halls have been used for village functions, except during the WWII years when the building was used by the Royal Air Force. An anti-aircraft battery and balloon barrage unit were also situated in the village, and smoke screen motors were often used to throw smoke screens over Cardiff.

Rose Cottage 

The Baptist congregation of Llandough originally met in Rose Cottage, opposite Lewis Road on Penlan Road. The cottage was derelict by 1963, and has been demolished. The original garden walls still exist in front of the flats built on the site.

Llandough Baptist Church 

Built in 1859 as the successor to the Rose Cottage meeting house, the main building was constructed of stone from Llandough quarry with a slate roof. There was no interior ceiling. A number of extensions and modernisations were made after 1979.

Lewis Road terraces 
Numbers 1, 3, 5 and 7 Lewis Road were built around 1830. The terraced houses were constructed from square cornered limestone, with slate roofs, and store forecourt walls. Originally the windows and doors had flat arches but some of these features have been removed through modernisation.

Between 1830 and 1971, 1 Lewis Road has operated as a village shop, a bakery, a post office, and a grocers.

The Blacksmith's Cottage 
The Blacksmith's Cottage, now 89 Penlan Road, is a single-storey stone building dating from around 1760. It originally had a thatched roof which has been replaced by a tiled roof. The current kitchen area incorporates the blacksmith's oven, in the form of a brick dome.

The National School 

The stone building on the corner of Penlan Road and Lewis Road was the first National School in the Penarth area, dating from 1825. It was the initiative of the rector, Rev. James Evans, and was supported by the 2nd Marquess of Bute. At that time the population of Llandough was around 200, and the majority had Welsh as their first language.

The school building was constructed in stone with a slate roof and brick-edged windows and was planned to accommodate between 50 and 60 children. Behind the school a smaller house was constructed as the residence of the school teacher.

By 1870 the village's population had increased to over 700, and in 1872 the school was replaced by a new building opposite. The new school was planned to accommodate around 125 children and served as an elementary school until January 1941, when it was badly damaged by bombing during World War II.

The national school building is now a private house.

Pen-Y-Lan House 
Pen-Y-Lan House, now 91 Penlan Road, was built in 1680 and is one of the oldest houses in the village. Originally the house was a one-up, one-down, but it has been extended to the rear and now has three bedrooms. The house is built of stone and originally had a thatched roof, which has been replaced by slate.

The Policeman's House and Old Post Office 

Number 18 and 20 Penlan Road were built between 1840 and 1874 in stonework with slate roofs.

Number 20 was the village's police station until around 1954. Its garage incorporated the Air Raid Precautions post during World War II.

Number 18 was the original Post Office for Llandough.

Pound Cottage