[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1987 Pan American Games

lis Mayor William H. Hudnut III, Indiana Governor Robert D. Orr, and PASO President Mario Vazquez Raña.

U.S. Vice President George H. W. Bush officially opened the games, and additional security protocols for his presence led to about 5000 people being delayed in lines, with twelve people fainting.

Flag bearers in the Parade of Nations included the games' oldest athlete, 70-year-old yachtsman Durward Knowles of the Bahamas, basketball star José Ortiz of Puerto Rico, and baseball pitcher Jim Abbott of the United States. The Canadian delegation engaged with the crowd by playing frisbee with them. The final leg of the torch relay had the flame passed from Indianapolis-born basketball player Oscar Robertson to gymnast Kristie Phillips to sprinter Wilma Rudolph, also from Indianapolis, who lit the cauldron.

During the opening ceremony, a plane chartered by anti-Castro Cuban-American activists flew a banner urging Cuban athletes to defect.

Events
 Thirty sports were contested at the tenth Pan American Games for a total of 321 events. Five were contested for the first time in 1987, including handball.

  Archery
  Athletics
  Baseball
  Basketball
  Boxing
  Canoeing
  Cycling
  Diving
  Equestrian
  Fencing
  Field hockey
  Figure skating
  Football (soccer)
  Gymnastics
  Handball
  Judo
  Modern Pentathlon
  Roller skating
  Rowing
  Sailing
  Shooting
  Softball
  Swimming
  Synchronized swimming
  Table tennis
  Taekwondo
  Tennis
  Volleyball
  Water polo
  Weightlifting
  Wrestling

Participating nations
38 nations participated in the tenth Pan American Games. Four countries competed for the first time in 1987: Aruba, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, and Grenada.

  (28)
  (377)
  (45)
  (50)
  (85)
  (43)
  (72)
  (28)
  (410)
  
  (631)
 
  (105)
  (260)
 
  (535)
  (135)
  (60)
  (93)
  (7)
  (92)
  (17)
  (4)
 
  (108)
  (353)
  (92)
  (40)
  (100)
  (65)
  (110)
  (341)
 
  (80)
  (743)
 
  (107)
  (210)

Protests involving the Cuban delegation during the games 
Tension between Cuba and the United States had already been an issue with the selection of Indianapolis over Havana for the site of the games, and a Cuban boycott had been avoided only when Fidel Castro received a promise that the 1991 Pan American Games would be held in Havana. After the incident with a plane flying a banner urging Cuban athletes to defect in the opening ceremony, Cuban immigrants to the United States continued to use the games as a way to confront the Castro regime, using the Cuban athletes as a proxy. This games marked the first time since the Cuban Revolution that Cuban athletes had participated in the United States. At a baseball game in Bush Stadium between Cuba and the Netherlands Antilles the day after the opening ceremony, Cuban-American protestors taunted the Cuban players, threw flyers at them, and mocked them with offers of cash. A fight broke out, but only one bystander was injured and hospitalized after Indianapolis police broke up the fight by preventing the Cuban players from entering the stands. At a subsequent game against Puerto Rico, some Cuban players were able to enter the stands to chase protestors before being stopped.

During boxing events at the Indiana Convention Center, anti-Castro Cuban-American protestors mocked the Cuban boxers from the stands. The police were unable to stop the Cuban boxers from entering the stands and punching the protestors in retaliation. According to witnesses, up to a dozen Cuban boxers, including Pablo Romero, as well as a hundred spectators were involved. Two people were hospitalized. After these incidents Manuel Gonzalez Guerra, who was Cuba's top sports official, publicly demanded that organizers keep the anti-Castro protestors away from the Cuban athletes. In private, he also unsuccessfully asked the Indianapolis police chief to lock the activists up. Mark Miles, the president of the organizing committee, made a phone call to the Ronald Reagan administration in the White House, who subsequently pressed Cuban-American activists groups to dial down the pressure by the final week.

Medal count

To sort this table by nation, total medal count, or any other column, click on the  icon next to the column title.

Notes
 The medal counts for the United States and Canada differ in various sources.