[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 105]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

s most divinely upon the harpsichord, talks French
even better than she does English, and draws in the style of a master.
Indeed, I think that last figure of the _naked Gladiator_ the finest
thing I ever saw in my life!"

While this conversation was going on in one part of the room, a young
lady, observing that nobody seemed to take the least notice of Harry,
advanced towards him with the greatest affability, and began to enter
into conversation with him. This young lady's name was Simmons. Her
father and mother had been two of the most respectable people in the
country, according to the old style of English gentry, but, he having
died while she was young, the care of her had devolved upon an uncle,
who was a man of sense and benevolence, but a very great humorist. This
gentleman had such peculiar ideas of female character, that he waged war
with most of the polite and modern accomplishments. As one of the first
blessings of life, according to his notions, was health, he endeavoured
to prevent that sickly delicacy, which is considered as so great an
ornament in fashionable life by a more robust and hardy education. His
niece was accustomed, from her earliest years, to plunge into the cold
bath at every season of the year, to rise by candle-light in winter, to
ride a dozen miles upon a trotting horse, or to walk as many, even with
the hazard of being splashed, or soiling her clothes. By this mode of
education Miss Sukey (for so she had the misfortune to be named)
acquired an excellent character, accompanied, however, with some
dispositions which disqualified her almost as much as Harry for
fashionable life. She was acquainted with all the best authors in our
language; nor was she ignorant of those in French, although she could
not speak a word of the language. Her uncle, who was a man of sense and
knowledge, had besides instructed her in several parts of knowledge
which rarely fall to the lot of ladies, such as the established laws of
nature, and a small degree of geometry. She was, besides, brought up to
every species of household employment, which is now exploded by ladies
of every rank and station as mean and vulgar, and taught to believe that
domestic economy is a point of the utmost consequence to every woman who
intends to be a wife or mother. As to music, though Miss Simmons had a
very agreeable voice, and could sing several simple songs in a very
pleasing manner, she was entirely ignorant of it. Her uncle used to say,
that human life is not long enough to throw away so much time upon the
science of _making a noise_. Nor would he permit her to learn French,
although he understood it himself; women, he thought, are not birds of
passage, that are to be eternally changing their place of abode. "I have
never seen any good," would he say, "from the importation of foreign
manners; every virtue may be learned and practised at home, and it is
only because we do not choose to have either virtue or religion among us
that so many adventurers are yearly sent out to smuggle foreign graces.
As to various languages, I do not see the necessity of them for a woman.
My niece is to marry an Englishman, and to live in England. To what
purpose, then, should I labour to take off the difficulty of conversing
with foreigners, and to promote her intercourse with barbers, valets,
dancing-masters, and adventurers of every description, that are
continually doing us the honour to come among us? As to the French
nation, I know and esteem it on many accounts, but I am very doubtful
whether the English will ever gain much by adopting either their manners
or their government, and when respectable foreigners choose to visit us,
I see no reason why they should not take the trouble of learning the
language of the country."

Such had been the education of Miss Simmons, who was the only one of all
the genteel company at Mr Merton's that thought Harry deserving the
least attention. This young lady, who possessed an uncommon degree of
natural benevolence of character, came up to him in such a manner as
set him perfectly at his ease. Harry was destitute of the artificial
graces of society, but he possessed that natural politeness and good
nature, without which all artificial graces are the most disgusting
things in the world. Harry had an understanding naturally strong; and Mr
Barlow, while he had with the greatest care preserved him from all false
impressions had taken great pains in cultivating the faculties of his
mind. Harry, indeed, never said any of those brilliant things which
render a boy the darling of the ladies; he had not that vivacity, or
rather impertinence, which frequently passes for wit with superficial
people; but he paid the greatest attention to what was said to him, and
made the most judicious observations upon subjects he understood. For
this reason, Miss Simmons, although much older and more improved,
received great satisfaction from conversing wi