[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Democratic Party (United States)

d to support the Democrats. The Young Democrats of America (YDA) and the High School Democrats of America (HSDA) are young adult and youth-led organizations respectively that attempt to draw in and mobilize young people for Democratic candidates but operates outside of the DNC.

Political positions 

 Economic policy
 Expand Social Security and safety-net programs.
 Increase the capital gains tax rate to 39.6% for taxpayers with annual income above $1 million.
 Cut taxes for the working and middle classes as well as small businesses.
 Change tax rules to discourage shipping jobs overseas.
 Increase federal and state minimum wages.
 Modernize and expand access to public education and provide universal preschool education.
 Support the goal of universal health care through a public health insurance option or expanding Medicare/Medicaid. 
 Increase investments in infrastructure development as well as scientific and technological research.
 Offer tax credits to make clean energy more accessible for consumers and increase domestic production of clean energy.
 Uphold labor protections and the right to unionize.
 Reform the student loan system and allow for refinancing student loans.
 Make college more affordable.
 Mandate equal pay for equal work regardless of gender, race, or ethnicity.
 Social policy
 Decriminalize or legalize marijuana.
 Uphold network neutrality.
 Implement campaign finance reform.
 Uphold voting rights and easy access to voting.
 Support same-sex marriage and ban conversion therapy.
 Allow legal access to abortions and women's reproductive health care.
 Reform the immigration system and allow for a pathway to citizenship.
 Expand background checks and reduce access to assault weapons to address gun violence.
 Improve privacy laws and curtail government surveillance.
 Oppose torture.
 Abolish capital punishment.
 Recognize and defend Internet freedom worldwide.

Economic issues 
Equal economic opportunity, a social safety net, and strong labor unions have historically been at the heart of Democratic economic policy. The Democratic Party's economic policy positions, as measured by votes in Congress, tend to align with those of middle class. Democrats support a progressive tax system, higher minimum wages, Social Security, universal health care, public education, and subsidized housing. They also support infrastructure development and clean energy investments to achieve economic development and job creation. Since the 1990s, the party has at times supported centrist economic reforms that cut the size of government and reduced market regulations. The party has generally rejected both laissez-faire economics and market socialism, instead favoring Keynesian economics within a capitalist market-based system.

Fiscal policy 
Democrats support a more progressive tax structure to provide more services and reduce economic inequality by making sure that the wealthiest Americans pay more in taxes.
Democrats and Republicans traditionally take differing stances on eradicating poverty. Brady said "Our poverty level is the direct consequence of our weak social policies, which are a direct consequence of weak political actors".
They oppose the cutting of social services, such as Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid, believing it to be harmful to efficiency and social justice. Democrats believe the benefits of social services in monetary and non-monetary terms are a more productive labor force and cultured population and believe that the benefits of this are greater than any benefits that could be derived from lower taxes, especially on top earners, or cuts to social services. Furthermore, Democrats see social services as essential toward providing positive freedom, freedom derived from economic opportunity. The Democratic-led House of Representatives reinstated the PAYGO (pay-as-you-go) budget rule at the start of the 110th Congress.

Minimum wage 

The Democratic Party favors raising the minimum wage. The Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007 was an early component of the Democrats' agenda during the 110th Congress. In 2006, the Democrats supported six state-ballot initiatives to increase the minimum wage and all six initiatives passed.

In 2017, Senate Democrats introduced the Raise the Wage Act which would raise the minimum wage to $15 an hour by 2024. In 2021, Democratic president Joe Biden proposed increasing the minimum wage to $15 by 2025. In many states controlled by Democrats, the state minimum wage has been increased to a rate above the federal minimum wage.

Health care 

Democrats call for "affordable and quality health care" and favor moving toward universal health care in a variety of forms to address rising healthcare costs. Progressive Democrats politicians favor a single-payer program or Medicare for All, while liberals prefer creating a public health insurance option.