[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

The 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Although it started slowly, it became one of the most active and effective of the West Virginia Civil War regiments—and had 14 Medal of Honor recipients, the most for any West Virginia regiment during the war. It was originally called the 1st Virginia Cavalry, not to be confused with the Confederate 1st Virginia Cavalry. Some reports added "Union," "Loyal" or "West" when identifying this regiment. After the Unionist state of West Virginia was officially admitted to the Union in 1863, the regiment became the 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment. The National Park Service identifies it as the 1st Regiment, West Virginia Cavalry.

The regiment was organized in Wheeling, Morgantown and Clarksburg in 1861 and consisted of 13 companies, plus an additional company that was attached for most of the war. Members were predominately recruited from Ohio and Pennsylvania and the western Virginia counties of Marshall, Monongalia, Harrison and Ohio. The regiment was often split during the first two years of the war, with detachments spending time guarding the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad and hunting bushwhackers. During July 1863, ten companies of the regiment fought at the Battle of Gettysburg as part of a division.

The regiment began fighting in Virginia's Shenandoah Valley during the second half of 1864. At the beginning of 1865, it became part of the 3rd Brigade in General George Armstrong Custer's Third Division, Cavalry Corps—which, along with another division was under the command of General Philip Sheridan. Sheridan's two cavalry divisions were responsible for eliminating Confederate General Jubal Early's Army of the Valley from the war, and also played an important part in the surrender of Confederate General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia. After the war, the 1st West Virginia Cavalry participated in the Grand Review of the Armies, and was mustered out on July 8, 1865.

Formation and organization

Although Virginia seceded from the union and joined the Confederate States of America, many people in the northwestern portion of the state preferred to remain loyal to the United States. The first new cavalry regiment formed from this loyal region was originally known as the 1st Virginia Cavalry, and was sometimes noted as a loyal (to the union) regiment to differentiate it from the 1st Virginia Cavalry that was a rebel force for the Confederacy.
The regiment eventually was identified as a West Virginia cavalry regiment after the new state was formed in the loyal section of Virginia. Recruiting for the new regiment began during July 1861, and a significant portion of the new recruits were from the cities of Wheeling, Morgantown, and Clarksburg. An analysis of the regiment by the George Tyler Moore Center showed that 32% of the men were from West Virginia, 23% were from Pennsylvania, 16% were from Ohio and the remainder were from Virginia and other states as well as immigrants. One company consisted mostly of men who spoke German.

The regiment’s first company, known as the Kelley Lancers, rarely fought with the regiment and was usually attached to General Benjamin Franklin Kelley. Their original captain, John Lowry McGee, eventually became commander of the 3rd West Virginia Cavalry.  Another company that was typically detached was called Gilmore's Company. The first regiment commander was Colonel Henry Anisansel, who was commissioned on September 7, 1861. Anisansel was a former lieutenant in the Ringgold Cavalry. His second-in-command was Lieutenant Colonel Nathaniel P. Richmond. Richmond had been a lieutenant in the 13th Indiana Infantry Regiment and an aide-de-camp to General William Rosecrans. The regiment's first chief surgeon was Henry Capehart, who eventually became regiment commander and a general.

Early action
The regiment's first action is listed as the Battle of Carnifex Ferry on September 10, 1861. However, the two companies present, Gilmore's Company and a company led by Captain William West that eventually became CompanyI, were held in reserve. The first fighting was done by the Kelley Lancers (CompanyA) in Romney in October 1861. As the regiment grew, it worked primarily in detachments to hunt bushwhackers. The Baltimore & Ohio Railroad (a.k.a. the B&O Railroad) was an important asset for the Union army, and detachments of the regiment were also used to guard it.