[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shmuel Eliyahu

Shmuel Eliyahu (; born 29 November 1956) is an Israeli Orthodox rabbi. He is the Chief Rabbi of Safed and a member of the Chief Rabbinate Council.

Some of Eliyahu's statements regarding Arabs and Palestinians have been construed as being discriminatory in nature. On 30 May 2022, the US State Department in the Biden administration revoked Eliyahu's visa to enter the United States.

Early life 
Shmuel Eliyahu was born to Mordechai Eliyahu, the former Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Israel, and his wife Tzviya. As a boy, he studied at Yashlatz in Jerusalem, and later at Mercaz HaRav Kook, where he was a student of Zvi Yehuda Kook. He also served in an Israel Defense Forces (IDF) combat unit.

Career 

Eliyahu received his semikhah (ordination as rabbi) at age 23, and at age 29 was appointed to the position of Municipal Rabbi of Shlomi. Three years later, he was appointed the Chief Rabbi of Safed.

In July 2013, Eliyahu ran for the position of Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Israel. Israeli Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein requested that Eliyahu abandon his candidacy, noting that he had made a number of offensive statements against Arabs. Member of Knesset Issawi Frej submitted an emergency petition to the High Court asking that Eliyahu be disqualified, since "election of a racist like Eliyahu to the position would be the start of the destruction of values in the State of Israel". The High Court rejected the petition based on technicalities. In December 2013, Eliyahu petitioned the High Court against the Attorney General for using confidential information that was gathered as part of the failed criminal investigation that Weinstein sent to the election committee in his attempt to prevent Eliyahu from running.

In October 2014, Eliyahu failed to win election as Chief Rabbi of Jerusalem, losing out to Shlomo Amar by a vote of 28 to 18 in the municipality's 48-member electorate.

In June 2015, Eliyahu was involved in investigating the allegations of sexual abuse committed by self-styled Safed "kabbalist" Ezra Sheinberg against 14 women who came to him for marital therapy. Eliyahu brought the case to the attention of the Israel Police, and in 2018 Sheinberg was sentenced to more than 7 years in prison.

In November 2021, Haredi children's author Chaim Walder was the subject of a Haaretz exposé, accused of engaging in sexual abuse of minors and married women who came to him to receive therapy over a 25-year period. Eliyahu convened a beth din (rabbinical court) in Safed, encouraging Walder's victims to come forward and submit testimony against him, and found him "guilty beyond any doubt". On 16 December, Eliyahu summoned Walder to the beth din. Ten days later, Haaretz reported that the Israel Police had opened an investigation into Walder, but that he had not yet been questioned. The following day, Walder was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound adjacent to his son's grave in the Segula Cemetery in Petah Tikva. He left a suicide note wherein he professed his innocence, beginning it with

Upon hearing of this, Eliyahu said

Views

Government of Israel 

In 2008, in the wake of a corruption investigation that targeted Ehud Olmert, Eliyahu issued a pamphlet  entitled "A Religious Prime Minister – It's Possible", in which he wrote

In 2022, Eliyahu was instrumental in convincing Knesset Member Idit Silman to abandon the Yamina party, an act that led to a coalition crisis in the Bennett–Lapid government, which Eliyahu considered to be too accommodating to Arabs and hostile to the Chief Rabbinate. In April of that year, Eliyahu and his wife Tova met with Silman in their Jerusalem home to congratulate her on her decision.

Eliyahu is close to Itamar Ben-Gvir, leader of the far-right Otzma Yehudit party. Eliyahu's son Amihai, a member of that party, was elected to the Knesset in 2022, assuming the role of Heritage Minister.

Arabs and Palestinians 

In May 2007, Eliyahu advocated "carpet bombing the general area from which the Kassams were launched, regardless of the price in Palestinian life". He further stated, "If they don't stop after we kill 100, then we must kill 1,000. If they do not stop after 1,000, then we must kill 10,000. If they still don't stop, we must kill 100,000, even a million. Whatever it takes to make them stop."

In March 2008, Eliyahu called for "state-sanctioned revenge" against Arabs. According to Haaretz, Eliyahu wrote an article for the newsletter Eretz Yisrael Shelanu ("Our Land of Israel"), wherein he proposed "hanging the children of the terrorist who carried out the attack in the Mercaz Harav yeshiva from a tree".