[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Local Government Act 2002

ts all other council staff, who report to him/her, not directly to the council.

This was done so as to encourage the council members and mayor to focus on higher level issues of setting strategic direction and policy, while allowing a professional cadre of managers to then implement council policy.

The Chief Executive is appointed for a five year term. At the expiry of the five years, the council can either appoint the Chief Executive for a two year extension, or advertise the position on the open market. If the Chief Executive's tenure is extended by two years, at the end of the two year extension, the position must then be advertised on the open market.

When the Chief Executive position is advertised on the open market, anyone can apply and be considered for the position, including the incumbent Chief Executive. Whoever is appointed will then have a new five-year term, with possibly a two-year extension, and so on.

The Council is required to disclose the remuneration paid to the Chief Executive in their annual report.

Rates
Local authorities have considerable flexibility in how they can raise revenue, with such levies generally being described as 'rates'. There is a noted lack of uniformity between the different authorities as to how these rates are levied.

To match the new Local Government Act of 2002, a separate piece of legislation was passed, the Local Government (Rating) Act 2002. This specifies the types of rates that can be levied, and the types of land and property on which rates can be levied (and what is exempt from such levies). It took effect generally from 1 July 2003.

In August 2006 the Government agreed to have an independent enquiry on the matter of Local Government Rates. This reported back in July 2007. Additional analysis was published by the Department of Internal Affairs in 2011.

Local elections
Local government elections occur every three years under the Local Electoral Act 2001. The most recent round of local elections was held in October 2022, with voting papers sent out from mid-September. The next will be October 2026.

The 2007 elections were the first conducted where the Community Outcomes are fully integrated into the Long-Term Plan and audited for this purpose. All territorial authorities must have Community Outcomes printed and integrated into their 2006-2016 Long Term Plans.

References

Sources

External links
Relationship between the Local Government Act and the RMA, Quality Planning website
Official overview of local government
All 73 Local Authorities LTCCP 2006-2016

Statutes of New Zealand
Government of New Zealand
Local government in New Zealand
2002 in New Zealand law
Local government legislation
History of local government in New Zealand