[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ronald Atkins

Ronald Henry Atkins (13 June 1916 – 30 December 2020) was a British Labour politician who served as the Member of Parliament for Preston North for two terms: from 1966 until 1970, and from February 1974 until 1979. His career in British politics spanned nearly sixty years, from 1951 to 2010, including several decades as a councillor in local government, and nine as a Member of Parliament.

A member of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Atkins took part in the Aldermaston marches, opposed the American war in Vietnam, and was a member of the Tribune group of left-wing Labour MPs. He also supported the campaigns by Tony Benn and Jeremy Corbyn to lead the Labour Party. In the course of his career, Atkins helped bring a polytechnic educational facility to Preston, which later became the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan).

From 2018 until his death, he was the oldest living former MP. He also became the longest-lived British MP with a registered date of birth, surviving to the age of 104.

Early life and career
Atkins was born into a large Noncomformist family on 13 June 1916 in Barry, Glamorgan, the son of Frank Atkins, a master butcher, and his wife Elizabeth (nee Bryant). He grew up on a smallholding, and was educated at Barry Grammar School. Atkins suffered greatly from psoriasis, which led him to start working rather than going to university. He attended Southampton University, but his studies were interrupted by the Second World War, as well as his condition. He tried to improve his health in order to enter the armed forces by eating a carrot-only diet for more than a month. Eventually, he volunteered for industrial war work as a chief greaser with a chemical company in Barry, where he organised the company's first trade union branch. The poverty he saw in the port town inspired him to join the Labour Party. He later said "I've been a union man and a socialist all my life."

Atkins worked as a teacher from 1949 onwards. Having qualified as a teacher at Birkbeck College, University of London, he taught at a college of further education. Atkins also became a tutor and lecturer for the National Council of Labour Colleges. He was head of English at Halstead secondary school in Braintree, Essex. Whilst in Essex, Atkins became a councillor on Braintree Rural District Council, serving from 1952 to 1961.  He was also on the Mid-Essex education committee of Essex County Council.

Parliamentary career 
In 2016, Atkins recalled "I became an applicant to become an MP, but I thought it was hopeless because I was so left wing." He first contested the marginal Lowestoft seat at the 1964 general election, but was unsuccessful. The outcome saw his party return to government with a slim majority; however, the presence of a Liberal Party candidate in the Suffolk constituency (which had previously been a two-way contest) took votes from both Atkins and his Conservative rival Jim Prior. Labour prime minister Harold Wilson called an election in 1966, and greatly increased his party's majority. Among the Labour gains was Atkins winning the marginal Preston North in Lancashire, unseating the Conservative former minister Julian Amery.

As a Member of Parliament, he lobbied Wilson for a new polytechnic institute of education in Preston, which lead to Preston Polytechnic being established in 1973; this, according to the Lancashire Post, was "one of his proudest moments". Atkins also successfully campaigned to save the Preston to Ormskirk railway line, which was under threat of closure. During this period, he chaired the all-party retirement group, who fought for early retirement, in 1967 presenting a petition to Parliament for voluntary male retirement at 60, which was signed by more than a million people. He also supported Liberal MP David Steel's abortion bill, which did not go down well with Preston's large Catholic population. He thought this may have cost him his seat at the subsequent 1970 general election: Atkins lost to the Conservative candidate Mary Holt, and Labour were out of power.

Following this, he lectured at Accrington College of Further Education until 1974, a year which saw two general elections take place. At the February 1974 election, Atkins won back Preston North, defeating Mary Holt by a majority of just 255 votes (0.63%). Labour formed a minority government, and Atkins was back in Parliament. Harold Wilson called another election for October 1974, in the hope of securing a majority. Atkins was re-elected with an increased vote share, and Labour won the election with a small overall majority, on the back of a pledge to hold a referendum on Britain's recent entry to the European Economic Community (EEC). In common with the left of his party at the time, Atkins was opposed to membership of the EEC. The 1975 referendum, however, resulted in a wide margin of victory for the 'Yes' campaign.