[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roseville College

ensembles, bands and orchestras; drama, musical productions and performance groups; photography groups; established programs and international service learning trips, STEAM (robotics, coding and STEM Club), Mock Trial, Duke of Edinburgh's International Award Scheme and Crusaders, and sporting teams.

Dozens of sports are available to senior students at Roseville College, with many offering opportunities for school, regional, state and even national representation. Sports include rowing, tennis, softball, touch football, swimming, netball, hockey, basketball, gymnastics, futsal, athletics, cross-country, and equestrian.

Leadership

Student leadership is widespread in the school, especially in co-curricular activities. Students also participate in formal leadership through the Student Representative Council (Years 7–12), the Buddy Program for Year 7 (Years 10–11), Student Leadership (Years 11–12), Sports and House Captains (Years 11–12), Chapel and Assembly Leadership, community assistance and individual initiatives.

Associated schools 
Roseville College is a member of The Anglican Schools Corporation.

The College is affiliated with the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia (AHISA), the Junior School Heads Association of Australia (JSHAA), the Alliance of Girls' Schools Australasia (AGSA), and is a member of the Association of Heads of Independent Girls' Schools (AHIGS).

The college has relationships with Sister Schools in Japan, UK and NZ.

Japan: The college has enjoyed a 30+ year partnership with Bunka High School, where delegations of students and teachers collaborate to provide language enrichment and cultural exchange in a reciprocal travel experience.

United Kingdom: The college's international exchange partnerships with Gresham's School in Norfolk and Sutton Valence School in Kent, operate annually. Through reciprocal hosting, students live and learn in a different country alongside another girl, while both develop personally to gain an understanding and tolerance of another culture.

New Zealand: The college's international exchange partnership with Waikato Diocesan School for Girls in Hamilton operates annually. Through reciprocal hosting, student take turns to live and learn alongside another girl in her country of origin, while both develop personally to gain an understanding and tolerance of the other's culture.

Tanzania: The college has an ongoing relationship with Shalom (co-educational) Junior School and Bunda Girls Secondary School through fundraising and cultural engagement opportunities.

Notable alumni