[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Pakistan–United States relations

War. The leftist ideas of the government and Bhutto's policy towards the Soviet Union was seen by the United States as sympathetic. It had also built a bridge for the Soviet Union to gain naval access in Pakistan's warm water ports, something that both the United States and the Soviet Union lacked.

During the course of 1976 presidential election, Carter was elected as U.S. President, and in his inaugural speech, he announced his determination to seek the ban of nuclear weapons. With Carter's election, Bhutto lost all the links to United States administration that he had through President Nixon. Bhutto had to face the embargo and pressure from an American President who was completely against the political objectives that Bhutto had set out to accomplish. In his speech Carter had indirectly announced his opposition to Bhutto, his ambitions, and the elections. Responding to President Carter, Bhutto launched a more aggressive and serious diplomatic offensive on the United States and the Western world over the nuclear issues. Bhutto's hard-line stance on nuclear issues put the United States, particularly Carter who found it extremely difficult to counter Bhutto on Defensive position at the United Nations. India and the Soviet Union were pushed aside when Bhutto attacked the Indian nuclear programme, labeling the latter's program as based on nuclear proliferation. Writing to the world and Western leaders, Bhutto made his intentions clear to the United States and the rest of the world:

Although Carter placed an embargo on Pakistan, Bhutto, under the technical guidance and diplomatic advice of Foreign minister Aziz Ahmed, succeeded in buying sensitive equipment, common metal materials, and electronic components, marked as "common items", hiding the true purpose of the purchases and greatly enhancing the atomic bomb project. Bhutto tried to resolve the issue, but Carter intentionally sabotaged the talks. In a thesis written by historian Abdul Ghafoor Buhgari, Carter is accused of having sabotaged Bhutto's credibility. However, he was not in favour of his execution as Carter and called on General Zia-ul-Haq to spare his life. The senior leadership of the Pakistan Peoples Party reached out to different countries' ambassadors and high commissioners but did not meet with the U.S. ambassador, as the leadership knew the "noble" part played by Carter and his administration. When the Carter administration discovered Bhutto's nuclear programme, it had already reached an advanced stage and had a disastrous effect on SALT I Treaty which was soon to collapse. This was a failure of President Carter to stop atomic proliferation as the arms race between the Soviet Union and the United States heightened.

In 1974, with India carried out the test of nuclear weapons near the Pakistan's eastern border, codename Smiling Buddha, Bhutto sought the United States to impose economic sanctions in India. Though it was unsuccessful approach, in a meeting of Pakistan's Ambassador to the United States with Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Kissinger told Pakistan's ambassador to Washington that the test is "a fait accompli and that Pakistan would have to learn to live with it", although he was aware this is a "little rough" on the Pakistanis. In the 1970s, the ties were further severed with Bhutto as Bhutto had continued to administer the research on weapons, and in 1976, in a meeting with Bhutto and Kissinger, Kissinger had told Bhutto, "that if you [Bhutto] do not cancel, modify or postpone the Reprocessing Plant Agreement, we will make a horrible example from you". The meeting was ended by Bhutto as he had replied: "For my country's sake, for the sake of people of Pakistan, I did not succumb to that black-mailing and threats". After the meeting, Bhutto intensified his nationalization and industrialization policies, as well as aggressively taking steps to spur scientific research on atomic weapons and the atomic bomb project. Bhutto authorized the construction of Chagai weapon-testing laboratories, whilst the United States opposed the action and predicted that it will lead to a massive and destructive war between India and Pakistan in the future. The atomic bomb project became fully mature in 1978, and a first cold test was conducted in 1983 (see Kirana-I).

Bhutto called upon Organization of Islamic Conference in 1974 order to bring Muslim world together. In 1977, Bhutto was arrested by his appointed army chief Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq, who declared martial law and assumed presidency in 1978. Bhutto was hanged in 1979 for the murder of a political opponent.

Military dictatorship (1977–1988)

In 1979, a group of Pakistani students burned the American embassy in Islamabad to the ground, as a reaction to the Grand Mosque Seizure, citing U.S. involvement. Two Americans were killed.