[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Asylum architecture in the United States

r mentally ill people who for centuries gathered there to worship at the shrine of St. Dymphna, the patron saint of lunatics. Dr. John Galt romanticized this medieval model as an ideal setting for the cure of the disease, thus causing a rift among the self-named “brethren” of asylum superintendents.

The cottages varied in size from those which accommodated six to a dozen patients to larger ones which accommodated 20 or more. They were usually constructed either in groups or along streets and avenues as a village. In the group arrangement, the several groups were given up to a particular industry as a farm group, where the patients were employed at farming, and others, as the garden, the brick yard, shop industries, etc., all of these being a part of one institution on a single large estate. In the village plan, the institution was laid off in streets and avenues, and had the appearance of an ordinary village, each cottage having a flower garden in front, shade trees, etc. In either plan, there was conveniently located near the center of the plant an administration building, a hospital for the sick and those requiring special care, a bakery, a laundry and other utility buildings. The cost of construction was small as compared with older plans of asylum construction.

This approach was viewed as more homelike, more convenient for administration and as permitting indefinite expansion. Some of the best known institutions constructed on this plan were Alt-Scherbitz near Leipzig; Gabersee near Munich, Germany; the Saint Lawrence State Hospital at Ogdensburg, New York; the Lakeshore Psychiatric Hospital in Etobicoke, Ontario; and the Craig Colony for Epileptics at Sonyea, New York.

Other
Some doctors proposed that the insane be treated on farms or in the community, which is some ways was a precursor to "Care in the Community" in the twentieth century. The concept was notably different, however, from de-institutionalization of the latter half of the twentieth century.

First purpose-built asylum
The first purpose-built asylum in the United States was the Public Hospital in Virginia of 1770. It housed mentally ill people as well as developmentally disabled people. The Public Hospital was reconstructed in 1986. It is now a museum at Colonial Williamsburg.

The first purpose-built asylum in the United Kingdom was Bethel Hospital, Bethel Street in Norwich, Norfolk, England.  Founded and built by Mary Chapman (1647-1724), who was the wife of Reverend Samuel Chapman and built wholly at her own expense in 1713.  The plan for the building was along an "H" block architectural design style.

Major architects and the Kirkbride Plan 
At the peak of the success of the Kirkbride plan, these hospitals were technological marvels that demonstrated advanced fireproof construction, state-of-the-art heating and ventilation, and fresh water delivery systems; some had their own railroads. They were surrounded by well-designed picturesque gardens that predate many public parks. Accomplished architects, including John Haviland, John Notman, Andrew Jackson Downing, Samuel Sloan, Thomas U. Walter, Frederick Clarke Withers, Calvert Vaux, Frederick Law Olmsted, and H.H. Richardson designed asylum grounds and buildings.

Decline
The complicated decline of the large-scale insane asylum was caused partly by overcrowding and neglect, but also by massive changes in the practice of psychiatry. With the ascent of neurology, which focused attention on mental illness as a result of physical causes, the environment ceased to seem like an important cause or likely cure, and a new generation of doctors regarded architecture as irrelevant to the practice of psychiatric medicine.

See also
History of psychiatric institutions

References

Hospital buildings
Psychiatric hospitals in the United States
History of mental health in the United States
History of medicine in the United States
American architectural history
American architectural styles