[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Battle of Pickett's Mill

eeded. Cox admitted that some "mistake" prevented McLean's brigade from having any effect. Castel pointed out that a crack Confederate brigade on favorable terrain, supported by two more brigades, dismounted cavalry, and artillery, could be expected to repulse two Union brigades attacking piecemeal.

Hascall's division on Schofield's left flank was initially drawn back at an angle. During Wood's attack, Hascall wheeled his division to the right and McLean's brigade was used to fill the gap between Wood's right and Hascall's left. By this time, Sherman thoroughly committed himself to the strategy of moving to his left (northeast) in the direction of the railroad. An added spur to this strategy was the discovery that his soldiers were not getting enough food. Even though the wagon train carried 20 days of food, the sparse road net and the  distance to the Union forward base at Kingston did not allow the food to be distributed to the soldiers efficiently.

Hood's corps spent the night of May 27–28 marching to attack Sherman's new left flank. At 6 am on May 28, scouts from Wheeler's cavalry reported that the Federals were waiting behind breastworks, so Johnston called off the attack. That day, Johnston directed Hardee to order Bate's left flank division to probe McPherson's lines to find out if the Union troops were still present. At 3:45 pm, Bate's division and Brigadier General Frank Crawford Armstrong's dismounted cavalry brigade launched an attack on lines manned by Logan's XV Corps. Bate's botched assault in the Battle of Dallas resulted in over 1,000 Confederates getting shot, while Logan admitted only 379 casualties. Ironically, Sherman had ordered McPherson to shift to the left on the night of May 28–29.

After various delays, Sherman's shift to the left finally began and on June 1, Stoneman's cavalry occupied Allatoona. This allowed Sherman's railroad crews to proceed with repairing the track. On June 2, Schofield's XXIII Corps pressed forward on the extreme left flank until it encountered Confederate entrenchments near Allatoona Creek. On June 3, Union cavalry under McCook and Stoneman seized Acworth on the railroad. On the same day, Hooker's XX Corps extended Sherman's left flank farther to the left of Schofield. On the night of June 4–5, Johnston abandoned his line of field fortifications based on New Hope Church and retreated to a new line running northeast from Lost Mountain to Pine Mountain to Brushy Mountain. The next major clash occurred at the Battle of Gilgal Church on June 15.

Between May 23 and June 6, including the fighting at New Hope Church, Pickett's Mill, and Dallas, Sherman's forces suffered 4,500 casualties while Johnston's army lost 3,000. Confederate morale, which sagged after the early May retreats, was uplifted by Johnston's defensive victories. Since the start of the campaign, Sherman's three armies sustained about 12,000 casualties out of a total of 100,000 men, while Johnston's army lost about 9,000 out of an estimated 65,000–75,000 men.

Noted author Ambrose Bierce fought for the Union as a topographical engineer at Pickett's Mill. Bierce's short story The Crime at Pickett's Mill is an eyewitness account of this battle.

Battlefield today

The address of Pickett's Mill Battlefield Historic Site is 4432 Mount Tabor Church Road, Dallas, Georgia 30157. It is now preserved as a Georgia state park in excellent condition. The site includes a visitor center, earthworks used by Union and Confederate troops, a pioneer cabin, and hiking trails.

Notes
Footnotes

Citations

References

Primary source
 This is a first-person account of the battle.

External links
 Pickett's Mill at Civil War Virtual Tours
 Battle of Pickett's Mill
 Paulding County Historical Society & Museum
 Pickett's Mill Battlefield Historic Site photos from GeorgiaInfo: an Online Georgia Almanac
 The Ambrose Bierce Project
 The Crime at Pickett's Mill  by Ambrose Bierce.

Atlanta campaign
Battles of the Western Theater of the American Civil War
Confederate victories of the American Civil War
Battles of the American Civil War in Georgia (U.S. state)
Battle of Pickett's Mill
Conflicts in 1864
1864 in Georgia (U.S. state)
May 1864 events