[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Basque rural sports

rench .

Esku Pilota (Basque pelota)

The Basque sport best known outside the Basque Country is Basque pelota. It is a Basque version of the family of ball games that covers squash, tennis, and real tennis, all of them thought to derive from the Jeu de paume and hence a relative of Valencian pilota.

But the main innovation of Basque pilota is that players share a common playground and throw the ball to a wall, making it an indirect game, while the other games in this family are generally direct games where the players face each other in two separate fields separated by a net or line on the ground. The Basques began playing pelota indirectly during the middle of the 19th century. For the different variations of Basque pelota, see the main article on Basque pelota.

While most of the best world players are Basque (in either the Spanish or the French federations), it is by no means limited to the Basque Country and is also played in Castile, Rioja and places where Basques have emigrated to such as Mexico, (home of frontenis), the United States, and the Philippines.

As such it has been an Olympic exhibition sport in Paris, Mexico, and Barcelona.

It is called  in Spanish and  in French.

Pulsolariak (arm wrestling)
Basque arm wrestling follows broadly the same rules as anywhere else.

Recortes
A form of bull-leaping called  in Basque and  in Spanish, is practiced in parts of the Basque Country, especially Navarre.

Soka-muturra (bull-herding)

The name of this sport literally translates as "snout rope" ( "rope" and  "snout").
It is  ("calves") in Spanish.
It derives from a tradition where cattle destined for slaughter were led through the town on long ropes regularly on a particular day of the week (which varies from town to town). Occasionally a bull would break free on run wild, an event called  (to make a run), while the crowds made sport of the bulls. From the 14th century onwards bulls were increasingly let loose on purpose, ultimately leading to the tradition of running the bulls. It's also known as , the game of the rope boys.

Sometimes this would happen at night, with lights attached to the bulls, the most likely forerunner of the  or "fire bull". In the , a contraption of fireworks is strapped to a bull and lit at night.

Today this is sometimes also practised in bullrings, either temporary or permanent, using calves rather.
If fully grown bulls are used it is as a prelude for a bullfight, which is a regular feature of the Running of the Bulls in Iruñea/Pamplona.

Toka

This is game involves throwing small objects like pebbles, balls or coins across a distance, trying to hit the target, a vertical metal pole.

It is called  in Spanish and  in French.

Txakur probak (sheepdog trials)
Sheepdog trials are another lively example of the Basque traditional pastoral lifestyle. They're also called  or "shepherd dogs skill competitions".

Sheepdog trials in the Basque Country are very similar to those held in other countries and involves a sheepdog having to herd a flock of ewes into a fold. Traditionally the  or Basque shepherd dog is kept but border collies are also increasingly popular. Identifying the best dogs for breeding is an important part to these competitions. A major Basque sheepdog trial event is held in Oñati in September.

In Spanish this is called  and in French .

See also

Basque people
Basque breeds and cultivars
Highland Games

References
Rural Basque Sports
The Basque Federation for Rural Sports
Kulki (a sports culture organisation)
Department of Culture (in Basque and Spanish)
Agirre, R. Juegos y deportes vascos, Auñamendi, Donostia 1978
Etxegoien, J. Orhipean, Xamar 1996
Feliu, C. Gure Herria: Tradiciones y Costumbres del País Vasco

External links

Documentary on Basque rural sports with English subtitles
EKE (in French, Basque and Spanish)
Napurra , a Basque sports organisation from the Northern Basque Country
Basque sports on Donquijote.org

Basque culture
Basque sport
Traditional sports