[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# After Doomsday

After Doomsday is a science fiction novel by American writer Poul Anderson.  It was published as a complete novel in 1962, having been serialized as The Day after Doomsday in the magazine Galaxy, between December 1961 and February 1962.

Plot introduction
The novel explores events after the destruction of Earth, from the point of view of two returning starship crews, one entirely made up of men, the other consisting entirely of women.

The story is set in the early 21st century.  Even as the Cold War dragged on, Earth has been suddenly contacted by the Monwaingi space-faring culture. The technology of interstellar travel is spreading across the galaxy, disrupting one culture after another.  Monwaing itself was contacted only a few centuries previously.  Another culture, the Vorlak, underwent a transition from a stable planetary society to a warlord culture similar to the Japanese Shogunate. The nomadic Kandemirian culture became a hegemonistic one similar to the Mongol Empire. Earth found itself on the fringes of a conflict between Kandemir and a coalition led by Vorlak, with Monwaing on the sidelines, actively supporting the anti-Kandemir forces.

There is a lingua franca called Uru, which bonds the diverse cultures together. The original speakers of the language may have also initiated the spread of interstellar technology, but the language seems to have outlived, or at least outstripped its originators.

In the 20 years since contact, several expeditions have set out, some in borrowed ships, some in ships built on Earth. The ship USS Benjamin Franklin, with an all-male crew, set out to visit the core of the Milky Way — actually an unusual quest by the stodgy standards of the typical galactic culture.  Another ship has gone as far as the Magellanic Clouds. The pan-European expedition in the ship Europa, crewed entirely by women, has roamed far outside the local group of cultures.  The star-drive technology allows journeys of tens of thousands of parsecs in mere months. In spite of this, most cultures are "stay-at-homes" compared to humans, interacting only with the local group of cultures, known as a "cluster".

Now the Franklin and the Europa return to find that Earth has suffered the ultimate disaster.

Plot summary

Ragnarok
The USS Benjamin Franklin, a starship crewed entirely by men returns to Earth, to find the planet consumed by eruptions from within the crust.  All life is gone, along with the few outposts of humanity on the Moon and artificial satellites.  Missiles lurk throughout the Solar System, ready to destroy returning ships.  Unable to leave a message drone because of the missiles, Franklin flees to Tau Ceti.  Discipline breaks down, the captain is killed,
and a nucleus of a new crew forms behind a man named Carl Donnan.  Donnan is an engineer and adventurer who gave up wandering the Earth for a chance to see the galaxy, courtesy of a Senator who owed him a favor.  Now he is leading almost 300 men on a quest for other humans, and for Earth's murderers.  Chief suspects are the Kandemirians, especially since the missiles swarming through the Solar System are Kandemirian.

Earth is new to interstellar trade, and a handful of ships have gone out into the wider galactic society.  The men realize they have little hope of finding other humans, let alone women.  They do have a guide with them, an alien called Ramri from the polycultural society originating on the planet Monwaing.  Ramri is a biped descended from feathered, bird-like creatures.

Some time afterwards, the ship Europa with a crew of 100 women returns, to find Earth destroyed and missiles roaming the Solar System.  They are able to disable one missile.  A small team boards the missile, including Navigation Officer Sigrid Holmen and her friend Gunnery Officer Alexandra Vukovic.  The missile appears to have been manufactured by Kandemirians, although there are symbols in an unknown script scrawled on a bulkhead within it.  Other missiles approach, and the  Europa must leave without addressing the central mystery.  The officers confer about where to go next.

The Quests
Travelling to Vorlak, Donnan sells the crew's services to the warlord, or Draga, Hlott Luurs.  His proposition is that the humans will develop new technology allowing a ship to detect the drives of other ships far beyond the usual range.  Donnan's friend Arnold Goldspring is a mathematician who has a host of new ideas for the technology.  The detector is just the first one.  To prove its worth, Donnan bargains for a Vorlak ship which they will use on a
stealth raid on a Kandemirian outpost.

The raid is a disaster, and they are captured by Kandemirians.  Interrogated by the head of the Kandemirian forces, Tarkamat, Donnan is told that if he refuses to re-create the technology for Kandemir, his crew will die horribly, one by one.  He has no choice but to comply.