[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Stevens (Washington, D.C.)

rt. Confederate soldiers were seen crossing the Potomac River from Poolesville, Maryland, to Virginia. They left behind 101 wounded soldiers, including 11 officers. The total number of Confederate casualties was unknown; the number of Union soldiers killed, wounded, and missing was approximately 50.

According to many accounts, President Abraham Lincoln rode out to the fort on both days to observe the attack, and was briefly under enemy fire by sharpshooters.  On July 12, he was brusquely ordered to take cover, mostly likely by Union Maj. Gen. Horatio Wright. A story has grown up, probably apocryphal, that future Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., then an aide-de-camp to Wright, yelled at Lincoln, "Get down, you fool!"  Another story attributes this quote to nearby resident Elizabeth Thomas. This is believed to have been only the second time in American history that a sitting president came under enemy fire during a war (the first being President James Madison during the War of 1812). An article published by The Evening Star on July 13 noted, however, that "President Lincoln and Mrs. Lincoln passed along the line of the city defences in a carriage last night, and were warmly greeted by the soldiers wherever they made their appearance amongst them." The article makes no mention of Lincoln coming under fire.

Present day
The site was abandoned after the war. By 1900, Lewis Cass White, who had fought with the 102nd Pennsylvania Infantry in the Battle of Fort Stevens, led the formation of the Fort Stevens Lincoln Memorial Association. The association raised funds for a stone memorial on the site, which was dedicated on November 7, 1911. In the late 1930s the Civilian Conservation Corps restored a portion of the parapet and one magazine.

The site, near Georgia Avenue at 13th Street and Quackenbos Street NW, is now maintained by the National Park Service Civil War Defenses of Washington. The remains of 41 Union soldiers who died in the Battle of Fort Stevens are buried on the grounds of nearby Battleground National Cemetery.

Further up Georgia Ave, a monument to seventeen unknown Confederate Soldiers was erected in Grace Episcopal Church Cemetery, in Silver Spring, MD. The seventeen soldiers, who died at Fort Stevens, are buried in that cemetery.

See also
 Civil War Defenses of Washington
 Washington, D.C., in the American Civil War
 Bibliography of the American Civil War
 Bibliography of Abraham Lincoln
 Bibliography of Ulysses S. Grant

Notes

References

 Cramer, John Henry, Lincoln Under Enemy Fire, the Complete Account of His Experiences During Early's Attack on Washington, Louisiana, State University Press, 1948; University of Tennessee Press, 2009,

External links 

 The Battle of Fort Stevens: Maps, Histories, Photos, Facts, and Preservation News (CWPT)
Google Maps Aerial View of Fort Stevens
National Park Service page on Fort Stevens
Maureen Dowd column, September 7, 2010 Lincoln’s Forgotten Fort (New York Times, 2010)

1861 establishments in Washington, D.C.
Brightwood (Washington, D.C.)
Stevens
Stevens
Stevens
American Civil War on the National Register of Historic Places