[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Special Operations Troops Centre

any
 Special Operations Course - Spain
 Cold weather training - Norway
 Jungle Warfare - Brazil

Organization 
The CTOE is regiment level unit, commanded by a colonel, which includes:
 Commanding officer
 Staff
Headquarters Company
Training Battalion
Public Attendance Office
Special Operations Force

Special Operations Force 
The Special Operations Force (FOE - Força de Operações Especiais) is the operational component of the CTOE. It can constitute a special operations task group (SOTG) or it can contribute to a joint SOTG which can be created with special operations elements from other branches of the Armed Forces. This force is the Portuguese equivalent to the 1st SFOD-D & 22nd Special Air Service.

Organisation 
The FOE is commanded by a lieutenant-colonel and includes six special operations task units (SOTU). Each SOTU is commanded by a captain (except SOTU A1, which is commanded by a major) and includes 16 elements (only officers and NCOs).

The FOE includes:
 Headquarters and Staff
 Headquarters Company
Headquarters
Communications Platoon
Medical Platoon
Sniper Platoon
Support Platoon
Joint Terminal Attack Controller Section,
Technical Exploitations Operations Section
Mini-Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Section;
 SOTU A1
 SOTU A2
 SOTU B1
 SOTU B2
 SOTU C1
 SOTU C2

Selection and training 
Training to become a member of the Special Operations Force takes 30-32 weeks (30 weeks for enlisted soldiers, 32 weeks for officer and non-commissioned officers. Successful candidates are expected to serve a minimum of two years.

This is broken down in the following stages:

Basic training; This 5 weeks stage aims to provide the candidate with basic military training, with an introduction to military culture at this stage.

Additional training (stage 1); This 7 week stage aims to provide advanced military training, and combat technique is given at this stage.

Additional training (stage 2); This 5 week stage aims to provide the military with military leadership training, at this stage command and leadership modules are taught. This training is only for Officer, and Non-commissioned Officers.

Special Operations Force course; The Special Operations Specialty course enables the military to carry out missions of a strategic, operational or tactical scope, with a high degree of independence and in conditions of great risk and in which qualities of spirit of sacrifice, adaptation, tenacity, strong will and constant, rusticity and resistance, sobriety and discretion, camaraderie and cohesion. This stage is 13 weeks for enlisted men, while for Officers and Non-Commissioned Officers it is 15 weeks.

Equipment

Handguns
Glock 17 Gen 5
Heckler & Koch P30 limited use

Shotguns
Fabarm STF 12 
Franchi SPAS-15
Benelli M4 Super 90
Benelli Supernova

Submachine guns
Heckler und Koch MP5A5, Heckler und Koch MP5SD6 and Heckler und Koch MP5KA4

Assault rifles
Heckler und Koch HK417A2
Heckler und Koch HK416, A5 and A7 variants.
Heckler und Koch G36K, Heckler und Koch G36KE and Heckler und Koch G36C

Machine guns
H&K MG4
FN Minimi Mk3
FN MAG
Browning M2HB

Sniper rifles
Barrett M107
Barrett M95
Accuracy International Arctic Warfare-SF
Accuracy International AWSM (L115A1) and L115A3 limited use
Accuracy International AXMC .338
Heckler & Koch G28 sniper limited use

Grenade launchers 
 Heckler & Koch 269 (Used on Heckler & Koch HK416)
 Heckler & Koch AG36 (Used on Heckler & Koch G36)
 Heckler & Koch GMG

Anti-tank weapons 

 Carl Gustaf M3
 M72A3 LAW

Vehicles 

 URO VAMTAC ST5
 Ranger Special Operations Vehicle
 Land Rover Defender 110
 Mitsubishi L200
 Polaris Sportsman MV850
 Polaris MRZR D2
 Polaris MRZR D4

See also
Fernando Robles
Equipment of the Portuguese Army
Portuguese Army

References

External links 

Army units and formations of Portugal
Special forces of Portugal
Military counterterrorist organizations
Lamego