[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen O'Donnell (footballer, born 1983)

e club's recent administration which led to 25 points deducted as punishment and that, he won't forget the time when his teammates face the sack. Later in the season, O'Donnell would score two more goals against Stirling Albion and Raith Rovers. He since became a regular in the first team at Dundee.

The following season, O'Donnell started his season by scoring a winning goal in extra time, and also set up a goal for Steven Milne in a 2–1 win over Arbroath in the first round of Scottish Challenge Cup. On 10 September 2011, O'Donnell received a red card after a second bookable offence in a 1–0 win over Raith Rovers; three-month later on 17 December 2011, he received a red card after a serious tackle on Iain Vigurs in a 1–1 draw against Ross County. After the match, the club would appeal O'Donnell's sending off The appeal was rejected – making O'Donnell miss three matches as punishment. O'Donnell made his return in a 3–0 win over Livingston on 14 January 2012 and set up the third goal in a match for Nicky Riley. On 7 April 2012, O'Donnell scored his first league goal in a 3–1 win over Falkirk and scored again in a 1–1 draw against Queen of the South the following week At the end of the season, O'Donnell signed a new deal with Dundee.

The following season, Dundee were promoted to Scottish Premier League after Rangers were demoted, and O'Donnell was appointed as a new captain at Dundee, describing being a captain as an honour. O'Donnell played against his former club Dundee United on 19 August 2012. However, during the match, O'Donnell received a straight red card, along with Johnny Russell after O'Donnell made a tackle on Russell, which led to brawl. After the match, both clubs appealed for their sending off, and the SFA said both O'Donnell and Russell's sendings off had been reduced to cautions for unsporting behaviour, leading both clubs to win the appeals, leading them to play the next game. Soon after his successful appeal, O'Donnell suffered an injury. In late December 2012, O'Donnell declared himself fit from injury. After three appearances, O'Donnell tore his cruciate ligament during a defeat by St Johnstone, causing him to miss the rest of the season. While being on the sidelines, he revealed he was suffering arthritis from a mild form of the condition in September, when he suffered a first injury of the season. While being on the sidelines, his captaincy was taken over by Gary Irvine

While on the sidelines, O'Donnell see his club being relegated back to the Scottish Championship and after a year on the sidelines despite making an appearance against Dumbarton on 29 December 2013, it announced that O'Donnell was released by the club after a four years spell.

Clyde (second spell)
On 29 August 2014, O'Donnell agreed a one-year contract at Clyde, joining the club for a second time. It was announced in May 2015 that he was to be released by the club.

International career
O'Donnell has played for his country at under-16, under-19 and under-20 level. In January 2004, O'Donnell was named in the Scotland under-21 squad to play against Hungary under-21s. but failed to add to his appearances at earlier levels.

Personal life
O'Donnell is the nephew of former Motherwell captain Phil O'Donnell, who died on the pitch on 29 December 2007. He is also a cousin of former Motherwell striker David Clarkson.

Career statistics
After 9 May 2009

See also
2001–02 Dundee United F.C. season
2002–03 Dundee United F.C. season
2005–06 Clyde F.C. season
2006–07 Clyde F.C. season
2007–08 St Mirren F.C. season
2008–09 St Mirren F.C. season

References

External links

Living people
1983 births
Footballers from Bellshill
Scottish men's footballers
Scottish Premier League players
Scottish Football League players
English Football League players
Dundee United F.C. players
Ross County F.C. players
Boston United F.C. players
Clyde F.C. players
St Mirren F.C. players
Dundee F.C. players
Scottish Professional Football League players
Men's association football midfielders