[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Korea Forest Service

al activities addressing climate change and to build a bridge between developed and developing countries through cooperation projects of forest rehabilitation in developing countries. Therefore, Korea can make advances in sustainable development as a green growth model nation.

National Forest Plans

The First National Forest Plan: Forest Rehabilitation Project (1973~1978) 
In the 1950s, forests were left in a state of extreme devastation as the result of excess cutting during and after theJapanese colonization and the Korean War. The growing stock volume per hectare then was merely 6m³, 6% of the current figure. To restore these devastated forests causing serious social problems like lack of fuel, severe floods and droughts, the National Forest Plan was established. After the legal and institutional preparations in the 1960s, the Forest Rehabilitation Project was finally launched in 1973. The government declared the Nationwide Tree Planting period (3.21~4.20) and Arbor Day to draw out active participation from the public. More than one million ha of denuded forest were restored with fast growing tree species through public participation. The 10-year project was completed 4 years in advance of its target.

The Second National Forest Plan: Forest Rehabilitation Project (1979~1987) 
The Second 10-year National Forest Plan was devised to establish large-scale commercial forests that could develop into sustainable timber resources for domestic demands on timber products. Various forest policies were implemented by the government in order to achieve objectives like forest rehabilitation, enhancement of forest protection, and foundation of forest development funds to support private and national forests. Along with reforestation projects, erosion control was also actively undertaken to prevent natural disasters, and advanced biotechnology was adopted to control forest diseases and pests as well. Under the Second National Forest Plan, 80 commercial forests were built, and 325,000 ha was successfully reforested and plantation in 1.06 million ha was completed in total.

The Third National Forest Plan: Forest Rehabilitation (1988~1997) 
The Third National Forest Plan aimed at harmonizing economic functions and public benefits of the forests. The Plan focused on establishing foundation and infrastructure of forest management including forest road construction, forest mechanization, education for foresters and forestry workers, etc. The KFS carried out forestry income enhancement projects and public awareness-raising programmes of the importance of forests and its conservation, and supported overseas plantation projects with the aim of securing stable and long-term timber supplies. On top of that, it also developed and implemented policies for improving public benefits of the forests, including creation of recreation forests, water resources conservation, wildlife protection, etc. To promote more effective forest management practices, the Forest Laws was amended and enhanced, and the Act on Promotion of Forestry and Mountain Village was enacted in 1997.

The Fourth National Forest Plan (1998~2007) 
The Fourth National Forest Plan entered a transitional phase of forest policies from mainly focusing economic functions to enhancing overall forest benefits including public and recreational benefits. Therefore, sustainable forest management was reflected on forest policies and activities. The KFS put special emphasis on developing valuable forest resources and fostering competitive forestry industry, thereby increasing public benefits for the people. The government-led forest management policies turned into autonomic forest management in the private forest sector, based on the capability and discretion of forest owners. To achieve implementing objectives for sustainable forest management, the KFS consolidated legal and institutional systems by newly enacting the Framework Act on Forest, the Act on Promotion and Management of Forest Resources, the Act on the National Forest Management, the Act on Forest Culture and Recreation and the Act on Promotion of Forestry and Mountain Villages.