[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Similajau National Park

Similajau National Park (or Samalaju National Park), is a national park in the Bintulu Division of Sarawak, Malaysia. It is located about  from Bintulu.

Formation
The national park includes rainforest, beaches of white and gold-coloured sand, and rocky beaches, facing the South China Sea. The park was first gazetted on 1 December 1976, and published on 20 April 1978. It originally comprised  of forest, starting from Sungai Likau in the south and stretching  to Sungai Similajau in the north. Another  was added to the park on 17 February 2000, increasing the total area to , in a narrow coastal strip.

Flora
The flora consists of three main types, namely; beach, kerangas (a type of tropical moist forest), and mixed dipterocarp forest, which is home to various species of plants, trees and wildlife. The Tongkat Ali (Eurycoma longifolia), belonging to the family of Simaroubaceae, is a small and slender tree, and can grow as high as . It produces a cluster of finger-sized reddish fruits that have a bitter taste. On maturity, its fruits turn black, similar to coffee berries. This tree is more common in Similajau than in any other national park in Sarawak. The Bintangor (Barringtonia asiatica) belongs to the Guttiferae, and can be found in both the hills and swamp forests of Sarawak.

Fauna
The terrestrial fauna of the park include 24 recorded species of mammals, including primates such as gibbons, banded langurs and long-tailed macaque. 185 species of birds have been recorded in the park, including hornbills and migratory water birds like Storm's stork. A noteworthy reptile found here is the saltwater crocodile. Dolphins are found in the sea off the park's coast. Occasionally, green turtles come ashore to lay their eggs.

12 out of the 20 marine mammals recorded in Malaysia occur in Sarawak. These include whales, dugongs and dolphins. Five species of dolphin have been recorded in Bintulu waters: Irrawaddy dolphin (Orcaella brevirostris), bottlenose dolphin (Tursiop truncatus), Indo-Pacific humpback dolphin (Sousa chinensis), finless porpoise dolphin (Neophocaena phocaenoides) and pantropic spotted dolphin (Stenella attenuata). Dolphins occur from March to September every year. They are often spotted in groups of four or more during the early morning.

There are crocodile in the Likau River, although no crocodile attacks have been reported in the park. There are two species of riverine crocodiles in the park; the false gharial (Tomistoma schlegelii), and an estuarine (saltwater) crocodile (Crocodylus porosus). The estuarine/saltwater crocodile is very dangerous and has been responsible for many fatal attacks in Sarawak in recent years. The false gharial is generally shy and passive, but on rare occasions fatal attacks have been confirmed in Central Kalimantan and Sumatra. Both species should be treated with respect and given distance.

The horseshoe crab, or king crab, often occurs during the dry season from early May to October. They usually appear in pairs, being the males on top of the females. The males are smaller in sizes as compared to the females. They come to the shore to lay eggs, and during the breeding season one can see plenty of Sagor Catfishes (Hexanematichthys sagor) around feeding on the eggs.

There are eight species of hornbill recorded in Sarawak many of which can be found in the park including the Rhinoceros Hornbill (Buceros rhinoceros) and the black hornbill (Anthracoceros malayanus).

Places of interest

Batu Mandi
About  off the shore of Kuala Sungai Likau. It can be reached only by boat. Noticeable from the park only during low tide.

Batu Anchau
It is a black bare rock surface situated at the end reach of the Batu Anchau trail and is about a  walk from the park office.

Selunsur Rapid
It is a rapid that exists at the end reach of the Selunsur Rapid trail. It is about  from the park office. The rapid can be noticed clearly after a heavy downpour and fast flowing of high volume water on the steep rock surface.

Turtle Beach
There are 2 units of Turtle Beach namely Turtle Beach I and Beach II. They are located about  away from the park office. These are the places where turtles land for laying eggs. This occasionally happens during the month of March till September annually.

Sebubong Pool
It is a natural pool at the Sebubong River. It can only be reached by mean of fast boat as there is no existing rail connecting from the park office.

Nature trails

Main Trail (red mark)
This trail covers  reaching the Golden Beach and can be reached by jungle trekking of about three to four hours journey each way. It can also be reached by fast boat in about forty minutes.

Education Trail (green mark)
Consists of two parts. One is a  plank walk along the mangrove forest and another is a  jungle trail. It is so called Education trail because it is nearby the park office and suitable for any interest parties especially students to know more about tree species.