[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Lee Butler

bers, tankers, reconnaissance aircraft and intercontinental ballistic missiles. The Joint Strategic Target Planning Staff coordinated U.S. nuclear war plans and developed the Single Integrated Operational Plan. He assumed his final command in June 1992, when Strategic Air Command was disestablished.

Awards and decorations
Butler is a command pilot with more than 3,000 flying hours. He also holds navigator and parachutist ratings. His military awards and decorations include the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, Air Force Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit with oak leaf cluster, Distinguished Flying Cross, Bronze Star Medal, Meritorious Service Medal with two oak leaf clusters, Air Medal with two oak leaf clusters, and Air Force Commendation Medal.

Butler was promoted to general January 25, 1991, with same date of rank, and retired February 28, 1994.

Nuclear disarmament
Following his retirement he became active in the nuclear disarmament movement, and gave a speech in New Zealand, among other events, in so doing. In a series of public statements, beginning with a major speech at the National Press Club in 1996, he called for the outright abolition of nuclear weapons. In 1999, he and his wife founded the Second Chance Foundation, dedicated to promoting responsible global reduction of nuclear dangers. He was awarded the 8th Annual Heinz Award for Public Policy in 2002 for his work.

Author:   Uncommon Cause – Volume I: A Life at Odds with Convention – The Formative Years, and 
Uncommon Cause – Volume II: A Life at Odds with Convention – The Transformative Years (Published 2016)
Books by General George Lee Butler

References

|-

1939 births
Living people
United States Air Force generals
United States Air Force Academy alumni
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
Recipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States)
United States Air Force personnel of the Vietnam War
Air University (United States Air Force) alumni
Joint Forces Staff College alumni
University of Paris alumni
Recipients of the Air Medal
Recipients of the Defense Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal
American expatriates in France
Washington-Liberty High School alumni
American anti–nuclear weapons activists