[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Languages of Sudan

(Dinka) and Naadh (Nuer) in Southern Sudan.

Many other languages are spoken by a few thousand or even a few hundred people. 
Sudan also has multiple regional sign languages, which are not mutually intelligible. By 2009 a proposal for a unified language had been worked out, but is not widely known.

Language policies
Under the 1998 constitution, only Arabic was the official language. Nonetheless, English was acknowledged as the principal language in the South into the 1990s. It was also the chief language at the University of Khartoum and was the language of secondary schools even in the North before 1969. In the early 1970s in the South, the first two years of primary school were taught in the local language. Thereafter, through secondary school, either Arabic or English could be the medium of instruction (English and Arabic were regarded as of equal importance); the language not used as a medium was taught as a subject. At the time when this option was established, roughly half the general secondary schools (equivalent to grades seven through nine) were conducted in Arabic and half in English in what were then Bahr al-Ghazal and AlIstiwai States.

The new policy for higher education announced by the Sudanese government in 1990, however, dictated that Arabic would be the language of instruction in all institutions of higher learning (see Education in Sudan). This policy was reversed by provisions of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement of 2005 that were incorporated into Sudan's Interim National Constitution. These provisions established both Arabic and English as official working languages of the national government and as the languages of instruction in higher education. The constitution declared further that “all indigenous languages of the Sudan are national languages and shall be respected, developed, and promoted,” and it allowed any legislative body below the national level to adopt any other national language(s) as additional official working language(s) within that body's jurisdiction. These changes began working their way into public life and into secondary and higher education.

Literacy and education

The literacy rate is 70.2% of total population, male: 79.6%, female: 60.8%.

See also 

 Languages of South Sudan

References

 
Demographics of Sudan