[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Louis Dodds

Louis Bartholomew Dodds  (born 8 October 1986) is an English footballer who plays for  side Hanley Town. He can play either as a midfielder or as a striker.

After many years at the Leicester City Academy, he turned professional at the club in 2006. He spent the 2006–07 season on loan at Conference side Northwich Victoria and League Two club Rochdale. He then spent the entirety of the 2007–08 campaign on loan at Lincoln City. He turned down a new deal with Leicester to sign for Port Vale in July 2008. He helped the club to secure promotion out of League Two in 2012–13 with seven goals in 36 matches. He ended his eight-year spell at Port Vale when he joined league rivals Shrewsbury Town in May 2016. He left Shrewsbury for Chesterfield in January 2018, who were relegated out of the English Football League at the end of the season. He returned to Port Vale on loan for the first half of the 2018–19 season, and then moved on to Chorley in August 2019. He signed with Hednesford Town in July 2020 and then returned to Stoke-on-Trent to join Hanley Town in May 2021, who would win the Midland League Premier Division title in the 2021–22 season.

Career

Leicester City
Louids Dodds was born Sheffield, though moved with his family to Leicester when he was 3 months old and joined the Leicester City youth academy at the age of ten. He joined Leicester after being spotted by a talent scout while playing for Ratby & Groby, and whilst there earned himself a call-up to the England under-18 squad. He finished the 2005–06 season with a hat-trick in the final of the Westerby Challenge Cup, and also picked up the Academy Player of the Year trophy having scored 65 goals in three seasons for the Academy and reserves. Dodds was described by the Leicester management as "the most natural finisher at the club".

Dodds signed a new contract with the "Foxes" to keep him at the club until the summer of 2007, but on 9 October 2006 was allowed to join Conference side Northwich Victoria on loan to gain some first team experience. This loan deal was extended in November, before he was recalled by the "Foxes" at the end of the month due to an injury crisis. In February 2007 he joined Rochdale on loan, and scored an early winner on his first start. He scored two goals in twelve games for the "Dale".

In July 2007 he agreed to a season long loan deal at Lincoln City. He scored nine goals during his spell with Lincoln City and was voted as scorer of the club's goal of the season for his long-range strike against Wycombe Wanderers. He showed an interest in joining the club permanently and was offered a new contract at parent club Leicester, but instead joined League Two's Port Vale on 21 July 2008, penning a two-year deal.

Port Vale
On 9 August 2008, Dodds made his first start for the Vale in the opening game of the season against Luton Town and he was quick to win over his new supporters, scoring Vale's opening goal of the season with a  right-footed shot. He further enhanced his popularity with the Vale faithful with a long range strike against Shrewsbury Town. He especially enjoyed great popularity with the club's female support, as he took away the club's 2009 "Mr Shirt of the Back" Award; he went on to pick up the award for three seasons running. He scored a total of ten goals in 48 games in 2008–09.

Manager Micky Adams arrived for the 2009–10 season, and transfer listed Dodds in late September, along with the entire Port Vale squad, after Vale slipped to a third consecutive defeat. Dodds maintained his first team place however, scoring seven goals in 48 appearances. He was offered a new two-year contract by the club at the end of the season, which he duly signed.

Vale enjoyed a positive start to the 2010–11 season. However, in January 2011, Dodds found he was not a first team regular under new manager Jim Gannon, despite calls from supporters for Gannon to include Dodds in the first XI. Yet he managed to force himself back into contention with an impressive strike to seal a 2–1 win over Macclesfield Town on 5 March, after coming into the match as a late substitute. After Gannon left the club just two weeks later, Dodds admitted that he probably would have left the club had Gannon remained in charge much longer. He scored his first hat-trick in the English Football League on 30 April, along with Justin Richards, in a 7–2 win over Morecambe.