[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andrew Little (New Zealand politician)

eas" and criticised Labour's "bare platform". He was praised by political commentators early in his leadership for uniting the party caucus and averting the infighting that characterised David Cunliffe's tenure as leader, though at the expense of dropping many of the party's former policy proposals.

In October 2016 Labour floated the idea of a levy on employers who imported offshore skilled labour rather than upskilled their domestic workers. Little responded to criticisms that it amounted to a "tax on immigrants", saying "If we want to make sure we've got the skills for the future ... for those employers who don't take on apprentices, don't invest in training, you can contribute a levy and that'll help to defray the cost of those who are doing the training". Little also criticised the number of travel visas granted to semi-skilled workers, citing statistics. Kirk Hope, Chief executive of Business New Zealand, criticised the proposal policy and warned that it would affect smaller businesses who are unable to recruit enough local workers.

Little was sued for defamation by Lani and Earl Hagaman after he made statements linking a contract awarded to their company with donations they had made to the National Party. In April 2017, a jury cleared him of some of the charges, and were unable to reach a verdict on others.

On 1 August 2017, Little resigned as Leader of the Labour Party due to the party's history of low results in polls, and was succeeded by deputy leader Jacinda Ardern. Little was later lauded by party supporters for "selflessly" putting aside his personal ambition to allow Ardern to lead the party, which saw a swift reversal of fortune for Labour and the opportunity to form a new government after the 2017 general election with New Zealand First and the Green Party. Little served as Labour's justice spokesperson over the election period.

Cabinet Minister 
Little was a senior minister in the Sixth Labour Government led by Jacinda Ardern and Chris Hipkins between 2017 and 2023. He held twelve portfolios during the government's term.

First term (2017–2020) 
The Labour Party increased its share of the vote in the . Little was elected as a Cabinet Minister by the Labour Party caucus following Labour's formation of a government with New Zealand First and the Greens. In late October 2017, Little assumed several portfolios including Minister of Justice, Minister for Courts, Minister Responsible for the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) and the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service (NZSIS), Minister for Treaty of Waitangi Negotiations, and Minister Responsible for Pike River Re-entry.

Following the success of the pilot Alcohol and Other Drug Treatment Court (the AODTC) at reducing reoffending, in December 2017, Little announced that alcohol and drug courts would be rolled out nationwide. Two years later, he said the AODTC had proved effective, reducing reoffending by 23% up to two years after treatment. Following a negative evaluation by the Ministry of Justice, in March 2020, Little published a media release which claimed the AODTC was expensive to operate and needed modifications to "sustain reoffending gains over the long term". One more drug court has been established in Hamilton, but they have not been rolled out anywhere else.

On 20 November 2018, Little announced the creation of the Pike River Recovery Agency to plan a manned re-entry of the Pike River Mine in order to recover the bodies of the 29 miners who perished during the Pike River Mine disaster in September 2010. On 19 April 2018, Little entered the Pike River mine portal with victims' family representatives Anna Osborne and Sonya Rockhouse to demonstrate that a safe re-entry was possible. He also promised that the Government would re-enter the drift to recover evidence and the remains of deceased miners. Drift entry was achieved in 2019 but plans to recover the victims' bodies were abandoned in 2021.

As Justice Minister, Little announced plans in December 2017 to reduce the prison population by 30 per cent over the next 15 years. The prison population at the time was 10,394. Towards this goal, in May 2018, he announced the Government would repeal the contentious 'three strikes' law – the Sentencing and Parole Reform Act 2010 – which had been introduced by the previous National Government. NZ First refused to back this proposal forcing Little to announce on 11 June 2018 that the coalition Government had abandoned the plan.