[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# MilSim

Sun), writes that "the appeal is in ... the realism of an unreal world, plus a deep desire for the camaraderie and teamwork you'd find in a real military unit." He speculates that the "pure adrenaline free from inflicting actual harm ... strikes at something embedded deep within the core of sports."

Places Journal, referring to the presence of veteran and civilian players describe MilSim as a "ladder leading up to the war and a ladder for coming back down". Notably, veterans (rather than, or in addition to, mental health care) "use war games as self-administered PTSD treatment". 

Recently, advances in airsoft replica authenticity have led numerous law enforcement and military units to train with airsoft guns in CQB/CQC environments. MilSim events have encouraged the US Army to promote enlistment.

Video games
Mil-sim is also the descriptor for a genre of video games, often overlapping with the tactical shooter genre, containing more "realistic" mechanics and consequences than typical first-person shooters or action games. Games such as Arma and Squad rather than pure entertainment, are a simulation of equipment and tactics, and are sometimes used for military training and mission rehearsal. Other games, such as Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45 and Insurgency: Sandstorm, feature realistic aspects in their gameplay. Mil-sims can be differentiated from other shooter games in that, commonly:

Firearms are modeled after real life. Bullets are grouped by magazines (rather than an ammo pool), gunshot wounds are usually fatal, and bullets are physically simulated, requiring the player to account for wind and gravity.
The games' systems account for various needs. Vehicles may have limited cargo space, and characters can become severely fatigued, including hunger and thirst.
Community-run MilSim events within these video games, often have players undergo "training". A player might be trained in military tactics that will give them an advantage in the game.

See also 

 Renaissance fair
 Urban exploration

References

Combat sports