[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pierre Amine Gemayel

k. However the pro-Syrian coalition managed to establish a sit-in, later growing into a protest camp, in the martyr's square downtown Beirut, to insist on their demands.

Despite these claims, the unidentified perpetrators are still at large and the investigation on the attack has been inconclusive.

Funeral
A funeral ceremony for him was held on Martyrs' Square on 23 November 2006 with the participation of hundreds of thousands of supporters of the 14 March Alliance, and turned to be a political character. His body was buried in his hometown Bikfaya after Patriarch Nasrallah Sfeir performed the rites in Beirut.

Lebanese reaction

Saad Hariri, then majority leader of the Lebanese Parliament and the head of the Current for the Future political movement, accused Syria of ordering the killing. The Syrian government denied any involvement, and condemned the killings.

Lebanese Druze leader Walid Jumblatt also blamed Syria for the assassination, and said he expected more such killings aimed at undermining the Lebanese parliament's ruling majority. "I bluntly accuse the Syrian regime", Jumblatt said.

Samir Geagea, the leader of The Lebanese Forces, one of the major Christian parties, demanded President Émile Lahoud resign, and also accused Syria of ordering the killing. Michel Aoun, leader of The Free Patriotic Movement, strongly condemned the murder, and argued that it was aimed at generating chaos and uncertainty, primarily among the Christian society in Lebanon. Similar remarks and condemnation were issued by almost all of the major Lebanese political players.

World reaction
The U.N. Security Council condemned Gemayel's assassination.

Pope Benedict XVI's representative at the funeral condemned the "unspeakable" assassination.

British Prime Minister Tony Blair condemned the murder. Margaret Beckett, Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs in the United Kingdom, called the killing "contrary to the interests of all in the region" in a press conference aired on Al Jazeera English approximately an hour after Gemayel's death was confirmed.

The White House also condemned the murder. The U.N. Ambassador John R. Bolton said, "One pattern we discern in these political assassinations of Lebanese leaders – journalists, members of parliament – they are all anti-Syrian. So I suppose one can draw conclusions from that," he said.

Personal life
Gemayel married Patricia Daif, a Lebanese Christian, in 1999, and they had two sons, Amine and Iskander (Alexander). The wedding was held in Limassol, Cyprus, so that Gemayel's father, who was then in self-exile, could attend.

See also
 List of assassinated Lebanese politicians

References

News coverage 
Who killed Lebanon's Minister?, Ya Libnan, 21 November 2006
 Lebanon mourns its fallen minister, Ya Libnan, 22 November 2006

1972 births
2006 deaths
Lebanese Maronites
Kataeb Party politicians
Members of the Parliament of Lebanon
Government ministers of Lebanon
Pierre Amine
People murdered in Lebanon
Deaths by firearm in Lebanon
Terrorism deaths in Lebanon
Assassinated Lebanese politicians
Assassinations in Lebanon
Children of presidents of Lebanon
Lebanese anti-communists
Maronite politicians
2000s assassinated politicians in Asia