[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Port Militarization Resistance

The most publicized court case to come from Port Militarization Resistance actions involved 16 of the 22 people arrested at the Port of Olympia on May 30, 2006.  Despite that some defendants were severed from the case, PMR organizers continued to refer to the remaining defendants as the Olympia 22.

The Olympia 22 case got national headlines when the judge denied a prosecution motion to suppress discussion of the war.  This gave the defense the ability to use the necessity defense, to argue in court that their actions, though they may have been illegal, were necessary to stop a greater crime.  While this defense was used many times in the Vietnam War era to win acquittals in cases where defendants had clearly done what they were accused of, this would have been the first such attempt to use the necessity defense in regards to the Iraq War.  However, the decision was later overturned on appeal, and the necessity defense was never brought before a jury.

The first trial of the sixteen Olympia 22 defendants, which began on March 26, 2007, ended in mistrial on its fourth day, when an individual identifying himself as being with Homeland Security furnished a printout of an e-mail from a confidential riseup e-mail list of attorneys and defendants.  This e-mail contained a spreadsheet with confidential juror information.  The prosecution, characterizing the information as being "out there" on the Internet, successfully argued for a mistrial.  Defendants maintain the list constituted attorney-client protected discussions.

While preparing to retry the case through three split trials, the charges were dismissed with prejudice on June 12, 2007.  The judge cited "gross negligence" on the part of the prosecution, in failing to provide new discovery to the defendants in a timely manner before trial.  Local newspaper The Olympian editorialized that the prosecution blew the case by not pursuing it aggressively enough.

Other court cases

There were several other court cases to come from each of PMR's protests. Many charges were dismissed, and some were acquitted, while other protest participants were convicted on their charges.

Public reaction and impact

Port Militarization Resistance actions garnered international attention, with coverage from The New York Times, the BBC, Democracy Now!, and Air America Radio.

Support

Many anti-war activists cited the port protests as being inspirational.  Among them, 1st Lt Ehren Watada cited the May 2006 PMR protests as inspiration for his decision to publicly refuse to deploy with the 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division.  During the May 2006 protests at the Port of Olympia, author Ron Jacobs called for "One, Two, Three, Many Olympias."  PMR also gained the support of international organizations, like the Japan Peace Committee.

PMR also frequently cited messages of support they received from active-duty soldiers.

PMR Spied on by US Military

On July 22, 2009 a man named John Towery was publicly outed for infiltrating and spying on PMR and anarchists over a period of at least two years. This information was discovered through documents received from the City of Olympia through a public records request. Towery, who was known by activists as "John Jacob", was active in PMR and frequented the Tacoma anarchist community space Pitch Pipe Infoshop. After he was outed he admitted to two anarchists that he did in fact spy on them for two years. He worked as an informant for a force protection unit in the Army. Other records showed that numerous police agencies, federal agencies and every branch of the US military was involved with spying on, and in some cases infiltrating, PMR. Democracy Now!, The New York Times and countless other national and international media outlets covered the story. PMR activists and anarchists are currently involved in a lawsuit against the Army, Air Force, Coast Guard, Olympia Police Department, Tacoma Police Department, Thurston County Sheriffs and Pierce County Sheriffs for violating civil rights, civil liberties and the Posse Comitatus Act.

Criticism

Port Militarization Resistance also came under scrutiny, both for its uncompromising stance and for its choice of tactics.  One of PMR's more prolific critics was conservative columnist Michelle Malkin.  Malkin criticized PMR's actions as putting U.S. servicepeople in danger, and accused PMR members of sedition.