[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gary Brabin

season, with Brabin again a key first-team player having made 43 appearances and contributed two goals. However they were beaten by Leyton Orient in the play-off semi-finals and Brabin departed Boothferry Park after accepting a severance payment for the remaining year of his contract in August 2001.

Later career
After leaving Hull, Brabin trained with St. Johnstone and had trials at Plymouth Argyle, Torquay United, Dundee and Dundee United. He went on to return to the Conference for the 2001–02 season, though played just once for Steve Evans's Boston United after joining on non-contract terms, playing the first hour of a 4–1 win over Hayes at York Street. He left the "Pilgrims" to make a return to the Third Division with Torquay United. He played seven games for Roy McFarland's "Gulls", before he had his contract at Plainmoor cancelled after failing to settle on the coast; he had been sent off against former club Hull City in his second appearance and sent off again in a 2–0 defeat to local rivals Exeter City after elbowing Martin Barlow in the face. He returned to the Conference to score three goals in 17 appearances for Chester City. Despite joining the "Seals" relatively late on in the campaign, he was named as Chester City's Player of the Season as the helped the "Blues" to avoid relegation.

Brabin left the Deva Stadium and then signed with Total Network Solutions, and scored six goals in 30 Welsh Premier League matches in the 2002–03 campaign, as TNS finished as runners-up to Barry Town. Ken McKenna's Saints again finished second in 2003–04, this time behind Rhyl, as Brabin scored just once from his 18 appearances. He retired on medical advice in February 2004 after suffering from breathlessness. He then went on to serve Witton Albion as assistant manager. He returned to playing in the Conference National to feature in four games for Chris Wilder's Halifax Town during the 2005–06 campaign, scoring one goal for the "Shaymen". Later in the season he left The Shay and signed for Southport, and played 14 Conference matches. In November 2006, he signed for Northern Premier League side Burscough, where he assisted with coaching in addition to his playing duties. In June 2007, Brabin was appointed as assistant manager of The New Saints, and also played two games at Park Hall in the 2007–08 season.

Style of play
Brabin was a midfielder, but could also play at centre back due to his heading ability. He had a poor disciplinary record.

Coaching career

Southport
On 8 April 2008, Brabin was appointed manager of Southport on a contract running until the end of the 2007–08 season, replacing Peter Davenport. He guided the "Sandgrounders" into the Conference North play-offs, where they were beaten by Stalybridge Celtic in the penalty shoot-out after a 2–2 aggregate draw over the two legs of the semi-final.

Cambridge United
On 23 June 2008, Brabin was named as manager of Cambridge United on a two-year contract, taking over from Jimmy Quinn. He led the "U's" to runners-up spot in the Conference at the end of the 2008–09 season, finishing just two points behind Burton Albion. United defeated Stevenage Borough in the play-off semi-finals, but were beaten 2–0 by Torquay United in the play-off final at Wembley Stadium. The following month he was named as the Conference Premier Manager of the Year. However he was sacked from his post at the Abbey Stadium on 13 July 2009 following a series of disputes with the club's board.

Luton Town
Brabin was appointed as chief scout at Luton Town in October 2009. In May 2010, he was named as Luton's assistant manager, taking over from Alan Neilson.

He was promoted to manager at Kenilworth Road until the end of the 2010–11 season after Richard Money left the club on 28 March 2011. Brabin secured Luton's place in the Conference Premier play-offs, leading them to a 5–1 aggregate victory over Wrexham in the semi-finals. In the final at the City of Manchester Stadium, Luton drew 0–0 after extra time with AFC Wimbledon, and eventually lost 4–3 in a penalty shootout that left the club facing a third year at non-League level. Brabin received the full support from the Luton board despite the disappointment of the defeat and, one week later, he signed a new two-year contract to stay as permanent manager.

Brabin was sacked on 31 March 2012 after the team fell out of the play-off positions with seven games remaining of the 2011–12 season. His successor, Paul Buckle, led the "Hatters" to the 2012 Conference Premier play-off final on 20 May, where they were beaten by York City. Ironically, just five days later Brabin was convicted of using threatening and behaviour, but cleared of assault, following an altercation with two stewards after he was sent to the stands during a match at York City on 19 April 2011.