[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

l leaders and businesses need to know the backgrounds of those who are trying to influence public policy." The bill passed the Senate on December 20, 2018, and was signed into law in 2019. In February 2020, JACK Act disclosures revealed that lobbyists with criminal histories collected $3.1 million. 

Leading up to the 2019 election, Kennedy was mentioned as a prospective candidate for governor in the jungle primary against incumbent John Bel Edwards, but on December 3, 2018, he said he preferred to remain in the Senate and would not run for governor.

116th Congress (2019–2021) 
In March 2019, Kennedy introduced the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act, which Trump signed into law on December 18, 2020. The law prohibits any company from listing on an American stock exchange if it refuses to allow the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to audit its annual private audit for three consecutive years. It also requires companies to disclose whether they are owned by a foreign government.

In 2019, Kennedy again introduced a bill to extend the National Flood Insurance Program. It extended the program through September 30, 2018, rather than lapsing on May 31. The bill passed the Senate on May 23, 2019, and was signed into law. 

In 2019, Kennedy called on the Treasury Department to establish a website where citizens could find out whether they had unclaimed Treasury savings bonds. He established a similar website for the state of Louisiana when he was treasurer. On October 22, 2019, the Treasury department announced that it would launch a website for unclaimed bonds. Kennedy said, "The bond might be lost, the physical bond in the days when we used paper bonds, and the people who loaned the money to the federal government might have forgotten about the bonds. But you know who knows about the bonds? The United States Department of Treasury, because they've got the names and the addresses, and right now they've got the money—$26 billion that they are holding that belongs to the American people, and they won't give it back."

On November 25, 2019, Trump signed Kennedy’s Recovery for Small Businesses After Disaster Act, a bill allowing small business disaster loans to remain at a limit of $25,000, rather than dropping to $14,000. 

After Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg's death in 2020, Kennedy supported Trump's nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to fill the Supreme Court vacancy. Kennedy voted to confirm Barrett, and said in an interview on Tucker Carlson Tonight, "you would have to be barking mad to think that she is not qualified". After her confirmation on October 26, he applauded it as a "victory for our founders".

On February 4, 2020, Kennedy voted against Trump's first impeachment. 

On March 26, 2020, Kennedy voted for the first COVID-19 stimulus package, the CARES Act, saying, "This virus poses a unique health risk, and we know that poverty can also threaten lives. Understanding that, I voted today to protect the well-being of Louisianans now and into the future by investing in medical services, families, workers and businesses." 

In July 2020, Kennedy voted for the second COVID-19 relief package, saying, "I’m very conservative fiscally, as I think most of you know, but people are in pain and the size of the American economy is just extraordinary. This is the largest economy in all of human history, and government just shut down, just shut it down, and a lot of people have gotten hurt, through no fault of their own, and we need to help them without wasting any money."

Kennedy helped draft the Water Resources Development Act of 2020, a bill that determines which projects the Army Corps of Engineers will build. With few options, Louisiana agreed to let the Corps build a flood protection system for the New Orleans region that meets the standards for national flood insurance. He added a provision that allowed Louisiana to renegotiate a loan agreement with the Corps for a flood protection system that saved Louisiana taxpayers $1.3 billion.

On March 10, 2021, the Center for Effective Lawmaking ranked Kennedy as one of the ten most effective Republican senators of the 116th Congress, and the most effective Republican senator in the areas of commerce, education, and trade.

117th Congress (2021–2023) 

After the 2020 presidential election, Kennedy and 11 other Republican senators said they would object to certain states' electoral votes in the 2021 United States Electoral College vote count on January 6, 2021, unless the vote was audited. He was participating in the certification when Trump supporters stormed the United States Capitol. Kennedy called the attack "despicable and shameful" and called for the rioters "to go to jail and pay for the destruction they caused." When the Capitol was secured and Congress returned to complete the certification, he objected to the certification of Arizona's electoral votes.