[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Louise Richardson

d University Ranking, and Oxford broke a record for the publication's rankings with seven straight years in the top spot, coinciding with Richardson's seven years in the top job. Oxford was followed by Harvard University while the University of Cambridge and Stanford University tied for third place.

Higher education strike across United Kingdom
In 2018, the trade union representing more than 100,000 staff at universities across the United Kingdom went on strike in a labor dispute that was still underway by the end of the 2022–23 academic year. In late February 2018, the University of Oxford was among the universities whose support for cuts to the national lecturers' pension scheme triggered a 14-day strike. A resolution to revert the decision was spearheaded by six Oxford academics, including Karma Nabulsi and Robert Gildea. On Tuesday, 6 March 2018, Richardson used a technicality to upend a debate on the plans. At a meeting of Congregation, the governing body of Oxford, 20 members and supporters of Richardson stood up as the resolution was introduced, thereby blocking the debate. Academics then held an unofficial vote outside, which delivered a result of 442 for and 2 against. Richardson herself stated that she had been absent from the event due to having "scheduled a trip to New York". An initial offer on her part for a non-binding "town hall discussion" as a replacement for the debate was rejected.

The following day, Richardson sent out an email to staff in which she stated that "In the light of the depth of feeling of so many colleagues, we will convene a special meeting of council today at noon" at which it would be recommended that the university's council "reverse its response to the UUK survey in line with the congregation's resolution".

Finances and criticism
Richardson's salary was criticised as excessive in 2017 (quoted as £410,000). Richardson was separately criticized for abuse of expenses, including claiming £70,000 in a single year on travel and dining as vice-chancellor. Richardson publicly lists her expenses on the university website. They revealed that  her annual expenses totaled about £20,000.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, she received further criticism for retaining her salary while University of Oxford staff were put on furlough on full salary. In June 2022, Richardson announced that all Oxford full-time staff would be given a one-time bonus of £1,000 (US$1240) to recognize their "commitment and dedication" through the pandemic. In November 2022, Richardson announced a one-time payment to staff of at least £800 in response to the cost of living crisis.

Opposing views
In September 2017, Richardson attracted criticism from students, academics, politicians, and the British press for remarks made in defence of academic freedom that were interpreted by critics as a defence of academics holding anti-gay views towards students.  Richardson had previously been involved in debates around free speech and around attempts by university students to bar some speakers from campuses.  At the University of St. Andrews, Richardson encouraged academics to share their views on the independence referendum and in her first few months at Oxford University she voiced the view that higher education was not meant to be a comfortable experience and that students ought to engage with views they found objectionable. In 2021 Richardson said: "All legal speech should be permitted at a university. When push comes to shove, I would defend any legal speech here however objectionable I find it."

Richardson's comments in June 2020 during the Black Lives Matter protests attracted further public criticism. She suggested that Nelson Mandela would not have wanted the controversial statue of Cecil Rhodes removed, explaining that the South African anti-apartheid leader was a man of "deep nuance" who would have opposed attempts to "hide history." Richardson insisted that views from the past need to be judged in the context of their time with an understanding of why people believed as they did.

President, Carnegie Corporation of New York
In November 2021, it was announced that Richardson would become the next president of Carnegie Corporation of New York in January 2023, at the end of her 7-year term as Oxford vice-chancellor. As the corporation's 13th president, she oversees one of the United States' leading philanthropic foundations, established in 1911 by Scottish immigrant and American industrialist Andrew Carnegie. Richardson had been on the board of trustees since 2012.