[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2001 in politics

as the Bush tax cuts.
 2001 United Kingdom general election: Tony Blair and the Labour Party win a second landslide victory.
 Former Argentinian president Carlos Menem is arrested on suspicion of illegal arms sales.
 June 15 – Declaration to establish the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation is signed.

July
 July 7 – 2001 Bradford riots: Ethnic violence is provoked in Bradford, England, by the far-right National Front and far-left Anti-Nazi League.
 July 14 – Agra Summit: India and Pakistan begin talks to improve relations. The summit ends inconclusively on July 16.
 July 16 – China and Russia sign the 2001 Sino-Russian Treaty of Friendship.
 July 19 – UK politician and novelist Jeffrey Archer is sentenced to 4 years in prison for perjury and perverting the course of justice.
 July 20–22 – The 27th G8 summit takes place in Genoa, Italy. Massive demonstrations, drawing an estimated 200,000 people, are held against the meeting by members of the anti-globalization movement. One demonstrator, Carlo Giuliani, is killed by a policeman, and several others are injured.
 July 23 – Megawati Sukarnoputri is inaugurated as the first female president of Indonesia.
 July 24 – Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, deposed as the last Tsar of Bulgaria when a child, is sworn in as the democratically elected 48th Prime Minister of Bulgaria.

August
 August 1 – Alabama Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy Moore has a Ten Commandments monument installed in the judiciary building, leading to a lawsuit to have it removed and his own removal from office.
 August 10 – The United States and the United Kingdom bomb air force installations in Iraq in response to attacks on American and British planes.
 August 13 – Macedonian and Albanian representatives sign the Ohrid Agreement to reduce conflicts during the insurgency.
 August 21 – Operation Essential Harvest: NATO sends a military forces to the Republic of Macedonia in response to the ongoing insurgency.
 August 31 – The World Conference against Racism 2001 begins in Durban, South Africa.

September

 September 3 
 In Belfast, Protestant loyalists begin a picket of Holy Cross, a Catholic primary school for girls. For the next 11 weeks, riot police escort the schoolchildren and their parents through hundreds of protesters, amid rioting and heightened violence.
 The United States, Canada and Israel withdraw from the U.N. Conference on Racism because they feel that the issue of Zionism is overemphasized.
 September 9 – A suicide bomber kills Ahmad Shah Massoud, military commander of the Afghan Northern Alliance.
 September 10 – Antônio da Costa Santos, mayor of Campinas, Brazil is assassinated.
 September 11 – 2,977 victims are killed in the September 11 attacks at the World Trade Center in New York City, New York, The Pentagon in Arlington County, Virginia, and in rural Shanksville, Pennsylvania after American Airlines Flight 11 and United Airlines Flight 175 are hijacked and crash into the World Trade Center's Twin Towers, American Airlines Flight 77 is hijacked and crashes into the Pentagon, and United Airlines Flight 93 is hijacked and crashes into grassland in Shanksville, due to the passengers fighting to regain control of the airplane. The World Trade Center towers collapse as a result of the crashes.
 September 19 – Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat forbids Palestinian soldiers from firing on Israeli forces, even in self-defence. Israel agrees to a ceasefire.
 September 20 – In an address to a joint session of Congress and the American people, U.S. President George W. Bush declares a "War on Terror".

October
 October 1 – Militants attack the state legislature building in Srinagar, Kashmir, killing 38.
 October 4 – 2001 Kodori crisis: Fighting escalates between Georgia and the breakaway state Abkhazia.
 October 7 – United States invasion of Afghanistan: In response to the September 11 attacks, Afghanistan is invaded by a US-led coalition, beginning the War in Afghanistan.
 October 8 – U.S. President George W. Bush announces the establishment of the Office of Homeland Security.
 October 17 – Israeli tourism minister Rehavam Ze'evi becomes the first Israeli minister to be assassinated in a terrorist attack.
 October 23 – The Provisional Irish Republican Army of Northern Ireland commences disarmament after peace talks.
 October 25 – Citing connotations with the Rwandan genocide, the government of Rwanda adopts a new national flag for the country.
 October 26 – U.S. President George W. Bush signs the Patriot Act into law.

November