[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# War Trash

War Trash is a novel by the Chinese author Ha Jin, who has long lived in the United States and who writes in English.  It takes the form of a memoir written by the fictional character Yu Yuan, a man who eventually becomes a soldier in the Chinese People's Volunteer Army and who is sent to Korea to fight on the Communist side in the Korean War.  The majority of the "memoir" is devoted to describing this experience, especially after Yu Yuan is captured by United Nations forces and imprisoned as a POW.   The novel captured the PEN/Faulkner Award and was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.

Plot summary
Yu Yuan was originally a cadet at Huangpu Military Academy, an important part of the Kuomintang military system.  However, when the Communists gained the upper hand in China, the academy went over to their side, and Yu was made a part of the PLA.  He is eventually sent to Korea as a lower-ranking officer in the 180th Division.  Since he knew some English, he is made part of his unit's staff as a possible translator.  He left behind his mother and his fiancee, a girl named Tao Julan.

Yu Yuan's unit eventually crosses into Korea and engages the South Korean and UN forces there. After the unit is encircled and destroyed, Yu Yuan is injured and is captured.  He spends some time in a hospital, where the ministrations of the medical staff impress him with the humane nature of the medical profession.

Subsequently, Yu Yuan is put in a prisoner of war camp.  A major political fault line ran through the Communist prisoners, both historically and in the novel.  On one side are those who are "loyal" and wish to be repatriated to the Communist side, either North Korean or Chinese; these are called "pro-Communists".  On the other side are those who wish to be released to the "Free World", whether that be South Korea or the remaining Chinese Kuomintang bastion of Taiwan.  This group is called "pro-Nationalists".  Violence often flares between these two groups, and the chief tension in the book is the narrator's attempts to navigate this political minefield.

Prisoner with the Nationalists
After his capture, Yu is registered as a POW in the city of Pusan. He assumes a false identity to hide his rank as a low-level officer. All captured officers give their names and try to mix in with enlisted men so that they will not be subject to questioning and torture by the captors. He is then taken to the island of Geoje, which was cleared of most civilians to house POWs captured by the South Korean military.

Yu initially finds himself in the pro-Nationalist camp, somewhat against his will.  This is not because he is politically passionate, but because his main goal is to return home to his mother and fiancee. Going to Taiwan would politically taint him in communist China and make such a return impossible.  His association with Huangpu lends him some breathing room, but when he states his intention to return to mainland China, he is kidnapped by the Nationalists and tattooed with the words "FUCK COMMUNISM" in English.

A decision is made by the administrators of the camp to conduct a "screening" to divide the Nationalists and Communists in the camp and hopefully reduce violence.  This period before the screening is an intense time for the camp, as the leadership of both sides wants to convince the prisoners to choose the correct side, thus scoring a propaganda victory. Yu witnesses horrendous torture and coercion committed by pro-Nationalist officers, but motivated by a longing for home, he chooses the Communist side.

Working for the Communists
Now in a Communist camp, Yu is suspected for his Huangpu ties and his stint with the Nationalists. However, his skills in English are useful and he eventually gains the trust of his superiors. The coordination of the camp is much better than before, and the prisoners organize themselves for resistance.  However, they cannot compete with the camp of the North Koreans, who due to their greater knowledge of the area and better underground networks, can carry out stunning logistical feats and are in communication with their capital Pyongyang.

Eventually, the North Koreans organize an attempt to kidnap Gen. Bell, the commandant of all the POW camps. (This is a reference to the historical attempt to capture the American General Francis T. Dodd). They enlist the participation of the Chinese camp through a meeting of emissaries. As a mark of Yu's trustworthiness, Commissar Pei, the leader of the Chinese pro-Communist camp, sends Yu as his representative. The Chinese camp gathers information and passes it to the North Korean camp, which subsequently lures Bell in for negotiations then kidnaps him, a propaganda coup for the Communists.