[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Armenia–Turkey relations

rmalization protocols.

The Armenian Ministry of Foreign Affairs published a statement which condemned the 2019 Turkish offensive into north-eastern Syria, "which would lead to deterioration of regional security, losses among civilians, mass displacement and eventually to a new humanitarian crisis."

2021–2023 normalization process
In December 2021, Armenia and Turkey appointed special envoys to discuss steps for normalization of their relations: former U.S. ambassador Serdar Kılıç is Turkey's representative for Armenia, and vice president of Armenian Parliament Ruben Rubinyan is Armenia's representative for Turkey. They first met in Moscow on 14 January 2022. Their second meeting happened in Vienna on 24 February 2022, Their third meeting was met in Vienna on 3 May 2022, Their fourth meeting was met in Vienna on 1 July 2022, Turkey wants to hold the fifth meeting in Ankara or Yerevan for normalization talks with Armenia. with positive reactions from European Commission spokesman Peter Stano, NATO Secretary General's Special Representative for the Caucasus and Central Asia, Javier Colomina, Turkish pro-government newspapers, and senior fellow of Carnegie Europe Thomas de Waal. Azerbaijani Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Khalaf Khalafov also welcomed the start of the normalization process. On 12 March 2022, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu met with his Armenian counterpart Ararat Mirzoyan for "useful and constructive" talks in an effort to restore ties after decades of hostility. The two met at the Antalya Diplomacy Forum. On 11 July 2022, Prime Minister Pashinyan had a telephone conversation with the Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan for the first time.

On 6 October 2022, Armenian prime minister Nikol Pashinyan and Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan met face-to-face for the first time in Prague during the European Political Community meeting.
In February 2023, Pashinyan called Erdoğan to express condolences regarding the 2023 Turkey–Syria earthquake and said that Armenia is ready to help Turkey. A border crossing was opened to allow the passage of humanitarian aid from Armenia to Turkey. On 15 February 2023 Armenian Foreign Minister Ararat Mirzoyan visited Turkey due to the earthquake disaster and met with his Turkish counterpart Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu in Ankara, Mirzoyan explained to Çavuşoğlu that Armenia was ready to help Turkey.

On 25 March 2023, the Armenian and Turkish national football teams had a match in Vazgen Sargsyan Republican Stadium in Yerevan for the UEFA Euro 2024 qualifiers which led to comparisons with the "football diplomacy" of 2008 and 2009.

On 3 June 2023, Armenian Prime Minister Pashinyan visited Ankara to attend the third inauguration of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the first visit by an Armenian leader in a decade.

Outstanding issues

Armenian Genocide denial

Tensions stemming from the Armenian Genocide, the mass murder of around 1 to 1.5 million Armenians by the authorities of the Ottoman Empire during the First World War, are a bitter point of contention, with most historians defining the killings as a genocide, a term whose applicability the Turkish state rejects.

Most historians maintain that it was a deliberate and intentional attempt to exterminate the Armenian population of the Ottoman Empire. This view is also the position of the Republic of Armenia.

The Republic of Turkey rejects the 1.5 million figure for the final death toll, insisting that the deaths were closer to the range of 200,000–300,000, and insists that they were the result of disease, famine and inter-ethnic strife during the turmoil of World War I, saying that the Armenian Dashnak and Henchak rebels had sided with the Russian Army which invaded eastern Anatolia during the war and committed massacres against the local Muslim population (Turks and Kurds) in that area.

Merely to speak of the Armenian genocide in Turkey is to risk "insulting Turkishness", a criminal offense for which various Turkish intelligentsia have been brought to trial, as mentioning the word genocide itself infers its occurrence.

In response to Turkey's calls for a further impartial study, Israel Charny and the International Association of Genocide Scholars responded in an open letter to the Turkish prime minister,

Numerous international organizations have conducted studies of the events, each in turn determining that the term "genocide" aptly describes "the Ottoman massacre of Armenians in 1915–1916." Among the organizations asserting this conclusion are the International Center for Transitional Justice, the International Association of Genocide Scholars, and the United Nations' Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities.

Several nations and U.S. states, have passed formal legislative condemnations of the Armenian Genocide, despite intense Turkish diplomatic and economic pressure. Switzerland has adopted laws that punish genocide denial.

Border dispute