[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# World Refugee Day

ons that can be made. It describes this idea that a refugee will be expel or return against his or her will to a country where they feel threaten to their life.

The convention and protocol allow for refugees to have rights in a country for asylum without the persecution from their own home country.

The convention consolidates previous international instruments which also relates to refugees, and it will aim to provide the most comprehensive codification of the rights of refugees at the international level. It is a convention of a status and rights-based instrument and is ultimately under pinned by a number of fundamental principles, most notably the non-discrimination, non-penalisation and non-refoulement roles.

The convention ultimately puts down the law where basic minimum standards for the treatment of refugees, without prejudice to States granting more favourable treatment must be met. This means that refugees have the rights to have access to the courts, to primary education, to work, and the provision for documentation, including a refugee travel document in passport form.

Additionally, the Convention does not apply to those individuals for whom there are serious reasons for considering that they have committed war crimes or crimes against humanity. This also includes serious non-political crimes, or those who are guilty of acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.

Commemorations 

Each year on 20 June the United Nations, United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) and civic groups around the world host World Refugee Day events in order to draw the public's attention to the millions of refugees and Internally displaced persons worldwide who have been forced to flee their homes due to war, conflict and persecution.

The annual commemoration is marked by a variety of events in more than 100 countries, involving government officials, humanitarian aid workers, celebrities, civilians and the forcibly displaced themselves.

The UNHCR puts out messages on each World Refugee Day:
 2020: The COVID-19 pandemic is a sharp reminder of how we are all intimately connected to each other and to nature.
2019: Filippo Grandi today pledged to do all he could to help millions of forcibly displaced people "not just to get by, but also to thrive."
 2018: Today, World Refugee Day, is a time for solidarity with refugees

UNHCR designates a theme for each World Refugee Day campaign.
2023: Hope away from home. A world where refugees are always included. "This year, World Refugee Day focuses on the power of inclusion and solutions for refugees. "Including refugees in the communities where they have found safety after fleeing conflict and persecution is the most effective way to support them in restarting their lives and enable them to contribute to the countries hosting them. "It’s also the best way to prepare them to return home and rebuild their countries, when conditions allow them to do so safely and voluntarily, or to thrive if they are resettled to another country."
2022: Whoever. Wherever. Whenever. Everyone has the right to seek safety. "Whoever they are, people forced to flee should be treated with dignity. Anyone can seek protection, regardless of who they are or what they believe. It is non-negotiable: seeking safety is a human right."Wherever they come from, people forced to flee should be welcomed. Refugees come from all over the globe. To get out of harm’s way, they might take a plane, a boat, or travel on foot. What remains universal is the right to seek safety."Whenever people are forced to flee, they have a right to be protected. Whatever the threat – war, violence, persecution – everyone deserves protection. Everyone has a right to be safe."
 2021: Together we can achieve anything: 2021's theme aimed to help heal by expanding refugees' access to health care, sexual and reproductive health, nutrition, and mental health services. the concept of learn is to enable talented individuals to be provided with the opportunity to go to university and have a scholarship to ensure they are provided with a chance to use their knowledge to help others in the community. further, the concept of shine where the concept of sport is being used to enrich the lives of people forced to flee their home country and aims to boost their mental health and help them gain confidence, forge new friendships, and feel welcomed into the society that they are now in.
2020: Every Actions Counts 
The COVID-19 pandemic along with the anti-racism protests was evidence to show how desperately the need to fight for a more inclusive and equal world, the movement where a world where no one is left behind. It highlights that everyone has to have a role to play in order to bring about change within the community. Everyone ultimately can make a difference. This aims to create the efforts to create a more just, inclusive, and equal world.
 2019: Take A Step on World Refugee Day
This theme highlights the idea and focuses on the not