[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Combat Assault Vehicle

CAV or Combat Assault Vehicle is a miniatures wargame by Reaper Miniatures.

Story
Combat Assault Vehicle is named after the  war machines that walk the battlefields of the galaxy.

The date is 2274 and the fragile peace the galaxy has known for the last 11 years has been shattered. The second Galaxy War has started and every galactic government is looking out for number one, damn the rest of the galaxy. Fueled by a decade of clandestine wars, secret agendas and unprecedented military preparation, the racial, religious and nationalistic governments across the galaxy have begun grabbing resources, nationalizing UCORs and Mercenaries and folding everything into vast war machines capable of intergalactic domination and destruction.

Past the point of return, it is now the time of reckoning for the galaxy, and if you hope to survive this conflict you must choose a side.

Game concepts

Reaper Adventure Game Engine
CAV combat and movement rules use the Reaper Adventure Game Engine (R.A.G.E.), a generic game system developed by Reaper for use with their miniatures wargames such as CAV and Warlord. This allows players to switch from game to game without having to learn a new combat and movement system for each game.

CAV Models
CAV models are all cast in N-Scale by Reaper Miniatures.  Currently there are around 100 different models available for the game, with prices starting around $8.00(US) and reaching $25.00(US).

The models cover the wide array of units available in the game, ranging from the namesake CAVs to aircraft, infantry, fighting vehicles, tanks, armored personnel carriers, support models and weapons packs.

When CAV was first released, all the aircraft and APC models were cast in 2/3 N-Scale to make them more affordable for customers. Thanks to numerous requests from the CAV community, Reaper has changed this practice and has begun to re-cast all aircraft and APC models in true N-Scale as of mid-2005.  These new "true scale" models carry a different SKU from the old models, so gamers on a budget can still purchase the smaller, less expensive models if they choose.  The old models are still legal for all CAV events.

Data Card
 Each model in the game has a set of ratings that dictate how well it performs in the game. These ratings are listed on a Data Card, which is an easy to read record sheet.  CAV 2 Data Cards are the size of a standard playing card.  All CAV Data Cards are available for free download from.

A key component of CAV, and all R.A.G.E. games, is the Damage Track.  Each row of stats on the Data Card represents a Damage Track, or the total points of damage that the model can sustain before being destroyed and removed from play. When undamaged, you use all of the stats listed across the 0 Dmg row.  If your model takes 2 points of damage, you use the stats on the 2 Dmg row.  If your model has more points of damage than it has rows in the Dmg column, its destroyed.

Army Building

When planning a game of CAV, the first thing that you must decide on is the Game Size. The Game Size is the number of points that each player will be allowed to spend on models for his army.  Each model has its own corresponding Point Value.  After choosing the models that you want to use for your Task Force, you total up their Point Values to determine your Army Size.  Your Army Size must be equal to or less than the Game Size for it to be legal.

A Task Force is composed of several smaller groups of models called Sections.  Each Section is made up of a number of models based on its type.  Sections are separated into two categories: Primary and Secondary.  No Task Force may have more Secondary Sections than it has Primary ones.

The different Section types are outlined below:

Primary Sections
Armor sections have 4-6 CAV or Vehicle models in them. At least 3 of the models must be Model Role: Attack.
Mechanized Infantry sections have 4-8 Infantry models plus Transports to carry them.
Rifle sections have 6-10 Infantry models.
Specialist sections have 1-4 models of any type.  They are the catchall of sections and each Task Force may only have one Specialist Section.

Secondary Sections
Fire Support sections have 4-6 CAV or Vehicle models, 3 of which must be Model Role: Fire Support.
Flight sections consists of 2 Gunship models.
Mortar platoons have 4-6 Infantry models with the Fire Support role and Transports to carry them.
Recon sections have 4-6 CAV or Vehicle models with Model Role: Recon.
Transport sections have 4-6 models with Model Role: Transport.

Game Play