[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Noemí Sanín

ined the presidency for the nation in the Non-Aligned Movement and signed the border dispute resolution Sanín-Robertson treaty which resolved borders with Jamaica. In addition she won the seat as Secretary General of Organization of American States for Colombia with the appointment of César Gaviria.

Ambassador of Colombia to the United Kingdom 1994
In 1994 Sanín was appointed consul of Colombia to the United Kingdom. Sanín promoted the visit of four ministers of Great Britain to Colombia and helped to negotiate new airline routes between the United Kingdom and Colombia. British investors and companies such as RTZ also invested in Colombia in the mining and energy, and pharmaceutical sectors. She renounced after only one year after the then Attorney General of Colombia formally accused President Ernesto Samper in the Accusations Commission of the Chamber of Representatives of Colombia after his involvement in the "8000 Process scandal". Upon her return, Colombia was facing an economic crisis, political and social instability without precedents and decided to prepare herself for the presidency of Colombia.

Presidential candidate 1998
In the 1998 presidential elections, Sanín supported by her founded political movement Yes Colombia did surprisingly well, receiving about 27% of the vote, to finish third behind leaders Horacio Serpa and Andrés Pastrana, who each received about 35% in the first round. Running on an anti-unemployment campaign, Sanín in fact won the most votes in the cities of Bogotá and Medellín, but fared poorly in the countryside. Her campaign later supported the Great Alliance for Change led by Andrés Pastrana.

Presidential candidate 2002
In 2002, she ran again for president, this time as a member of her own movement, the Yes Colombia party. With national security overriding the other issues in the campaign, she did far worse than in 1998 and received only 5.8% of the vote. Part of her platform was to denounce Álvaro Uribe's ties with extreme right-wing paramilitary groups.

Ambassador of Colombia in Spain 2003
In 2003, Sanín became Colombia's Ambassador to Spain. She decided not to run for the 2006 Colombian presidential elections. As Colombian ambassador to Spain Sanín had to deal with the growing discrimination against Colombians in that country, issues related to illegal Colombian immigrants in Spain and the large number of Colombian citizens imprisoned in the European country. She also promoted numerous cultural exchanges and advocated on behalf of temporary work and technical and education training for Colombians in Spain. On November 19, 2007 President Uribe announced her transfer to the United Kingdom diplomatic mission, being replaced by the Vice President of Colombia, Francisco Santos.

Ambassador of Colombia in the United Kingdom 2007
On November 19, 2007, President Álvaro Uribe requested the government of the United Kingdom for Sanín's approval as ambassador of Colombia to the United Kingdom. The move came after the ambassador to the United Kingdom Carlos Eduardo Medellín Becerra was transferred to the Netherlands after the Ambassador Guillermo Fernández de Soto resigned alleging family problems. According to the Colombian newspaper El Tiempo, Sanín's ambassadorship in the United Kingdom would be temporary, as she entertained presidential aspirations. Her resignation was effective on 23 July 2009.

Presidential candidate 2010
In 2010, she ran again for president, this time as a member of the conservative party.  She defeated Andrés Felipe Arias Leiva in the preliminaries, but was unable to gain momentum and was defeated by Juan Manuel Santos, and Antanas Mockus among others.

Personal life
Sanín was born on 6 June 1949 in Medellín, Antioquia  to Jaime Sanín Echeverri and Noemí Posada Saldarriaga, their third child out of fifteen children. Her father was a hardline conservative writer, journalist and a vice-president of the Colombian Language Academy; her mother a teacher and housewife. She married young at the age of 19 to Diego Durán Cabal, and together they had one daughter, María Jimena. She divorced in 1975 and remarried to Mario Alberto Rubio Caicedo, a lawyer from Bogotá, but the marriage ended in 1999 leaving no children.

References

1949 births
Living people
People from Medellín
Pontifical Xavierian University alumni
20th-century Colombian lawyers
Colombian women lawyers
Colombian Conservative Party politicians
Yes Colombia politicians
Foreign ministers of Colombia
Ministers of Communications of Colombia
Ambassadors of Colombia to Venezuela
Ambassadors of Colombia to Spain
Ambassadors of Colombia to the United Kingdom
Recipients of the Order of Isabella the Catholic
Naturalised citizens of Spain
Female foreign ministers
Women government ministers of Colombia
Colombian women ambassadors
Sanín family
20th-century women lawyers