[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Xenon-135

n opposite direction from the initial perturbation.

The instantaneous production rate of xenon-135 is dependent on the iodine-135 concentration and therefore on the local neutron flux history. On the other hand, the destruction rate of xenon-135 is dependent on the instantaneous local neutron flux.

The combination of delayed generation and high neutron-capture cross section produces a diversity of impacts on nuclear reactor operation. The mechanism is described in the following four steps.
 An initial lack of symmetry (for example, axial symmetry, in the case of axial oscillations) in the core power distribution (for example as a result of significant control rods movement) causes an imbalance in fission rates within the reactor core, and therefore, in the iodine-135 buildup and the xenon-135 absorption.
 In the high-flux region, xenon-135 burnout allows the flux to increase further, while in the low-flux region, the increase in xenon-135 causes a further reduction in flux. The iodine concentration increases where the flux is high and decreases where the flux is low. This shift in the xenon distribution is such as to increase (decrease) the multiplication properties of the region in which the flux has increased (decreased), thus enhancing the flux tilt.
 As soon as the iodine-135 levels build up sufficiently, decay to xenon reverses the initial situation. Flux decreases in this area, and the former low-flux region increases in power.
 Repetition of these patterns can lead to xenon oscillations moving about the core with periods on the order of about 24 hours.
With little change in overall power level, these oscillations can significantly change the local power levels. This oscillation may go unnoticed and reach dangerous local flux levels if only the total power of the core is monitored. Therefore, most PWRs use tandem power range excore neutron detectors to monitor upper and lower halves of the core separately.

See also
Isotopes of xenon
Shutdown (nuclear reactor)

References

Further reading
"Xenon Poisoning" or Neutron Absorption in Reactors

Fission products
Isotopes of xenon
Neutron poisons