[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Lord Loves the One (That Loves the Lord)

ority of pop scripture". On an album that he considered "a pop religious ceremony for all seasons, one in which Harrison acts as priest, deliberately placing his gifts and his legend into public service for God", Holden added of the song: "I hope that Aretha Franklin gets her hands on it, and soon."

Retrospective reviews and legacy
Among reviewers in the 21st century, Zeth Lundy of PopMatters and Music Box editor John Metzger highlight "The Lord Loves the One" as one of the standout tracks on Living in the Material World. As with "The Day the World Gets 'Round", Simon Leng sees the lyrics' spiritual framework as a distraction from the true message of the song, which in this case is the "bankruptcy" of the music business. While noting that the media and anyone else associated with "the rock circus" had a vested interest in upholding its importance, Leng comments on the hostile reception afforded the song originally: "In 1973, no one dared point out that the emperor had no clothes on – except Harrison."

Author Robert Rodriguez describes "The Lord Loves the One" as "not the sanctimonious rant that some characterized it as", but a revelation of Harrison's inner conflict between his "earthly" status as a rock star and that role's "utter triviality in the Grand Scheme of things". Conversely, writing for Rough Guides, Chris Ingham finds the song's "'law says' finger-wagging" the exception on an album that otherwise "conveys his struggle" between the physical and spiritual worlds "with restraint and, in places, considerable grace and beauty", while former Mojo editor Mat Snow commented in 2006 of this and the majority of the songs on Material World: "The rest is Hari Georgeson at his most preachy, but it's never less than musical and often light on its feet." Also writing for Mojo, John Harris pairs "The Lord Loves the One" with "Give Me Love", as two tracks that support Material Worlds standing as "a Hindu concept album … a pleasing fusion of Eastern religion, gospel, and the ghost of 'For You Blue'".

In his unfavourable assessment of the song, Ian Inglis contrasts it with the "impressive set of lyrics" on "Living in the Material World" and criticises Harrison for his "turgid proselytizing", which he likens to "the imprecations of an evangelical preacher". Inglis concludes: "Harrison's impressive guitar work helps to compensate for the absence of a clear melody, but the song is ultimately undermined by some of his least-effective lyrics; the description of political leaders as 'big girls' is puerile and sexist." Another Harrison biographer, Elliot Huntley, describes "The Lord Loves the One" as a "polished foot-tapper", on which "the drums push the song along nicely but the excessively wordy libretto somehow struggles to fit". Terry Staunton of Record Collector considers Living in the Material World to be "sloganeering with slide guitars" but lacking in any "out-and-out protest" message, such that "the more generalised, universally religious themes of The Lord Loves The One (That Loves The Lord) tend to sound a tad diluted."

Leng praises the track's musical accompaniment, highlighting Horn's sax arrangement and particularly Harrison's slide-guitar playing, which includes a solo that he views as "one of the best of his career". Similar sentiments come from Bruce Eder of AllMusic, who writes: "'The Lord Loves the One (That Loves the Lord)', despite its title, is the high point of the record, a fast, rollicking, funky, bluesy jewel with a priceless guitar break (maybe the best of Harrison's solo career) ..."

In a 2011 article for The Huffington Post, coinciding with the release of Martin Scorsese's documentary George Harrison: Living in the Material World, Steve Rabey describes Harrison as "perhaps the most explicitly and consistently theological rock star of the last half-century". Rabey refers to the song among Harrison's "mini-sermons illustrating Hindu concepts" (in this case, karma) and concludes: "While he failed to convert everyone to his beliefs, he nudged his [Beatles] bandmates – and his listener fans – a bit further to the East, encouraging audiences to open themselves to new (or very old) spiritual influences."

Performance
Harrison performed "The Lord Loves the One (That Loves the Lord)" at the start of his 1974 North American tour with Ravi Shankar. In addition to Jim Horn, the horn players on this live version were Tom Scott and Chuck Findley. Consistent with his perception of an anti-stardom message in the song, Leng writes of there being an "immense [paradox]" in Harrison's attitude to this highly publicised tour, since: "here was one of the world's most famous musicians telling a leading writer from Rolling Stone that he'd 'gladly kiss it all good-bye' and pursue his utterly sincere spiritual quest."