[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Socialism in Canada

rganizations operating in Canada today include Socialist Action (Canada) the International Socialists (Canada), Socialist Alternative (Canada), Spring, the Communist League (Canada), Autonomy & Solidarity, and the London Project for a Participatory Society, among others.

Socialist parties in Canada

Current parties 
 The New Democratic Party, (NDP) is a federal political party which officially adheres to social democracy while still being one of the most left-wing of Canada's mainstream parties. However, a minority faction are committed to democratic socialism, including, but not restricted to, the radical Socialist Caucus. The policies of various provincial and territorial branches of the NDP have varied in the past from the left-wing to the third way. The party's youth group is known as the New Democratic Youth of Canada. The provincial branches of the NDP are:
 Yukon New Democratic Party - official opposition
 British Columbia New Democratic Party - governing party
 Alberta New Democratic Party - official opposition
 Saskatchewan New Democratic Party - official opposition
 New Democratic Party of Manitoba - official opposition
 Ontario New Democratic Party - official opposition
 New Democratic Party of Newfoundland and Labrador - third party
 Nova Scotia New Democratic Party - third party
 New Brunswick New Democratic Party - not represented in the legislature
 New Democratic Party of Prince Edward Island - not represented in the legislature
 The Communist Party of Canada sees itself as being "Canada's party of socialism" and with its origins going back to 1921 the CPC is the second oldest existing political party in Canada after the Liberal Party of Canada. The Communist Party has active branches in Alberta, Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, and British Columbia. In Quebec there was a split in 2006 between a separatist and federalist faction in the Communist Party of Quebec. The PCQ is now led by Andre Parizeau the leader of the separatist faction, while the party's federalists have regrouped into the PCC/PCQ and are tied to the federal party. The CPC also has a youth group, known as the Young Communist League of Canada.
 The Communist Party of Canada (Marxist–Leninist) was created in 1971 as a so-called Anti-Revisionist party supportive of Maoism and of Albanian leader Enver Hoxha. Today the ideology of the CPC (ML) or Marxist-Leninist Party of Canada is less doctrinaire than in the past but still considered more radical than that of the Communist Party of Canada. They support radically changing the way candidates are nominated and elected and are generally supportive of North Korea. Their members are active in the Canadian Union of Postal Workers and United Steelworkers of America. The CPC (ML) has active provincial branches in British Columbia (the People's Front), Manitoba, Ontario and in Quebec (the Parti marxiste-léniniste du Québec).
 Québec Solidaire ("Solidarity Quebec") is Quebec's most popular left-wing party. They claim to be devoted to the causes of democratic socialism, such as environmentalism, feminism, Quebec Sovereignty and alter-globalization. They have gained support amongst left-wing sovereigntist voters who are disillusioned with the Parti Québécois' embrace of neoliberalism.
 Socialist Party of Canada (WSM) formed in 1931 publishes a journal called Imagine and is a companion party of the World Socialist Movement.
 Fightback, the Canadian section of the Trotskyist organization called the International Marxist Tendency publishes a self-titled newspaper and practices Entryism in Quebec Solidaire and the NDP