[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Shofetim (parashah)

again the voice of the Lord my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I die not."

Deuteronomy chapter 19
The exhortation of Deuteronomy 19:9 "to walk in God's ways" reflects a recurring theme in Deuteronomy also present in Deuteronomy 5:30; 8:6; 10:12; 11:22; 26:17; 28:9; and 30:16.

The provisions for responding to a false witness in Deuteronomy 19:16–19 reflect the commandment given in Deuteronomy 5:17: "You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor."

Torah sets forth the law of "an eye for an eye" in three separate places: Exodus 21:22–25; Leviticus 24:19–21; and Deuteronomy 19:21.

Deuteronomy chapter 21
Professor Amy Kalmanofsky of the Jewish Theological Seminary suggested that the closest analogue to the ritual in Deuteronomy 21:1–9 in response to an unsolved murder is the ritual for the suspected wife (, sotah) in Numbers 5:11–31, as both rituals addressed cases where the community faced the possibility of a capital crime without the evidence necessary to determine guilt or innocence.

In early nonrabbinic interpretation
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these early nonrabbinic sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 17
Philo called the rule that a judge should not receive the testimony of a single witness "an excellent commandment." Philo argued first that a person might inadvertently gain a false impression of a thing or be careless about observing and therefore be deceived. Secondly, Philo argued it unjust to trust to one witness against many persons, or indeed against only one individual, for why should the judge trust a single witness testifying against another, rather than the defendant pleading on the defendant's own behalf? Where there is no preponderance of opinion for guilt, Philo argued, it is best to suspend judgment.

Similarly, Josephus reported the rule of Deuteronomy 17:6 and 19:15, writing that judges should not credit a single witness, but rather should rely only on three, or two at the least, and only those whose testimony was confirmed by their good lives.

Professor Lawrence Schiffman of New York University observed that the Damascus Document and the Temple Scroll of the Qumran sectarians appear to have interpreted Deuteronomy 17:17, “Neither shall he multiply wives to himself,” to prohibit a king from having more than one wife, and thus that the sectarians felt that Deuteronomy 17:17 intended that the king serve as an example against polygamy in the general population.

Deuteronomy chapter 20
Paraphrasing Deuteronomy 20:10, Josephus reported that Moses told the Israelites that when they were about to go to war, they should send emissaries and heralds to those whom they had chosen to make enemies, for it was right to make use of words before weapons of war. The Israelites were to assure their enemies that although the Israelites had a numerous army, horses, weapons, and, above these, a merciful God ready to assist them, they nonetheless desired their enemies not to compel the Israelites to fight against them or to take from them what they had. And if the enemies heeded the Israelites, it would be proper for the Israelites to keep peace with the enemies. But if the enemies trusted in their own strength as superior to that of the Israelites and would not do the Israelites justice, then the Israelites were to lead their army against the enemies, making use of God as their supreme Commander.

In classical rabbinic interpretation
The parashah is discussed in these rabbinic sources from the era of the Mishnah and the Talmud: