[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tato Laviera

of the United States: A Comprehensive Reference describes him as "the inheritor of the Spanish oral tradition, with all of its classical formulas, and the African oral tradition, with its wedding to music and spirituality."

Famous works

La Carreta Made a U-Turn (Houston: Arte Público Press, 1979) 

This was his first major book of poetry and was a response to René Marques' La Carreta in which he details the story of a family who ends up returning to Puerto Rico after migrating to the United States in search of more opportunities and a better life but instead is faced with a disheartening reality. Laviera disputes this view and instead "picks up where Marques left off" and portrays a more accurate story of the Puerto Rican migrant in which they do not return to their homeland, which is based on historical data. La Carreta Made a U-Turn was extremely successful and received well by its readers. In fact, shortly after its publication Laviera was invited by President Jimmy Carter to an event at the White House for distinguished American poets.

Enclave (Houston: Arte Público Press, 1981) 
In this poem, Laviera celebrates Puerto Rican heritage in New York. Unlike many of his other works which concentrate on larger scale events and take a collective perspective, Enclave is intentionally personal. Laviera focuses on the individual lives of those who inhabit the Puerto Rican enclave within New York. Tato celebrates the Puerto Rican-American experience, through his soulful and powerful songs. This poem was a recipient of the American Book Award of the Before Columbus Foundation. This collection focusses on the individual and delivers a gallery of portraits of the unconquerable people of the enclave, whose lives are brought forth via the rhythmic songs “en clave.”

Mainstream Ethics—Ética Corriente (Houston: Arte Público Press, 1988) 
Mainstream Ethics is a poem which explores the place that Hispanics hold in the United States. Amidst a pressure to conform to he standards of the bustling Metropolis culture, Laviera emphasizes the importance of his own culture as a Puerto Rican American. From his perspective, he asserts that Hispanic culture, art, and language are transforming the United States, rather than falling victim to it. This poem serves as a message to encourage Hispanic Americans to hold fast to their culture of origin, and individual identities. This text explores the terrestrial and verbal imperatives of Hispanics in the United States. Mainstream Ethics affirms that Hispanic linguistics, folklore, art and past are transforming the national culture and identity of the United States. It is not the role of Hispanics to follow the commands of a norm, an elusive mainstream, but to instead remain faithful to their communal and distinct identities to both lay claim to mainstream territory and to disprove its existence.

AmeRícan (Houston: Arte Público Press, 1999) 

In this poem, Laviera redefines his nationality and takes pride in being both a Puerto Rican and an American living in the United States. He establishes a new identity, called AmeRícan which is the harmonious blend of the two composed of "mainland and island traditions." Tato uses the pronoun 'we' to signify the collective experience of multiculturalism for the entire generation of Puerto Rican-Americans. The first section of this collection celebrates the range of various traditions and cultures making up the American people.  It is a plea for an end to prejudice. The latter two sections of the collection are built on the motifs of ethnic exchange and the place of the boriqueño in that greater scheme.

Mixturao and Other Poems (Houston: Arte Público Press, 2008–09) 
One of Tato Laviera's distinguishing characteristics is his celebrations of the diverse languages that exist within America. This poetry collection combines English and Spanish to celebrate the author's bilingual and bi-cultural background as well as the growing representation of these dynamics in the United States. Various sections of this collection discuss gender, borders, and cultural folklore. He also rights about the sense of alienation that immigrants often suffer from as they can feel isolated from their native and adopted cultures. His usage of language allows readers to get a grasp of his own dual cultural identity.

Honors and achievements

1982 American Book Awards 

Honored for his book of poetry, Enclave

Tato Laviera Theatre

One year after his death, his legacy was honored by the New York arts community when the Taino Towers housing complex, his last place of residence, renamed its Red Carpet Theatre for him.