[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michel Ter-Pogossian

irst marriage. The Ter-Pogossians were residents of Clayton, Missouri. 

Ter-Pogossian was described by Ronald G. Evens as a "citizen of the world." He traveled extensively and was a gourmet and a scuba diver. He died on June 19, 1996, of apparent myocardial infarction in Paris, while on a vacation.

Recognition
Ter-Pogossian was an "internationally known pioneer in the use of cyclotron-produced radionuclides in biomedical research." Frans Wackers noted that he is "widely recognized as one of the fathers of PET imaging." He has been called "the father of PET" by some. Ter-Pogossian emphasized that PET is the product of teamwork and elaborated:

Awards
Paul C. Aebersold Award, Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging (1976)
Georg Charles de Hevesy Nuclear Medicine Pioneer Award, Society of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging (1985)
Canada Gairdner International Award (1993) "For contributions to the development and application of positron emission tomography"

Membership
Ter-Pogossian was a member of many professional societies: charter member of the American Nuclear Society, fellow of the American Physical Society, honorary fellow of the American College of Radiology, Institute of Medicine (elected in 1987).

He was a trustee of the Academy of Science, St. Louis and served as an adviser to several Department of Energy, National Institutes of Health and Food and Drug Administration committees. He served on the editorial boards of several journals, including the American Journal of Roentgenology, the Journal of Nuclear Medicine, and the Journal de Biophysique & Médecine Nucléaire. He was the first editor of the IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging, published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

References
Notes

Citations

1925 births
1996 deaths
20th-century American inventors
American people of Armenian descent
20th-century American physicists
Businesspeople from Berlin
French emigrants to the United States
Washington University in St. Louis faculty
Scientists from St. Louis
Physicists from Missouri
Washington University physicists
Members of the National Academy of Medicine
Fellows of the American Physical Society