[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of Saint Seiya characters

as Hinduism and Buddhism.

Odin's Asgardians
The Asgardian characters appear in the anime adaptation only.

The king of Asgard and the Norse god incarnate. His essence is trapped within the seven  held within his God Warrior's God Robes. His  can only be awakened with the energy from the Sapphires.

A beautiful and powerful young woman who is Odin's representative on Earth and priestess of Asgard. She is possessed by the  (controlled by Poseidon manipulated by Kanon who is Dragonsea General) after rejecting his influence, and sets her sights on world domination in the name of Odin. Her younger sister Freya contacts Saori and asks her and the Saints for help.
Saori quickly sets up a strategy: She will take Hilda's place temporarily as the one who prays to avoid the melting of the Polar Ice, while the Bronze Saints fight Hilda's Guardians to reach her. Hilda is finally freed after fighting Seiya, who awakened the Odin God Robe and the legendary sword Balmung with all Odin Sapphires, and returns to her gentle self. It's also revealed that Poseidon locked her spirit away in the Nibelung Ring as her body was controlled by him, torturing her psychologically since she could only watch her warriors die one by one.
Her name is a reference to Brunhild, Siegfried's lover, who gave her the magical ring Andvaranaut taken from the dragon Fafnir unaware that the ring was cursed.

Younger sister of Polaris Hilda. After being the first person (aside from Alberich) who notices the drastic change in her sister, she seeks out Saori and her Saints for help, freeing Hyōga from jail (he had been sent as a scout and then captured) and joining him, therefore she is branded as a traitor. She was deeply saddened for the battle, as she did not want it to come to be between Merak Hägen and Cygnus Hyōga; who was her first friend (and possible love interest) among the Bronze Saints, and Hägen was her bodyguard and best friend since childhood.
Her name is a reference to goddess Freya.

Odin's God Warriors 
Odin has a cadre of servants known as . They wear armors known as  themed after mythological creatures from Norse mythology and named after the stars of Ursa Major.

He is said to be the strongest warrior among the God Warriors and the second in command after Hilda. He is very loyal to Hilda and seems to harbor deeper feelings for her. In the beginning, he does not believe the Saints when they tell him that Hilda is being controlled by the Niebelungen Ring. However, after Poseidon's Sea General Siren Sorento arrived and told the truth, he switched sides and sacrificed himself to kill Siren Sorento (although Sorento was thought to have died, he actually survived and returns to Poseidon). His armor resembles the dragon Fafner. He is commented to be "invulnerable", in the same way as the Norse legendary hero Siegfried, one of the reasons why he is considered the strongest God Warrior. He shared a common weakness with Shiryū, namely the exposure of the location of his heart, during an attack. It is a common weakness which all Saints (who bear a dragon in their cloth) share.

Since childhood, he lived in the Valhalla Palace training in the cold mountain peaks and volcanic caves in Asgard with the purpose of protecting Hilda and Freya. Jealous of Hyōga's relationship with Freya, Hägen fought against him but was defeated by the freezing blast of the Aurora Execution. 
His God Robe resembles Sleipnir, the eight-legged horse owned by Odin, and his name is a reference to Hagen, the slayer of Siegfried, killing the hero during a hunt, wounding him on the only part of his body which was not invulnerable.

Thor was a poor Asgard villager who stole riches from the wealthy and gave it to the poor, similar to Robin Hood. At some point, though, he was severely injured by the Valhalla Palace guardians when he tried to hunt near the Palace. Almost dying, he is forgiven and healed by Odin's priestess Polaris Hilda, despite his harsh words about her reign. Ever since he felt her pure and warm Cosmo, and was moved by Hilda's frustration about not being able to help everyone in Asgard despite being Odin's priestess, Thor swore to protect her as her guardian.
Despite noticing that Hilda's Cosmo had changed, he fought against Athena's Saints hoping that she would return to being the kind person she once was. He even threw one of his hand axes against Saori, and when she returned it to him with her Cosmo, he praised her strength. Finally, he asked Seiya to rescue Hilda after being defeated.
His armor resembles Jörmungandr, the sea serpent, who faced the Norse god Thor at the Battle of Ragnarök.