[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# MS Ambience

ght hours, allowing the winds to subside and use more favourable tidal conditions. Despite these precautions Regal Princess was grounded while outbound from Cairns, but was able to free herself under her own power after just four minutes. The ship then returned to Cairns for preliminary inspections.

Due to sea conditions the hull of the ship could not be inspected by divers in Cairns, and the ship was allowed to sail to Darwin for a full inspection of the hull. In Darwin minor damage to the ship's bulbous bow was discovered, but this did not threaten her safety and Regal Princess was cleared to continue her cruise. A subsequent study to the causes of the accident concluded Regal Princess was too large to safely traverse the narrow channel leading into Cairns, and that "commercial incentives ... may have influenced the approval process to exceed the limits of a reasonable safety envelope."

2007 Huatulco mishap
In February 2007 on the Panama Canal cruise (G705), following a brief scheduled stop at the pier in Huatulco harbor in Mexico, Regal Princess ran aground, making contact on her port side while backing out of the harbor due to high winds from the southeast, and listed at least five degrees to starboard.  The ship freed itself and continued on to Acapulco at reduced speed and later was seen from the air severely listing to starboard, during inspection/repair in the harbor there. The subsequent scheduled cruise was cancelled due to the damage repair/inspection. The ship was drydocked and repaired at Balboa, Panama and took almost one month to fix the hull damage.

2009 Sydney swine flu outbreak
On 25 May 2009, Pacific Dawn docked in Sydney Harbour. It was reported that 130 of approximately 2,000 passengers had flu-like symptoms and two five-year-old boys subsequently tested positive for swine flu. New South Wales Health authorities ordered all 2,000 passengers from the ship to stay at home, or in hotel rooms, for seven days as a form of self-imposed quarantine.

The cases of swine flu from Pacific Dawn were the first reported contagious cases of swine flu in Sydney.

On 26 May 2009, it was reported that 14 passengers from Pacific Dawn had tested positive for swine flu. At the time, as measured against the confirmed cases for nation states, Pacific Dawn carried the 14th largest number of confirmed cases. It ranked ahead of Mainland China, Hong Kong, Brazil and New Zealand.

2010 Gateway Bridge near miss 
On 10 April 2010 Pacific Dawn lost power on the Brisbane River on approach to the Gateway Bridge. The pilot and tugs brought the ship to a full stop within 70 metres of the newly-built structure and the disabled ship was towed back to Portside Wharf in Hamilton, Queensland. The captain believed that the failure was due to a blown fuse following a saltwater leak.

2018 disappearance of a passenger 
On 12 April 2018 at 4pm, 47-year-old Natasha Schofield fell overboard. Her husband was with her at the time, and quickly raised the alarm. The ship left its course and began an unsuccessful search until 8am the following morning. Her three children were on the cruise, but did not witness the event. The ship returned to Brisbane, Australia on 15 April 2018. By reviewing security footage, police determined that the event had been a suicide shown by Schofield's leap over the railing.

2022 unscheduled drydock 
On 18 December 2022, about four hours after 1400 passengers had embarked for a 3-day cruise from Tilbury, the ship's maintenance checks revealed a serious problem at lifeboat stations, Ambassador decided to cancel the cruise for safety reasons. All passengers disembarked the following morning and repairs commenced. Later, the subsequent 15-day Christmas and New Year cruise was also cancelled as the repairs could not to be done in Tilbury and Ambience was sent to a Bremerhaven shipyard. The repairs were completed by 2 January 2023 and she resumed her cruise programme.

References 

	

1990 ships
Ships built by Fincantieri
Ships built in Monfalcone
Maritime incidents in 2009
Maritime incidents in 2010
Maritime incidents involving cruise ships
Ships of P&O Cruises Australia
Ships of Princess Cruises