[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Miroslav Lajčák

d Dragan Čović to Bratislava for “international mediation” which paved the way for BiH adopting its ANP with NATO.

Lajčák announced in November 2019 that he would leave Slovak politics following the 2020 Slovak parliamentary election.

EEAS Managing Director for Europe and Central Asia (2010–2012) 

From 2010 to 2012, Lajčák helped shape the newly formed diplomatic service of the European Union, the European External Action Service, as its Managing Director for Europe and Central Asia. In addition, he also served as the EU's Chief Negotiator for the Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement and Moldova–European Union Association Agreement, as well as the EU Representative for the 5+2 Talks on the Transnistrian Settlement Process.

Slovak Republic Presidency of the Council of the EU (2016) 

In June 2016, Slovakia took over the Presidency of the EU Council. In his speech presenting the priorities for the Slovak Presidency Lajčák said "Today, we call the EU our home, the euro our currency and Schengen our area. The Presidency is the culmination of our integration journey. We are at the core of Europe. And we are grateful for that because we were given a lot. It's time to give back."

In November 2016, following revelations by a whistleblower, Transparency International Slovakia accused Lajčák of dubious procurement contracts during the Slovak EU Council Presidency. The accusation was never proven.

From May 2016, Lajčák was one official candidate for the Eastern European Group to succeed to Ban Ki-moon during the 2016 United Nations Secretary-General selection; he ended up in the second place after the current UN Secretary-General, António Guterres.

President of the United Nations General Assembly (2017–2018) 
Lajčák also served as President of the 72nd Session of the UN General Assembly from 2017 to 2018 where he advocated for dialogue, strengthening multilateralism and the need to serve all people. He was the first president to publish his financial disclosure summary.

OSCE Chairperson-in-Office (2019) 
In 2019, Lajčák was particularly active in East and South-East Europe as Chairperson-in-office of the OSCE. Slovakia's OSCE Chairmanship focused on people, dialogue and stability. During his tenure, Lajčák visited 15 OSCE field presences to highlight the OSCE's important work on the ground, and held high-level talks with interlocutors in the OSCE region, including Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in February, June, and September 2019, as well as US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in April 2019. Ahead of the 26th OSCE Ministerial Council, Lajčák shared his Bratislava Appeal, an informal initiative addressed to foreign ministers from across the OSCE area arguing for more support to the OSCE and multilateralism.

EU Special Representative for the Belgrade-Pristina Dialogue and other Western Balkan regional issues (2020) 
On 2 April 2020, Lajčák was appointed by the EU Council as EU Special Representative for the Belgrade-Pristina Dialogue and other Western Balkan regional issues. His 12-months mandate includes the tasks to achieve comprehensive normalization of the relations between Serbia and Kosovo, improve good neighborly relations and reconciliation between partners in the Western Balkans, helping them overcome the legacy of the past, and contribute to the consistency and effectiveness of EU action in the Western Balkans. His mandate has been since extended twice.

Personal life
Lajčák is married to Jarmila Lajčáková-Hargašová (born 1966), a TV news presenter. They have two daughters.

Other activities
 European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR), Member
 Friends of Europe, Member of the Board of Trustees
 GLOBSEC, Member of the International Advisory Council
 European Alpbach Forum, Member of the International Advisory Board

See also
List of foreign ministers in 2017

References

External links
 
 Official curriculum vitae of Lajčák (as of 2012)

|-

|-

1963 births
Living people
Foreign Ministers of Slovakia
Presidents of the United Nations General Assembly
Ambassadors of Slovakia to Albania
Ambassadors of Slovakia to Japan
Ambassadors of Slovakia to Serbia and Montenegro
Ambassadors of Slovakia to North Macedonia
Comenius University alumni
European Union diplomats
High Representatives for Bosnia and Herzegovina
Moscow State Institute of International Relations alumni
People from Poprad
Slovak diplomats
Slovak officials of the European Union