[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

ed States Government] want a ceasefire as soon as possible, I would have wanted a ceasefire yesterday if possible, but the parties have to agree to a ceasefire and there have to be certain conditions in place... Any ceasefire has to have circumstances that are going to be acceptable to the parties."

Rice's comments came after an earlier television address by the Lebanese Prime Minister in which he indicated that the meetings scheduled with Rice that day were cancelled due to the events at Qana.

In sharp contrast to public policy, however, 65% of Americans said that "the U.S. [should] stay out of the situation" between Israel and Hezbollah.

Congress

On 18 July, the US Senate passed S.Res. 534 98-0 by unanimous consent, "Condemning Hezbollah and Hamas and their state sponsors and supporting Israel's exercise of its right to self-defense." Resolution 534 calls for the release of Israeli soldiers who are being held captive by Hezbollah or Hamas; condemns the governments of Iran and Syria for their continued support for Hezbollah and Hamas; urges all sides to protect innocent civilian life and infrastructure; and strongly supports the use of all diplomatic means available to free
the captured Israeli soldiers. However, Senator Chuck Hagel eventually came to demand that the U.S. impose a ceasefire.

On 20 July 2006, the US House of Representatives passed resolution 921 supporting Israel's right to defend itself and condemning attacks against the State of Israel. The final vote was 410 to 8 in favour of the resolution.

On 30 July, Congress sent a letter to the EU's Head of Foreign Policy Javier Solana, asking that the EU add Hezbollah to its list of illegal terrorist organisations.  The letter was signed by 210 members of Congress.
"We were dismayed to hear your 19 July assertion that the EU lacked 'sufficient data' to add Hizbullah to its terrorist list."

Members of Congress had already called on the EU, via a 2005 resolution, to add Hezbollah to the list. The EU declined all requests.

Venezuela 
Ali Rodriguez, Foreign Minister of Venezuela, condemned Israel activities in Lebanon.

On 3 August, Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez declared he has withdrawn his country's ambassador from Israel to show his indignation over the military offensive in Lebanon. He called the Israeli attacks in Lebanon "genocide". He also spoke after returning from an international tour that included Iran. While there, Chávez called the Israeli offensive in Lebanon a "fascist outrage."

On 9 August, it was known that Venezuela is likely to sever ties with Israel in protest at its war against Lebanon, according to statements by President Hugo Chávez. "They have also recalled their ambassador and our next step will most likely be to break off diplomatic relations. I have no interest in maintaining diplomatic relations, or offices, or businesses, or anything with a state like Israel.".

On 25 August, Reuters reported that Chávez had called for Israeli leaders to face a trial for genocide over killing in the Lebanon conflict.  Speaking from Beijing, Chávez said the Jewish state had "done something similar or, perhaps worse, who knows, than what the Nazis did".

Africa

Somalia 
In Somalia, the Islamic Courts Union sent men to aid Hezbollah. ICU commander Aden Hashi Farah handpicked 720 veteran fighters. While most were veterans of the Somali Civil War, some had fought in Afghanistan. The fighters were sent to Lebanon, where they fought alongside Hezbollah. A significant number were killed, and some were wounded, and taken back to Somalia for medical treatment. After the war, 100 of them returned to Somalia, while others stayed for advanced military training. Each fighter received $2,000 for his service, while the families of the dead were awarded $30,000.

South Africa 
Foreign minister Aziz Pahad said that the South African Government was "greatly concerned" about the increasing violence between Israel, Palestine and Lebanon, fearing that it would lead to a "catastrophe and a possible regional war" in the Middle East.

NGOs

Amnesty International
A press release by Amnesty International on 13 July condemns attacks by both Israel and Hezbollah as "a blatant breach of international humanitarian law and amount to war crimes." A briefing presented facts "strongly suggesting" that Israel's "extensive destruction" and "widespread attacks against public civilian infrastructure" was "deliberate and an integral part of the military strategy, rather than collateral damage". This behaviour suggested "a policy of punishing both the Lebanese government and the civilian population" in an effort to turn them against Hezbollah. The report also states that Israel to preserve the principle of proportionality, even if the destroyed objects could serve a dual purpose. It called for an independent and impartial inquiry appointed by UN, to investigate alleged war crimes by both Hezbollah and Israel.