[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Jeeves characters

nd". She is sister to Bertie Wooster, and apparently lives or spends some considerable portion of her time in India. She is never given a first name. Bertie and his sister seem to be on good terms, since Bertie considers buying a house where he can live with his sister and her three young daughters.

When asked by Chuffy in Thank You, Jeeves if he has any sisters, Bertie replies in the negative. This may be a continuity error, though Wodehouse scholars have proposed possible explanations for this inconsistency. Bertie may have preferred not to mention his sister since he was trying to convince Chuffy that he had kissed Pauline Stoker in a brotherly manner, Mrs. Scholfield might have passed away somewhere between the short story and the novel, or Bertie simply preferred not to discuss his family with a man who had threatened him with physical harm.

While Mrs. Scholfield does not appear in person in the original Jeeves canon, she was portrayed by actress Barbara French in an episode of The World of Wooster based on "Bertie Changes His Mind".

Seppings
Seppings is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He is the butler of Dahlia Travers and Tom Travers at their country house, Brinkley Court. His first name is not given in the stories. He is a dignified and stoic figure, though he has been on friendly terms with Bertie Wooster since Bertie's boyhood. Bertie has enjoyed many a port in his pantry, and they sometimes have conversations, mainly about the weather and Seppings's lumbago. On one occasion, Bertie calls him "Pop Seppings" in a familiar manner.

He is employed alongside the supreme chef Anatole. Like many others, Seppings highly esteems Anatole's cooking. In Right Ho, Jeeves, Bertie describes Seppings when recalling Tuppy pushing away Anatole's cooking at dinner, stating that "Seppings, Aunt Dahlia's butler, a cold, unemotional man, had gasped and practically reeled when Tuppy waved aside those nonnettes de poulet Agnès Sorel". In the same novel, Bertie mentions that Seppings is fond of dances, and Bertie later has trouble getting his attention while Seppings is engrossed in dancing. Seppings makes a brief appearance in The Code of the Woosters, working at the Travers family's town house.

In Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit, Seppings discovers a missing pearl necklace in Jeeves's room, and draws this to Jeeves's attention before reporting it to anyone else. After he does report this, both Seppings and Aunt Dahlia are offended when Mrs Trotter suggests that Seppings stole it. During the events of Jeeves in the Offing, Seppings is away on holiday, at Bognor Regis. When he comes down with a temporary ailment of some sort in Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves, Jeeves serves as Brinkley Court's substitute butler. Seppings suffers a bout of indigestion after eating too much of Anatole's cooking in Much Obliged, Jeeves, though he soon recovers.

Seppings, along with Bertie Wooster and Jeeves, is featured in the play Jeeves and Wooster in Perfect Nonsense (2013).

Charlie Silversmith
Charlie Silversmith is a fictional character who appears in the Jeeves novel, The Mating Season. A large, imposing 16-stone man with a bald head, Silversmith is the austere butler at Deverill Hall. He is Jeeves's uncle and the father of Queenie, who is the parlourmaid at Deverill Hall and engaged to Constable Dobbs. In Much Obliged, Jeeves, Bertie Wooster says that he esteems few men more highly than Jeeves's Uncle Charlie, and when Jeeves is writing a letter to his uncle, Bertie says, "Give Uncle Charlie my love", to which Jeeves replies that he will.

Sippy Sipperley
Oliver Randolph Sipperley, called "Sippy" by Bertie, is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. Sippy is a 24-year-old author who is financially dependent on his Aunt Vera. He is initially a freelance author in "Without the Option" but has become editor of The Mayfair Gazette in "The Inferiority Complex of Old Sippy". He recommends Jeeves's problem-solving abilities to Gussie Fink-Nottle in Right Ho, Jeeves.

Roderick Spode

Roderick Spode, 7th Earl of Sidcup, often known as Spode or Lord Sidcup, is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves novels. An "amateur dictator", he is aggressive and intimidating. Spode is usually a threat to Bertie Wooster.

Rupert Steggles 
Rupert Steggles is a fictional character in three linked Jeeves short stories in The Inimitable Jeeves. The only son of one of the biggest bookies in London, Steggles is an amateur bookmaker of dubious reputation. He is variously described as ferret-faced and rat-faced, and uses underhanded tactics to ensure that he profits from bookmaking. In "The Great Sermon Handicap", Steggles takes bets on the sermon duration of local clergymen near Twing Hall on a given Sunday. In "The Purity of the Turf", he organizes betting on the events at the Twing village school treat held on the grounds of Twing Hall. In "The Metropolitan Touch", Steggles takes bets on who will win the heart of Mary Burgess.