[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

igade consisted of the 19th and 20th Virginia Cavalry Regiments, a cavalry battalion consisting of four companies commanded by Major Joseph R. Kessler, and a battery that consisted of two 12-pounder howitzers. Only 750 men were available to Jackson three days later at Droop Mountain.

Averell's trap

Averell resumed his march southward at 7:00am on November 4, and burned two enemy campsites. Arriving at Huntersville and finding no enemy troops, he determined that a portion of the 19th Virginia Cavalry was  west at Marling Bottom—and devised a plan to cut them off from their headquarters at Mill Point. About noon, he sent Schoonmaker and the 14th Pennsylvania Cavalry, with the 3rd West Virginia Mounted Infantry, southwest on Beaver Creek Road. Their objective was to reach the intersection with the Marling Bottom Road before the 19th Virginia Cavalry got there from Marling Bottom, and prevent the Virginians from reaching Mill Point and Hillsboro. Averell was somewhat correct—Colonel Arnett and the 20th Virginia Cavalry Regiment (not the 19th) were at Marling Bottom, which is  north of Mill Point.

Four hours later, Colonel Oley and the 8th West Virginia Mounted Infantry, which had been in the rear of Averell's command, arrived in Huntersville. Hoping to trap a portion of the Confederate cavalry between Schoonmaker and Oley, Averell immediately sent Oley west to Marling Bottom with a force that consisted of the 8th West Virginia, the 2nd West Virginia Mounted Infantry, and a section of Ewing's Artillery. Hours earlier, Arnett and his brigade commander Jackson learned of the Union force on Beaver Creek Road. Arnett departed from Marling Bottom for Mill Point to unite with Jackson, setting blockades on the road as he went. Jackson sent a portion of the 19th Virginia Cavalry, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel William P. Thompson,  north on the Beaver Creek Road to blockade the road long enough for Arnett to pass through to Mill Point. Thompson and Schoonmaker began skirmishing around 3:00pm. Around dusk, Oley entered Marling Bottom, but Arnett was already gone and passed through the intersection near Mill Point after dark while Thompson continued skirmishing—Averell's trap had failed.

Elsewhere, during the afternoon of November 4, two regiments from Jenkins' Confederate cavalry brigade were resting in Greenbrier County while their commander, Colonel Ferguson, consulted with Brigadier General Echols. Ferguson divided his brigade to assist Jackson at Mill Point and to protect Lewisburg. His 16th Virginia Cavalry Regiment was sent  west of Lewisburg to guard one of the approaches to town. A portion of his 14th Virginia Cavalry Regiment guarded a second approach. The remaining six companies from the 14th Virginia Cavalry, commanded by Colonel James A. Cochran, rode north to assist Jackson at Mill Point.

That evening at Mill Point, Jackson's Confederates assumed defensive positions on the southwest side of Stamping Creek, with Arnett commanding the "infantry" (dismounted cavalry). Schoonmaker fought through Thompson's blockade and took a position on the northeast side of the creek. The two camps were separated by  and a creek, and both sides could see each other. Oley was still in Marling Bottom, and Averell remained in Huntersville with the infantry and one battery. Further east in the Shenandoah Valley, Brigadier General John Imboden was notified that Averell was in Greenbrier County with a large force.

Fight at Mill Point

Early in the morning on November 5, Averell moved his infantry from Huntersville toward Mill Point, and Oley left Marling Bottom for the same destination. Schoonmaker believed he was outnumbered three-to-one, and placed his force in a defensive position. He began skirmishing with Jackson's two regiments around daylight. Jackson also made use of his two howitzers, which made the situation difficult for Schoonmaker because he had no artillery. Oley, who was about  away, could hear the artillery—and knew that Schoonmaker had none. He hurried his two mounted regiments and battery toward the front. Upon arrival, he found Schoonmaker facing strong pressure. Schoonmaker had him dismount his two regiments and deploy them on the right (west) while Schoonmaker and his two regiments took the left (east) side. Ewing's battery, which had longer range than Jackson's howitzers, was placed in between.