[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# The British University in Egypt

The British University in Egypt (BUE; ) is a private Egyptian university in El Shorouk City, Cairo, Egypt. Founded in September 2005, through an inter-governmental agreement, it provides a British education style and awards degrees validated by its partner UK universities and the Egyptian Supreme Council of Universities.

The main university campus is located approximately  from downtown Cairo, the campus covers about  of land with some  of space of modern purpose-built teaching facilities. According to the Center for World University Ranking (CWUR), the BUE was ranked in 2020 among the top 10 universities in Egypt. In December 2022, Sir Magdi Yacoub, an internationally renowned cardiologist, has been selected to serve as the first honorary chancellor of the university.

Governance and administration 
The British university in Egypt has a partnership with the Egyptian government and is managed by a Board of Trustees, which is in charge of managing the university's strategic direction. Professor Mohamed Loutfi is the current university president, having assumed the position in 2021, he has previously held academic positions at universities in both the United Kingdom and Egypt. The Egyptian Supreme Council of Universities has officially approved the university, and it conducts regular quality assurance evaluations to guarantee that its academic programs that meets the council requirements. In addition, the university has collaborations with several UK universities with the aim to guarantee that its programs are in line with common international practices.

In March 2022, both the Egyptian Exchange and the university have signed a collaboration memorandum for financial culture promotion, in order to provide a comprehensive financial campaign on saving, investment, and trading, supported by an integrated unit. The main target is to enhance financial literacy and raise the financial awareness.  In April 2023, the university signed a Memorandum of understanding with King’s College London. The institution is devoted to connect with the international community and the aim to promote social responsibility and community service.

Presidents
Mohamed Loutfi (2021–present) 
Ahmed Hamad (2015-2020) 
Mostafa Gouda (2013-2015) 
Ahmed Hamza (2008-2013) 
Mostafa El-Feki (2005-2008)

Board of trustees  
The board of trustees of the British University in Egypt is composed of individuals from both Egypt and the United Kingdom. The Board convenes biannually, with one meeting held in Egypt and the other in London, to provide oversight on the university's strategic orientation.

Faculties
 Faculty of Business Administration & Economics & Political Science (Accredited by National Authority for Quality Assurance and Accreditation of Education-NAQAA)
 Faculty of Dentistry (Accredited by the National Authority for Quality Assurance and Accreditation of education-NAQAA)
 Faculty of Engineering
 Faculty of Energy and Environmental Engineering
 Faculty of Information & Computer Science
 Faculty of Mass Communication
 Faculty of Nursing
 Faculty of Pharmacy
 Faculty of Arts and Humanities
 Faculty of Law
 Faculty of Arts and Design

Professor Mohamed Loutfi 
Professor Mohamed Loutfi obtained a BSc in Economics and Political Science, an MSc in Information Technology and a PhD in Systems Thinking. Professor Loutfi has developed interests in a wide area of research, including Modelling and Simulation of Social Systems, Non-linear, and Dynamic Feedback Systems. Professor Loutfi currently serves as President and Vice-Chancellor of The British University in Egypt. Prior to this, he held the post of Vice-Chancellor’s Special Envoy at Coventry University. He has served in a variety of leadership positions, including Pro-Vice-Chancellor of Cardiff Metropolitan University and the University of Sunderland.

Notable alumni 

 Feryal Abdelaziz – Egyptian sportswoman
 Mihrigul Tursun – alleged Uyghur prisoner

See also
 Loughborough University
 Queen Margaret University
 British University in Dubai (BUiD)
 List of Egyptian universities
 London South Bank University

References
قرار جمهوري رقم 344 لسنة 2015 المكمل للقرار الجمهوري رقم 411 لسنة 2004

External links 
 The British University in Egypt web site

Education in Cairo
Educational institutions established in 2005
2005 establishments in Egypt
Universities in Egypt