[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Richard Ofshe

Richard Jason Ofshe (born 27 February 1941)  is an American sociologist and professor emeritus of sociology at the University of California, Berkeley.  He is known for his expert testimony relating to coercion in small groups, confessions, and interrogations.

False memories
Ofshe lists his areas of interest to be coercive social control, social psychology, influence in police interrogation, and influence leading to pseudo-memory in psychotherapy.

Ofshe has been characterized as a "world-renowned expert on influence interrogation".  He believes that coerced confessional testimony is extremely unreliable and stated in a 1993 Time article that "Recovered memory therapy will come to be recognized as the quackery of the 20th century."  In a more recent Time Magazine article in 2005, Ofshe is quoted as saying that false testimony does not just occur through coercion, but may also occur in instances of "exhaustion or mental impairment."  However, he also stated that it is only recently that juries have been allowed to hear expert testimony about these kinds of theories.

John E. Reid, developer of an interrogation method called the Reid technique that Ofshe and others have argued can lead to false confessions, is a primary critic of Ofshe.

Education
Ofshe studied at Queens College of the City University of New York for his  BA in psychology and MA in sociology and at Stanford University for a PhD, sociology, sub-specializing in social psychology.

Early career
Ofshe joined the faculty at the University of California, Berkeley at the level of assistant professor in the Department of Sociology in 1967.  He was promoted to associate professor in 1971 and professor in 1982.  At the University of California, he taught several courses, including a course entitled "Interpersonal Behavior in Small Groups".  Ofshe was granted the title of Professor Emeritus in 2003.

Honors
Ofshe has received several honors and recognition for his research and writings:
 John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellow, 1973–1974
 Recipient of Roy Dorcus Award for the Best Paper on Clinical Hypnosis of 1994. Awarded by the Society for Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis for "Recovered Memory Therapy and Robust Repression: Influence and Pseudomemories."
 For work on a series of articles that Ofshe contributed to on the Synanon movement, the newspaper, the Point Reyes Light, received the  Pulitzer Prize for Public Service in 1979.

Professional memberships
 American Sociological Association
 American Psychological Association
 American Psychological Society
 Sociological Practice Association
 Pacific Sociological Association

Expert testimony
In 2002, Ofshe appeared on the Larry King Live show, discussing the reliability of confessions.  In 2005, the Associated Press characterized Ofshe as a "cult expert", when commenting on the murder trial of Marcus Wesson.  Ofshe's writings on interrogation, confession and miscarriages of justice are pointed to by the American Psychological Association as widely accepted within the psychology profession. His writings on interrogation and confession with professor Richard Leo are relied upon by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts and the Supreme Court of Canada.

Tyrone Noling (2006)
Prosecutors in the case of Tyrone Noling, relied on his confession testimony and gained his conviction of the murder of an elderly couple in Atwater Township, Ohio. Noling was sentenced to death and is on death row. In 2006, Ofshe asserted that this kind of testimony is not reliable and may not be true: "All the confessions should be classified as 'untrustworthy' and 'unreliable,'" Ofshe said that this was because "coercive interrogation tactics" were used by law enforcement to elicit such confessions.

The Norfolk Four (2005)
In July 1997, a young Navy wife, Michelle Moore-Bosko, was found murdered. Police began with one suspect but expanded their investigation when the first suspect's DNA did not match that at the scene. They promoted finally a crime with multiple offenders, theorizing that a total of eight men were involved in her rape and murder, although this was contrary to the evidence on site, at least two had strong alibis, and most of the men did not know each other. The first four men arrested made confessions to the crime following hours of severe police interrogation. Only the last man who confessed had DNA that matched the forensic DNA evidence at the crime scene and had a confession that was consistent with the evidence. The four other men who confessed all recanted their testimony; two pleaded guilty to rape and capital murder under threat of the death penalty; one was acquitted of murder but convicted of rape; and the last was convicted at trial. Three of the four were sentenced to life in prison. They had appeared to exhaust the appeals process in an effort to overturn their convictions based on false confessions elicited through coercion.