[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hamza Hakimzade Niyazi

system.

Niyazi also wrote Boy ila xizmatchi (The Bey and The Servant) (1918) which deals primarily with the revolutionary upheaval in Western Turkestan and with the institution of arranged marriage. In the story, the young heroine commits suicide after being forced to marry a man she does not love.

One of the author's final works is Paranji sirlaridan bir lavha Yoki yallachilar ishi (One Episode from the Secrets of the Veil or the Case of Yalla Singers) (1922) which describes the problems faced by Uzbek women.

In addition to his explicitly political novels, Niyazi is also known for his anthologies of folk songs and melodies. In his anthologies, Niyazi collected about 40 songs, mostly Uzbek, but also Kashgar and Tatar melodies. Niyazi himself was a master of several traditional Uzbek instruments, especially the dotar and the tanbur.

Niyazi also wrote two comedies: Tuhmatchilar jazosi (The Punishment of Slanderers) (1918) and Burungi qozilar yoxud Maysaraning ishi (Old Judges or the Case of Maysara) (1926).

Legacy 

Niyazi is one of the most important early representatives of a distinctive Uzbek literature. He is generally considered the first Uzbek playwright, the founder of modern Uzbek musical forms, as well as the founder of Uzbek social realism. His writings were also significant for being "ideologically valuable" in the early years of Soviet power in Uzbekistan. Although socialist realism became the "official" style of Uzbek literature only in 1932, Niyazi is generally credited as the founder of the movement. In his book The Politics of Muslim Cultural Reform: Jadidism in Central Asia, Adeeb Khalid, whose research focuses on Central Asian history, writes that it is difficult to imagine the history of modern Central Asian literature without Niyazi.

Niyazi also participated in the controversial Uzbek language reforms of the 1920s which were meant to codify a literary Uzbek language in place of the older, fading Chagatai. Chagatai had been the dominant written form for several centuries. The reforms eventually resulted in a significant shift in spelling and pronunciation.

Although Niyazi's political legacy is complex, he undoubtedly helped develop the national literature of Uzbekistan. Jadidist and nationalist writers saw Niyazi's pro-Soviet position as inherently un-Uzbek because of its non-national and political themes.

Niyazi became a National Writer of the Uzbek SSR in 1926. To honor his memory, in 1967 the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Uzbekistan established the State Hamza Prize to recognize outstanding achievement in literature, arts, and architecture. Many institutions in Uzbekistan, including a station of Tashkent Metro, three theaters, as well as several schools and streets are named after him. There are two museums of Niyazi in Kokand.

See also 
Ali-Shir Nava'i
Chagatai language
Furqat
Uzbek language

References

Bibliography 

 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .

External links

 Adeeb Khalid: Printing, Publishing, and Reform in Tsarist Central Asia. 1994 
 Mark Dickens: Uzbek Music . 1989 
 Mark Dickens: The Uzbeks . 1990 
 

1889 births
1929 deaths
People from Kokand 
People from Fergana Oblast
20th-century novelists
20th-century Uzbekistani poets
Jadids
Bolsheviks
Communist Party of the Soviet Union members
Uzbeks
Male poets from the Russian Empire
Male writers from the Russian Empire
Russian male poets
People murdered in the Soviet Union
Soviet poets
Soviet male writers
Former Muslims
20th-century atheists
20th-century male writers
People killed in the Hujum
Uzbekistani male poets
Uzbekistani writers
Russian male novelists
Deaths by stoning
Uzbekistani Arabic-language poets