[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Benito Carbone

conda Divisione to a spot in the promotion playoffs during his last season in charge. Joining Carbone as part of Carbone's management team at Varese was ex-Internazionale player Mauro Milanese, who joined the club as Sporting Director.

On 1 October 2011, he was sacked and replaced by Rolando Maran.

Saint-Christophe Vallée d'Aoste
After being sacked by Varese, on 29 October 2012, he was installed as the new coach of Saint-Christophe Vallée d'Aoste in Lega Pro Seconda Divisione in place of the sacked Giovanni Zichella. Saint-Christophe Vallée d'Aoste were bottom of the table before Carbone took charge, and he led them up the table. Carbone eventually resigned as Saint-Christophe Vallée d'Aoste Head Coach due to restrictions placed upon him.

Pursuing a career in England
After leaving Saint-Christophe Vallée d'Aoste, Carbone, who was a highly rated young manager, revealed he had turned down three to four job offers to manage in Italy, due to him wanting to pursue a management career in England. Carbone had also revealed that current Italy national football team manager Cesare Prandelli had endorsed Carbone to become a top manager.

After being linked with the managerial vacancy at Sheffield Wednesday in December 2013, Carbone proclaimed that he wanted to manage the club. On 10 January 2014, Carbone appeared on Sky Sports programme The Fantasy Football Club, presented by his ex-Aston Villa teammate Paul Merson, and revealed that he was still interested in the role. However, the club appointed caretaker manager Stuart Gray as full-time manager on 25 January, after a string of impressive results.

Leeds United role
In April 2014, Massimo Cellino announced he was giving Carbone the opportunity to help rebuild the academy at Leeds United, and Carbone joined the youth team set up at Thorp Arch as a sporting director.

On 14 May 2014, Carbone announced on his official Twitter page that his job title was "Special Consultant to the board of directors for sport matters including Facilities & Academy". The club confirmed Carbone's position at the club in a statement on the club's official website on 15 May, they confirmed that Carbone "will be involved with all football matters, including both the first team and the academy". On 11 July, owner Massimo Cellino revealed Carbone would also manage Leeds' Under 21 team. Cellino announced Carbone's departure in an August 2014 press interview, citing "family reasons".

Ternana
On 14 August 2016, Carbone was appointed manager of Ternana. Hired as a replacement to Christian Panucci, he resigned in January 2017, after a negative string of results that left Ternana in second-to-last place in the league.

Crotone
On 8 December 2017, Carbone was appointed as assistant manager at Crotone.

Style of play
A quick, mobile, talented, and creative supporting forward, with an eye for goal, Carbone was known primarily for his technical skills, his use of feints, and for his ability to provide assists for team-mates as an offensive playmaker. A versatile forward, although his preferred role was that of a second striker, he was capable of playing in several positions along the front-line or in midfield, and was also deployed as a striker, as a winger, and as an attacking midfielder throughout his career. Despite his ability, he was also known to be inconsistent.

Trivia
When Carbone was at Napoli, due to his admiration for the number 10 shirt and also of his idols Diego Maradona and Roberto Baggio, Carbone had specially made shin pads for the rest of his career which featured a picture of Maradona on the left shin pad, and a picture of Baggio on the right shin pad.

On 8 July 2014, Carbone played in a team for his former club Inter Milan vs a Real Madrid Legends team for the 2014 Corazón Classic Match for charity.

Honours

Torino
Serie B: 1989–90

Aston Villa
FA Cup runner-up: 1999–2000

Italy U21
UEFA European Under-21 Championship: 1994

References

External links
 Player Profile at sydneyfc.com

1971 births
Living people
People from Bagnara Calabra
Italian men's footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
LFA Reggio Calabria players
Casertana FC players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Sheffield Wednesday F.C. players
Aston Villa F.C. players
Derby County F.C. players
Middlesbrough F.C. players
Ascoli Calcio 1898 FC players
SSC Napoli players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
Torino FC players
LR Vicenza players
Inter Milan players
Premier League players
Sydney FC players
A-League Men players
AC Pavia 1911 SSD players
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Italian expatriate sportspeople in England
Serie A players
Serie B players
Footballers from the Metropolitan City of Reggio Calabria
US Catanzaro 1929 players
Como 1907 players
Italian football managers
SSD Varese Calcio managers
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Australia
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
Men's association football forwards