[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of smoking bans

d smoking to occur).

Some cities are known for their rigorous enforcement of the smoke-free laws, such as the city of Be'er Sheva (which raised revenue of 799,000 NIS (≈215K USD) in 2011 through fining smoking in public places) and Tel-Aviv, but in many municipalities the law isn't enforced.

Italy

Since 2024 it is forbidden to smoke in all public indoor spaces, including bars, cafés, restaurants and discos. However, special smoking rooms are allowed. In such areas food can be served, but they are subjected to very strict conditions: they need to be separately ventilated, with high air replacement rates; their air pressure must constantly be lower than the pressure in the surrounding rooms; they must be equipped with automatic sliding doors to prevent smoke from spreading to tobacco-free areas; they may occupy at most 50% of the establishment. Only 1% of all public establishments have opted for setting up a smoking room.
Smoking is also forbidden in all enclosed workplaces – this includes also trains and underground stations.
It is, indeed, permitted to smoke outdoors, which means that since Italy has sunny weather more than half of the year, people can still smoke at restaurants and bars as long as they sit at the outside tables and the establishment permits it.

Ivory Coast
Ivory Coast has a smoking ban in place.

Jamaica
Smoking is not permitted in the airport or generally indoors at shops and malls and places of business.  However smoking is usually permitted in bars, discos and other licensed premises that serve alcohol indoors, but not in restaurants or casinos.  Smoking is often permitted in tourist resorts in places that would be typically considered indoors in North America (roof but no walls), but this does not apply to indoor air-conditioned places.  Jamaica has no national smoke-free law, but most places have a no-smoking sign if smoking is not permitted and it is open-air with a roof.  Most places that permit smoking indoors will have ashtrays on the table to signify that it is permitted.  However, if there is a sandbox at the entrance of a building then it usually signals that the place does not permit indoor smoking.

Effective 15 July 2013, Jamaica's Health Minister banned smoking in all covered public places on the island.

Taiwan

Although there are no nationwide smoke-free regulations in Japan, and efforts to introduce such reforms are strongly opposed by powerful lobby groups, there is a growing number of local ordinances restricting smoking. In Tokyo's Chiyoda, Shinagawa, Shinjuku and Nakano wards, smoking is banned on the streets for reasons of child safety (not health). Smoking is prohibited on public transport and subway platforms, although smoking areas are usually provided on above-ground platforms. Unlike Tokyo's municipal governments, which can fine people for smoking on the streets, public transport companies don't have the authority to enforce smoking bans. Because of this inability, there are smokers who flout the smoking ban, in some cases very frequently, such as at Minami-Urawa Station in Saitama Prefecture, which borders Tokyo. Kanagawa Prefecture introduced the country's first prefecture-wide smoking ban in April 2010, banning smoking in public places such as hospitals, schools and government offices. The ordinance requires large restaurants and hotels to choose whether to become non-smoking or create separate smoking areas, while mahjong and pachinko parlours, restaurants with a floor area of up to 100 square metres and hotels with a floor area of up to 700 square metres are only required to "make efforts" to reduce secondhand smoke. Another Kanagawa regulation restricting smoking on beaches was implemented in May 2010. Although still relatively few, a growing number of private companies are voluntarily implementing smoking bans in restaurants, taxis, buildings and bars.

In 2017, Japan was urged by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to implement smoking bans in all public areas to create a healthy sporting environment. As the host of the 2020 Summer Olympics, Japan was in danger of becoming the unhealthiest country to host the Olympics in years. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the event was postponed to the following year.

Jersey
Smoking is restricted in public places in Jersey (a British Crown dependency).

The Restriction on Smoking (Jersey) Law 1973 enabled the States of Jersey to pass regulations prohibiting or restricting smoking in places of entertainment and public transport. In pursuance of this law, smoking was banned on public transport by the Smoking (Public Transport) (Jersey) Regulations 1982.

The Restriction on Smoking (Jersey) Law 1973 was amended by the Restriction on Smoking (Amendment No. 2) (Jersey) Law 2006 adopted 16 May 2006 that enabled the States to make regulations that prohibit or restrict smoking tobacco or a substance (or a mixture of substances) other than tobacco, or the use of tobacco, in a workplace or other defined places.