[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# George Gibbs Dibrell

mained in this position for 15 years until the company was acquired by the Nashville and Chattanooga Company and the railroad came to Sparta in 1884.  The advent of the railroad in White County fulfilled "a great need for a speedier method of moving the products of an expanding and developing land."

Bon Air Coal 
As the railroads slowly began to take shape, Dibrell focused his efforts towards the formation and organization of the Bon Air Coal, Land, and Lumber Company, concentrated on Bon Air Mountain just outside of Sparta. According to White County historian E.G. Rogers, the organization of this company had been a dream of Dibrell's and one which he had sought to further as early as his brief tenure in the Tennessee Legislature.  Additionally, Dibrell possessed the foresight and entrepreneurial business sense to invest money from his antebellum mercantile success in the gradual accumulation of more than 15,000 acres of good coal and timber land, which formed the company's property upon its organization.  The official charter was finally secured in September 1882, and by 1900 the company's holdings had grown to include some 38,000 acres of land.  Dibrell was elected the vice-president of the company upon his declination of the presidency itself, which was filled by former governor and president of the 1870 convention, John C. Brown.

Death
George Gibbs Dibrell passed away on 9 May 1888, at his home in Sparta, aged 66 years and 27 days.  The cause was an "aggravated inflammation of the kidneys," a recurring problem irritated by a strenuous 40-mile horseback ride taken two weeks prior.  He was survived by his eight children, plus a number of grandchildren, in addition to his wife Mary.  His funeral services were performed by the same minister who married them 46 years earlier.  The announcement of his death in the "Daily American," a Nashville newspaper, read "[Dibrell] has done more for White County than any man who ever lived here [...] This is the unanimous verdict of all." He is interred at the Old Sparta Cemetery.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links
 
 Retrieved on 2008-02-13
Tennesseeencyclopedia.net bio
Tngenweb.org bio

Democratic Party members of the Tennessee House of Representatives
1822 births
1888 deaths
Confederate States Army generals
Tennessee lawyers
19th-century American railroad executives
People of Tennessee in the American Civil War
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Tennessee
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers