[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bruno Tesch

eturn to his old life. However, Bahr was caught after someone noticed him scavenging for food and alerted British authorities. In May 1946, a British military court found him guilty of war crimes and sentenced him to death for actively participating in mass murder. Bahr was executed in October 1946.

At this point in time, however, Bahr was still alive and in custody. When British officials asked Bahr to talk about what he did in Neuengamme, he immediately confessed. At the camp hospital, Bahr said he had murdered Jews and other "subhumans" using phenol injections. Those deemed unfit for work were injected with the deadly mixture. Bahr insisted to a horrified Pelican that the victims were killed "painlessly and humanely", and had all died within minutes. He said he had killed 90 to 100 inmates this way on a daily basis in Neuengamme, and that overall, he had likely killed over 1000 people.

In 1942, Bahr said he was given a training course on the use of Zyklon B by Tesch. He was certified and shown how to use Zyklon B for delousing. Bahr said he usually just used the gas for its original purpose, disinfection. However, on one occasion, he had been ordered to empty tins of Zyklon B into a sealed barracks filled with approximately 200 Soviet POWs. Bahr said that Tesch had not taught him the procedure he employed to use Zyklon B on people.

Although the case against Tesch was still circumstantial, Freud was unwilling to drop the case. Tesch was charged with committing war crimes. Also charged were Weinbacher and Joachim Drosihn, the firm's first gassing technician. The charge was that the defendants, "between 1st January, 1941, and 31st March, 1945, in violation of the laws and usages of war did supply poison gas used for the extermination of Allied nationals interned in concentration camps well knowing that the said gas was to be so used."

Trial and execution 
In March 1946, Tesch was tried jointly with Weinbacher and Drosihn. The prosecutor was British Army Major Gerald Draper, who argued that Tesch knew the SS was using Zyklon B to systemically exterminate human beings, and had chosen to continue selling massive quantities of the gas to them. Draper's first witness was Emil Sehm, who discussed the report he had found.

The prosecutor presented several other witnesses who backed the existence of the report:

 Erna Biagini, a former secretary of the firm who had been in charge of the registry, claimed to have read, in "approximately 1942," a travel report from Tesch which stated that Zyklon B could be used for killing human beings as well as vermin.
 Anna Uenzelmann, another secretary, said that in June 1942, after dictating a travel report on returning from Berlin, a seemingly horrified Tesch told her that Zyklon B was being used to gas people.

Karl Ruehmling, who had been a bookkeeper and assistant gassing master for the firm, said that Zyklon B was sent by Tesch to Auschwitz, Sachsenhausen, and Neuengamme. Auschwitz received the largest amounts of gas. According to another witness, Drosihn had once visited the camps. Afterwards, he reported to Tesch. Drosihn told his boss that he saw things "unworthy of human dignity." However, the Zyklon B sales continued. Draper presented an affidavit from a high-ranking German government official showing that in 1943, it was common knowledge in Germany that gas was being used to kill people, albeit Zyklon B was not the only gas being used.

Draper described Weinbacher as Tesch's second-in-command. Weinbacher had acted as a substitute director for the firm whenever Tesch was out on business trips. Draper said that if Tesch was guilty, so was Weinbacher. Tesch and Weinbacher both claimed ignorance. They claimed they thought the Zyklon B was only going to be used for its intended purpose. Weinbacher said he knew nothing about Tesch's business travels. Tesch's lawyer conceded that the amounts of Zyklon B sold to the SS were large. However, he said "it was the duty of the SS to see that the state of health in the eastern provinces was kept at a high level." On the stand, Tesch said Eastern Europe had a serious vermin infestation, which was technically true.

Draper focused the least on Drosihn, as his case was far more complicated. Drosihn had a subordinate role in the firm, and his job was technical, and had not involved bookkeeping or sales. With the backing of witnesses, Drosihn said he had nothing to do with the company's business dealings. His lawyer pointed to his smaller salary as evidence of his lack of authority. He was in no position to read Tesch's travel reports. In closing, Draper said that Drosihn must have known something about what Tesch and Weinbacher were doing, even if his job did not involve sales.