[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Levamisole

reported among cocaine users. Levamisole has also been linked to a risk of vasculitis, and two cases of vasculitic skin necrosis have been reported in users of cocaine adulterated with levamisole.

Levamisole-tainted cocaine has caused three deaths and sickened over 100 in US and Canada, as of 2009.

Chemistry
The original synthesis at Janssen Pharmaceutica resulted in the preparation of a racemic mixture of two enantiomers, whose hydrochloride salt was reported to have a melting point of 264–265 °C; the free base of the racemate has a melting point of 87–89 °C. The racemic mixture is referred to as "tetramisole" - levamisole refers only to the levorotatory enantiomer of tetramisole.

Toxicity
The LD50 (intravenous, mouse) is  22 mg/kg.

Laboratory use 
Levamisole reversibly and uncompetitively inhibits most isoforms of alkaline phosphatase (e.g., human liver, bone, kidney, and spleen) except the intestinal and placental isoform. It is thus used as an inhibitor along with substrate to reduce background alkaline phosphatase activity in biomedical assays involving detection signal amplification by intestinal alkaline phosphatase, for example in in situ hybridization or Western blot protocols.

It is used to immobilize the nematode C. elegans on glass slides for imaging and dissection.

In a C. elegans behavioral assay, analyzing the time course of paralysis provides information about the neuromuscular junction. Levamisole acts as an acetylcholine receptor agonist, which leads to muscle contraction. Continuing activation leads to paralysis. The time course of paralysis provides information about the acetylcholine receptors on the muscle.  For example, mutants with fewer acetylcholine receptors may paralyze slower than wild type.

Research
It has been studied as a method to stimulate the immune system as part of the treatment of cancer. It has also shown some efficacy in the treatment of nephrotic syndrome in children.

After being pulled from the market in the US and Canada in 1999 and 2003, respectively, levamisole has been tested in combination with fluorouracil to treat colon cancer. Evidence from clinical trials support its addition to fluorouracil therapy to benefit patients with colon cancer. In some of the leukemic cell line studies, both levamisole and tetramisole showed similar effect.

Veterinary uses 
The combination doramectin/levamisole, sold under the brand name Valcor, is indicated for the treatment and control of gastrointestinal roundworms, lungworms, grubs, sucking lice, and mange mites in cattle. It is given by subcutaneous injection.

References

External links 
 

Anthelmintics
Janssen Pharmaceutica
Belgian inventions
Nicotinic agonists
Phosphatase inhibitors
World Health Organization essential medicines
Wikipedia medicine articles ready to translate
Withdrawn drugs
Imidazothiazoles