[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard Marles

n February 2016, he began co-hosting the weekly television program Pyne & Marles on Sky News Live with Liberal MP Christopher Pyne. Marles had his portfolio changed after the 2016 election, becoming Shadow Minister for Defence. He has been cited as holding pro-U.S. views and as "somewhat of a hawk".

Deputy Leader of the Opposition
In May 2019, after Labor lost the 2019 federal election, it was reported that Marles would stand for the deputy leadership of the party, and would likely be elected unopposed following Clare O'Neil's decision not to run. He was formally endorsed as deputy to Anthony Albanese on 30 May, and selected the portfolio of Defence in the shadow cabinet.

Following a shadow cabinet reshuffle in January 2021, Marles was placed in charge of a new "super portfolio" relating to recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, encompassing a "broad brief across national reconstruction, jobs, skills, small business and science".

Deputy Prime Minister
Two days after the 2022 federal election, Albanese had himself, Marles and three other senior Labor frontbenchers sworn in as an interim five-person government. Although counting was still underway, it was apparent by this time that no other party could realistically form even a minority government. The transfer of power was expedited due to the upcoming Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, with the full ministry due to be sworn in after the Quad. As Albanese flew to Tokyo to take part in the Quad soon after being sworn in, Marles served as Acting Prime Minister until Albanese returned to lead the nation full-time. He continues to return to the role whenever Albanese leaves the country. 

News.com.au reported in August 2023 that the cost of Marles' VIP flights since the federal election was $3.6 million. Marles refused to give passenger or destination details for his VIP flights, citing security concerns. Since the Defence Department blocked access to information about Marles’ VIP flights, the Independent Parliamentary Expenses Authority cannot ask Marles' office to repay the cost of carrying electorate staff and family members on the flights.

Political positions
Marles is a senior figure in his state's Labor Right faction.

Refugees and asylum seekers
Marles supports the turning back of asylum seekers who arrive in Australia by boat and a Pacific Solution for the resettlement of refugees.

Marles was supportive of an Australian War Memorial commemorating Operation Sovereign Borders navy personnel who undertook activities to stop asylum seekers coming to Australia by boat. That position was criticised by several Labor Left MPs as well as the Greens.

Population
Marles supports higher Population growth.

National defence

In 2020, as shadow defence minister, Marles was critical of the Morrison government's handling of the programme to purchase French submarines, which, he said, had "profoundly compromised" Australia's national security. Marles otherwise supported the bipartisan consensus on national defence matters.

Fossil fuels and energy 
On an interview on Sky News on 20 February 2019, Marles stated that it would be "a good thing" if the thermal coal market in Australia collapsed. He later back-tracked on this statement, saying that his "attack on coal was tone-deaf".

Following the 2019 Federal Election, Marles maintained that public funds should not be used to subsidise coal, saying "a Labor government is not going to put a cent into subsidising coal-fired power", and the market should be allowed to make its own decisions, while also saying that if a private company decided to push forward with a mine and gained the necessary approvals that Labor would not stand in its way.

Personal life
Marles lives in Geelong with his wife Rachel Schutze. He has three children from his current marriage and one from his first marriage to Lisa Neville, who was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly in 2002 and later became a state minister.

Marles is a supporter and member of the Geelong Football Club.

References
Notes

Footnotes

External links

 Richard Marles' website
 

|-

|-

 

1967 births
20th-century Australian lawyers
Australian trade unionists
People educated at Geelong Grammar School
Politicians from Geelong
Living people
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Corio
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
University of Melbourne alumni
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Labor Right politicians
Sky News Australia reporters and presenters
21st-century Australian politicians
21st-century Australian lawyers