[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services

m redesign. A performance audit of NCDHHS released on January 10, 2012, found problems with oversight of the Medicaid system's development. Among other budgetary missteps, the audit claimed that the computer system had been altered after final approval, leading to unexpected changes in the software.

Despite the General Assembly's response to the Medicaid budget shortfall in October 2011, over the following months money was not indicated by lawmakers as available except through the governor's office, leaving NCDHHS the choice of either "large-scale rate cuts or the elimination of some optional services". NCDHHS announced in December 2011 that it might cut adult services like hospice care and mental health care. As a result, the press reported that disabled but mentally sound North Carolinians could be institutionalized or made homeless. Reimbursements for physicians were also put on the cutting block, though as of January 2012, the federal government had approved less than half of the 54 rate cuts proposed by NCDHHS. At the time the press described a growing "political fight" on how to fill the budget hole, with "no signs of a solution". Officials estimated the Medicaid shortfall could grow to US$243 million by the end of the year.

On January 13, 2012, Cansler resigned from his role as secretary of NCDHHS, giving a two-week warning. Governor Perdue named Al Delia, her senior policy advisor, as acting secretary of the department in early February. At the time, Cansler stated in interviews that he had grown frustrated with the "political contest" over funding in the state legislature. Early in 2012, legislators passed a patch for the Medicaid shortfall. That year, the Medicaid program was estimated to have a $13 billion budget in state and federal funds.

Personal care crisis (2012)
As of April 2012, North Carolina stood to "lose $414 million in federal funding" over conflicts with the federal government on the regulations for allocating funding for personal care services. The North Carolina Association of Long Term Care Facilities asserted that if the conflicts were not resolved, "30,000 people could be 'put out on the street'." A federal deadline to fix the problem was initially set for May 1. On April 4, federal regulators gave "tentative approval" to NCDHHS' proposal, giving the state until the end of 2012 to implement fixes to personal care services. The new plan, according to NCDHHS, made most applicants eligible for long-term care, though some "4,000 people who now receive services in long-term care facilities will have to find alternative arrangements."

NCDHHS implemented the new computer system NC Fast in May 2012, an integrated case management system that replaced the 19 legacy computer systems previously used to deliver social service benefits. A limited version of the system was first tested that month in Guilford County, with state implementation to take place later. NCDHHS fired Craigan L. Gray, the head of the state Medicaid program, in June 2012. In October 2012, the state governor had $20 million shifted from other NCDHHS departments to fund adding 6,300 pre-kindergarten slots for at-risk toddlers.

In October 2012, it was projected that "more than 11,000 disabled people in group or adult care homes will no longer qualify for the services through Medicaid as of Jan. 1 because the state considers them functional enough to live without them." A special session on the group home funding was held in November 2012, called by house speaker Thom Tillis "to fix a budget gap that could cause about 2,000 people with mental illnesses and developmental disabilities to lose their homes." Wrote WRAL, "the crisis was triggered in July when the Republican-controlled legislature approved a one-word tweak to the state budget that excluded group homes from a nearly $40 million fund intended to cushion the effects of Medicaid eligibility changes for programs for the disabled."

New cabinet hires and NC Fast (2013)

On January 4, 2013, North Carolina Governor-elect Pat McCrory swore in Aldona Wos as Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services. At the time, NCDHHS had around 18,000 employees and a budget of around $18 billion. Wos declined her $128,000 salary and was instead paid a token $1. A new performance audit of the Department of Health and Human Services for 2012 was released on January 31, 2013. The audit criticized NCDHHS for its lack of record keeping and management concerning various funds, among other budgetary problems. Wos released her responses to the audit, agreeing on all points with the auditor, including the conclusion that NCDHHS had consistently exceeded budgeted amounts for administrative costs due to lack of oversight.