[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Schweitzer Mountain

Schweitzer is a ski resort in the northwest United States in northern Idaho,  northwest of Sandpoint. Located  in Bonner County in the Selkirk Mountains, it overlooks Lake Pend Oreille to the southeast with views of the Bitterroot and Cabinet mountain ranges.  The ski area is approximately  south of the Canada–US border. Doing business as Schweitzer Mountain Resort since 1988, in April 2021 the ski area adjusted its brand name to drop the words "mountain resort" to now be known only as "Schweitzer."

The resort's principal peak, Schweitzer Mountain, has a summit elevation of  above sea level with a vertical drop of . There are 92 named runs and open bowls on Schweitzer's skiable area of , served by 10 lifts. The average annual snowfall is over 300 inches (7.6 metres).  The longest continuous groomed run is Little Blue Ridge Run, at , and the uphill lift capacity is 15,900 passengers per hour.

History

Early history 
The peak known as "Schweitzer Mountain" was named after an old Swiss hermit who lived at the bottom of the basin (Schweizer is German for "Swiss"). He had been in the Swiss military, and, as part of a crime investigation, his house was searched. It yielded the bodies of numerous local cats that had gone missing. According to local legend, the man enjoyed cat stew; as a result, Mr. Schweitzer was soon hauled off to the asylum and forgotten, but his name remains with the mountain.

Skiing at Schweitzer began as early as 1933, but the ski area opened thirty years later as "Schweitzer Basin" in the fall of 1963. 
Dr. Jack Fowler of Spokane was an avid skier and frequently drove to The Big Mountain in Whitefish, Montana, in the late 1950s; he looked for a closer alternative and had noticed the snow-laden mountain on many of his trips. After several years of garnering support in the Sandpoint area, the ski area was launched. Opening day was December 4, with a day lodge at  and a mile-long (1.6 km) double chairlift, which provided  of vertical drop; a T-bar lift was added a month later. In 1991, Jack Fowler wrote Looking Back on Schweitzer: The History of Schweitzer Mountain Resort with co-author Ross Woodward, covering the history of the resort from his inspiration in the 1960s to the plans for the 1990/91 ski season. 

During the 1960s Schweitzer made a profit in only one year.  Initially planned as a weekend-only ski area, it was operated seven days a week at the insistence of Sam Wormington, the area's first general manager. It was immediately popular with regional skiers, and tallied 55,000 visits in its fourth season. A second T-bar was added in 1965, another in 1967, and three chairlifts (Papa Bear, Mama Bear, Baby Bear) were added in the fall of 1968, relocating T-bars and rope tows.

The back area of Colburn Basin was developed in 1971 with two more chairlifts (#5 & #6) and a small day lodge, the Out Back Inn. More construction in 1972 added a base area restaurant, 36-unit overnight lodge, and a 20-unit condominium building. The road to the resort was paved in 1973 and Chairlift #7 was added in the summer of 1974 to add capacity to the front side and eliminate the uphill trek to Chair #1. General manager Wormington left in 1977 for Mt. Spokane and was succeeded by Pierre Huguenin, and the area soon dropped the "Basin" from its name and became just "Schweitzer."

The Brown Era
For its first two decades, the ski area was a non-profit corporation, with hundreds of stockholders. Co-founder Jim Brown, Jr., a sawmill owner from Sandpoint, took it private in the early 1980s. Summer chairlift rides were begun in 1986, and in 1988 the ski area was renamed Schweitzer Mountain Resort, and it began offering hiking trails and mountain bike rentals.

When Brown died in April 1989, his daughter, Bobbie Huguenin, took over the family business. Under her leadership, Schweitzer focused on becoming a destination resort; many additions and improvements were accomplished, including the replacement of the original lodge with the new 3-story Headquarters Day Lodge.  A detachable quad chairlift in the fall of 1990, as well as lights for night skiing. Huguenin also saw the construction of the 82-room Green Gables Lodge. Ultimately, the Brown family ran out of operating cash and was unable to market the resort as a destination alternative. In November 1996, the resort was put into receivership, filing for bankruptcy the following year.