[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of South African slang words

the initials "S.A." as well as an informal pronunciation of the name "South Africa" (as Saf-Africa), the term refers to any South African-born person who also grew up in the country. This sometimes also extends to the South African Expats.
 sakkie-sakkie – Also known as the Sokkie dans, is a style of sensual Ballroom dance.
 sat – tired, dead – "Ek is siek en sat van sy nonsens" – "I'm sick and tired of his nonsense", see 'vrek' below (pronounced as "sut" in English)
 schoepit – pronounced "s-choo-pit", is the informal pronunciation of the word "stupid".
 scrompie – slang for "hobo" or bergie. (Liesl told her 7-year-old son, Karl, to walk away from the scrompie walking towards them.)
 se gat – expression of strong disagreement often used in conjunction with "se moer" & "jou gat" (your arse).
 sies, "sis" – expression of disgust, disappointment, annoyance, as in: Ag sies man.
 Sie-sah – expression of goodness, or of disgust, depending on context.
 sien jou gat – lit. "seeing your own arse". Refers to making an enormous fool of yourself and being out-performed & out-classed.
 skommel(draadtrek) – to masturbate
 soos Siebies se gat – lit. "like Siebies' arse". Refers to a job done badly and a messy room. Derived from a man of unknown origin known as "Siebies" (short for Siebert or Sieberhagen)
 soos 'n poep innie bad – lit "like a fart in a bathtub of water". Refers to something rising very quickly (literally like the bubbles caused by a fart), for example: Soos wat die vliegtuig opgestyg het, toe klim ons soos 'n poep innie bad tot by ons cruising altitude. (As the plane took off, we ascended like a fart in a bathtub to our cruising altitude).
 soutpiel – a derogatory term for someone of British descent. Lit. salt dick, one who has one foot in England and one foot in South Africa, with their penis dangling in the Atlantic Ocean. Sometimes shortened to soutie.
 sit gat, rus bene – lit. "sit arse, rest legs". Refers to relaxing after a long hard day.
 skapie – someone who might be referred to as a "pussy". Literally "little sheep".
 skeef – skewed, gay, as in: hy het 'n bietjie skeef voorgekom (he seemed a bit gay)
 skief – to glare at someone (root: Afrikaans 'skeef', skew)
 skiet kat – Vomiting
 skop, skiet en boomklim – literally "kicking, shooting and climbing trees". A colloquial description of an action film, usually of the lighter, more humorous kind. (Think Jackie Chan.)
 skop, skiet en donner – literally "kicking, shooting and beating people up". A colloquial description of an action movie of the more violent kind. (Think Jean-Claude Van Damme and Arnold Schwarzenegger.)
 skelm – (pronounced: skellem) crook or trouble-maker, mistress, secret lover, on the sly
 skilpad het nie vere nie, en appels is nie pere nie – lit. "tortoises don't have feathers, and apples aren't pears". It is a children's rhyme that discusses a mistruth. It is the Afrikaans equivalent of "liar liar pants on fire."
 skinner, skinder – gossip
 skinderbek/skinnerbekkie – refers to the person(s) who is spreading gossip, not to be taken as a compliment.
 skort – watch out, be careful or something is wrong here
 skraal – "thin" or "emaciated"
 skrik – fright; also used in the phrase skrik my gat af (very big fright)
 skyf – cigarette, a puff, and also less commonly marijuana or dagga
 skuit – (pronounced "skate") lit. "to shit"; similar to "taking a dump"
 skwaanz – to snitch and sue; a bru dat overreacts to situations or activities they themselves participate in, like, they choke out people in the choking game and thinks dat is fun, but when someone chokes THEM out, they snitch and sue. Also, "squanz"; "Yo, dat bru is skwaanz! We don't hang wit daardie fok."
 slapgat – English translation is "lazy arse", also can refer to something badly put together, "Hy het dit slapgat gemaak" (he put it together haphazardly)
 slaptjips/ slapchips – (pronounced as "slup chips") similar to thick-cut British chips; usually soft, oily and soaked in vinegar. Slap is Afrikaans for "limp". French fries refers to thinly cut chips. Crispy potato/corn chips are referred to as 'chips'.
 smaak – "taste" also means, to like another person or thing.
 smaak stukkend – to like very much or to love to pieces (literal meaning of stukkend). "Ek smaak you stukkend" = "I love you madly".
 sneeudier – old person
 snoepie – (pronounced "snoopy") refers almost exclusively to a tuck shop based in a school. Tuck shops that are outside school property are often just called a "winkel" or "winkeltjie" (meaning "a small shop"), and sometimes also called a kafee (referring to a café, though not necessarily one that serves coffee). The original English usage of the term "Tuck shop" stays intact.
 snotklap – "i'll slap you so hard the snot will fly". Usually used to discipline a child.
 sel – lit."cell" in all definitions of the word, i.e.: selfoon (cellphone); tronk sel (jail sel); plant sel (plant cell)
 soek – to look for trouble with someone/to antagonise/to stir up trouble =