[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Russian submarine Losharik

Project 210, Project 10831  or AS-31 (),  nicknamed Losharik (), is a Russian deep-diving nuclear powered submarine. On 1 July 2019, a fire broke out on the vessel while it was taking underwater measurements of the sea floor in Russian territorial waters.

 stands for  (), from the Russian naval term , 
'nuclear deepwater station'.  The submarine is also known as AS-12, but this number is assigned to another vessel.

History and features
The submarine was laid down in 1988, but it was not launched until August 2003 due to financial problems, as well as the collapse of the Soviet Union. It is designated for research, rescue, and special military operations and is operated by the Main Directorate of Deep-Sea Research, ( (GUGI)), reporting to the Russian Defence Ministry.

The pressure hull of the submarine is believed to be formed from up to seven interconnected titanium spherical elements; this limits space for living quarters and equipment, but grants increased structural strength. The vessel is powered by a nuclear reactor, and its exact operational depth is not in public information. It is known to have operated at about  depth in the Arctic Ocean in 2012 and is capable of being carried by a modified Delta III-class submarine.

The vessel has been described as a "spy submarine" that could possibly be used to tap into or sever underwater telecommunications cables. Russia has released little information about it officially and there are few photographs of it; the clearest is believed to have been taken inadvertently during a Top Gear Russia photo-shoot in Arkhangelsk.

The nickname Losharik comes from the vessel's multi-spherical hull and was taken from a character in the Soviet animated film Losharik, a toy horse consisting of small spheres. The word losharik is a portmanteau of "" (, 'horse') and "" (, 'small sphere'). The NATO reporting name for this submarine is NORSUB-5.

The vessel was referred to in a United States Northern Command briefing as a "dark target" whose activities should be tracked.

The Project 09852 modified Oscar-class submarine Belgorod, was specially refitted in order to transport Losharik, in support of GUGI operations.

2019 fire 
A fire broke out on the vessel on 1 July 2019 while it was taking underwater measurements of the sea floor in Russian territorial waters. Fourteen of the crew were killed by inhalation of smoke or toxic fumes. Seven of those who died held the rank of first rank captain and two were recipients of the Hero of the Russian Federation award. Submarine commander Denis Dolonsky was among those killed. The presence of such a high-ranking crew on a single vessel may be an indication that the vessel was carrying out a high-risk task or testing a new capability at the time of the accident. In comparison, submarine Kursk  which was lost with all hands after a similar disaster  had 118 crew members of whom only two held the rank of captain 1st rank.

The fire broke out at around 8:30 p.m. MT, reportedly at the depth of , and was extinguished by the crew. Fishermen in Ura Bay reported that they saw a submarine surface rapidly at around 9:30 p.m. and meet a navy ship and two tugs. Losharik was later towed to the Russian Northern Fleet base at Severomorsk where five survivors were hospitalised with smoke poisoning and concussions. One civilian was present aboard the vessel at the time of the accident and survived after being moved to a less-affected part of the submarine.