[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 28]
# Constructive set theory

the reals is zero - again without a witness. Indeed, formulations of the three omniscience principles are then each equivalent to theorems of the apartness, equality or order of two reals in this way. 
Yet more can be said about the Cauchy sequences that are augmented with a modulus of convergence.

A famous source of computable undecidability - and in turn also of a broad range of undecidable propositions - is the predicate expressing a computer program to be total.

Infinite trees 
Through the relation between computability and the arithmetical hierarchy, insights in this classical study are also revealing for constructive considerations. A basic insight of reverse mathematics concerns computable infinite finitely branching binary trees. Such a tree may e.g. be encoded as an infinite set of finite sets
,
with decidable membership, and those trees then provenly contain elements of arbitrary big finite size. The so called Weak Kőnig's lemma  states: For such , there always exists an infinite path in , i.e. an infinite sequence such that all its initial segments are part of the tree. In reverse mathematics, the second-order arithmetic subsystem  does not prove . To understand this, note that there are computable trees  for which no computable such path through it exists. To prove this, one enumerates the partial computable sequences and then diagonalizes all total computable sequences in one partial computable sequences . One can then roll out a certain tree , one exactly compatible with the still possible values of  everywhere, which by construction is incompatible with any total computable path.

In , the principle  implies  and -, a very modest form of countable choice introduced above. The former two are equivalent assuming that choice principle already in the more conservative arithmetic context.  is also equivalent to the Brouwer fixed point theorem and other theorems regarding values of continuous functions on the reals. The fixed point theorem in turn implies the intermediate value theorem, but always be aware that these claims may depend on the formulation, as the classical theorems about encoded reals can translate to different variants when expressed in a constructive context.

The , and some variants thereof, concerns infinite graphs and so its contrapositives gives a condition for finiteness. Again to connect to analysis, over the classical arithmetic theory , the claim of  is for example equivalent to the Borel compactness regarding finite subcovers of the real unit interval.  is a closely related existence claim involving finite sequences in an infinite context. Over , they are actually equivalent. In  those are distinct, but, after again assuming some choice, here then  implies .

Induction

Mathematical induction 
It was observed that in set language, induction principles can read , with the antecedent  defined as further above, and with  meaning  where the set  always denotes the standard model of natural numbers. Via the strong axiom of Infinity and predicative Separation, the validity of induction for set-bounded or -definitions was already established and thoroughly discussed. For those predicates involving only quantifiers over , it validates induction in the sense of the first-order arithmetic theory. In a set theory context where  is a set, this induction principle can be used to prove predicatively defined subclasses of  to be the set  itself. The so called full induction schema now postulates set equality of  to all its inductive subclasses. As in the classical theory, it is also implied when passing to the impredicative full Separation schema. As stated in the section on Choice, induction principles such as this are also implied by various forms of choice principles. 

The recursion principle for set functions mentioned in the section dedicated to arithmetic is also implied by the full induction schema over one's structure modeling the naturals (e.g. ). So for that theorem, granting a model of Heyting arithmetic, it represents an alternative to exponentiation principles.

Predicate formulas used with the schema are to be understood as formulas in first-order set theory. The zero  denotes the set  as above, and the set  denotes the successor set of , with . By Axiom of Infinity above, it is again a member of . Beware that unlike in an arithmetic theory, the naturals here are not the abstract elements in the domain of discourse, but elements of a model. As has been observed in previous discussions, when accepting , not even for all predicatively defined sets is the equality to such a finite von Neumann ordinal necessarily decidable.