[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mark Beard (footballer)

id of Vinny Samways, Beard watched over seven academy teams before returning to the England when he signed for Stevenage Borough. He was brought in to set up a youth academy at Sussex County League club Haywards Heath Town in 2008, and ultimately ended up managing the side during the 2009–10 season.

He was appointed manager of Isthmian Premier Division team Tooting and Mitcham United in July 2010, spending 18-months in-charge, describing his tenure as "a great experience which will stand me in good stead for my future as a coach/manager". He left the club in December 2011, stating – "It was on the cards for the last couple of months. It is down to the results, they haven't been good enough and for one reason or another we have not been winning games. It has been a struggle. Last season, we didn't have a lot of money and we worked hard with a whole lot of youngsters and, this year, too many things have been going on behind the scenes and affecting things on the pitch".

Management
Beard was appointed as youth team coach at League One club Crawley Town in February 2012. He spent two years coaching in the youth set-up at Crawley, before starting up his own academy in 2014, creating the Love The Ball (LTB) Sussex Academy. The LTB Sussex Academy joined together with Southern Combination Premier Division club Loxwood ahead of the 2014–15 season, providing a direct route for academy players to play first-team semi-professional football. After a year serving as head coach at the LTB Sussex Academy, Beard took over as manager of the Loxwood first-team in 2015. Half of his academy players were subsequently promoted to the Loxwood first-team.

Brighton & Hove Albion
He combined the role of first-team manager at Loxwood alongside coaching the under-15 and under-16 teams at Brighton & Hove Albion. In March 2017, Beard left his role at Loxwood with immediate effect, due to a change in coaching responsibilities at Brighton. Two months later, in May 2017, he was promoted to under-18 academy coach at Brighton. Brighton's under-17 team won the under-17 Premier League Cup under Beard's management, winning the final 2–0 against the under-17 team of Middlesbrough on 5 May 2021.

Stockport County
After four years in his under-18 academy coach role at Brighton, Beard was appointed assistant manager at National League club Stockport County on 6 July 2021. He left his role at Stockport in October 2021, having struggled to relocate away from his family.

Dorking Wanderers
Beard was appointed as head of coaching at National League South club Dorking Wanderers on 12 November 2021. He combined the role alongside returning to Brighton as a youth coach.

Eastbourne Bororugh
Beard was appointed as manager of National League South club Eastbourne Borough on 8 June 2023.

Personal life
Beard was born in Roehampton. He is a Millwall supporter. His son Sam Beard is currently playing for Barnet FC.

Honours
Millwall
FA Youth Cup: 1990–91

Stevenage Borough
FA Trophy: 2006–07

AFC Wimbledon
Isthmian League Premier Division play-offs: 2007–08

Individual
 Southend United Player of the Year: 1998–99

References

External links

1974 births
Living people
Footballers from Roehampton
English men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Millwall F.C. players
Sheffield United F.C. players
Southend United F.C. players
Kingstonian F.C. players
UD San Pedro players
Stevenage F.C. players
AFC Wimbledon players
Haywards Heath Town F.C. players
Tooting & Mitcham United F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Isthmian League players
English football managers
Haywards Heath Town F.C. managers
Tooting & Mitcham United F.C. managers
Loxwood F.C. managers
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. non-playing staff
Eastbourne Borough F.C. managers