[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue

The Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue (HD), otherwise known as the Henry Dunant Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue, works to prevent and resolve armed conflicts around the world through mediation and discreet diplomacy.
A non-profit organisation based in Switzerland, HD was founded in 1999 on the principles of humanity, impartiality and independence. HD is supervised by an independent board, regularly reports to donors and undergoes financial audits every year.

HD was awarded the Carnegie Wateler Peace Prize for 2022 "for its track record of finding the means, including mediation, to bring parties together and end conflicts”.

Activities
HD runs multi-track mediation and peacemaking projects in Africa, the Middle East, Eurasia, Asia and Latin America. HD engages with political actors, armed groups and other influential parties at international, inter-state, country and local levels while supporting communities and marginalised groups to play active roles in peace processes.

It works with the United Nations, regional organisations, governments, civil society groups and other partners to mediate between conflict parties, support peace negotiations and strengthen the mediation efforts of others.

HD also supports humanitarian efforts by helping to secure the safe passage of aid in high-risk areas and has been expanding thematic mediation around the environmental, inclusion and criminal factors that intensify and complicate many conflicts.

To reflect the impact of social media on conflicts and the geopolitical risks from sophisticated cyber operations, HD has a dedicated Digital Conflict team that supports peace processes and pursues multilateral engagement with policymakers, technology platforms and the mediation community.      

HD conducts research and analysis to support its operational work and publishes a variety of public reports and guidance materials to further international mediation and peacemaking efforts.

HD seeks to promote the sharing of experience and knowledge by co-hosting The Oslo Forum with the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Launched in 2003, the Forum is a series of retreats for the international mediation and peacemaking community to reflect on current practices, work on new approaches and advance their negotiations.

In April 2023, HD commended His Excellency Olusegun Obasanjo for his mediation for peace in Ethiopia's Tigray region by presenting the Nigerian former president with a special letter and certificate from HD's Board.

Selected Projects
Indonesia: In its first mediation project soon after its founding in 1999, HD laid the groundwork for the successful negotiation of a final peace agreement in 2005 between the Indonesian government and GAM separatist rebels in the province of Aceh.

Spain: For 15 years, HD discreetly helped to resolve decades of violence, ending with the Basque armed group ETA disbanding. ETA’s final declaration was made public at HD headquarters on 3 May 2018.

Black Sea Grain Initiative: During talks between Russia and Ukraine to restart the flow of vital food shipments, HD provided advice and close support to the process led by the United Nations and Türkiye.

Sahel: In a region faced with political instability, jihadist attacks and conflict over water and land, HD has brokered various agreements around the sharing of natural resources and set up a network of mediators across Mali, Niger, Burkina Faso, Mauritania and Chad.

Nigeria: HD is convening dialogue among various groups to address conflicts over land, water and political power in Middle Belt states. In 2021, HD secured the first social media peace accord between communities in conflict and has since achieved a peace agreement based on the sharing of natural resources.

Libya: As part of its support for the peace process in Libya, HD brokered an immediate ceasefire in August 2020 and an agreement among major Libyan stakeholders to recommit to political talks. This led to a formal ceasefire and UN-brokered political deal with a new interim government, a roadmap for elections and substantial women’s representation in the future cabinet.

Philippines: Since 2004, HD has helped efforts to end the conflict in the southern Philippines, including support for successful peace talks in 2014 and ratification of the law establishing the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, along with community dialogue sessions and training of mediators.

South China Sea: HD has convened two tracks of dialogue – on preventing violent escalation between coastguards and on avoiding a collapse in fish stocks. These resulted in operational principles to prevent incidents at sea and in scientific consensus on fisheries management between China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines.

Tunisia: HD facilitated the Charter of Honour for Elections, an agreement between all major political parties in Tunisia that allowed the 2014 elections to proceed peacefully.