[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Linjiang Campaign

47.

Achieving their objectives when the nationalists stopped their assault on Linjiang, the communists withdrew to their original bases and the nationalists could not pursuit the enemy anymore due to the sudden change of the weather when the temperature suddenly dropped to forty degrees below zero.

Second stage
The nationalists correctly assessed that they must avoid fighting at the two fronts and thus attacks on the communist base in the south must continue in order to eliminate the enemy.  On January 30, 1947, a second offensive was launched with four divisions: the 21st Division, the 2nd Division, the 195th Division of the 52nd Army, and the 207th Division.  The communists in turn, deployed the 3rd Column and the 10th Division of the 4th Column to stop the nationalist offensive and on February 5, 1947, the weakest nationalist division, the 195th Division of the 52nd Army was ambushed at Gaolichengzi (高力城子), and suffered more than 2,000 fatalities.  On February 6, 1947, a regiment of the advance guard of the nationalist 207th Division was annihilated at Sanyuanpu (三源浦) by dusk, and after the setback, the commander of the nationalist 207th Division wisely chose to stop and withdraw.

Meanwhile, the communist 4th Column once again struck the regions between Fushun (抚顺), Huanren (桓仁) and Benxi (本溪) deep behind the nationalist lines to capture numerous nationalist strongholds, and when combined with communist victories elsewhere, eventually succeeded in forcing the second nationalist offensive to a complete stop again, and the nationalists were forced to give up the newly conquered lands when one division was redeployed to reinforce the rear and other begun their withdraw.

Third Stage

Just a week after the failure of the second offensive, the nationalists launched their third offensive against the enemy by deploying the 2nd Division, the 195th Division of the 52nd Army, the 91st Division of the 71st Army, the Newly Organized 22nd Division of the Newly Organized 1st Army and the 21st Division to attack in four fronts on February 13, 1947.  A detachment of the communist 4th Column again played the same trick that was effective in the previous two counteroffensives: struck the regions between Fushun, Huanren and Benxi deep behind the nationalist line again and attracting three nationalist divisions so that they could not be used to attack the communist base south of Songhua River, while in the meantime, the communist 3rd Column and the 4th Column first annihilated an entire regiment of the nationalist 21st Division at Tonggou (通沟), and then annihilated another regiment of the nationalist 91st Division of the 71st Army at Daibeicha (大北岔), forcing the two nationalist Divisions to withdraw on February 22, 1947.  The newly gained territory/towns in the nationalist third offensive such as Huinan (辉南), Golden River (Jinchuan, 金川), Willow River (Liuhe, 柳河) and Ji'an (集安) therefore fell back into the enemy hands.

On the other front, the communist force crossed the Songhua River on February 21, 1947, and attacked regions surrounding Changchun to distract the nationalists.  After annihilating an entire regiment of the Newly Organized 30th Division of the Newly Organized 1st Army at the town of Chengzi Street (Chengzi Jie, 城子街), the communist 6th Column turned north and linked up with the communist 2nd Independent Division to besiege Dehui (德惠) in order to draw nationalist forces away from the communist base.  The plan succeeded and the nationalists redeployed the Newly Organized 1st Army (including its Newly Organized 22nd Division), the 87th Division, and the 88th Division to reinforce their besieged comrades-in-arms.  The enemy force wisely chose to withdraw back to the north of Songhua River on March 2, 1947, before the nationalist reinforcement could reach Dehui.

The nationalists were determined not to let the enemy to get away so they continued their push northward, but in doing so, the nationalist forces were severely overstretched.  Seizing the opportunity, the enemy crossed the Songhua River again on March 8, 1947, for the third time to attack, and the nationalist commanders had no choice but to order a general retreat.  However, the retreating nationalist force was caught up by the pursuing enemy and the nationalist 88th Division was annihilated at the Village of the Mountain of Guo (Guo-shan Tun, 郭山屯), and the nationalist 87th Division was badly mauled at the Village Next to the Mountain (Kao-shan Tun, 靠山屯).  On March 12, 1947, Nong'an (农安) was besieged and the nationalists were forced to redeploy the Newly Organized 1st Army (including its Newly Organized 22nd Division) and the 54th Division of the 13th Army from Rehe (热河) to reinforce their besieged comrades-in-arms again.  Succeeding in distracting the nationalists who had to stop their third offensives, the enemy withdrew to the north of Songhua River.