[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Harry Lane

Committee on Forest Reservations and Game Protection, the Committee on Fisheries, and the Committee on Indian Affairs. Lane regarded the last of these as his most important work, criticizing longstanding government policy aimed at "civilizing" the Native American population.

Lane pulled no punches:

I think the whole scheme of our management of the affairs of the Indian is a mistake. It is wrong; it is expensive to the Government; it is fatal to the Indians.

The poverty of the Indian population was through no fault of their own, Lane declared, with the Native American people prostrate while "the white man is astride them and is at work taking everything they have."

In addition to his distinctly radical views on Indian Affairs, Lane championed a number of other controversial views as a member of the Senate. He was a leading advocate for the woman suffrage movement, introducing resolutions in its behalf. Lane also supported government ownership of the national telephone and telegraph networks, the merchant marine, and certain mining corporations. He was critical of the Clayton Antitrust Act for its toothless inability to restrain the avarice of "big business and crooks."

Lane challenged white supremacist Senator Hoke Smith of Georgia on the floor of the Senate to acknowledge the successes of black farmers in the American South and protested instances of racial discrimination inserted into appropriations legislation. He was skeptical about American claims of violation of property rights by the government and insurgent movements in Mexico and was an outspoken opponent of imperialism and for the national independence of the Philippines.

It was with respect to American involvement in World War I that Lane was his most outspoken. Late in 1915 Lane joined Socialist U.S. Representative Meyer London of New York in co-sponsoring a resolution criticizing the deepening sense of war-related fear and calling upon President Woodrow Wilson to convene a conference of neutral nations with a view to ending the European conflict. Even after the resumption of unlimited German submarine warfare in their effort to blockade their enemies, Lane refused to support an end to diplomatic relations with the German Empire. Lane was an outspoken opponent of Wilson's plan to arm merchant ships, arguing that the conservative Democratic President was thereby attempting to usurp the Congressional prerogative to declare war and to replace it with Executive authority.

This filibuster to block Wilson's effort to expand war powers through his Armed Neutrality Bill proved successful. Lane and his co-thinkers, including Wisconsin Senator Robert M. La Follette, became the targets of intense political hostility in the aftermath, however, with President Wilson demeaning them as "a little group of willful men, representing no opinion but their own" who nevertheless "rendered the great Government of the United States helpless and contemptible." Many Oregonians were similarly incensed, and an outcry erupted for Lane's recall from office. An editorial in The Oregonian newspaper stated "Next to being ashamed of Harry Lane for what he has done ... the people of Oregon are ashamed of themselves for having sent Harry Lane to the United States Senate." Although the press lambasted him, a friend wrote in a letter that the majority of people "insist that you did exactly right ... It is the newspapers that are doing most of the kicking."

Death and legacy

Lane was a chronically ill person in 1917, suffering from Bright's disease or advanced arteriosclerosis. His precarious condition was further undermined by the intense barrage of public criticism to which he was subjected. Nevertheless, on April 4, 1917, against the advice of doctors, Lane made his way to the Senate floor to vote against the Declaration of War against Germany which had been the product of an April 2 speech by the President. Joining Lane in opposition were just five other Senators: Robert La Follette, William J. Stone, James Vardaman, Asle Gronna, and George W. Norris.

Shortly after the vote Lane's health gave way and he collapsed. He died in San Francisco en route to Portland on May 23, 1917.

Harry Lane was buried at Lone Fir Cemetery in Portland and Charles L. McNary was appointed to finish Lane's term.

A small collection of Harry Lane papers are held by the research library of the Oregon Historical Society in Portland. The material includes a small number of letters to and from Lane, as well as a draft for an uncompleted biography prepared during the 1940s.

Footnotes

Works