[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Assassination and terrorism in Iran

eza Shrine in Mashhad, Iran, killing two Shia clerics and wounding a third. The perpetrator, identified as foreign national Abdullatif Moradi, was immediately arrested along with six others accused of assisting him. The victims were active members of non-profit constructing and cultural communities.

The attacker, Abdullatif Moradi, a 21-year-old ethnic Uzbek illegal immigrant from Afghanistan, has been called as a "Takfiri who viewed Shia Muslims as heretics and believed their blood should be spilled". Moradi and his brother were reportedly active in social networks under the names of "Abdullatif al-Salafi", "Hassan Moradi" and "Abulaqib al-Mowahid", criticizing Shia Muslims and promoting Takfiri thoughts. (The "Abdullatif al-Salafi" alias indicates  Salafi sympathies.) He was executed by hanging in June 2022.

2022–2023 attacks on Shah Cheragh shrine

On October 26, 2022, a gunman shot and killed 15 pilgrims at the Shah Cheragh shrine in Shiraz, including women and children, and wounding scores of others. The man was shot by security forces and  later died of his wounds. Daesh (or ISIS) "took responsibility for the attack", but according to Iranian state media, they are "being masterminded by the West and Israel".

On August 13, 2023, another gunman, later identified as Rahmatollah Nowruzo, shot and killed two and injuring seven at the same shrine. He was convicted and sentenced to death twice for “moharebeh” (waging war against God) and other offenses on September 22, 2023, by a Revolutionary court.

According to a statement by Iran's Intelligence Ministry reported by Iranian state media, the ministry's forces had captured a "Daesh-linked" loyalist who performed the “most pivotal” role in the August 13 attack on the shrine, and that 196 Takfiri terrorists were caught or killed between the Ocoter 2022 and August 2023 attacks on the holy site, all of whom were non-Iranians. They were from Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, and Afghanistan.

Mahsa Amini protests
According to state media, "30 simultaneous terrorist attacks" were set to  take place on the one year anniversary of "the riots that broke out in September of 2022", i.e. on the date of Mahsa Amini's death at the hands of security forces after she was arrested for allegedly bad hijab.  "Iran’s intelligence ministry declared its forces neutralized" the planned attacks and arrested 28 terrorists".

Alleged attacks by the Islamic Republic of Iran

In addition to killings perpetrated in the country of Iran, since the 1979 Iranian Revolution, there have been lethal attacks that took place in other countries but were made possible at some level in the Islamic Republic Iran.

Specifically, the government of the Islamic Republic has been accused by several countries of training, financing, and providing weapons and safe havens for non-state militant actors, such as Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas in Gaza, and other Palestinian groups (Islamic Jihad (PIJ) and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command (PFLP-GC)). These groups are designated terrorist groups by a number of countries and international bodies; however, Iran considers such groups to be "national liberation movements" with a right to self-defense in the face of Israeli military occupation.

A number of countries (Argentina, Thailand, Albania, Denmark, France, India, Kenya, United States) have also accused Iran's government itself (usually in the form of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps)  of plotting assassinations or bombings against perceived enemies of the Iranian government in their countries.

See also
 Iran and state terrorism
 New Great Game

References

 
Human rights abuses in Iran
Iran
Terrorism in Asia