[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dave McCurdy

n ads played clips of McCurdy's speech seconding Clinton's nomination for president. McCurdy took only 39 percent of the vote, and even lost his own congressional district. He sent his congressional records and papers to the Carl Albert Center for Congressional Studies at the University of Oklahoma.

Career after Congress
McCurdy was chairman and chief executive officer of the McCurdy Group LLC. In 1998 he was elected President of the Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA) a national trade organization representing the electronics industry, even though House Majority Leader Tom DeLay held up legislation of benefit to the EIA and threatened it with a loss of access if it did not hire a Republican instead. DeLay was later rebuked by the House Ethics Committee.

He is chairman of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments and has served on the Defense Policy Board under presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama.

On February 12, 2007, McCurdy became president of the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers (AAM). Under McCurdy's leadership, AAM supported Obama's National Program to reduce carbon emissions and increase fuel economy standards and a federal ban on texting while driving.

In February 2011, McCurdy became president and CEO of the American Gas Association. In August 2011, McCurdy began service as a member of the Board of Directors of LMI, a not-for-profit studies and analysis consulting firm headquartered in McLean, Virginia.  He also serves on the board of directors of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.

Personal
McCurdy lives with his wife, Dr. Pam McCurdy in McLean, Virginia; the couple has three children.

References

External links
 McCurdy official bio at Auto Alliance
Dave McCurdy Collection and Photograph Series at the Carl Albert Center
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

1950 births
20th-century American lawyers
20th-century American politicians
American Lutherans
American lobbyists
Candidates in the 1994 United States elections
Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Oklahoma
Living people
Military personnel from Texas
Oklahoma lawyers
People from Hemphill County, Texas
United States Air Force officers
University of Oklahoma alumni
United States Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps
Members of Congress who became lobbyists