[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Co-branding

Co-branding is a marketing strategy that involves strategic alliance of multiple brand names jointly used on a single product or service.

Co-branding is an arrangement that associates a single product or service with more than one brand name, or otherwise associates a product with someone other than the principal producer. The typical co-branding agreement involves two or more companies acting in cooperation to associate any of various logos, color schemes, or brand identifiers to a specific product that is contractually designated for this purpose. The objective for this is to combine the strength of two brands, to increase the premium consumers are willing to pay, make the product or service more resistant to copying by private label manufacturers, or to combine the different perceived properties associated with these brands with a single product.

An early instance of co-branding occurred in 1956 when Renault had Jacques Arpels of jewelers Van Cleef and Arpels turn the dashboard of one of their newly introduced Dauphines into a work of art.

Co-branding (also called brand partnership) as described in Co-Branding: The Science of Alliance, is when two companies form an alliance to work together, thus creating marketing synergy.

Digital co-branding 
Digital co-branding is a digital marketing strategy which follows the basics of co-branding, but aligns an advertiser's brand with a digital publisher that has the same target audience. Publishing platform would have to give up some editorial control to activate content for advertiser's brand. Travel websites are more open to building co-branding programs. They engage their audience in every process throughout the booking process. For example, snow update website features its ad on ski resorts website. If the co-branding ad placed is relevant and engaging, it is more effective than a normal internet ad. It helps the advertiser to connect and interact with more consumers.

For example, The Huffington Post have partnered with Johnson & Johnson on topics like woman and children written by Huffington Post independent reporters.

Digital co-branding should be carried out along with Programmatic buying to be more efficient and effective in Digital Media Marketing Campaigns.

Types of co-branding 

The two types of co-branding are Product-based co-branding and Communications based co-branding.

Product-based co-branding 
Product-based co-branding is a marketing strategy that involves linking of multiple brands from different companies in order to create a product indicative of their individual identities. Product-based co-branding maybe categorized into Parallel and Ingredient co-branding.

Parallel co-branding 

Parallel co-branding is the marketing strategy where multiple brands come together and create a combined brand.

Ingredient co-branding 

Ingredient co-branding is a marketing strategy carried out by a supplier where an ingredient of a product chooses to position its brand.

Advantages of product-based co-branding 

 Value addition and differentiation
 Access to new customers
 Better integrated communication
 Positioning
 Reduction of product introduction cost

Disadvantages of product-based co-branding 

 Loss of control
 Poor performance of co-brand

Communications-based co-branding 
Communications-based co-branding is a marketing strategy that involves linking of multiple brands from different companies in order to jointly communicate and promote their brands.

Advantages of communication-based co-branding 

 Endorsement opportunities
 Sharing advertising costs
 Resource sharing
 Enhances awareness

Disadvantages of communication-based co-branding 

 Difference of opinion
 Negative co-brand image
 Poor performance of co-brand

Intent 

According to Chang, from the Journal of American Academy of Business, Cambridge, there are three levels of co-branding: market share, brand extension, and global branding.
Level 1 includes joining with another company to penetrate the market.
Level 2 is working to extend the brand based on the company's current market share.
Level 3 tries to achieve a global strategy by combining the two brands.

Forms of co-branding 

There are many different subsections of co-branding.  Companies can work with other companies to combine resources and leverage individual core competencies, or they can use current resources within one company to promote multiple products at once.  The forms of co-branding include: ingredient co-branding, same-company co-branding, national to locally co-branding, joint venture co-branding, and multiple sponsor co-branding.  No matter which form a company chooses to use, the purpose is to respond to the changing marketplace, build one’s own core competencies, and work to increase product revenues.

One form of co-branding is ingredient co-branding.  This involves creating brand equity for materials, components or parts that are contained within other products.