[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Project Protector

p to four NHIndustries NH90 helicopters can be hangared aboard. The ship is fitted with a single 25 mm Bushmaster gun in a Typhoon mounting and two 12.7 mm machine guns for self-defence. Canterburys hull is strengthened to Finnish-Swedish ice class 1C, allowing her to operate in the Ross Dependency.

The ship was built by the Merwede Shipyard in Rotterdam, with steel cutting starting on 15 April 2005. It was launched in February 2006, and commenced sea trials in July. Handover to Tenix was expected to occur in August; the vessel would then sail to the Tenix shipyard at Williamstown, Victoria, Australia for fitting of military equipment. It was originally planned to have Canterbury commissioned into the RNZN during January 2007, but delays meant that the ship did not enter service until June 2007. Problems were encountered early in the ship's career, relating primarily to the RHIB alcove docks, which were in a position to be easily swamped, with resulting damage to the boats themselves. Seakeeping ability was also an issue. Most of the problems stemmed from the ship's parent design-a short, fat civilian ferry designed to operate in the calm Irish Sea, not on military deployments in deep ocean-and the failure of Tenix and the RNZN to address this during design and construction. A remedial program was initiated in 2008.

OPV

Up until the reviews, offshore patrol of the nation's EEZ had been undertaken by the Anzac class frigates, which were both too few in number and overqualified for the duties; deploying them in this manner meant they were unavailable for higher intensity operations for which they were more suited. A new class of offshore patrol vessels (OPVs) was planned; these had to be capable of providing 420 ship-days per year of EEZ operations, and able to operate a Super Seasprite helicopter.

Two offshore patrol vessels, Wellington and Otago, were built by Tenix at Williamstown from hull modules fabricated at Williamstown and superstructure modules assembled at Whangarei, North Island, then shipped to Australia. The  displacement,  long vessels were based on an Aker Marine design operated by the Irish Naval Service. The ships were fitted with an MSI-Defence Systems  gun as main armament, and could embark and operate a helicopter. The patrol vessels' hulls were strengthened to Finnish-Swedish ice class 1C for operations in the Ross Dependency.

Work started on 22 February 2005. The OPVs were due to complete in April and October 2007. However, the ships were not launched until November 2006 and October 2007 respectively, and by December 2008 were yet to commission. The main problems were safety issues with the RHIBs and an extra 100 tons of weight over the design specifications. Wellington did not commission until May 2010; the last Project Protector ship to enter service.

IPV

Several inshore patrol vessels (IPVs) were required for surveillance and patrol work in New Zealand's inshore zone (defined as up to  from the shoreline). A minimum of 950 ship-days was required for these duties. It was initially thought that the IPV requirement could be met by modernising four of the Moa class patrol boats. They could not be updated to the standard required by the Maritime Forces Review, so new ships were instead ordered to replace them on a one-for-one basis.

The IPVs were based on a  search-and-rescue vessel class built by Tenix for the Philippine Coast Guard. The vessels had a 340-ton displacement, and were  long. They were only fitted with 12.7 mm machine guns instead of the 25 mm guns fitted to the other Project Protector ships. Four vessels were built at Tenix shipyard in Whangarei, North Island. The first IPV, , was launched in July 2007, and during sea trials exceeded several design expectations: her maximum speed of  was a knot higher than expected, she was capable of double her  designed range, and she had better seakeeping ability in heavy conditions than first thought. The last ship, , was launched in August 2008. After the final patrol boat was completed, Tenix ceased operations at the Whangarei facility. Although there were some problems with the vessels, all four entered service during 2009.

Citations

References
Journal articles

External links
 New Zealand Defence Force webpage for Project Protector

Royal New Zealand Navy
Military acquisition