[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor

The Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor (HKHRM) () is a local non-governmental organisation which was established in April 1995. It aims to promote better human rights protection in Hong Kong.

The organisation is concerned about issues like National Security Laws or Article 23, immigration law, public service broadcasting, the police complaint system, the inspection of prisons, racial discrimination, sex discrimination and freedoms of association, assembly and expression etc.

One of the organisation's main aims is to educate the Hong Kong community to the human rights that they currently have, that they should have and that will better the community. This helps establish an awareness of the initial and potential Hong Kong human rights throughout society. The recent founding of the Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor Education Charitable Trust contributes constructively to the social awareness of basic and more complex human rights issues.

Structure
 Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor – membership comprises mainly Chinese born in Hong Kong with mandate on human rights and rule-of-law issues in Hong Kong.
 Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor Education Charitable Trust – a charitable fund that promotes awareness of human rights among the people in Hong Kong.
 Digital Library – holds human rights treaties and related documents in electronic format.
 Resource and Information Centre – collects and distributes basic human rights information.

Work
The work of HKHRM covers five broad areas:

1. Supporting human rights in Hong Kong 
HKHRM observes the law, policies and actions of the government such as by participating in Legislative Council of Hong Kong hearings and holding campaigns on human rights issues and the rule of the law.

2. Assertaining the human rights conditions in Hong Kong 
HKHRM undertakes research on a variety of important topics including immigration law, constitutional matters, freedoms of association, assembly and expression, the conduct of the police, and the treatment of prisoners.

3. Telling the world about human rights in Hong Kong
HKHRM briefs the press, the United Nations, local and overseas governments and legislative bodies on Hong Kong human rights issues both orally and through written reports.

4. Public education about human rights 
HKHRM publishes various educational materials about human rights in Chinese and/or English and distributes them to the public. Publications include a newsletter, teach-yourself human rights pamphlets and a calendar. The materials cover subject matter ranging from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to anti-small circle election. It also delivers speeches at public occasions and organises evening classes on human rights.

5. Working on human rights-related issues 
HKHRM handles cases referred to it by other non-governmental organisations that have significant implications for legal or institutional improvements. Its interest goes beyond individual citizens to concern public affairs such as police and immigration issues.

Past events

Observation and inspection
HKHRM is active in observing the operation of government departments.

In the past, the HKHRM has held campaigns for improvements of the police complaint system, and even more in depth issues such as requesting an independent inquiry for Lee Shing Tat's victim case.

During the World Trade Organization Hong Kong Ministerial Conference 2005, there were many anti World Trade Organization demonstrations. HKHRM sent four members to observe the way Hong Kong Police handled the demonstrators. HKHRM Director Mr Law Yuk Kai claimed that the demonstrators were highly controlled but the police has over-reacted and lacked flexibility. He suggested more communication between the police and the demonstrators so as to lower the chance of misunderstanding.

Prior to the Legislative Council Election in 2004, HKHRM set up the “Election Administration Irregularities Report Hotline” to collect reports about election irregularities from the general public. They received over 15 calls from presiding officers, polling officers, voters and election representatives. Complaints included harsh condition for polling officers, unprofessional handling of votes and promotional activities in non-canvassing areas. Some election representatives reported that the process of ballot boxes sealing and vote counting could not be observed. As a reaction to the complaints, HKHRM urged Electoral Affairs Commission to investigate the reported issues.