[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# New York City ethnic enclaves

nclude Sunset Park and Dyker Heights, Brooklyn. The Northeast area of the Bronx, namely the Throggs Neck and Castle Hill sections, also had sizeable populations. In the Southwestern Bronx, many Swedes settled in the Morrisania area. In Manhattan, Scandinavians were scattered throughout the borough. 

The Finns had two enclaves in the city. The first was in East Harlem, where they lived alongside poor Irish, Italians, Germans and Jews. Many Finnish businesses could be found along 125th Street, between Fifth Avenue and the Harlem River. Due to social mobility, in the early 20th century, many Finns relocated to Sunset Park. This enclave would contain the largest number of Finns in New York. The Finns were responsible for building many cooperative housing structures in the area. These would also be the first Co-Op buildings built in the United States. In 1991, despite the waning presence of Finns in Sunset Park, 40th street was co named as "Finlandia Street. This was to honor the thousands of Finnish immigrants that called Brooklyn home. 

There is a "Sweden Day", a midsummer celebration honoring Swedish American heritage and history. Since 1941, it has been held annually at Manhem Club, located in the Throggs Neck area of the Bronx. There are many smaller celebrations held in other boroughs, as well as New Jersey.

Nordic heritage is still apparent in some sections of the Bay Ridge neighborhood. There is an annual Syttende Mai Parade, celebrated in honor of Norwegian Constitution Day. The parade features hundreds of people in folk dress who march along Fifth Avenue. The parade ends with the crowning of Miss Norway near the statue of Leif Ericson. The monument was donated in 1939 by Crown Prince Olav,  and features a replica of a Viking rune stone located in Tune, Norway. The stone stands on Leif Ericson Square just east of Fourth Avenue

Polish
Polish American communities in New York include Greenpoint ("Little Poland") and North Williamsburg in Brooklyn, Maspeth, the East Village near 7th Street, and Ridgewood, Queens around both Fresh Pond Road and Forest Avenue, in Queens.

Russian

Brooklyn has several Russian American communities, including Bay Ridge, Gravesend, Sheepshead Bay, and Midwood. Staten Island's Russian American communities are in South Beach, and New Dorp. The largest Russian-speaking community in the United States is Brighton Beach.  Many Russians in New York are Jews from the former Soviet Union, which broke up in 1991, and most still retain at least part of their Russian culture.  The primary language of Brighton Beach is Russian, as seen from businesses, clubs, and advertisements.  A significant portion of the community is not proficient in English, and about 98% speak Russian as their native language.

Serbian

The strength of the Serbian community in New York is estimated at around 40,000, with the largest concentrations in Ridgewood and Astoria . Whereas the Serbian Orthodox Cathedral of St. Sava on 26th Street in Manhattan provides a historical link to the first Serbian immigrants, these days Serbs are concentrated in Queens, mainly in Ridgewood, Glendale, and Astoria, although the Serbian Club is located on 65th Place in Glendale.

Spanish
Little Spain was a Spanish-American neighborhood in Manhattan during the 20th century. It was on 14th Street, between Seventh and Eighth Avenues.

Ukrainian

There is a small Ukrainian American community in the East Village, centered on Second Avenue between 6th and 10th Streets. The community was there when the East Village was still referred to as the Lower East Side, and was a moderately large community.  Though it has since declined, the number of Ukrainians in the neighborhood may have been as high as 60,000 after World War II.

Latin American

Many ethnic enclaves in New York City are Latin American-centric.  Latin American ethnic groups with enclaves in New York include Argentinians, Brazilians, Colombians, Dominicans, Peruvians, Salvadorans, Ecuadorians, Haitians, Guatemalans, Mexicans, and Puerto Ricans.

More than half of the population of Jackson Heights, Queens, are immigrants, primarily South Asians, and Latin Americans, including Argentinians, Colombians, and Uruguayans.

Most Brazilian Americans in New York can be found in two areas—in Astoria, Queens, and on a section of West 46th Street between Fifth Avenue and Sixth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan. In Astoria, the area around 36th Avenue and 30th Street is the most Brazilian in character, despite the prevalence of other ethnic groups, like Bengali, Pakistani, Indian, Mexican, Arab, Japanese, Korean, Greek, Dominican, and Italian people. The top three languages in Astoria are Bengali, Spanish, and Brazilians' native Portuguese.  The other Brazilian neighborhood, 46th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, was officially named "Little Brazil", but resident Brazilians call it "Rua 46."