[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Petersburg Railroad

ed south to avoid the war. The bridges would be rebuilt permanently with heartwood. Stations had been burned and warehouses were being used instead. Stations would be rebuilt with minimal expenditures. Cotton purchased by the railroad and had not been destroyed could be sold to pay much of the debt.

Before the war, railroads had been built by cities to bring trade into cities. Railroads did not connect through cities. Passengers had to port luggage and stay over night, spending money in cities. Cities could get financially involved in the transporting of goods through cities. During Reconstruction, southern railroads had distant owners who wanted good to pass efficiently through cities. Union stations were created to connect rail lines. In 1866, The Virginia General Assembly allowed the City of Petersburg to open books on the Petersburg Connection Company that connected by rail, the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad to the Petersburg Railroad (to Weldon) and to let these two railroad companies also own parts of the connection company. Twenty years later, in 1886, the railroads in the south were changed to standard gauge on one day in May, allowing point-to-point transportation across the entire east coast.

Readjuster Party
In 1878, in Petersburg, the Readjuster Party was gaining control of the Virginia General Assembly led by General (CSA) William Mahone and Parson John E. Massey.   The readjusters wanted to protect public schools from cuts due to state debt and promised better representation for workers of all races.  These efforts included state ownership of railroads.  In this climate, in 1878, the Virginia General Assembly gave the City of Petersburg the right to form a board and take over ownership of the Petersburg Railroad.

Merger into the Atlantic Coast Line

The Petersburg Charter from the 1830s had only been granted until 1891.  Wilmington and Weldon Railroad leased the Petersburg railroad, in 1891, and claimed tax exempt status for both railroads.  Due to non-taxable nature of Petersburg Railroad, the State legislature only renewed the lease for two years from 1891 to 1893.

William T. Walters of Baltimore, Maryland formed a holding company, in 1889, later called the Atlantic Coast Line of five consecutive railroads starting with the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad and connecting all the way to Charleston, South Carolina.   The Atlantic Coast Line Railroad bought the Petersburg Railroad in 1893.  In March 1898, the Petersburg Railroad was merged into the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad, which was renamed to the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad of Virginia.  In 1900, all five railroads were merged to form the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad from Richmond all the way to Augusta, Georgia.  This track is still used today by Amtrak and CSX.

Employees
While slaves and hired workers were used before the civil war, paid employees were hired after the war.  The Petersburg Railroad hired general officers and their clerks;  station agents and other station men; enginemen, firemen, conductors and other trainmen to operate the trains; machinists, carpenters and other shopmen to repair the trains; section foremen, switchmen, flagmen, watchmen and other trackmen to run the tracks; telegraph operators and telegraph dispatchers to send and receive telegraphs; and over a hundred other laborers.

Cars

The Petersburg Railroad owned 14 locomotives in 1893.  They had two first class passenger cars, two second class passenger cars, and three cars for baggage, express and mail.  For freight they had 116 box cars, 77 flat cars for oversized freight such as timber, four stock cars, and seven other freight cars.  They had four caboose cars, ten for shoveling gravel, and one other car.  They owned another 88 cars for their fast freight line service.

The company provided Janney couplers and Westinghouse automatic brakes on the locomotives, the passenger cars, and some of the freight cars, and hand brakes and automatic links on the other cars.  The fast freight service had Janney couplers and plain air brakes.

Stations

References

Defunct Virginia railroads
Virginia in the American Civil War
Predecessors of the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad
Railway companies established in 1833
Railway companies disestablished in 1898
Defunct North Carolina railroads
1833 establishments in Virginia
5 ft gauge railways in the United States
American companies established in 1830
1898 disestablishments in Virginia