[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sadigura (Hasidic dynasty)

hat city for the next 24 years. The relocation of the Sadigura Rebbes to Vienna spelled the end of the once flourishing Jewish community in Sadigura, which comprised more than 5,000 Jews before World War I. Although some Jews remained, only a few lone survivors were left at the end of World War II .

Leadership in Israel
Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov Friedman, grandson of the first Sadigura rebbe, obtained a visa to Palestine shortly after the Anschluss of 1938 and re-established his court in Tel Aviv. Thousands of Sadigura Hasidim were murdered in the Holocaust, leaving the Rebbe with only a few dozen followers. Nonetheless, he continued to lead his Hasidim with princely bearing, conducting his court in Tel Aviv for 22 years until his death in 1961. Known as the third Sadigura Rebbe, Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov was actively involved in Jewish communal life in the new state of Israel, being one of the first members of Agudat Israel and occupying a seat on the Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah.

After the death of the third Sadigura Rebbe in 1961, his Hasidim asked his younger brother, Rabbi Shlomo Chaim, to succeed him, but the latter demurred. He did agree to sit in his brother's place at tischen held on Jewish holidays and on the yahrtzeits of his Ruzhiner and Sadigura ancestors. Meanwhile, the Sadigura dynasty continued through the Rebbe's nephew, Rabbi Mordechai Sholom Yosef Friedman (1897–1979), known as the fourth Admor of Sadigura, who led Sadigura Hasidim in Sadigura and Przemyśl (where he founded the Yeshiva ‘Meshivas Nefesh’) before emigrating to Tel Aviv in 1939. His words of Torah were compiled in ‘Knesses Mordechai’. Upon his death in 1979, Rabbi Mordechai Sholom Yosef was interred near the other Admorim of Sadigur, in the ‘Nachlas Yitzchak’ cemetery in Givatayim, and was succeeded by his son, Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov Friedman (1928–2013), who moved the Sadigura court from Tel Aviv to Bnei Brak. Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov died at 84 on 1 January 2013, after being ill from pneumonia, and was buried in the Nahalat Yitzhak cemetery alongside his father. He was succeeded by his only son, the previous Sadigura Rebbe, Rabbi Yisrael Moshe Friedman of blessed memory (b. 1955), former Rov & founder of Kehilas Sadigura in London.

Rabbi Yisrael Moshe Friedman 65 was nifter in Bnei Brak on 11 August 2020 following an lengthy illnessand was buried in the Nahalat Yitzhak cemetery in Givatayim, alongside his father and grandfather. He was succeeded by his son, The 7th Rabbi, Rabbi Avrohom Yehosua Heshel Friedman.

 On the yahr tzeit of the holy Rizhiner on the third day of the Jewish month of cheshvan in 2016, the previous Rebbe rededicated the Rizhiner Kloiz in Sadigura. The Rebbe was accompanied to Sadigura, Ukraine with roughly 400 of his followers. This was the culmination of a few year project of restoration on the Klolz's interior. The actual outer structure, is the one the holy Rizhiner oversaw himself during most of its construction.The blue prints of the Kloiz, were approved by the holy Rizhiner. Much input was added by him. The interior was restored to mimic its original appearance.

Lineage of the Sadigura dynasty

Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov I
Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov was the second son of Rabbi Yisroel of Ruzhyn, and the first man to carry the title "Sidigura Rebbe". He was considered the biggest Rebbe of his generation, along with his second youngest brother, Rabbi Dovid Moshe of Chortkov. He is known to followers as The Alter Rebbe, not to be confused with Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi, Alter Rebbe of Chabad-Lubavitch. His teachings are recorded in many volumes, primarily the two part sefer Emes L'Yaakov, not to be confused with the sefer by Reb Yaakov Emden with the same title.

Rabbi Yisroel of Sadigura
The second Rebbe of Sadigura was Rabbi Yisroel Friedman, the third son of Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov. He should not be confused with his first cousin, Rabbi Yisroel Friedman of Chortkov, with whom he had a close personal friendship. After serving as Rebbe alongside his elder brother Reb Yitzchok for approximately one year following his father's passing, Rav Yitzchok moved to Boyan leaving the mantle of Sadigura solely to Rav Yisroel's descendants. His teachings are recorded primarily in Ohr Yisroel, and he is known to his chassidim by this name.

Rabbi Aharon
Rabbi Aharon Friedman was the oldest son of Rabbi Yisroel of Sadigura, and the last Sadigura Rebbe to serve his entire tenure in Sadhora. He is known for musical talents and for the deep kabbalistic style of his Torah. He was named for his forefather, Rabbi Aharon of Karlin. There are many similarities between the two Rabbis, including their identical lifespan of exactly 36 years and six months each. Chassidim refer to him as the Kedushas Aharon, after the sefer that records his teachings.