[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hamidullah (Guantanamo Bay detainee 1119)

l Khan, the commander of the Northern Alliance sent him a message:

...don't do this; we are mujahedin, and the King is a Western guy, and we don't need him.  This won't be good for your future.

He had once attended a speech by Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, the founder of HiG. However, he had never met him.

When told that the Tribunal was going to go into closed session, to consider the classified evidence, he was asked if there was anything he said during any of his interrogations that he wanted to expand on, or correct.  He replied that the allegations about storing weapons and about the leadership meeting were new.  He had never been asked about them during his interrogations.

The Tribunal officers commented on his willingness to cooperate, and asked why he was wearing an orange uniform.

Witness 

His witness was Nasrat Khan.  Khan testified that he had known Hamidullah's father in the HiG and that he met Hamidullah when he joined, as a teenager.  He testified that he remembered Hamidullah's desertion.

Hamidullah's orange uniform 

Hamidullah's Tribunal officers asked him to explain why he was wearing an orange uniform—the uniform issued to Guantanamo captives regarded as "non-compliant".

Habeas petition 05-cv-1691

Several petitions of habeas corpus were filed on Hamidullah's behalf, including 05-cv-1601 and 05-CV-1691.
In September 2007, the Department of Defense published the unclassified dossiers arising from the Combatant Status Review Tribunals of 179 captives.
The Department of Defense published 37 pages from his Tribunal.

On December 2, 2006, one of Hamidullah's habeas corpus hearings stirred controversy when the Bush administration tried to prohibit attorneys from contacting him.

Tribunal panel 12 convened on December 13, 2004, and confirmed his "enemy combatant" status.

Detainee election form

His Personal Representative met with him for 43 minutes on December 11, 2004.
His Personal Representative's notes state:
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|
 Detainee wants to appear to the tribunal.
 Detainee wants to make an oral statement.
 Detainee requested and TP approved 2 witnesses:
1 in-camp witness: Haji Nasrat Khan (camp 4; ISN 1009)
1 out-of-camp witness: Mullah Hazet (District of Pahgman, Kabul AF)
 The in-camp witness (1009) told me he did not wish to appear before the tribunal on account of his health, but would provide a statement for the tribunal (to be submitted as Exhibit D-b).
|}

Administrative Review Board hearings 

Detainees who were determined to have been properly classified as "enemy combatants" were scheduled to have their dossier reviewed at annual Administrative Review Board hearings.  The Administrative Review Boards weren't authorized to review whether a detainee qualified for POW status, and they weren't authorized to review whether a detainee should have been classified as an "enemy combatant".

They were authorized to consider whether a detainee should continue to be detained by the United States, because they continued to pose a threat—or whether they could safely be repatriated to the custody of their home country, or whether they could be set free.

First annual Administrative Review Board hearing

A Summary of Evidence memo was prepared for Haji Hamidullah's first annual Administrative Review Board  on 5 August 2005.

The
two
page memo listed ten
"primary factors favor[ing] continued detention" and one
"primary factors favor[ing] release or transfer".

The following primary factors favor continued detention 
{| class="wikitable" border="1"
|
a. Commitment
The detainee was a member of the Hizb-I Islami Gulbuddin (HIG) during the jihad.  He served with the HIG before the Taliban regime took over.
The Hizb-I Islami Gulbuddin (HIG) was founded by Gulbuddin Hikmatyar as a faction of the Hizb-I Islami party in 1977.  It was one of the major mujahedin groups in the war against the Soviets.  HIG has long-established ties with Usama Bin Laden.

b. Connections/Associations
The detainee was a member of the Mahaz-e Melli Tanzim.
The Mahaz-e Melli Tanzim attempted to recruit and organize supporters in Kabul, Afghanistan, following the fall of the Taliban.  King Zahir Shah intended to establish a post-Taliban government for the purpose of rebuilding the war torn nation.
In 2003, the detainee was a HIG commander who worked directly for Abu Bakr, the alleged highest-ranking HIG commander in Kabul.  The detainee controlled a large weapons cache in Kabul.
The detainee was reported to be one of the heads of the Psychological Operations Wing of the HIG.
The detainee was captured in August 2003, in Kabul, in one of the homes owned by Raouf.

c. Detainee Actions and Statements
In May 2003, the detainee was the commander of 30 men, with ties to the Taliban, who were planning an attack on an Afghan National Directorate of Security (NDS) unit in the vicinity of Kabul City, Afghanistan.