[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Loughborough Students' Union

at FreeFest) and guitarist Dave Rogers. In 2006 Post Fest, an alternative music club night held in Room 1 following the bands, which was originally conceived and run by LSU Rocksoc, was taken over as an official part of the event and featured a wide variety of music from one of LSU's resident DJ's.

From 2009 Free Fest, now a considerable venture, became a two-day event starting on the Sunday, the 2009 event was also the first FreeFest to restrict attendees to drinks purchased from the Union. However, in 2011, due to a desire to save money, the event was toned down, back to being more like the original stage-on-the-back-of-a-lorry event as well as only being held on the one day, and has continued in a similar format since.

Awards and achievements 
 Best Students' Union - Whatuni? Student Choice Awards 2015 and 2016
 Highest Rated Students' Union - Whatuni? Student Choice Awards 2014
 Best International Experience - National Union of Students Internationalisation Awards 2012
 Best Student Experience 2006 - 2012 - Times Higher Education League Table
 Best Student Experience 2016 - 2018 - Times Higher Education Student Experience Survey
 Best Sports and Societies - Whatuni? Student Choice Awards 2020

Internal awards 
 Loughborough Experience Awards recognises students and staff of Loughborough, all of whom have made an exceptional contribution to the Loughborough experience. 
 Loughborough Academic Awards celebrate staff and student excellence in learning, teaching and academic representation across the campus. Over 200 people attended the event at the Students' Union, including deans, heads of department and other university staff, student volunteers, union executive members and union staff.
 Welfare and Diversity, Societies, Media, Enterprise and Employability, Rag and Action Awards all recognise individuals and teams who make a considerable impact to their section throughout the year.

See also
Loughborough University
Loughborough College
Loughborough Campus Radio
National Union of Students

References

External links
 Loughborough Students Union
 LSU's Strategy 'How we are driving the best student experience to 2017': http://www.lsu.co.uk/pageassets/plan/LSU-Strategy-v15WEB.compressed.pdf

Students' Union
Loughborough