[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scilla Elworthy

ing Dr Deepak Chopra. She and colleagues produced a booklet for the Festival entitled "Tools for Peace", with an accompanying video produced by TalkWorks in association with Different Films Ltd, presenting a seven-step process anyone can use to resolve conflict in the family, workplace or community.

In autumn 2007 Elworthy joined the EastWest Institute's International Task Force on Preventive Diplomacy; in 2009 was featured in the project Soldiers of Peace – Stories from 14 countries around the world – a documentary film narrated by Michael Douglas.

The Elders
Although she has lectured extensively around the world and appeared on television and radio throughout the last 20 years, her work was less in the public eye from 2005 to 2009 as she was advising Richard Branson, Desmond Tutu and Peter Gabriel on the creation of The Elders, "an independent group of eminent global leaders, brought together by Nelson Mandela, who offer their collective influence and experience to support peace building, help address major causes of human suffering and promote the shared interests of humanity."

Today
Since the autumn of 2011 Dr Elworthy has been working on a course in consciousness and conflict transformation for mid career professionals, in association with Thomas Hübl in Berlin. She is patron of The GREAT Initiative Gender Rights and Equality Action Trust and a member of the International Advisory Council of the Institute for Economics and Peace; Voice of a Woman; Oxford Research Group; adviser to MasterPeace – an international bottom-up peace initiative – and a member of the steering Committee of PAX, a service to help prevent wars and genocides, and since the early 1990s, a member of the Society of Friends.

In 2012 Elworthy co-founded Rising Women Rising World, a growing, vibrant community of women on all continents who take responsibility for building a world that works for all. "The custodians of this mission are a committed group of professionals, who, over the past 30 years have been shaping their respective fields: economics, business, governance, security, health, ecology, media, culture and the arts, education, spirituality and indigenous wisdom. Now, as Rising Women Rising World we come together to pioneer a possible future."

In 2013–14 Elworthy worked with a group of young social entrepreneurs at the DO School in Hamburg to raise awareness of the work of peace-builders worldwide. She remains involved with The DO School and its international development through her position as a board member.

In 2014 Elworthy published Pioneering the Possible: Awakened Leadership for a World that Works (North Atlantic Books, 2014).

In September 2017 she published The Business Plan for Peace: Building a World Without War (Peace Direct, 2017). The Business Plan for Peace demonstrates how 25 tried and tested strategies for preventing war could be scaled up and extended over 10 years, with the aim of preventing armed violence worldwide. The total cost came to as little as two billion dollars, when the cost of militarization worldwide now exceeds US$1,686 billion. The book further demonstrates how people in any country can learn the skills to prevent conflict and apply them in their own communities, schools, workplace and families. In 2020 she wrote The Mighty Heart: How to transform conflict which outlines the skills and techniques of conflict transformation. These skills were developed into an online course and in 2022 she wrote The Mighty Heart in Action which shows how they help people build a better world. Through Business Plan for Peace she advises the leadership of selected international corporations on investing in and strengthening their respective roles in preventing violent conflict, and teaches young social entrepreneurs.

Her TED talk on non-violence has been viewed by more than 1,426,000 people.

Publications
Elworthy has written, edited and contributed to myriad reports, articles and books including: