[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Red Forest

ithin the contaminated zone at nearly the rate seen in forests outside the zone. As a result, the amount of detritus – the major fuel of wildfires – is significantly larger than in other forests. Fire risks are therefore elevated compared with those in other forests with similar climatic conditions.

Human activity
In February 2022, during the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russian forces reportedly moved vehicles through the Red Forest, using it as a route for their convoys, which kicked up clouds of radioactive dust from the forest. Local workers reported the Russian troops moving through the Red Forest were not using protective suits and could have potentially endangered themselves. On 31 March 2022, it was reported that most of the Russian troops occupying Chernobyl were forced to pull back after suffering from radiation sickness caused by digging trenches in the heavily contaminated Red Forest. There has not been independent confirmation that the pull-back was caused by radiation sickness, but Ukrainian officials have provided access to the site which shows considerable trenches and digging in the Red Forest.

On 1 April 2022, The Daily Telegraph reported that one Russian soldier died from acute radiation sickness after being camped in the Red Forest for a prolonged time. In October, CNN reported that injured Russian soldiers who operated in Chernobyl had been treated at the Republican Research Center for Radiation Medicine and Human Ecology in Belarus, including some who showed signs of radiation poisoning.

In popular culture
The 2004 novel Wolves Eat Dogs by Martin Cruz Smith, in the series featuring the Russian police inspector Arkady Renko, is partly set in the Red Forest near Chernobyl.

See also

Bellesrad
Chernobyl liquidators
Comparison of Chernobyl and other radioactivity releases
Effects of the Chernobyl disaster
List of civilian nuclear accidents
List of individual trees
List of Chernobyl-related articles
Nuclear and radiation accidents and incidents
Zone of alienation
Zone Rouge

References

External links

Description of Red Forest - unique ecosystem of Chernobyl zone of alienation. (radiation dead forest ecosystem) 
Greenpeace ten-year retrospective
The Zone as a wildlife reserve
More images from inside the Zone
 25 years of satellite imagery over Chernobyl

Chernobyl Exclusion Zone
Forests of Ukraine
Pripyat
Geography of Kyiv Oblast
Radiation effects