[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vito Russo

isconsin Press in April 2011. A two-volume Vito Russo reader was published in July 2012 by White Crane Books titled Out Spoken: The Vito Russo Reader - Reel One and Out Spoken: The Vito Russo Reader - Reel Two. Reel One presents his film writings; Reel Two collects his political/social commentaries.

The documentary film Vito, had its festival premiere within the 2011 New York Film Festival went on to screen at the Maryland Film Festival, and had its television premiere on HBO on June 23, 2012. It is directed by Jeffrey Schwarz of the Los Angeles production company Automat Pictures.

In 2013, GLAAD named the "Vito Russo test" after him, a set of criteria intended to analyze the representation of LGBT characters in films.

In 2016, Russo was inducted into the Legacy Walk.

From 1969 until his death, he lived at 401 West 24th Street in Chelsea, Manhattan.

In June 2019, Russo was one of the inaugural 50 American "pioneers, trailblazers, and heroes" inducted on the National LGBTQ Wall of Honor within the Stonewall National Monument (SNM) in New York City's Stonewall Inn. The SNM is the first U.S. national monument dedicated to LGBTQ rights and history, and the wall's unveiling was timed to take place during the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots.

Season 1, episode 10 of the podcast Making Gay History is about him.

References

 UCSC Teaching & Memorial

External links
 "Vito" Facebook Page
 "Vito" Official Website
 
 
 Finding Aid: Vito Russo papers, 1969–1990, New York Public Library.
 GAZE TV Interview October 1989

1946 births
1990 deaths
20th-century American historians
20th-century American male writers
AIDS-related deaths in New York (state)
Activists from New York (state)
American film historians
American male non-fiction writers
American people of Italian descent
Fairleigh Dickinson University alumni
HIV/AIDS activists
Historians from New York (state)
American LGBT rights activists
American gay writers
People from Chelsea, Manhattan
People from East Harlem
Stonewall Book Award winners
Tisch School of the Arts alumni
University of California, Santa Cruz faculty
Writers from Manhattan