[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chilean Civil War of 1829–1830

The Chilean Civil War of 1829–1830 () was a civil war in Chile fought between conservative Pelucones and liberal Pipiolos forces over the constitutional regime in force.  This conflict ended with the defeat of the liberal forces and the approval of a new constitution in 1833, that was in force until 1925.

Background 
 

The resignation and self-exile of General Bernardo O'Higgins in 1823 did not put an end to the political infighting. Civil conflict continued, focusing mainly on the issues of anticlericalism and regionalism. Presidents and constitutions rose and fell quickly in the 1820s. The Chilean political scene divided itself into two groups that were already embryonic during the days of independence. The followers of O'Higgins became the Conservatives or Bigwigs (). This group was mainly composed of the remnants of the colonial aristocracy, and defended the ideas of a strong central government, respect for tradition, and strong support for the Catholic Church.  Their most prominent leaders were José Gregorio Argomedo, Juan Egaña and José Joaquín Prieto.  Opposed to them were the Liberals (). This group was mainly composed of the followers of José Miguel Carrera, and were strongly influenced by European liberal ideas. They defended a more free and democratic government, without interference from the Church.  Their leaders were Ramón Freire, Manuel Borgoño and Francisco Antonio Pinto.

The Conservatives and the Liberals began to coalesce around the church-state issue. Not only more favorably inclined toward the church, the Conservatives were also more sympathetic than the Liberals toward the colonial legacy, authoritarian government, the supremacy of executive powers, and a unitary state. Together with these two political tendencies, which in time developed into the two main political parties of the 19th century, there were also some minority groups.  One of them was the Federalist Party under the leadership of José Miguel Infante, who promoted a model of government based on the one adopted by the United States.  Another group was the Estanqueros or Monopolists (estanco means monopoly), a very heterogeneous political group under the leadership of Diego Portales.  The name came out of the fact that most of them were merchants, and their leader, Portales, was in charge of the tobacco monopoly. Their principal figures were Juan Francisco Meneses (ex-monarchist); Manuel José Gandarillas (Carrera supporter) and José Antonio Rodríguez Aldea (O'Higgins supporter).

Constitutional essays 
The time between 1823 and 1828 is called of the Constitutional Essays.  The first of these three essays is the Moralist system (1823) of Juan Egaña, which created a unitary state, democratic (with the franchise restricted to men of the upper classes) and Catholic.  The executive power was in the hands of a Supreme Director, elected for four years and to be reelected only once.  This system was no sooner in place when it came under attack from the proponents of a federalist system. The abolition of slavery in this constitution – long before most other countries in the Americas – is considered one of the liberals' few lasting achievements.

In their impatience, the Federalist leaders forced Congress to adopt some laws giving federal rights to the provinces.  In 1825, José Miguel Infante was President of the Directorial Council that was in charge of the administration while Supreme Director Freire was away capturing Chiloé from Royalist forces. Using their position, the councillors created the eight Provincial Assemblies that would become the basis for the federal system.  The eight provinces were: Coquimbo, Aconcagua, Santiago, Colchagua, Maule, Concepción, Valdivia and Chiloé.  The second essay thus was the Federalist written by Infante in 1826, though it was never formally adopted.

Election of 1826 

On July 14, 1826 Congress passed a law calling for a new election.  The Supreme Director was to be replaced by a President.  The first elected president was Manuel Blanco Encalada, who, with 59.5%  of the vote and 22 electoral votes, defeated José Miguel Infante who only obtained 40.5% of the vote and 15 electoral votes.  For the position of vice president Agustín Eyzaguirre, with 57.1% of the vote and 20 electoral votes, defeated Francisco Antonio Pinto who received 42.9% of the vote and 15 electoral votes. The system very quickly proved to be a failure.  Blanco Encalada resigned, and was replaced by Eyzaguirre in 1827. He in turn was deposed by colonel Enrique Campino Salamanca, who called back general Ramón Freire.

Constitution of 1828 
The first (of many) measures of the new government was to call for a constitutional convention. Congress confirmed the return of General Freire and proceeded to dissolve itself. Immediately after, Freire resigned and was replaced by his vice-president Francisco Antonio Pinto.