[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ahmed Sofa

s early youth, Sofa was involved with the communist party for a short time. He also opened several free school for the children of slum-dwellers in Dhaka. He also organized Sampradayik Dangar Biruddhe Sampreeti Committee (1992–94), Taranga (1993–96), Nagarik Shakti (1995), etc.

Legacy and influence

Today, Sofa is widely regarded as one of the greatest writers in the Bengali language. He was described as a public intellectual "against opportunism", a "dissenting" writer fearless to speak the truth, and a "champion of idealism and progressive culture". "A veritable powerhouse of infinite passion and creative energy", Sofa "cultivated with ease almost all the fields of literary landscape of Bangladesh and produced valuable harvests, both in terms of quality and quantity." National Professor Abdur Razzaq stated that Sofa's works "constitute a treasure trove for Bengali literature" and "they create their own worlds where one can easily forget himself"/herself. Muhammad Zafar Iqbal called Sofa a 100% writer-litterateur from head to toe and wrote "It is our great fortune that a genius like him [Sofa] was born" in Bangladesh. In Farhad Mazhar's opinion, Ahmed Sofa examined and surveyed Bengali Muslim society and the birth of Bangladesh so closely and intimately that nobody would make any progress in any field in Bangladesh, be it Bangladeshi politics, literature, or culture unless one studies and understands Sofa's works properly. Syed Abul Maksud stated that Ahmed Sofa is the biggest patriot he ever saw after 1967 and the biggest enemy of religious fundamentalism. During his lifetime, Sofa was "the ever uncompromising conscience of the nation, always upholding the truth and justice." Ahmed Sharif opined that Sofa was the bravest among Bangladeshi intellectuals. Sharif also said that if Bangladesh had few more Sofas, the country would be on the right track to a progressive society. Salimullah Khan hailed Sofa as a visionary thinker and one of the world's greatest story-tellers and considered him a successor to Kazi Nazrul Islam's legacy. In Aktharuzzaman Elias's opinion, readers accompany Sofa in his journey to feel intimately the human in history and history in the human. Humayun Ahmed called Sofa an incredibly powerful writer and mentioned Sofa as his "mentor."

"Ahmed Sofa Rastroshobha" along with Centre for Asian Art and Culture organize the Ahmed Sofa Memorial Lecture at the University of Dhaka every year. In Chittagong, Ahmed Sofa Centers founded by a teacher at Chittagong University commemorates his work through its activity.

Sofa's novels and stories are frequently adapted into plays, films, etc. Kaler Nayak (The Hero of the Age, 2014) written by Gazi Tanzia is a novel based on Ahmed Sofa's life.

Controversy and criticism
For a bohemian lifestyle, and outspoken nature, Sofa was a controversial figure during his lifetime. He was called rebel, devoid of regards for authority, and unnecessarily uncompromising harming his personal good. Rahat Khan once called him mad. His disagreements with Humayun Azad, Taslima Nasreen, and few others and subsequent denunciation of one another through write-ups were very much discussed and are still discussed by peers and new generation of writers. A professional writer, Sofa endured financial hardship though he was also known for his prodigality helping many in their need. Many speculate that early in Sofa's life, he used to frequent Abdur Razzaq's residence to seek financial help. German embassy in Dhaka financed Sofa's translation of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's Faust. Sofa helped publish Muammar Gaddafi's The Green Book in Bengali. Many were critical of his connection with Libyan and German embassies.

Sofa wanted to immolate himself with a tinful of kerosene in 1972 to protest an attempted eviction of Humayun Ahmed's family from a house (allotted by government for the martyrs' family); Sikandar Abu Zafar stopped him from self-immolation by assuring and ensuring the prevention of the eviction. Humayun Ahmed reminisced about the event many times in his different memoirs.