[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dos Caras

as well as various independent promotions. On March 22, 1996, Dos Caras teamed with Héctor Garza and La Fiera to win the CMLL World Trios Championship from Bestia Salvaje, Emilio Charles, Jr. and Sangre Chicana. The team held the title until early 1997 when Garza left CMLL and the title was vacated.

In the subsequent years, Dos Caras worked regularly for Lucha Libre AAA World Wide (AAA), being instrumental in the professional wrestling debut of his son Dos Caras, Jr. in AAA. He would also work for International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG) although he never won any championships in either promotion. Currently Dos Caras still wrestles, although on a reduced schedule, he mainly works for independent promotions, especially the UWE Legends shows. He has been vocal about not wanting to work for one of the "big two" promotions in Mexico (CMLL and AAA) as he did not feel either promotion treated a wrestler with his history and status with enough respect.

On October 7, 2010, Dos Caras made a special appearance at a WWE SmackDown live event in Mexico, where he was in his son Alberto Del Rio's corner in his match against Kofi Kingston.

On December 4, 2013, Caras, along with Mil Máscaras, returned to Japan to take part in a Tokyo Gurentai event in Tokyo's Korakuen Hall. In the main event, the two defeated Mazada and Nosawa Rongai to win the Tokyo World Tag Team Championship.

On July 2, 2017, he appeared at Impact Wrestling's Slammiversary XV in the corner of Alberto El Patron, as Alberto defeated Bobby Lashley to unify the Impact Wrestling World Heavyweight Championship and GFW Global Championship.

Personal life
Rodríguez is the father of luchadors Alberto Del Rio (known as Dos Caras, Jr. while wrestling in Mexico) and Guillermo (now performing as El Hijo de Dos Caras), and the brother of luchadors Mil Máscaras and Sicodélico. He has two nephews who wrestle under the names Sicodelico, Jr. and El Hijo del Sicodelico.

In films
In 2007 he appeared alongside his brother in the film Mil Mascaras vs. the Aztec Mummy.

Championships and accomplishments
Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre / Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre
CMLL World Trios Championship (1 time) - with Héctor Garza and La Fiera
Mexican National Trios Championship (1 time) - with Villano III and Villano V
Michinoku Pro Wrestling
Fukumen World League (1995)
Pro Wrestling Illustrated
PWI ranked him #102 of the top 500 singles wrestlers of the "PWI Years" in 2003
Tokyo Gurentai
Tokyo World Tag Team Championship (1 time), current) – with Mil Máscaras
Universal Wrestling Association
Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
UWA World Heavyweight Championship (3 times)
World Wrestling Association
WWA World Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
Wrestling Observer Newsletter awards
Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame (Class of 1998)

Luchas de Apuestas record

Footnotes

References

1951 births
Living people
Masked wrestlers
Mexican male film actors
Mexican male professional wrestlers
Professional wrestlers from San Luis Potosí
People from San Luis Potosí City
20th-century professional wrestlers
21st-century professional wrestlers
Mexican National Trios Champions
CMLL World Trios Champions
UWA World Heavyweight Champions
Mexican National Light Heavyweight Champions