[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# History of Anatolia

t 26, 1071.

The victory of the Seljuks gave rise to the Seljuk Sultanate of Rum, a separate branch of the larger Seljuk Empire and to some Turkish principalities (beyliks), mostly situated towards the east which were vassals of or at war with Seljuk Sultanate of Rum.

The Crusades and their effects

The four Crusades that involved the Byzantines severely weakened their power, and led to a disunity that would never be successfully restored.

Mongol invasion and aftermath

On June 26, 1243, the Seljuk armies were defeated by the Mongols in the Battle of Kosedag, and the Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm became a vassal of the Mongols. This caused the Seljuks to lose their power. Hulegu Khan, grandson of Genghis Khan founded the Ilkhanate in the southwestern part of the Mongol Empire. The Ilkhanate ruled Anatolia through Mongol military governors. The last Seljuk sultan Mesud II, died in 1308. The Mongol invasion of Transoxiana, Iran, Azerbaijan and Anatolia caused Turkomens to move to Western Anatolia. The Turkomens founded some Anatolian principalities (beyliks) under the Mongol dominion in Turkey. The most powerful beyliks were the Karamanids and the Germiyanids in the central area. Along the Aegean coast, from north to south, stretched Karasids, Sarukhanids, Aydinids, Menteşe and Teke principalities. The Jandarids (later called Isfendiyarids) controlled the Black Sea region round Kastamonu and Sinop. The Beylik of the Ottoman Dynasty was situated in the northwest of Anatolia, around Söğüt, and it was a small and insignificant state at that time. The Ottoman beylik would, however, evolve into the Ottoman Empire over the next 200 years, expanding throughout the Balkans, Anatolia.

Breakaway successor states and the fall

The newly forming states of the Turks gradually squeezed the empire so much that it was only a matter of time before Constantinople was taken in 1453.

See also
 History of Turkey
 History of the Middle East
 Timeline of Middle Eastern history
 Anatolianism
 Anatolian peoples
 Anatolian hypothesis

References

Sources

 
 
 
 Bevan, Edwyn Robert (1902). The House of Seleucus. E. Arnold.
 Botsford, George Willis (1922). Hellenic History. The Macmillan Company.
 
 
 
 Bury, John Bagnell (1913). A History of Greece to the Death of Alexander the Great. Macmillan.
 Duncker, Max (1879). The History of Antiquity, Volume III. Richard Bentley & Son.
 
 Freeman, Charles (1999). Egypt, Greece and Rome: Civilizations of the Ancient Mediterranean. Oxford University Press. .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hornblower, Simon; Antony Spawforth (1996). The Oxford Classical Dictionary. Oxford University Press.
 Marek, Christian (2010), Geschichte Kleinasiens in der Antike  C. H. Beck, Munich,   (review:  M. Weiskopf, Bryn Mawr Classical Review 2010.08.13 ).
 Mommsen, Theodor (1906). The History of Rome: The Provinces, from Caesar to Diocletian. Charles Scribner's Sons.
 
 
 
 Ramsay, W.M. (1904). The Letters to the Seven Churches of Asia. Hodder & Stoughton.

+
History of West Asia
Geographic history of Greece
History of Turkey