[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2000–2006 Shebaa Farms conflict

The 2000–2006 Shebaa Farms conflict was a low-level border conflict between Israel and Hezbollah for control of Shebaa Farms, a disputed territory located on the Golan Heights–Lebanon border. Fighting between the two sides primarily consisted of Hezbollah rocket and mortar attacks on Israel and Israeli artillery barrages and airstrikes on Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. Clashes began a few months after the 2000 Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon, which Hezbollah viewed as incomplete due to the presence of the Israel Defense Forces in Shebaa Farms. The conflict culminated in the 2006 Lebanon War; Israel retains control over the territory.

Timeline of attacks

2000
7 October – Hezbollah launched a cross-border raid. Three IDF soldiers were killed and their bodies were captured. Five people were subsequently injured by Israeli artillery fire.
 26 November – An explosive charge was detonated while an IDF force was on a road opening mission. One soldier was killed and two wounded.

2001
 31 January – Six mortar bombs were fired at an Israeli outpost near the Lebanese border, causing no casualties.
 16 February – Antitank fire hit an IDF convoy. One soldier was killed and three wounded. Israel responded with airstrikes on targets in South Lebanon.
 14 April – An antitank missile was fired at an IDF tank, killing a soldier. In response, Israeli aircraft bombed a Syrian radar station in Lebanon, killing a Syrian soldier and injuring four others.
 29 June – Hezbollah fighters fired antitank missiles and mortar shells at IDF positions, injuring two soldiers.
 1 July – IAF warplanes bombed a Syrian radar station in Lebanon, wounding three Syrian soldiers and a Lebanese soldier. Hezbollah responded by shelling positions in northern Israel. IAF helicopter gunships then attacked Hezbollah positions.

2002
 12 March – Hezbollah fire killed six Israeli civilians, including an off-duty IDF officer.
 29 August – One IDF soldier was killed and two soldiers were injured in rocket fire.
 December – Israeli aircraft carried out numerous airstrikes throughout Lebanon. As well as targeting roads, bridges, and ammunition depots, they also bombed several power and electrical transformer stations throughout Lebanon, leaving large parts of Beirut and its suburbs, communities in the Chouf District, Baalbek, and Bint Jbeil without electricity. Meanwhile, Hezbollah rocket fire hit Kiryat Shmona, killing two Israeli civilians.

2003
 7 May – Hezbollah attacked IDF positions in Shebaa farms with rockets, mortars, and small arms, killing a soldier and wounding five.
 20 July – Hezbollah snipers killed two IDF soldiers at a border post. The IDF retaliated with tank fire at a Hezbollah position, killing a Hezbollah fighter. The IAF launched multiple flights over Lebanon, two of which generated powerful sonic booms over Beirut.
 22 July – Two Israeli civilians in Shlomi were wounded by Hezbollah anti-aircraft shells fired at IAF warplanes over South Lebanon.
 2 August – Hezbollah member Ali Hussein Saleh was assassinated by a car bomb in Beirut, allegedly by Israeli intelligence.
 3 August – Hezbollah militants fired rockets and mortars at three Israeli military positions in Shebaa farms. Israel retaliated with airstrikes.
 10 August – An Israeli teenager was killed and four civilians wounded by shrapnel from a Hezbollah anti-aircraft shell fired into northern Israel.
 6 October – One IDF soldier was killed by Hezbollah gunfire. Hezbollah anti-tank missiles and rockets were also fired at an IDF post in the Reaches Ramim area.

2004
 19 January – An Israeli soldier was killed and another severely wounded after a Hezbollah anti-tank missile struck an IDF armored bulldozer that crossed into Lebanon to clear explosives.
 20 January – Israel bombed two Hezbollah bases in the Bekaa Valley, causing an unknown number of casualties.
 7 May – Hezbollah fire killed one Israeli soldier and severely wounded two others. Afterward, both Israel and Hezbollah shelled each other across the border.
 19 July – Hezbollah official Ghaleb Awwali was assassinated by a car bomb, allegedly by Israeli agents.
 20 July – Hezbollah sniper fire killed two IDF soldiers at a border post. In retaliation, Israeli helicopter gunships fired missiles at Hezbollah positions, and an Israeli tank fired at a Hezbollah post near Ayta ash Shab, killing a Hezbollah fighter. Hezbollah fighters on the border returned fire, and subsequently came under attack from Israeli helicopters.