[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act of 2001

In response to what was described as the "fast-track land reform" in Zimbabwe, the United States government put the Zimbabwean government on a credit freeze in 2001 through the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act of 2001 (specifically Section 4C titled Multilateral Financing Restriction). The "fast-track land reform" was in essence the attempt of Zimbabwe state to reclaim the land stolen by white colonists however resulting in most of the land being lost in corruption to ministers.

The Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act (, ) is an act passed by the United States Congress which imposed economic sanctions on Zimbabwe, allegedly to provide for a transition to democracy and to promote economic recovery.

Senators Bill Frist (R-Tennessee) and Russ Feingold (D-Wisconsin) introduced the bill on March 8, 2001. Senators Frist, Jesse Helms (R-North Carolina), Hillary Clinton (D-New York), and Joseph Biden (D-Delaware) sponsored the bill. The Senate passed the bill on August 1 and the House of Representatives passed the bill on December 4. President George W. Bush signed it into law on December 21.

Vote overview
ZDERA was passed by with 91% (396 vote) of Congress voting in favor of the bill.  Of the 396 votes, 194 were Democrats, 200 were Republicans, and 2 were Independent.  3% (11 votes) of Congress voted against ZDERA: 2 Democrats, 8 Republicans, and 1 Independent. 6% (26 votes) did not vote, 15 Democrats and 11 Republicans.

Policy
ZDERA's policy was stated to "support the people of Zimbabwe in their struggle to effect peaceful, democratic change, achieve broad-based and equitable economic growth, and restore the rule of law." This policy was supported by the following findings made by the U.S. Congress:
 The Government of Zimbabwe was unable to participate in programs created by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Monetary Fund Program (IMF) to assist in the transformation and resuscitation of Zimbabwe's economy. Furthermore, said exclusion to the people of Zimbabwe from the economic and democratic benefits laid out by program donors, including the United States, was because of "economic mismanagement, undemocratic practices, and the costly deployment of troops to the Democratic Republic of the Congo" by the Zimbabwean Government. 
 The IMF suspended support under a "Stand By Arrangement" in September 1999 that was approved in August 1999 for economic adjustment and reform. In October 1999, all structural loans, credits, and guarantees to the Government of Zimbabwe were suspended from the International Development Association (IDA). This was followed by a complete suspension of new lending to the Government of Zimbabwe by the IDA in May 2000. By September 2000, the IDA suspended all funds to the Government of Zimbabwe for ongoing projects.

Means of support
ZDERA proposed two sectors of financial support for the Zimbabwean economy under the imposed sanctions.
 Bilateral debt relief: the Secretary of the Treasury would conduct a review of the ability of "restructuring, rescheduling, or eliminating the sovereign debt of Zimbabwe held by any agency of the U.S. Government." 
 Multilateral debt relief and other financial assistance: the Secretary of the Treasury would be allowed to direct the U.S. executive director of each multilateral development bank to "propose that the bank should undertake a review of the feasibility of restructuring, rescheduling, or eliminating the sovereign debt of Zimbabwe held by that bank" as well as to instruct the U.S. executive director of international financial organizations to which the U.S. is a member to proposition financial and technical support for Zimbabwe. Particularly if these means promoted "economic recovery and development, the stabilization of the Zimbabwean dollar, and the viability of Zimbabwe's democratic institutions."

Financial sanctions and requalifications
The following criteria were included in the guidelines of ZDERA and were stipulated as law until certain criteria were fulfilled or, exceptionally, it was necessary to meet "basic human needs or for good governance."  As such, the Secretary of the Treasury instructed the U.S. executive director of each international financial institution to "oppose and vote against" the following:

 any extension by the respective institution of any loan credit, or guarantee to the Government of Zimbabwe; 
 any cancellation or reduction of indebtedness owed by the Government of Zimbabwe to the United States or any international financial institution.

The following were certifications that once satisfied would lift the aforementioned restrictions: