[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Todd Rokita

Mike Braun, coming in second with 30% of the vote.

2020

On July 10, 2020, Rokita defeated incumbent Indiana Attorney General Curtis Hill during the Indiana Republican Party Convention. Rokita went on to win the November general election, securing 58.34% of the vote.

Personal life and affiliations

Rokita is a member of the Director's Circle of the Indiana Council for Economic Education, the state bar association, the Knights of Columbus, and the National Rifle Association. He has also served as Chair of NASS's New Millennium Young Voters Summit of 2004, chair of the standing Voter Participation Committee and vice chair of the Securities Regulation Committee. He is a member of the Indiana chapter of the International Flying Farmers, and member of the Saint Vincent Hospital Foundation Board of Directors.

Rokita's oldest son, Teddy, suffers from Angelman syndrome. Rokita is a commercial-rated pilot.

Rokita formerly lived in Clermont, an "included town" in Indianapolis under the Unigov system. The 2010 round of redistricting cut out the 4th's share of Indianapolis and Marion County, leaving Rokita's home 500 yards outside the new 4th's eastern border. Members of Congress are required to live only in the state they represent, but it is a strong convention that they live within their district's borders. In 2012 Rokita ran for reelection from his home in Clermont, but he later bought a home near Brownsburg, a western suburb of Indianapolis within the 4th district.

Rokita is Catholic.

References

External links

 
 
 
 Disciplinary Complaint in the matter of Theodore E. Rokita, in the Supreme Court of the State of Indiana, September 18, 2023

|-

|-

|-

1970 births
21st-century American politicians
American politicians of Polish descent
American Roman Catholics
Candidates in the 2018 United States Senate elections
Christians from Indiana
Catholics from Indiana
Indiana Attorneys General
Indiana lawyers
Indiana University Robert H. McKinney School of Law alumni
Living people
People from Munster, Indiana
Politicians from Indianapolis
Secretaries of State of Indiana
Wabash College alumni
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Indiana