[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Energy policy of India

ia pipeline is a part of India's plan to meet its increasing energy demand.

Coal

India has the world's 3rd largest proven coal reserves with nearly 177 billion metric tons as on 1 April 2021. In India, coal is the bulk primary energy contributor with  56.90% share equivalent to 452.2 Mtoe in 2018.

India is also the second-largest importer of coal  141.7 Mtoe in 2018 and the second-largest consumer of coal with 452.2 Mtoe in 2018. India is also home to the world’s largest coal company, Coal India Ltd, which controls 85% of the country’s coal production with 7.8% production share of coal (including lignite) in the world. Top five hard and brown coal producing countries in 2013 (2012) are (million tons): China 3,680 (3,645), United States 893 (922), India 605 (607), Australia 478 (453) and Indonesia 421 (386). However, India ranks fifth in global coal production at 228 Mtoe (5.9%) in 2013 when its inferior quality coal tonnage is converted into tons of oil equivalent. Coal-fired power plants account for 59% of India's installed electricity capacity. After electricity production, coal is also used for cement production in substantial quantity. Pet coke availability, at a cheaper price than local coal, is replacing coal in cement plants.  In financial year 2021-22, India imported nearly 209 million tons of steam coal and coking coal which is 20% of total consumption to meet the demand in electricity, cement, and steel production. In the FY2021-22, India imported nearly 57.16 million tons (90%) of coking coal against the consumption of 63.74 MT.

Gasification  of coal or lignite or pet coke produces syngas or coal gas or coke oven gas which is a mixture of hydrogen, carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide gases. Coal gas can be converted into synthetic natural gas (SNG) by using Fischer–Tropsch process at low pressure and high temperature. Coal gas can also be produced by underground coal gasification where the coal deposits are located deep in the ground or uneconomical to mine the coal.  CNG and LNG are emerging as economical alternatives to diesel oil with the escalation in international crude oil prices. Synthetic natural gas production technologies have tremendous scope to meet the transport sector requirements fully using the locally available coal in India. Dankuni coal complex is producing syngas which is piped to the industrial users in Calcutta. Many coal based fertiliser plants which are shut down can also be retrofitted economically to produce SNG as LNG and CNG fetch good price by substituting imports. Recently, Indian government fixed the natural gas price at producer end as US on net calorific value (NCV) basis, which is at par with the estimated SNG price from coal.

Bio-fuels

Gasification of biomass yields wood gas or syngas which can be converted into carbon neutral methanol. Nearly 750 million tons of nonedible (by cattle) biomass is available annually in India which can be put to higher value addition use and substitute imported crude oil, coal, LNG, urea fertilizer, nuclear fuels, etc. It is estimated that the renewable and carbon-neutral biomass resources of India can replace the present consumption of all fossil fuels when used productively. Biomass is going to play a crucial role to make India self-sufficient in the energy sector and carbon neutral.

A huge quantity of imported coal is being used in pulverized coal-fired power stations. Raw biomass can not be used in pulverized coal mills as they are difficult to grind into fine powder due to caking property of raw biomass. However, biomass can be used after torrefaction in the pulverized coal mills for replacing imported coal. North west and southern regions can replace imported coal use with torrefied biomass where surplus agriculture/crop residual biomass is available. Biomass power plants can also get extra income by selling the Renewable Purchase Certificates (RPC). Central Government has made cofiring (minimum 5%) of biomass mandatary from October 2022 in all coal fired plants.

In cement production, carbon-neutral biomass is being used to replace coal for reducing carbon footprint drastically.

Biogas or natural gas or methane produced from farm/agro/crop/domestic waste can also be used for producing protein rich feed for cattle/fish/poultry/pet animals economically by cultivating Methylococcus capsulatus bacteria culture in a decentralised manner near to the rural / consumption areas with tiny land and water foot print. With the availability of CO2 gas as by product from these units, cheaper production cost of algae oil from algae or spirulina particularly in tropical countries like India would displace the prime position of crude oil in near future.