[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Victor Sikora

in the league. In the KNVB Cup, the team also missed out during these seasons, being knocked out in the semi-finals in both the 1999–2000 and 2000–01 editions of the KNVB Cup. In the 2001–02 season, in which he again finished in European spots with Vitesse, Sikora made three goals in 29 appearances.

Ajax
Despite a low goal average in his final season at Vitesse, defending Dutch champions Ajax expressed their interest in him and he finally joined the club on a € 4.5 million deal. Besides Ajax, there was also interest from English club Fulham. In his first season at the club, he was unable to establish himself as a first-team regular, also and struggled with injuries. He made 17 league appearances in which he scored twice as Ajax lifted the 2002 Johan Cruyff Shield that year, as they finished runners-up in the league and stranded in the semi-finals of the KNVB Cup against Feyenoord. In addition, Sikora gained his first experience in the UEFA Champions League, where he made four appearances, including in matches against Lyon, Inter Milan and Roma, and made it to the quarter-finals of the competition, where, however, they were defeated by the eventual winners Milan after a 2–3 loss on aggregate. In the Eredivisie, Ajax finished second in the league table, one point behind rivals PSV, which meant that they qualified for the third qualifying round for the 2003–04 Champions League.

After narrowly advancing from the third round, after a 2–3 win on aggregate over Grazer AK, Ajax were knocked out in the subsequent group stage, finishing in last place of Group H. Sikora, who played in both qualifiers against Grazer AK and in two of Ajax' six group matches in the Champions League, emerged as a regular starter in midfield in the Eredivisie after the team were knocked out of European contention. Sikora, who was mostly used in defensive midfield, made a total of 27 league appearances and five goals and was thus instrumental in Ajax securing their 29th title in club history.

In his time at Ajax, Sikora scored seven league goals, won two league titles (2002, 2004), a Johan Cruyff Shield and KNVB Cup titles in 2002. Sikora also participated in the UEFA Champions League with Ajax.

Loans to Heerenveen and NAC
Despite achieving successes with Ajax, the club's management decided that Sikora was to be loaned out in order for him to gain more regular playing time. His first loan was at SC Heerenveen, who signed him to a one-year loan deal. For Heerenveen, he only made 19 appearances and one goal in the 2004–05 season. After finishing fifth in the league table and returning to Ajax, Sikora was sent on a season-long loan to NAC Breda. Both club and player struggled for form during the 2005–06 season, as he only made 13 league appearances, in which he remained goalless, as NAC finished 16th and only managed to avoid relegation following play-offs. Even though Sikora failed to establish himself as a regular starter during his loan at NAC, he was signed on a permanent deal following the season.

NAC Breda
Plagued by injuries, Sikora struggled to make the starting lineup following his permanent move to NAC Breda and only made nine Eredivisie appearances during the 2006–07 season, in which he scored one goal. In addition, the club fought a relegation battle, and once again the team had to avoid relegation through the play-offs. They were, however, successful there and remained a top-tier side. In the following season, Sikora made 21 league appearances and scored two goals, but was still unable to match his performances of earlier years and decided to leave NAC as his contract expired.

FC Dallas
Soon after leaving NAC, Sikora moved to the United States, where he signed a lucrative contract with Major League Soccer (MLS) side FC Dallas with a base salary of US$144,000 and a guaranteed severance pay of just over US$163,000. He was, however, injured after only two league games and out for several weeks after a meniscus tear in his right knee. He made a return after one month, but failed to establish himself as first-team regular and towards the end of the season he appeared during three league games, in which he was unable to make the final whistle and had to be substituted early on. However, in the final game of the season, a 2–2 away draw against LA Galaxy, Sikora scored an important goal after an assist provided by Mexico international Duilio Davino.

Loan to Perth Glory
After a trial at his former club, Go Ahead Eagles, Sikora joined Australian club Perth Glory on loan during the winter break before the new season. There he was supposed to replace Brazilian midfielder Amaral, who was sidelined due to injury. In his first season, Sikora was utilised in five league games, in which he scored no goals.