[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Thiago Silva

layer of the Season with 66.6% of the vote. La Gazzetta dello Sport rated him as the Player of the Season. Silva was selected as Goal's Serie A Player of the Season, and was also voted as the best defender in the league by Italian media and his fellow professionals.

2011–12: Final campaign in Italy

Milan's season began with a 2–1 victory over Inter in the 2011 Supercoppa Italiana; Silva was the best defender in the match and one of the best overall performers, making a decisive last-man tackle on Samuel Eto'o to deny a clear chance in the first half. Milan began the 2011–12 Serie A in poor form, winning only two points in the first three matches, though Silva was one of the better players in the draws against Lazio and Udinese. In a Champions League group stage match against Barcelona, Silva and Alessandro Nesta were crucial in the 2–2 result; both defenders were regarded as two of the best performers by Italian and Catalan media. In the match, Silva scored the 90th-minute equaliser — his former coach Carlo Ancelotti predicted that Silva would score that goal.

A knee contusion in a 3–0 victory over Palermo on 15 October kept Silva out for two matches. In Silva's 75th Serie A match for Milan, played on 19 November, he was vital in maintaining a clean sheet against Fiorentina. The next week, Silva was named captain against Chievo, in the process becoming the first foreign captain in 50 years for Milan. In the 4–0 demolition at the San Siro, Silva scored his first goal as captain, while teammate Zlatan Ibrahimović also scored his 100th Serie A goal in the same match. On 1 December, Silva was shortlisted for the FIFPro World XI. 1994 World Cup-winning coach Carlos Alberto Parreira regarded Silva as the best Brazilian footballer in Europe.

On 9 January, Silva was compared to Milan's greatest player, Franco Baresi, by his teammate Gennaro Gattuso. On 13 January, Zlatan Ibrahimović claimed that Silva was the best defender he had ever played with. Silva was voted into the 2011 UEFA Team of the Year on 18 January. Silva was selected as man of the match in a 0–0 draw against Napoli in February. In Milan's 4–0 win over Arsenal in the Champions League Round of 16, Silva successfully marked-out Robin van Persie, who was in a great run of form. Silva played his last full league match for Milan on 17 March against Parma, playing an important role in the 2–0 victory. Manchester United captain Nemanja Vidić said that Silva was the best defender in the world in an interview on 22 March.

On 24 March, Silva was forced out of a match against Roma after ten minutes due to a serious injury. Although Milan originally claimed Silva would be out just four weeks, instead he missed seven weeks, including the Champions League quarter-finals against Barcelona, where Milan fell 1–3 on aggregate. Without Silva, Milan stuttered in the league and lost the Scudetto to rivals Juventus. It was argued that Silva's injury was the turning point in the title race: with Silva, Milan won 2.37 out of a possible 3 points per match, while without him Milan won 2.09 out of a possible 3 points. Silva's strong season finished in another nomination to the Serie A Team of the Year, being joint-best central defender alongside Juve stalwart Andrea Barzagli. He was also regarded as one of the best defenders in Italy by multiple independent publications.

Paris Saint-Germain
The negotiations to bring Silva to Paris Saint-Germain took place at the end of the 2011–12 season. The saga took over a month to complete. On 11 June 2012, it was reported that Milan legend Paolo Maldini would convince Silva to join PSG in the summer. Major French newspaper L'Équipe claimed that a transfer would be completed by 15 June. The same day, PSG sporting director — and former Milan coach — Leonardo officially declared interest in acquiring Silva. The next day, however, Milan general director Ariedo Braida claimed that Silva was not for sale. On 13 June, Maldini refuted claims that he would play a part in Silva's transfer, asserting the fact that he would never convince Silva to leave. Milan chairman Silvio Berlusconi mentioned a potential transfer on 13 June, saying that Silva needed to be sold for €46 million in order to balance the club's accounts. The next day, however, Berlusconi confirmed that Silva would be staying at Milan. Transfer news slowed down, and on 2 July, Milan extended Silva's contract to 2017, yet just 12 days later, Silva's transfer to PSG was confirmed. The transfer fee was rumoured to be around €42 million, which would have made Silva the most expensive defender in football history. Silva had repeatedly stressed the fact that he never pushed for a transfer, and that he was happy at Milan. Silva even mentioned that he would like to return to Milan later in his career.

2012–13: Record transfer