[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ashok Gehlot

ext Indian general election.

Ashok Gehlot recently announced that he is in favour of conducting a caste census. He announced that a six per cent additional reservation for the most backward castes within the Other Backward Class (OBC) category in the state will be provided.

Administrative policies

Right to Health bill
In 2023, Ashok Gehlot's government brought the "Right to Health" bill, which was aimed at providing free medical facilities to all the residents of Rajasthan in every medical establishment in the state. The bill provided that every health establishment, whether public or private, located in Rajasthan will have to provide health facilities in emergency situation free of cost to patient, who is a resident of Rajasthan. Though hailed as a positive step by many, the bill's provisions were condemned by Indian Medical Association and the private doctors of the state. Many of them took to street against the bill and several concerns were raised upon viability of the scheme. The critics of the bill argued that it will bring the private establishment under tight control of bureaucracy, which will impede their proper functioning. The private medical facilities also protested on the fact that the bill hasn't described that how the private medical facilities will be reimbursed after providing free medical facilities to patients in emergency situation. The bill was also criticised for not defining the term "emergency situation". However, after the talks with the stakeholders, Gehlot's government was able to implement the provisions of bill with certain changes. It was informed by government authorities that the hospitals with less that fifty beds were excluded from enforcement of the provisions and only those private hospitals built with the government’s help or subsidies  will have to implement the provisions. With the bringing of universal right to health through this bill, Rajasthan became the first state in India to do so.

Jaipur Metro Project

In 2013, Gehlot also inaugurated the Jaipur Metro Project for bringing efficient transport infrastructure in the state of Rajasthan. The  phase I-A of the project was laid down from Mansarovar to Chandpole, while the phase I-B was laid between Chandpole to Badi Chaupar.

Kamdhenu Pashu Bima Yojna
On 12 April 2023, Gehlot launched Kamdhenu Pashu Bima Yojna, an insurance scheme for the milch animals for the resident cattle owners of Rajasthan. Under this scheme, a farmer needs to have at least two milch animal and his annual income shouldn't exceed eight lakh per annum for becoming a beneficiary. The government of Rajasthan also made this scheme available to the farmers having more than eight lacs as annual income, but in that case, they had to pay an annual premium of ₹200. The eligible beneficiaries were required to register for the scheme at their nearest Mehngai Rahat Camp (Inflation relief camps). Gehlot also organised the video conferences to connect directly with the people in order to make them aware of the scheme. As per provision of this scheme, on the death of milch animal a compensation of ₹40,000 was announced to be provided per animal to the cattle owner as insurance claim. The scheme was made available to two animals per family, taking total benefits to ₹ 80,000. This scheme, like many others were distributed at the instance of Gehlot through 2,500 Inflation relief camps running across the state, aiming to deliver ten flagship scheme of Gehlot's government to people.