[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# György Sárosi

players in the world, and had one of the best performances ever against Ujpest in the 1933 Magyar Kupa Final in which Ferencvaros won 11-1; Ujpest won the league that season. György Sárosi scored 3 goals and 4 assists, the newspapers gave him the best rating (1) as he was named the MVP of the game.

The evolution of Sárosi 
Because of his class on the ball, Sarosi was gradually deployed further forward in the FTC formation – first as an attacking midfielder, and then as a striker. It was in the former position that he headlined their inconceivable 11-1 thrashing of Ujpest, who had just won the league title, in the 1933 Hungarian Cup final, scoring a hat-trick and setting up another four goals. But it was in attack that he most often appeared during his 17 years in the green and white. There, he averaged at least a goal per game for eight successive seasons from 1935/36, and twice finished as top scorer in the Hungarian top flight. Sarosi also remains the most prolific marksman in the history of the Mitropa Cup, a prestigious competition for clubs from, among other countries, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Italy – then all leading powers in European football.

From 15 December 1935 (Ferencváros - III. Ker. 5: 1), already as dr. György Sárosi was featured. In addition to sports, he also cared about his future, studying in his spare time because he wanted to graduate. During theMitropa Cup battles of 1935, Ferencváros was knocked out of the AS by Rome 3: 1 on June 16 in Rome. In the rebound on Üllői út on June 22 (Ferencváros - AS Róma 8: 0 (3: 0)), Sárosi scored 4 goals. In 1937, Ferencváros was the winner of Mitropa Cup. In the semi-finals, Austria was beaten out of Újpest. 18 July 1937 in Vienna: Austria - Ferencváros 4: 1. The Fradi played poorly, the Viennese were confident of making progress.

On 25 July on Üllői út: Ferencváros - Austria 6: 1 (2: 1). It was a miracle that eleven in Franciscan had accomplished. It must be overturned before the miracle, it cannot be explained professionally. Austria was considered one of the best Mitropa Cup teams of all time. The main force of Ferencváros was in the offensive line, in which dr. György Sárosi provided one of the greatest achievements of his player career. Sárosi was taken off their shoulders at the end of the match. The power of Fradi's amazing heart, which permeated the entire team, was further enhanced by the audience's sometimes ecstatic encouragement. In addition to the 11 players from Ferencváros, this enthusiastic audience was also part of the victory. Dr. Sárosi said: "The most beautiful match of my life. It feels great to have such sincere and great joy for so many people." when Mihály Pataki added : "Defeating this Austria is a colossal achievement that Europe as a whole is noticing."

"Gyurka", as he was nicknamed, helped Ferencvaros finish second in 1935 and 1938, and played the leading role in their 1937 triumph. In the first leg of the semi-final away to Austria Vienna, Sarosi did a good job containing iconic striker Matthias Sindelar, but he couldn't prevent injury-stricken FTC losing 4-1. A return to Budapest coincided with a return to the strike force for Sarosi, and he responded with an electrifying two-goal display as the hosts beat the defending champions 6-1 to go through 7-5 on aggregate.

Mitropa Cup final 
In 1937, Ferencváros had to play with Lazio in the Mitropa Cup final. The first match was on Üllői út on 12 September 1937: Ferencváros - Lazio 4: 2 (1: 1). The rematch on 24 October 1937 in Rome: Lazio - Ferencváros 4: 5 (4: 3). Piola scored a hat-trick in 17 minutes. They played in the pouring rain in the second half. The decisive turn was when Hada defended Piola's penalty with a 4: 3 lead to Lazio. Ten minutes later, Kiss leveled off. In the 80th minute, Dancer runs away and curves the ball between points 5 and 11. Sárosi dr. he runs towards the ball, his back to the goal, and suddenly pulls the ball to the goal with his right foot, which cuts halfway into the goal of Lazio. Sárosi dr. he said it was perhaps the most beautiful goal of his life. Ferencváros won the cup. In the ornament, the Italian president hands over the cup to Dr. Sárosi. Led by the "B" - middle, the Hungarian camp sings the Hungarian anthem ore. The team also sings, dr. she sings with tears streaming from her eyes. After the end of the national anthem, the "Gyurka, Gyurka" from the handful of Hungarian fan camps roared in the eternal city as well. The goal king of Mitropa Cup in 1937: dr. Sárosi with 12 goals and 2 assists. In the two legs, Sárosi scored 6 goals and distributed 1 assist. In the second leg, he was given a rating of 1 by the newspapers which makes him the MVP.

Quotes:"I had never seen a game like this in my life, I just learned what football is. — Giovanni Riccardi

"I considered Sárosi to be the greatest artist, but now I also consider him the best strategist. The smartest football player in the world!" — Referee Wüttrich