[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jack Lyons (financier)

ng fraud, along with Ernest Saunders, Gerald Ronson, and Anthony Parnes, and the four men became known as "the Guinness Four". He was convicted but not sent to prison because he was suffering from ill-health. However, he lost his knighthood and was fined £3 million plus £1 million prosecution costs.

British prime minister John Major wrote to Lyons after revoking Lyons' knighthood in 1991: "It was painful for me to have to recommend that this be done, and I would not have inflicted this on you lightly. But the rules on forfeiture and the precedents left me, I regret, no alternative. May I assure you that the service which won you the honours in the first place is still appreciated and will never be forgotten."

In 1995, on appeal, one count of conspiracy was quashed and his fine was cut to £2.5 million. (The refund cheque of £500,000 was inadvertently made out to 'Sir Jack Lyons', although by then he had lost his title). Lawyers for the Guinness Four said their clients had lost their right to silence because they were compelled to give evidence to Department of Trade and Industry inspectors.

A third appeal in 2001 held by the European Court of Human Rights had ruled that the defendants were denied a fair trial by being compelled in law to provide potentially self-incriminatory information to Department of Trade and Industry inspectors which was then used as primary evidence against them. This breached their right to silence. At the time of the court of human rights verdict, Lyons said: "I welcome this judgment so that I may yet be able to enjoy a little of my retirement without the cloud of injustice hanging over me." The House of Lords finally ruled in 2002 that the convictions should stand.

Philanthropy
Lyons was a generous philanthropist, and was especially noted for his support of artistic causes. In 1963 Lyons established 'The Sir Jack Lyons Charitable Trust' which continues to make donations in his name. 
In his native Leeds, Lyons became the chairman of the Leeds Musical Festival in 1955 at the behest of his wife, after it was threatened with closure in 1953 and brought George Lascelles, 7th Earl of Harewood in as the festival's musical director. Lyons chaired the festival's centenary festival in 1958 at which Duke Ellington and his orchestra performed and which was attended by Queen Elizabeth II. Lyons remained chairman of the Leeds Musical Festival for 17 years. Lyons funded the University of York's music department and a concert hall that was named for him.

Lyons became a trustee of the London Symphony Orchestra (LSO) in 1970 and the chairman of the orchestra's trust in 1974. The LSO honoured him by making Lyons their first honorary member who was not a musician in 1973. Lyons was an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Academy of Music and was the principal financial benefactor of a 300-seat theatre at the academy which was named after him. Lyons also funded a recording of the Anthem of Europe (the final movement of Ludwig van Beethoven's 9th Symphony) in 1972 under conductor Carlo Maria Giulini. Lyons also served as deputy chairman of the Fanfare for Europe cultural programme that marked the United Kingdom's membership of the European Economic Community in 1973.

Lyons was chairman of the Shakespeare Exhibition at Stratford-upon-Avon that marked the 400th anniversary of William Shakespeare's birth. Lyons was the chairman of the commemorations for the tenth anniversary of Britain's accession to the European Economic Community in 1983 and served as the chairman of the British Bicentennial liaison committee that staged cultural celebrations to mark the United States Bicentennial in 1976.

Personal life
In 1943 Lyons married Roslyn Rosenbaum (1923–2014), the daughter of a Canadian eye surgeon. Rosenbaum was a singer and had trained under the Canadian opera singer Pauline Donalda. The couple's first child was born in Canada, and they moved to England at the end of World War II; they later had two sons and two daughters. Lyons suffered from bladder cancer and heart problems in his last years, which were spent in Canada, Florida, and Switzerland. Lyons died in Geneva, Switzerland, in February 2008, aged 92. His brother Bernard died a few weeks after him at his home in Buckinghamshire, England, in April 2008 aged 95.

References

1916 births
2008 deaths
Businesspeople from Leeds
Columbia Business School alumni
Culture in Leeds
Deaths in Switzerland
English art collectors
English expatriates in Canada
English expatriates in France
English expatriates in Switzerland
English expatriates in the United States
English Jews
English people of Polish-Jewish descent
English philanthropists
Jewish British philanthropists
London Symphony Orchestra
People associated with the University of York
British people convicted of fraud
British people convicted of theft
People educated at Leeds Grammar School
People stripped of a British Commonwealth honour
20th-century English businesspeople