[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Central Bank of Azerbaijan

the Republic of Azerbaijan” dated 10 December 2004.

The goals of the Central Bank are also to organize and ensure operations of centralized interbank and other unlicensed payment systems, as well as support the stability of the banking system. Profit-making is not the main goal of the Central Bank.

To achieve its goals the Central Bank:
 
conducts the monetary and foreign exchange policy;
organizes cash circulation;
sets an official exchange rate of Manat;
regulates and controls foreign currency;
 regulates and license bank and insurance sector, supervises activities in bank and insurance sector within the provisions of the existing Law;
 regulates securities market;
manages gold and foreign exchange reserves;
develops the balance of payments;
develops the country’s consolidated (both public and non-public) foreign debt statistics and international investment balance;
organizes and regulates payment systems.

Structure and management 
The Central Bank’s organizational structure includes the Management Board, the central administrative body and regional offices. The central administrative body includes the internal audit unit, as well as other structural units defined by the Management Board. All structural units and bodies, including the central administrative body of the Central Bank, function according to statutes approved by the Management Board.
 
The Central Bank is governed by the Management Board.

According to the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan members of the Management Board are appointed by the National Parliament of the Republic of Azerbaijan upon presentation by the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, while Governor and Deputy Governors of the Central Bank are appointed by the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan from among the Management Board members.
 
The Chairman of the Management Board of the Central Bank governs the Bank’s executive structure and chairs the Management Board, represents the Central Bank, segregates duties and responsibilities among senior management and addresses issues that do not fall under the Management Board jurisdiction according to the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan “On the Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan”.
 
The Central Bank discharges its functions across the country via its regional offices. There are six regional branch offices of the Central Bank throughout the country: the Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic Office of the Central Bank; Ganja, Bilasuvar and Guba Regional Offices; Yevlakh and Sumgayit Reserve Centers.

Governors

See also
Economy of Azerbaijan
Azerbaijan manat
Banking in Azerbaijan
List of banks in Azerbaijan

References

External links
 Central Bank of Azerbaijan 

1992 establishments in Azerbaijan
Banks established in 1992
Companies based in Baku
Banks of Azerbaijan
Azerbaijan
Government of Azerbaijan