[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karapapakhs

Ardahan, and 7 in Kağızman. 

During the Ottoman occupation of Iran's Naqadeh from 1908 to 1912, the Karapapakh population suffered considerably as they were seen as Iranian agents by the Ottomans. In the early 20th century, the Karapapakh in Naqadeh district shared eleven villages with Sunni Kurds.

According to the 1926 Soviet census, the number of Karapapakhs had drastically declined to only 6,315, which reflected the loss of Kars Oblast to the newly established Republic of Turkey following World War I. Mid-1920 figures showed that 70% of all Karapapakhs lived in Iran and 30% in the Soviet Union; the Karapapakhs in Turkey were most likely considered simply as Turks by that time, and thus no figures for Turkey were reported. According to Shirin Akiner's Islamic Peoples of the Soviet Union, first published in 1983 and dealing with the situation in and around the 1926 Soviet census, the great majority of the Karapapakh lived outside of the Soviet Union at the time. Those within the Soviet Union, mainly lived in the southern part of the Azerbaijan SSR along the Aras River. Akiner added that even in 1926, barely any Karapapakh could converse in the original Karapapakh language. Most of the Soviet Karapapakhs at the time were Sunnis, with a minority being Shia. The Karapapakhs were listed as a separate group in the 1926 Soviet census. During the Soviet Union's existence however the Karapapakhs were culturally and linguistically assimilated by the Azerbaijanis. They were counted as "Azerbaijanis" in the 1959 and 1970 Soviet censuses.

In 1944, the Karapapakhs in the Soviet Union were deported en masse to Soviet Central Asia, along with Meskhetian Turks, Kurds and others of the Georgian SSR.

According to Olson et al., which was published in 1994 and specifically deals with the ethnography of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union, the Karapapakhs are described as a small ethnic group and a Turkmen tribe, who primarily live in and around Tashkent, the capital of the Uzbek SSR at the time of the book's publication. They add that the Karapapakhs are primarily adherents of the Ali-Illahism syncretic religion. They also explain that due to the religious practices of the Karapapakh, "there has traditionally been an element of secretiveness and fanaticism to Karapapakh religion". Bennigsen likewise stated that "a certain number of the Karapapakhs are Ali Ilahis, which somewhat hinders their assimilation by the Azeris".

Olson et al. lastly added that there were more than 10,000 Karapapakhs in the Soviet Union at the time, with most of them localized in Soviet Central Asia; small numbers of Karapapakhs had been able however to return to southern Georgia and northern Armenia in the 1980s. Some 30,000 and 60,000 Karapapakhs were reportedly living in Iran and Turkey respectively at the time. Groups of Karapapakh still live around Ardahan, Kars and Iğdır to this present day.

Language
The Karapapakhs originally mainly spoke their own western Oghuz language, which is part of the western Oghuz branch and is closely related to Azerbaijani and Turkish. In the Georgian SSR of the Soviet Union, this language was often confused with Azerbaijani. Bearing similarities to the process of assimilation in the Soviet Union, in Turkey, the Karapapakhs no longer speak their Turkic language and have completely switched to Turkish. Brent Brendemoen notes in Turkic-Iranian Contact Areas: Historical and Linguistic Aspects that the migration of the Karapapakhs (and Terekeme, amongst others) in modern times from Turkey's east has been responsible for bringing Arabic loanwords with Persian vocalism to isolated areas as far west as Kangal in Sivas.

Traditional economy
The Karapapkhs were traditionally involved in sheep-rearing and a bit of agriculture.

See also
Ayrums

Azerbaijanis in Turkey
Iranian Azerbaijanis
Meskhetian Turks

Notes

References

Sources
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Ethnic groups in Georgia (country)
Ethnic groups in Iran
Ethnic groups in Azerbaijan
Turkomans in Turkey
Azerbaijani tribes
Karapapakhs