[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Falun Gong outside mainland China

y ceased, particularly from within China. In a study of media discourse on Falun Gong, researcher Leeshai Lemish found that Western news organizations also became less balanced, and more likely to uncritically present the narratives of the CCP, rather than those of Falun Gong or human rights groups.

Adam Frank writes that foreign media adopted a variety of frames in reporting on Falun Gong, including linking Falun Gong to historical antecedents in China, reporting on human rights violations against the group, and practice-based reporting on the experience of Falun Gong. Ultimately, Frank writes that in reporting on the Falun Gong, the Western tradition of casting the Chinese as "exotic" took dominance, and that "the facts were generally correct, but the normalcy that millions of Chinese practitioners associated with the practice had all but disappeared." David Ownby observes that sympathy for Falun Gong is further undermined by the impact of the "cult" label applied to the practice by the Chinese authorities, which never entirely went away in the minds of some Westerners, and the stigma of which still plays a role in public perceptions of Falun Gong.
 
Ethan Gutmann, a journalist reporting on China since the early 1990s, has attempted to explain the apparent dearth of public sympathy for Falun Gong as stemming, in part, from the group's shortcomings in public relations. Unlike the democracy activists or Tibetans, who have found a comfortable place in Western perceptions, "Falun Gong marched to a distinctly Chinese drum," according to Gutmann. This, coupled with western skepticism of persecuted refugees, has resulted in a perception that Falun Gong practitioners tended to exaggerate, or "spout slogans rather than facts." Gutmann also observes that Falun Gong also lacks robust backing from the American constituencies that usually support religious freedom: liberals are wary of Falun Gong's conservative morality, Christian conservatives don't accord the practice the same space as persecuted Christians, and the political center is wary of disrupting commercial and political relations with the Chinese government. Thus, Falun Gong practitioners have largely had to rely on their own resources in responding to the persecution.

A response by the U.S. government came on July 20, 2020—the 21st anniversary of the persecution of Falun Gong in China—where then Secretary of State Mike Pompeo called on the CCP to "immediately end its depraved abuse and mistreatment of Falun Gong practitioners, release those imprisoned due to their beliefs [...] and address the whereabouts of missing practitioners". He further stated that "Twenty-one years of persecution of Falun Gong practitioners is far too long, and it must end".

In November 2020, a Siberian Appeals Court banned Falun Gong in the region under Russia's extremisms laws that also targeted multiple other spiritual groups. This followed the Supreme Court of Khakassia's refusal to designate Falun Gong as extremist and the region's deputy prosecutor general's appeal to overturn the decision. Thus since November 2020, Falun Gong has been banned throughout the entirety of the Russian Federation. An international human rights organization based in Belgium, Human Rights Without Frontiers, considers the ban a "grave grave violation of religious freedom".

The Vietnamese Police said that illegal Falun Gong propaganda was circulating.

See also
Teachings of Falun Gong
History of Falun Gong
Falun Gong in Hong Kong

References

Falun Gong