[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Renga Media

d in favour of a more comedic tone. Completed in mid-2003, the movie went on to be screened at the Cannes Film Festival and the Festival Of Fantastic Films (where it won the award for Best Original Animated Feature), and was shown at several select cinemas in England during a limited theatrical run.

Current
Despite different views from multiple audiences, the first Dominator was a success and a sequel was immediately announced, as well as other small productions. In 2004, the six-minute short, "A Brief History of Hell", was released for download on the Renga Media website. New character designs were made and revealed in late 2004, and a booklet for a new sequel movie, "Dominator And The Cradle Of Death" was released in 2004 which featured new artwork and Renga Media profiles.  A twelve-minute crossover, "Heavy Metal vs. Dominator", arrived in mid-2005, being a short face-off between characters from the Dominator universe (or "Rengaverse") and characters from the movie "Heavy Metal: FAKK2", which was itself the brainchild of Heavy Metal magazine owner and Turtles co-creator Kevin Eastman. The finished short was released for download from the Renga Media and Heavy Metal websites and went to be screened at various conventions. This made use of new Dominator and Lady Violator models, and was a huge step up from the first Dominator movie in terms of animation and visual effects. The projected sequel movie, "Dominator and the Cradle Of Death" was scrapped, and Tony Luke revealed in his production diaries for 3D World magazine that Renga decided against an immediate sequel to the 2003 film as all concerned felt that there wasn't much to add story-wise to what they'd done earlier; thus, after obtaining funding for a much bigger production, it was decided to restart/ reimagine the Dominator mythos from scratch to reach a larger audience, and create a framework which could be expanded on in further films and other media. The result of this rejigging is the currently-in-production "Dominator X", which presents a very different version of the character, now voiced by "Lord of the Rings" actor Billy Boyd alongside regulars Doug Bradley, Tara Harley and Patrick Bergin, who had played the part of Dark Tyler for the 2005 "Heavy Metal vs..." crossover. 

Up until this point, Tony had steered the Renga ship with Doug Bradley alone, and asked "Mirrormask" producer Simon Moorhead to come on board in 2005 to oversee the expanding company. "Mirrormask", directed by artist Dave McKean from a script by Neil Gaiman (who had also appeared in "Archangel Thunderbird"), was released in 2006 by Sony Pictures. At the same time, a link-up with Japanese artist access company Region Free resulted in Dominator's first appearance in the manga format for over ten years - the resulting 8-page story, written by Alan Grant and illustrated by Madhouse regular Masanori Shino, is available from the Renga Media website, and will be appearing in the pages of Heavy Metal magazine later in 2007.

With studios in central Brighton, Renga's team is currently overseeing production of the new movie alongside new ventures in TV, manga and mobile phone downloads. They are supported by Screen South (part of the UK Film Council) and various other parties.

Death of Tony Luke
In 2003, Luke was given 8 months to live after being diagnosed with lung cancer. On 18 February 2016 it was reported that Tony Luke had died following a long battle with cancer.

References

External links

Official homepage of Renga Media
Official homepage of Doug Bradley
Official homepage of Yasushi Nirasawa
In Memoriam: Tony Kuroizumi-Luke

British animation studios
1995 establishments in England