[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Refugee shelter

ly made of canvas military issue tents which are criticized for being heavy, bulky, uninsulated, poorly made and for rotting in under a year. Extensive issues – e.g. they soon become crowded, uncomfortable, and unsafe – have been encountered in refugee camps throughout the world.

Secondary disaster

Temporary housing situations often lack several qualities of homes that are significant at this stage for victims, such as windows, warmth, color, space, and security. The problem of noise also contributes negatively to the privacy of the residents of temporary houses. Sounds of crying people after an earthquake or other disaster are chronic in neighboring houses. Additional damage is caused by rain, leading to floods, and gas leaks which often create fires. In these secondary disasters, temporary housing units frequently become dysfunctional, and the disaster-victims become homeless once again. Other problems have been described as such: lack of privacy, lack of private life; lack of space; all family members forced to sleep in the same space; lack of opportunity to consider feelings of others, including fear, sadness and grief; weather conditions; disease-ridden; the presence of public toilets and their sanitation; considerations of hygiene; toilets constantly being blocked; lack of water, including for laundry and dish-washing; heating, cooling, electricity problems; humidity; leakage of rain water into the housing space; the presence of insects; lack of windows; lack of sunlight in the houses; transportation to and from the housing location; difficulty of obtaining food; and insufficient quantity of shelters. All this can be perceived, by the victims, as secondary disaster. A quote from a journalist recording the daily lives of refugees in Palestine expresses her feelings after visiting a camp for the first time:
"Entering the refugee camp, I feel I am entering some medieval ghetto. I walk along a narrow alleyway, skirting an open sewage ditch. I pass tens of dozens of one and two-room houses, each leaning on the other for support. I am in a ghetto without streets, sidewalks, gardens, patios, trees, flowers, plazas, or shops—among an uprooted, stateless, scattered people who, like the Jews before them, are in a tragic diaspora. I pass scores of small children, the third generation of Palestinians born in the ghetto that has almost as long a history as the state of Israel itself. Someone has said that for every Jew who was brought in to create a new state, a Palestinian Arab was uprooted and left homeless."

Design considerations

When considering emergency, temporary, housing the following revolve around the success of such shelter and relief efforts:
 cost (how much per shelter? cost of resources? cost of living?)
 availability (are necessary resources available? are they available under pressure/time? who will provide them?)
 transport time (how long to require necessary materials?)
 setup time (how long does it take to set up? how many people does it require? what if pieces are missing?)
 quality (what is it made of? does it protect from the environment?)
 durability (how long is it meant to last? can it easily be damaged, if so can it be fixed?)
 size (number of persons per room. kitchen? wash space?  sleep space?)
 security (does the house have a lock? are there windows? is it surrounded by other emergency shelters? can belongings be left safely?)
 weather proof (protection from environmental conditions, extreme heat, extreme cold, winds, rains)
 design / look  (color? aesthetics? is it culturally sensitive? religious space? is it near nature?)
 privacy (separate rooms? locks on doors?)
 noise
 cleanliness
 distance to work/ school/ religious services/ washroom.
The questions presented above are often incompletely answered and accounted for when preparing for a post-disaster settlement.

User involvement

Since the most effective relief and reconstruction policies result from the participation of survivors in determining and planning their own needs, the successful performance of assisting groups is dependent on the accountability to appeal to and include local aid. Psychologists and humanitarian groups suggest that it is advantageous for both individual and community participation in the financing of their own shelter programs, especially permanent reconstruction. Incorporation of potential users not only with regard to having a say in the shelter, but also in the design, planning and constructing of the shelters has been shown to contribute to pain relief and suffering. Architects and psychologists have been in collaboration to construct design models that are holistic and functional, providing for both the most basic, physical needs as well as the psychological expectations from a post-disaster reality.

Roles and responsibilities