[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mars Matrix

Mars Matrix: Hyper Solid Shooting, or simply , is a vertically scrolling shooter arcade game developed by Takumi and released in 2000. The game was  published by Capcom and run on their CPS-2 arcade system board. Mars Matrix was later ported to the Dreamcast video game console in 2001. The arcade version uses a horizontally aligned monitor, despite being a vertically scrolling game.

Plot
In 2100, millions of people were starving due to massive food shortages and has caused civil wars around the world. Centuries later, however, the world government had sent colonists to Mars which began to solve these problems. At a nearby farm, the Infinity chip was discovered and it revealed all the technology of the advanced civilization. In 2309, a Declaration of Independence has been sent to Earth. Large armies have been amassed on Mars, and a gigantic armada was waiting for any attack from Earth. The Earth government sends out a fleet of battleships followed by a special air raid unit called ACID; ACID is equipped with a new fighter ship known as the Mosquito. Their mission is to enter Mars, stop the rebel violence, locate and destroy the rebel leader, whoever... or whatever it may be...

Gameplay

Controls
The game only uses one button, as the triggered actions differ according to the timing with which the button is pressed:
 Normal Shot: Tap A button. Shot power increases with level (max 8), which depends on EXP points.
 Piercing Cannon: By not pressing A button for at least 1 second, press A. The attack has a close range that can hit multiple targets. The attack strength is higher than Normal Shot, and the attack strength increases against target closer to player's fighter. Piercing Cannon's shot power does not change based on level.
 Mosquito: When GHB is full, A button is hold for 1/4 to 1/2 second. A barrier is activated afterwards, which damages contacting enemy. With active barrier, player's fighter is invulnerable, the GHB gauge is drained, and enemy bullets are attracted to player's fighter. Releasing A button while GHB is not empty causes attracted bullet to fire in a direction away from player's fighter when A button is released. A repelled bullet that hits an enemy is converted to cube.
 Gravity Hole Bomb: When GHB is full, A button is hold until GHB gauge is emptied. When activated, an explosion damages all on-screen enemies and destroys all on-screen enemy bullets.

Fighter
Each fighter has a 10x12 pixel hit box at the front of the unit. Player gains 1 life at 100000 EXP. The fighter can only be destroyed by colliding with enemy bullet, not other objects.
 Mosquito 01: normal speed, wide blaster weapon, lower normal shot damage
 Mosquito 02: high speed, laser shot weapon, higher normal shot damage

Items
 1UP: Increases player's life stock by 1.
 Cube: Increases experience, and recharges combo meter. The bigger cube grants longer recharge time.

Experience system
When player's fighter captures a cube, player's EXP is increased and the combo meter is filled, causing successive captured cubes to have increased EXP and longer recharge time until combo meter is depleted.

Combo meter can be depleted if player's fighter fails to capture a cube for a prolonged time period, or if player's fighter is destroyed.

Cubes can be found by destroying (a portion of) an enemy, or hitting enemy with repelled bullet.

When EXP is sufficiently high, player's level is increased. Increased level causes fighter's normal shot to be more powerful, and increases the number of cubes needed to completely fill combo meter. In addition, higher EXP value causes more points to be rewarded for activities that increase player's score.

Stages
There are 6 levels in the game each with a boss that you need to destroy in an amount of time and a briefing of the next level:

1. Armed Satellite Phobos
Briefing: We, in order to gain control of the airspace of Manitily, planned to secure Phobos satellite.
Location: Phobos
Boss: Small satellite armed with guns, lasers, and electric mines. Its wings can be shot off.

2. Descending to Mars
Briefing: The Phobos satellite has been secured. We are preparing to execute mission code 008 and are ready to enter the Mars' atmosphere. The entrance point is at 3557. Each unit should move to the attack point at 1200 hours. The next target is Maneris Front Base.
Location: Maneris Front Base
Boss: A Large Tank with cannons and turrets on its treads.

3. Surprise Attack
Briefing: The "ACID" unit that belongs to the Number 201 independent armada is starting to make a front alone. The goal of this mission is to secure Maneris Starport that has been occupied by the rebellion. Since this mission has been classified as extreme, no support will be available.
Location: Maneris Starport
Boss: A giant crustacean mech that deploys seed-like aircraft with different patterns of firing bullets. The head turns into a cannon and the pincers turn into gatling guns when destroyed.