[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Quantum nonlocality

n amount of  violates LO.

All these principles can be experimentally falsified under the assumption that we can decide if two or more events are space-like separated. This sets this research program aside from the axiomatic reconstruction of quantum mechanics via Generalized Probabilistic Theories.

The works above rely on the implicit assumption that any physical set of correlations must be closed under wirings. This means that any effective box built by combining the inputs and outputs of a number of boxes within the considered set must also belong to the set. Closure under wirings does not seem to enforce any limit on the maximum value of CHSH. However, it is not a void principle: on the contrary, in  it is shown that many simple, intuitive families of sets of correlations in probability space happen to violate it.

Originally, it was unknown whether any of these principles (or a subset thereof) was strong enough to derive all the constraints defining . This state of affairs continued for some years until the construction of the almost quantum set .  is a set of correlations that is closed under wirings and can be characterized via semidefinite programming. It contains all correlations in , but also some non-quantum boxes . Remarkably, all boxes within the almost quantum set are shown to be compatible with the principles of NTCC, NANLC, ML and LO. There is also numerical evidence that almost-quantum boxes also comply with IC. It seems, therefore, that, even when the above principles are taken together, they do not suffice to single out the quantum set in the simplest Bell scenario of two parties, two inputs and two outputs.

Device independent protocols

Nonlocality can be exploited to conduct quantum information tasks which do not rely on the knowledge of the inner workings of the prepare-and-measurement apparatuses involved in the experiment. The security or reliability of any such protocol just depends on the strength of the experimentally measured correlations . These protocols are termed device-independent.

Device-independent quantum key distribution

The first device-independent protocol proposed was device-independent quantum key distribution (QKD). In this primitive, two distant parties, Alice and Bob, are distributed an entangled quantum state, that they probe, thus obtaining the statistics . Based on how non-local the box  happens to be, Alice and Bob estimate how much knowledge an external quantum adversary Eve (the eavesdropper) could possess on the value of Alice and Bob's outputs.  This estimation allows them to devise a reconciliation protocol at the end of which Alice and Bob share a perfectly correlated one-time pad of which Eve has no information whatsoever. The one-time pad can then be used to transmit a secret message through a public channel. Although the first security analyses on device-independent QKD relied on Eve carrying out a specific family of attacks, all such protocols have been recently proven unconditionally secure.

Device-independent randomness certification, expansion and amplification
Nonlocality can be used to certify that the outcomes of one of the parties in a Bell experiment are partially unknown to an external adversary. By feeding a partially random seed to several non-local boxes, and, after processing the outputs, one can end up with a longer (potentially unbounded) string of comparable randomness or with a shorter but more random string. This last primitive can be proven impossible in a classical setting.