[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# War in Somalia (2006–2009)

hiopian airstrikes in Afmadow district concurrent to the Battle of Ras Kamboni. During this battle, the United States launched an airstrike conducted by an AC-130 gunship which they claimed was against suspected Al-Qaeda operatives. A second airstrike was made after the battle later in January 2007.

On 20 February 2007, the United Nations Security Council authorised the African Union to deploy a peacekeeping mission. The aim of the peacekeeping mission was to support a national reconciliation congress in Somalia. The military component consists of troops drawn from Uganda, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Ethiopia who are deployed in six sectors covering south and central Somalia.

By the end of March, the fighting intensified in Mogadishu and more than a thousand people, mostly civilians, were killed. Combat deaths numbered 9 Ethiopian soldiers, 6 Somali soldiers, and an unknown number of insurgents. Hawiye clan militiamen allied with the Islamists clashed with TFG and Ethiopian troops. In September 2007, the Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia (ARS) was formed. The following month Al-Shabaab spokesman Mukhtar Robow would state that the group did not recognize and had no relationship with the ARS. 

In December 2007, Ethiopian troops withdrew from the town of Guriel, and the Islamists controlled Guriel after that. Ethiopia had a large military base there to secure the road linking the two countries. By the end of December 2007, there were over 700,000 internally displaced people and 6,000 civilians had been killed in Mogadishu. The United Nations said it was the worst ever humanitarian crises in Africa. The TFG claimed that the ICU was regrouping, but the Ethiopian Government refuted this claim.

2008

In February 2008, Al Shabaab captured the town of Dinsoor after probing it several times. This marked a change in their strategy which previously focused mainly on the capital Mogadishu.
In late May after capturing the two towns near Kismayo. The Insurgents agreed not to attack Kismayo a city ruled by clan militia.
A new Islamic court was opened in Jowhar, 90 km away from the capital Mogadishu.

On March 3, 2008, the United States launched an air strike on the Somali town of Dhoble. U.S. officials claimed the town was held by Islamic extremists, but gave few details to the press. It was reported that Hassan Turki was in the area. The same area was targeted by US bombers one year earlier. An air strike occurred on May 1 in Dhusamareb. It killed the leader of Al-Shabaab Aden Hashi Eyrow along with another senior commander and several civilians; however, the attack did nothing to slow down the Insurgency.

In September 2008, in Mogadishu, the Ras Kamboni Brigades, in collaboration with fighters loyal to the ICU, initiated their first attack. Subsequently, after a night-long battle against AMISOM forces, friction emerged between the two factions. This was triggered by an official from the Ras Kamboni Brigades declaring that the ICU had disintegrated. This statement provoked ire among ICU rebels in Mogadishu, who countered by pointing out that they had provided support to the Brigades and urged the official not to reiterate his comment. 

After long talks in Djibouti over a ceasefire between the TFG and the Alliance for the Reliberation of Somalia, agreement was reached that the parliament would be doubled in size to include 200 representatives of the opposition alliance and 75 representatives of the civil society. A new president and prime minister would be elected by the new parliament, and a commission to look into crimes of war would be established. A new constitution was also agreed to be drafted shortly. Following the agreement to merge the ARS and TFG, inter-insurgent disputes would escalate. Islamic Courts, ARS, Al-Shabaab forces would periodically clash with one other. In the months leading up to the agreement, some Islamic Courts groups in Somalia explicitly declared their independence of either the Asmara or Djibouti factions of the ARS.

In early December 2008, Ethiopia announced it would withdraw its troops from Somalia shortly, and later announced that it would first help secure the withdrawal of the AMISOM peacekeepers from Burundi and Uganda before withdrawing. The quick withdrawal of the AMISOM peacekeepers was seen as putting additional pressure on the United Nations to provide peacekeeping. That same month, President Abdulahi Yusuf resigned after stating the he had lost control of the country to Islamist insurgents.