[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 2006 Lebanon War

were harmed. But three commanders of the third level were killed; an operations officer in the Bint Jbeil axis, a logistics officer and a third commander involved in the military side of the party. In addition three or four town commanders and four or five village commanders were killed in the war.

Nasrallah did not mention any names but the killed commanders were later identified by Hizbullah newspaper Al-Intiqad (and later republished by Hizbullah magazine al-Ahed). The three slain mid-level leaders were dubbed the "Three Knights" of the Islamic Resistance:
	
 Khalid Bazzi ("al-Hajj Qasim") from Bint Jbeil was chief of operations in the Bint Jbeil area, including Maroun al-Ras, Aynata, Aytaroun and Bint Jbeil. He led the operation where two Israeli soldiers were captured. He was killed 29 July 2006 in an air strike on a house in the old city of Bint Jbeil, together with two other Hizbullah members. Bazzi's death or significant role was never commented on by Israel.
 Muhammad Qanso ("Sajid ad-Duwayr") from the village of ad-Duwayr was a commander in the Hizbullah Special Force, who replaced Bazzi as commander of Bint Jbeil sector. He was killed 11 August in an air raid outside the village of Beit Yahoun, about five kilometres to the north of Bint Jbeil.
 Muhammad Sorour ("Jihad al-'Amili") from Ayta ash-Sha'b was a logistics officer. He was killed in an air raid on the village of Barish on 25 July. Sorour's death was never commented on by Israel.

"Sajid ad-Duwayr" was the only dead Hezbullah commander correctly identified by IDF during the war. However, IDF did not learn his true identity (Muhammad Qanso) and got both the time and the place of his death wrong. He has not killed in the morning of 14 August and was not killed in either Bint Jbeil or Beirut's southern suburbs. And he was "a" commander, not "the" commander of Hizbullah Special Force.

Muhammad Abu Ta'am was commander of Hizbullah forces in the town Bint Jbeil. He was killed in the same air strike as sector commander Khalid Bazzi.

Squad leader Muhammad Dimashq ("Jawad Ayta") was shot 21 July, by an Israeli sniper in the battle of Maroun ar-Ras.

Two Hezbollah commanders were killed in battles around Wadi Hujeir/Wadi Sulouqi. Rani Adnan Bazzi died in hand-to-hand combat, together with seven of his men, in the town of al-Ghandouriya, controlling the strategic wadi crossing. A further three fighters were wounded in the battle and one of them were taken prisoner by the IDF. 
	
Commander Ali Mahmoud Salih ("Bilal") fought singlehandedly further up the wadi, firing ATGM rockets at the advancing Israeli tanks. In the end he was severely wounded by a drone strike and died some time later from his wounds.

Hezbullah prisoners
On July 21, Israel Chief-of-Staff Dan Halutz presented one of the objective of the war as the "taking terrorists alive."
He repeatedly ordered Israeli troops during the war to capture Hezbollah bodies "to show to the media". 

July 24 the IDF announced that it had captured two Hizbullah fighters in Battle of Maroun al-Ras, the first it had captured in the war. According to Brig.Gen. Alon Friedman the prisoners were held in Israel.

During a raid on Baakbek August, 1, the IDF captured five Lebanese citizens, described by the IDF as "known Hizbullah gunmen". 
All five were later identified as civilians and released three weeks later.

Israel claimed to have captured five Hizbullah fighters August 3, during a clash in Rajamin in which three Israeli soldiers were killed.
August 8, Israel announced that it had also captured five Hizbullah "terrorists" in the Bint Jbeil area. The fighters were caught while sleeping and were carrying heavy weapons

A few days after the ceasefire IDF launched a second, seemingly unsuccessful, raid on Baalbek that led to the death of Lieutenant Colonel Emmanuel Moreno. According to Jerusalem Post, two Hizbullah fighters were reportedly taken prisoner in the raid.

Most of the alleged Hizbullah fighters apprehended by IDF during the war, later turned out to be ordinary Lebanese civilians. At the end of the war, Israel held only four Hizbullah fighters as prisoners (plus a civilian Hizbullah member and former fighter). None of them were commanders or Iranians. They were released in a prisoner swap with Israel in 2008. Israel had also seized the bodies of 12 dead Hizbullah fighters and brought them to Israel. They were returned to Lebanon in the prisoner exchange.

Lebanese Armed Forces 
Though rarely engaged in combat, 43 Lebanese soldiers and policemen were killed.