[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology

relevant problems faced by the industrial sector and different organizations.
Isotope Production Division (IPD) - The Isotope Production Division (IPD) It contains Molly Group, Generator Production group, Kit production Group. IPD also involves in modification of exiting isotope production facility.

Directorate of Coordination
The Directorate of Coordination, headed by Engr. Iqbal Hussain Khan, is an administrative directorate which consists of 3 technical support divisions. Computation,Information, Communication Technologies (CICT)/Management Information System (MIS) Division, The Scientific Information Division (SID), Programme Coordination Divisionj (PCD) are included in this division.
Computation Information & Communication Technologies Division/Management Information Systems (MISD) - CICT/MIS division headed by Dr. Syed Zubair Ahmad was established in 1980 for developing computation and information technologies infrastructure at PINSTECH. Initially miniframe computer systems like VAX/11-780 were deployed to provide computational support to the scientific community at PINSTECH. Later on with the advent of distributed computing technologies, numerous distribute systems were deployed to achieve higher processing and storage capacity than mainframe/miniframe computers. These include Data and Compute clusters, grids, clouds and applications. Data acquisition systems, enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems and advanced network architectures are also developed and deployed.
Scientific Information Division (SID)- The Scientific Information Division (SID, headed by Dr. Ishtiaq Hussain Bokhari, was established in PINSTECH in 1966. It was upgraded into a full-fledged division in 1984. SID is the central source of scientific and technical information not only for Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission but also for other scientific organizations and universities in the country and is responsible for the efficient acquisition, storage, retrieval and dissemination of Scientific  and Technical information in support of the PAEC program.

User facilities 

Analytical Laboratories
Charged Particle Accelerator
Computer Oriented Services
Corrosion Testing
Environmental Studies  Building
Health Physics, Radiation Safety & Radioactive Waste Management
Irradiation Laboratories
Lasers  Laboratory and Testing Facility
Materials Development & Characterization
Nuclear Geological Services
Processing of Polymers
Production of Radioisotopes & Radio-pharmaceuticals
Radiation & Radioisotope Applications
Repair & Maintenance of Electronic Equipment
Scientific & Industrial Instruments
Scientific Glass Blowing
Scientific Information
Technical Services & Collaboration
Vacuum Technology Laboratory
Vibration Analysis

Director generals (DGs) of PINSTECH

Notes

References

Nuclear technology in Pakistan
Nuclear research institutes
Particle physics facilities
International research institutes
Research institutes in Pakistan
Pakistan federal departments and agencies
Constituent institutions of Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission
Edward Durell Stone buildings
Laboratories in Pakistan
Mathematical institutes
Chemical research institutes
Pakistan Institute of Engineering and Applied Sciences
Biological research institutes
Supercomputer sites
1965 establishments in Pakistan
Abdus Salam
Theoretical physics institutes
Nuclear weapons programme of Pakistan