[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cash-for-Honours scandal

at it might compromise their existing business arrangements with the government. Their details, including one foreign backer, will be provided "in confidence" to the Electoral Commission. Initially the party had sought not to disclose to anyone the names of two lenders who requested confidentiality.

The party had an outstanding £16 million bank loan and £4.7 million was owed to local Conservative Party associations.

The Electoral Commission welcomed the decision to publish the list – but said it had written to the party asking for more details on the loan terms.

Criminal investigation

Corrupt procurement and award of honours is legislated against by the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act 1925 and the Public Bodies Corrupt Practices Act 1889 and the Metropolitan Police investigated the three complaints that they had received under these Acts. The police are also investigating whether false declarations were made to the Electoral Commission, which is an offence under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. On 27 March they gave MPs more details of its inquiry into the complaints and the Public Administration Select Committee agreed to postpone its hearing on this issue in order not to prejudice possible police action. The criminal inquiry and the Electoral Commission investigation both stretch back to 2001.

6 April 2006 – Electoral Commission announced that its own investigation was to be suspended until the police completed their inquiries. The Electoral Commission was not satisfied that election funding laws had not been breached.

Metropolitan Police investigation
 13 April 2006 – The Metropolitan Police arrested former government adviser Desmond Smith under the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act. Smith, headteacher of All Saints Catholic School and Technology College, was a council member of the Specialist Schools and Academies Trust, which helped the government recruit sponsors for the City Academy programme. Lord Levy was the President of The Council of the Specialist Schools and Academies Trust.
 
 12 July 2006 – Lord Levy was arrested by the Metropolitan Police in connection with the enquiry.
 
 20 September 2006 – Businessman Christopher Evans was arrested by police in connection with the enquiry.
 
 22 November 2006 – The police questioned a serving Cabinet minister, for the first time, as a witness in the investigation, Secretary of State for Health Patricia Hewitt.
 
 14 December 2006 – Police questioned Prime Minister Tony Blair at Downing Street as a witness; he was not arrested or interviewed under caution.
 
 15 December 2006 – Police questioned Jack McConnell, the First Minister of Scotland.
 
 January 2007 – Police questioned, under caution, John McTernan, the Director of Political Operations at 10 Downing Street seconded to the Scottish Labour Party to run its campaign for the Scottish Parliament general election of 3 May 2007.
 
 19 January 2007 – Ruth Turner, Director of Government Relations at 10 Downing Street, was arrested by police under the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act and also on suspicion of perverting the course of justice. She was later released on bail. She was the first salaried Government official to be arrested in the inquiry, which followed a search of 10 Downing Street's computer systems by an independent IT expert.
 
 26 January 2007 – Prime Minister Tony Blair was questioned in Downing Street for a second time—once again, as a witness and not under caution. At the request of police the 45-minute interview was not publicly revealed until 1 February 2007, for what they described as "operational reasons". A Metropolitan Police spokesperson stated that Blair was only being "interviewed as a witness" but declined to state whether the interview related to alleged breaches of the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act or alleged perversion of the course of justice. However, on 25 June 2007 Channel 4 news reported that the police had originally asked for an interview under caution, and that Blair had said that this would require him to resign as Prime Minister. The police had then re-considered and interviewed him as a witness, rather than suspect.
 
 30 January 2007 – Lord Levy was arrested again on suspicion of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, while still on bail from the previous arrest. He was subsequently bailed.
 
 7 February 2007 – The Crown Prosecution Service confirmed that head teacher Des Smith will not face any charges.
 
 20 February 2007 – On reporting to a police station under her bail terms, Ruth Turner was interviewed for a second time and re-bailed.
 
 2 March 2007 – The Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith obtained an injunction to prevent the BBC from broadcasting a story about the investigation, relating to an email that the BBC had seen.
 
 5 March 2007 – After a request to the Attorney General, the BBC was allowed to reveal that the email was sent by Number 10 aide Ruth Turner to Tony Blair's chief of staff, Jonathan Powell