[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Maryland Route 194

Maryland Route 194 (MD 194) is a state highway in the U.S. state of Maryland. The state highway runs  from MD 26 in Ceresville north to the Pennsylvania state line near Taneytown, where the highway continues as Pennsylvania Route 194 (PA 194) toward Hanover. MD 194 is the main highway between Frederick and Hanover; the state highway connects the towns of Walkersville and Woodsboro in northeastern Frederick County with Keymar and Taneytown in northwestern Carroll County. MD 194 was blazed as a migration route in the 18th century and a pair of turnpikes in Frederick County in the 19th century, one of which was the last private toll road in Maryland. The state highway, which was originally designated MD 71, was built as a modern highway in Frederick County in the mid-1920s and constructed as Francis Scott Key Highway in Carroll County in the late 1920s and early 1930s. MD 194 received its modern route number in 1956 as part of a three-route number swap. The state highway's bypasses of Walkersville and Woodsboro opened in the early 1980s and mid-1990s, respectively.

Route description
MD 194 begins at an intersection with MD 26 (Liberty Road) in Ceresville. The roadway continues south as MD 26, which crosses the Monocacy River on its way toward Frederick.  MD 26 heads east from the intersection as a two-lane undivided road toward Libertytown. MD 194 heads north as Woodsboro Pike, which starts as a four-lane divided highway but reduces to a two-lane undivided road as the highway passes through the suburban communities of Discovery and Spring Garden, where the state highway passes the historic Woodsboro and Frederick Turnpike Company Tollhouse. While passing east of Walkersville High School, the state highway enters the town of Walkersville and the highway's old alignment, Frederick Street, splits to the north. MD 194 collects the other end of Frederick Street and passes between residential subdivisions before leaving the town at the highway's intersection with Devilbiss Bridge Road and Daysville Road. The former road heads west toward the historic Harris Farm; the latter highway leads to the 19th century Crum Road Bridge.

MD 194 parallels the Maryland Midland Railway's north–south line, Israel Creek, and Laurel Hill north to Woodsboro. At the south end of the town, Main Street, which is unsigned MD 194A, continues straight north while MD 194 veers northeast to bypass the town. A park and ride lot is located at this intersection. The state highway starts to run concurrently with MD 550 at Woodsboro Road, which heads east as MD 550 toward Libertytown. On the north side of town, MD 550 heads west as Woodsboro Creagerstown Road, which meets the northern end of Main Street before heading northwest toward Creagerstown and Thurmont. MD 194 veers northeast and has a grade crossing with the railroad track at New Midway, where the highway intersects Legore Road, which leads to the LeGore Bridge. The state highway passes through the village of Ladiesburg before crossing Little Pipe Creek, one of the tributaries of Double Pipe Creek, into Carroll County.

MD 194 continues as Francis Scott Key Highway through Keymar, where the north–south and east–west lines of the Maryland Midland Railway intersect. The state highway has a grade crossing of the east–west rail line and intersects the eastern terminus of MD 77 (Middleburg Road). In the hamlet of Bruceville, MD 194 crosses Big Pipe Creek and intersects Keysville Bruceville Road, which heads northwest toward the village of Keysville and Terra Rubra, the birthplace of Francis Scott Key. The state highway passes the historic Winemiller Family Farm and Keefer-Brubaker Farm on its way to Taneytown. MD 194, which becomes Frederick Street, crosses a branch of Piney Creek and passes the Ludwick Rudisel Tannery House. In the center of the Taneytown Historic District, the state highway intersects MD 140 (Baltimore Street), where MD 194 becomes York Street. After leaving Taneytown, the state highway becomes Francis Scott Key Highway again as it heads through farmland. MD 194 crosses Piney Creek before reaching its northern terminus at the Pennsylvania state line. The roadway continues north as PA 194 (Frederick Pike) toward the boroughs of Littlestown and Hanover.

MD 194 is a part of the National Highway System as a principal arterial from its southern terminus in Ceresville to Daysville Road in Walkersville and within the city of Taneytown.

History