[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Per Hüttner

n whether it is meaningful to draw a line between reality and fiction. In her long text about the latter exhibition, the curator Cecilia Canziani shows how both the problematic of the singular and the collective, as well as myth and its ability influence reality, is highlighted in the artist's work:

"In Plato’s Symposium, perhaps the best known of his dialogues, Aristofanes recounts that once upon a time, human beings had two heads, four arms, four legs, they were complete, a whole, a unity. Because of their arrogance they were punished by Zeus and divided in two halves: men and women. Since then, we look for completion in the other, and such- arguably - along as being a metaphor of love, also serves as a symbol of the dialectic between singularity and collectivity that informs the political organisation of society. In "Imminent" it is not just the narrative that is fragmented, but also the characters and their multiplied personae. Different actors are cast in the same role, sometime one character is transformed into another, reminding us of the quest for unity that Plato describes."

In the Quantum Police project, the above-mentioned problematic is taken even further. Here, the artist mixes (stolen or found?) police evidence material with interviews and fictional texts that describe elaborate conspiracy theories involving the police both in Europe and China. Delving deeper into questions of authenticity, the artist has also staged events that cross the boundaries of academic presentations, guided tours, and performance art. These have taken place at institutions like MACRO in Rome, CAPC in Bordeaux, Rockbund Art Museum in Shanghai, Tate Britain and Hayward Gallery in London and as part of experimental projects like The Invisible Generation and the international research group OuUnPo. Contrary to the video work, where the sound is subdued, Hüttner often uses music in the recent performances and installations in order to purposefully create paradoxical and misleading timelines. These investigations into time, duration and the impermanent nature of knowledge have further been developed in an ongoing collaborative research with the Turkish writer/curator Fatos Üstek that started like a creative writing exchange in the Anglo-Austrian magazine Nowiswere and that has led to interventions in museums like the Wacoal Art Center in Tokyo and Tate Modern in London as well as in public spaces in New York City, Philadelphia, Porto, Yokohama and Athens.

Exhibitions

Solo exhibitions and touring performances
 Transversal Madness, (with C. Neusser) Satyrianas festival, Sao Paulo, Brazil, F4Libre, Cuarnevaca, Mexico and El Dia D, Mexico City (2019–2020)
 The Boundaries of Death Challenged, (With Jean-Louis Huhta and Jean Claude Saintilus) Lenin, Murmansk; Ä’vv Skolt Sami Museum, Neiden; Terminal B, Kirkenes; Fristaden, Stockholm and Putte’s Bar & Pizza, Helsinki. (2018)
 The Electric Brain, (with 1+1=3) Biblioteque Charcot, Paris (2018)
 Wayob, Galleri Fagerstedt Stockholm, Sweden (2017)
 What is Potential? Exploring Aristotle, Art and Medicine Wellcome Collection Reading Room, London (2015)
 V8skan Nobel Museum, Stockholm, Sweden (2015).
 The Silence Galleri Fagerstedt, Stockholm, Sweden (2015).
 Poseidon Recreates Lake Texcoco, Alam + Petrov and Casa Punk, Mexico City, Mexico with Jean-Louis Huhta (2014)
 (In)Visible Dialogues (with biochemist Elias Arnér), curated by Lena Boëthius, Konstakademien, Stockholm, Sweden (2011)
 Quantum Police, curated by Anne Klontz, Valerie Lambert Gallery, Brussels; DKTUS Stockholm and Putting Out the Fire with Gasoline, Manufactura's Studio, Wuhan, China; The Old Police Station and Cartel in London(2011).
 unknown at Zendai Contemporary Art Exhibition Hall, Shanghai, China (2010)
 Imminent, Fei Contemporary Art Center, Shanghai, China (2010)
 Do not Go Gentle, ERBA and Musée du Temps, Besançon, France (2009)
 Xiao Yao You, Guandong Museum of Art, Guangzhou, China (2006)
 Tundro, Contemporary Art Gallery, National Museum, Szczecin, Poland (2006)
 Repetitive Time, Göteborgs Konstmuseum, Gothenburg, Sweden (2006)
 Democracia y Deseo, Vacio 9, Madrid, Spain (2006)
 Per Hüttner, Xposeptember, Liljevalchs Konsthall, Stockholm, Sweden (2005)
 I Am a Curator, Chisenhale Gallery, London, UK (2003)