[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Typographic Style

The International Typographic Style is a systemic approach to graphic design that emerged during the 1930s - 1950s but continued to develop internationally. It is considered the basis of the Swiss style. It expanded on and formalized the modernist typographic innovations of the 1920s that emerged in part out of art movements such as Constructivism (Russia), De Stijl (The Netherlands) and at the Bauhaus (Germany).  The International Typographic Style has had profound influence on graphic design as a part of the modernist movement, impacting many design-related fields including architecture and art. It emphasizes simplicity, clarity, readability, and objectivity. Hallmarks of the style are asymmetric layouts, use of a grid, sans-serif typefaces like Akzidenz Grotesk and Helvetica, and flush left, ragged right text. The style is also associated with a preference for photography in place of illustrations or drawings. Many of the early International Typographic Style works featured typography as a primary design element in addition to its use in text, and it is for this that the style is named. The influences of this graphic movement can still be seen in design strategy and theory to this day.

Specifics of the term

International Typographic Style and the Swiss School 

There are difficulties in defining the boundaries of the International Typographic Style. Sometimes, the term is considered as a synonym for the concept of "Swiss style" - a phenomenon that became widespread in international typography and Swiss design in the 1950s and 1960s. However, the International Typographic Style and the Swiss Style are different phenomena. Traditionally, the term “International Typographic Style” is used as a name that defines the state of international graphics in the 1920s and 1930s. The concept of “Swiss style” is usually limited to the 1950s and 1960s and associated with universal graphic systems of this period.   Despite controversy and discrepancies, these terms are sometimes used interchangeably.

International Typographic Style and International Style 

"International Typographic Style" is meaningfully related to the concept of International Style in architecture. This phenomenon, in turn, is attributed to the 1930s-1960s and is associated with the exhibition "Modern Architecture: An International Exhibition", which was held in 1932 at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The visual system of the International Style formed the basis of the general artistic doctrine in various fields of design and formed the basis of the International Typographic Style.

History

The style emerged from a desire to represent information objectively, free from the influence of associated meaning. The International Typographic Style evolved as a modernist graphic movement that sought to convey messages clearly and in a universally straightforward manner. Two major Swiss design schools are responsible for the early years of International Typographic Style. A graphic design technique based on grid-work that began in the 19th century became inspiration for modifying the foundational course at the Basel School of Design in 1908. Shortly thereafter, in 1918 Ernst Keller became a professor at the Kunstgewerbeschule Zürich and began developing a graphic design and typography course. He did not teach a specific style to his students, rather he taught a philosophy of style that dictated "the solution to the design problem should emerge from its content." This idea of the solution to the design emerging from the problem itself was a reaction to previous artistic processes focused on "beauty for the sake of beauty" or "the creation of beauty as a purpose in and of itself". Keller's work uses simple geometric forms, vibrant colors and evocative imagery to further elucidate the meaning behind each design. Other early pioneers include Théo Ballmer and Max Bill.