[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bet Tzedek Legal Services – The House of Justice

re often targeted for eviction in order to circumvent the rent stabilization laws and bring in new tenants at higher rents. The project's attorney represents these clients, develops solutions to systematic housing legal problems, and recruits, trains, and supervises a network of volunteer attorneys.

Sydney M. Irmas Housing Conditions Project
Bet Tzedek's Sydney M. Irmas Housing Conditions Project is underwritten by a grant from the Irmas Family Foundation to help low-income families secure safe, affordable housing. In 2001, the Irmas Project brought landmark litigation on behalf of tenants' rights group Inquilinos Unidos against one of the most notorious landlords in Los Angeles. The lawsuit was later joined by the Los Angeles City Attorney's office, and the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher served as pro bono counsel on the suit. This case represented a landmark victory in the battle against landlords who subject their tenants to substandard health and safety conditions and set a significant precedent in the ability of tenants' groups to successfully prosecute owners attempting to hide behind a web of business identities.

Eviction Defense Project
The Eviction Defense Project at Bet Tzedek Legal Services provides advice, counsel and representation those in need of assistance. Bet Tzedek accepts eviction cases on an individual basis, and screens all cases for merit. Annually, Bet Tzedek serves as counsel for 100 families who face illegal eviction from their apartments, with a success rate of over 90 percent.

Kinship care
Bet Tzedek Legal Services created the Kinship Care Project in 2002 to address the needs of the more than 88,000 children in Los Angeles County who live with their grandparents. The Kinship Care Project offers a variety of services to grandparents and others who are raising their young family members. For the last five years, Bet Tzedek has offered free legal services to these families.

Bet Tzedek's Kinship Care Project is unique in Los Angeles County, as no other service provider focuses on this population. Additionally, Bet Tzedek Legal Services published Southern California's first comprehensive guide for relative caregivers, Caring for a Relative's Child. The guide is available in both English and Spanish, and is the primary resource of its kind used by social workers throughout Los Angeles County.

Nursing Home Advocacy Project
The Nursing Home Advocacy Project (NHAP) has been a signature program that has shaped the development of Bet Tzedek's elderlaw practice. The project was established in response to a need for effective legal assistance for residents of nursing homes. Today, Bet Tzedek works to improve the quality of care for the institutionalized elderly and provides legal protection against abuse and neglect through advice, education, advocacy, and litigation. Among the many milestones in NHAP's history are:
 Comprehensive legislation to reform admissions and discharge practices and financial responsibility and billing practices by nursing homes.
 A landmark study of Los Angeles County nursing homes, which brought to light serious noncompliance with state and federal regulations and prompted the passage of reform legislation 
 Major litigation against a national nursing home chain for fraudulent admissions contracts, resulting in sweeping national changes.

NHAP has published the following consumer guides: "The Nursing Home Companion" (in English and Spanish); "If Only I Had Known: Misrepresentations Made by Nursing Homes" (published with a grant from the Archstone Foundation), and "How to Get Care From a Residential Care Facility". Over 200,000 copies of these guides have been distributed nationally, and they remain the first resource consulted by ombudspersons throughout California.

Senior legal services
For more than two decades, Bet Tzedek has served the legal needs of low-income seniors in Los Angeles. Bet Tzedek is the exclusive provider of free legal services to low-income seniors through contracts with the City and County of Los Angeles.  Bet Tzedek staff address legal issues that affect seniors such as consumer fraud and elder abuse, nursing homes and residential care facilities, public benefits, family and kinship caregiver needs, and housing. Bet Tzedek staff regularly meet with clients at more than 30 senior centers in Greater Los Angeles County. In addition to providing one-on-one services, Bet Tzedek has developed four new legal clinics designed to help seniors help themselves. Each clinic provides an overview of a particular legal issue and guides seniors in the preparation of the appropriate legal documents.

References

Jewish charities based in the United States
Legal aid
Non-profit organizations based in Los Angeles
United States elder law
Charities based in California