[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Albertus W. Catlin

commanded the Naval Prison at Portsmouth Navy Yard, Maine, while also having temporary duty at the Army Service Schools at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. While at Portsmouth Navy Yard, he was promoted to lieutenant colonel in October 1915, which was followed with a promotion to colonel in February 1917.

Catlin graduated from the Army War College one month after the American entry into World War I. Subsequently, he was placed in charge of the Marine overseas training camp at Quantico, Virginia. In October 1917, Catlin was sent to France as commanding officer of the 6th Marine Regiment. The 6th Marines, together with the 5th Marine Regiment under Hiram I. Bearss, formed the 4th Marine Brigade, commanded by Charles A. Doyen, which itself formed part of the 2nd Division, a United States Army formation, commanded by Omar Bundy. From June 1–6, 1918, the 6th Regiment saw action in the front lines from Paris-Metz Road through Lucy-le-Bocage to Hill 142. On June 6, 1918, with his regiment attacking Bois de Belleau, he was wounded in the chest by a sniper and evacuated to a hospital the next day. It was the first time he had been wounded in 28 years of active service. Harry Lee took over command of the 6th Marines in Catlin's place.

Final years and retirement
Upon returning to the United States, Colonel Catlin served at Headquarters Marine Corps and was appointed brigadier general on August 30, 1918. Following his tour at Headquarters, he was assigned to the Marine Barracks at Quantico, and in November 1918, he sailed for Haiti where he assumed command of the First Brigade of Marines until September 1919.

In December 1919, Brigadier General Catlin retired from the Marine Corps.  As a result of his wound, he was in ill health until his death in Culpeper, Virginia, on May 31, 1933.  Brigadier General Catlin is buried in Arlington National Cemetery. His wife, Martha Ellen Shultz Catlin (1880–1937) is buried with him.

Honors and awards
In addition to the Medal of Honor, Catlin was awarded two Croix de Guerre, one with palms and one with gilt star for gallantry in action against the enemy at Belleau Wood. He was also made an Officer of the Legion of Honour for his services in the same sector.

Soon after his return from France, he summarized his war experiences in a book called With the Help of God and a Few Marines.

On Marine Corps Base Quantico, the base headquarters building in Lejeune Hall is on Catlin Avenue, which is named for him.

During World War II, in the Salt Lake area of Oʻahu, Hawaiʻi, Camp Catlin was formed to train Marines for fighting in the Pacific and became the first home for Headquarters, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific. As well, the SS George Washington was renamed the USS Catlin (AP-19) in his honor.

On December 1, 2006, Rear Admiral Harry Harris Jr., Captain Mark Leary, and Marine Major George Nunez, unveiled a monument dedicating Quarters M101 on Guantanamo Bay to the memory of Catlin. From that day forward, the flag quarters at the Marine Site will be known as Catlin House.

See also

 List of Medal of Honor recipients (Veracruz)

References

Attribution

External links

 
 

1868 births
1933 deaths
United States Marine Corps personnel of World War I
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
Recipients of the Croix de Guerre 1914–1918 (France)
United States Marine Corps Medal of Honor recipients
United States Marine Corps generals
United States Naval Academy alumni
American military personnel of the Spanish–American War
United States Army War College alumni
Officers of the Legion of Honour
Battle of Veracruz (1914) recipients of the Medal of Honor
American military personnel of the Banana Wars
Military personnel from New York (state)