[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Leipzig-class cruiser

h submarine  on 13 December while on one of these operations. The cruiser was badly damaged, and the necessary repairs took almost a year to complete. She thereafter resumed her duties as a training ship. She provided gunfire support to the advancing  troops as they invaded the Soviet Union in 1941.

In a heavy fog in October 1944,  collided with the heavy cruiser ; the damage was so severe that the navy decided complete repairs were unfeasible. Instead, they repaired  enough to keep her afloat, and in that state, provided gunfire support to the defenders of Gotenhafen against the advancing Red Army in March 1945. As the Germans continued to retreat in the east,  was then used to transport a group of fleeing German civilians. She reached Denmark by late April. After the end of the war,  was used as a barracks ship for minesweeping forces and was scuttled in July 1946.

Nürnberg

Following her commissioning,  participated in the non-intervention patrols during the Spanish Civil War; she completed her patrols without major incident and returned to Germany in mid-1937. After the outbreak of World War II in September 1939, she was used to lay defensive minefields off the German coast in the North Sea. She was thereafter used to escort offensive mine-layers in the North Sea until she was torpedoed by the British submarine Salmon on 13 December 1939 in the same attack that hit her sister. After repairs were completed in early 1940,  returned to active duty as a training ship in the Baltic Sea. She performed this role for most of the rest of the war, apart from a short deployment to Norway from November 1942 to April 1943. In January 1945, she was assigned to mine-laying duties in the Skaggerak, but severe shortages of fuel permitted only one such operation.

After the end of the war,  was seized by the Royal Navy and ultimately awarded to the Soviet Union as war reparations. In December 1945, a Soviet crew took over the ship, and the following month took her to Tallinn, where she was renamed . She served in the Soviet Navy, first in the 8th Fleet, then as a training cruiser based in Kronstadt. Her ultimate fate is unclear, but by 1960, she had been broken up for scrap.  was the second-largest warship of the  to survive the war intact, after the heavy cruiser , and she was the only vessel to see service after the war, albeit in a foreign navy.

Footnotes

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 

Cruiser classes