[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of fictional gynoids

nn (1816)
Olympia, from Jacques Offenbach's Les contes d'Hoffmann (1881)
Ping, from the web comic Megatokyo (2000)
Tina, also known as Platinum, from the Metal Men comic books (1962–1970)
 Various androids and gynoids from the play R.U.R. (1921)

H_rd (Herd) from The Risen Empire by Scot Westerfield

In video games
2B and A2, from NieR: Automata, two combat gynoids developed as part of the "YoRHa" android forces
Accord, an android model from Drakengard 3 that is capable of jumping between timelines and universes to observe "Singularities"
Adjutant, an adviser and announcer from Starcraft and Heroes of the Storm
 Alisa Bosconovitch, from Tekken 6: Bloodline Rebellion
Aschen Brödel and Cardia Basirissa from Super Robot Taisen OG Saga: Endless Frontier
Ash from Apex Legends and Titanfall 2
 The BlazBlue series features a number of gynoids including Nu-13, Mu-12 and Lambda-11
Miss Bloody Rachel from Viewtiful Joe 2 and Viewtiful Joe: Red Hot Rumble
Clarity and Charity, lawyer gynoid "sisters" from Primordia
Curie, from "Fallout 4", when she is an android form called a synth
Demi, from Phantasy Star 4 (1993)
Devola and Popola, twin android models who appear in both NieR and NieR: Automata, and were created to oversee "Project Gestalt"
Dorothy Haze, from VA-11 Hall-A
Echo, from Overwatch
EDI, the AI of the Normandy SR-2 in Mass Effect 2, who later gains a repurposed gynoid body in Mass Effect 3.
Elsa, from Demonbane (2004–2006)
Essentia 2000, from YIIK: A Postmodern RPG (2019)
Dr. Eva Core from Mass Effect 3
Incarose and Corundum, from the Nintendo DS RPG Tales of Hearts (2008), is a mechanoid
Kara, from Detroit: Become Human, is a housekeeper gynoid who escapes after gaining consciousness.
Lucy and various Replicants from Blade Runner
Luna, from Zero Escape: Virtue's Last Reward, is a GAULEM (General-purpose AUtonomous-Control Labor Electronic Machine)
Marina Liteyears, from Mischief Makers
Merope, from Master X Master
Monitor Kernel Access / Monika.chr / Monika, from Doki Doki Literature Club!
Muriel, from Paragon
P.A.S.S., from N.U.D.E.@Natural Ultimate Digital Experiment (2003)
Persona characters:
Aigis from Persona 3
 Metis from Persona 3 FES
 Labrys from Persona 4 Arena
Petra, from Ultima VII Part Two: Serpent Isle (1992), is an automaton
Roll, Splash Woman, Alia, Iris, Layer, Palette and Fairy Leviathan from various Mega Man series (1987–2006)
Supervisor, from Rise of the Robots (1994), is a gynoid nanomorph. She controls the Electrocorp factory.
 The visual novel series To Heart features a number of gynoids including Multi, Serio, Feel, and Ilfa
 Unreal series gynoids, featured throughout (1998–2006)
Vivienne, from Phantasy Star Portable (2008), is a CAST, the term used for androids in the game.
W-D40, from Space Quest V (1993), is a terminoid, an assassin android
 The Xenosaga series features a number of gynoids, including KOS-MOS, T-elos, and Doctus
Yumemi Hoshino, from the visual novel Planetarian: The Reverie of a Little Planet (2004)

Looks To The Moon, From Rain World

In music
 Title character of "Black Velveteen" by Lenny Kravitz from the album 5 (1998)
 Title character of "Electric Barbarella" by Duran Duran from the album Medazzaland (1997), a tribute to the movie Barbarella whose video featured bandmates interacting with a robotic sex doll
 The music video for "Turn Up the Radio" by Autograph (1984) features a robot woman who asks the band to sign in.
 The album cover for Down for the Count by Y&T (1985) features a female robot being bitten in the neck by a vampire.
 The album cover for Just Push Play by Aerosmith (2001) features a "curvy female robot in a Marilyn Monroe-like pose.". The robot was designed by Hajime Sorayama.
 The album Metropolis: Suite I (The Chase) by Janelle Monáe (2007) follows the adventures of a female android named Cindi Mayweather and was inspired by the Metropolis 1927 film. Several of Monáe's albums follow up on this theme.
 The music video for "The Ghost Inside" by Broken Bells features a female android played by Christina Hendricks.
 The music video for "The World Is Not Enough" by Garbage, features a female robot resembling lead singer Shirley Manson who is able to kill with a kiss. Manson later portrayed the gynoid Catherine Weaver in the TV series, Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles.
 The song "Yours Truly, 2095" on the album Time by Electric Light Orchestra.  "I met someone who looks a lot like you, she does the things you do, but she is an IBM"
 The music video for "All Is Full of Love" on the album Homogenic by Björk features two robots with Björk faces.

Miscellaneous
 Female robot themes of the pinball machines The Machine: Bride of Pin•Bot and Xenon

See also
 List of fictional computers
 List of fictional cyborgs
 List of fictional robots and androids

References

Gynoids
Lists of fictional females
Robotics lists
Science fiction lists