[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kalinga Park

Kalinga Park is a heritage-listed park at 100 Bertha Street, Kalinga (formerly part of Wooloowin), City of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. The eastern section of the park is in neighbouring Clayfield. It is also known as Anzac Memorial Park. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 3 July 2007.

History 
Previously known as Anzac Memorial Park, Kalinga Park was officially opened in 1910 and is located on the southwest bank of Kedron Brook at Kalinga.

Kalinga Park occupies a portion of the early German Mission Station established at Zion Hill in 1838, forming the first free European settlement in Queensland. The missionaries named Kedron Brook, but the mission closed in 1850 and the area was surveyed in 1851 prior to other settlers moving into the area. By the 1880s, this area was industrial and in 1884 much of the land now comprising the park was declared a water reserve. Kalinga is derived from Ngalin-nga, a phrase in the Turrbal dialect said to mean "belonging to us".

The area was administered as part of the Shire of Toombul. Of 3 September 1910, Andrew Lang Petrie, Member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly for Toombul officially opened the reserve as a park though several sports clubs were already using it. It had received improvements including levelling and clearing, the erection of a pavilion and the laying down of a cricket pitch.

In 1909 and 1911 land to the south of Kalinga Park between the Eagle Junction railway station and the reserve was subdivided and sold as residential blocks. This was an important stage in the subsequent development of the area, as was connection to Brisbane by tram in 1929.Following the First World War, the local Ladies Patriotic Club and the Kalinga Progress Association, together with the Toombul Shire Council, erected the Soldiers Honour Gates at the Park Avenue entrance. Brigadier-General Lachlan Chisholm Wilson dedicated them on 23 October 1920. The event was well attended with a guard of honour formed by Boy Scouts and Cubs from the Albion, Clayfield, Nundah and Kalinga districts and music provided by the Brisbane Citizen's Band. The President of the Ladies Patriotic Club declared at the ceremony that the Honour Gates were erected as a witness and everlasting memory of the patriotic services of the men who enlisted from the Kalinga district and fought for their country in the Great War. Funds were later raised to embellish the posts of the main gate with inscribed marble slabs. For a time, the park was known as Anzac Memorial Park.

After the war, the Commonwealth Department of Repatriation placed returning soldiers in jobs, but it was a slow process and many found themselves in financial difficulties. Citizens' committees were formed to raise money and to assist in such ways as founding clothing depots. Local committees were also formed to help with finding relief work. In 1922 the Kalinga Unemployed and Distressed Soldiers' Committee was formed. It arranged with the Kalinga Improvement Committee for 83 unemployed returned soldiers to be given work in road formation and drainage in Kalinga Park.

As an initiative of the Kalinga Unemployed and Distressed Soldiers Committee this work included the construction and planting of a roadway through the park as a memorial to those who died in the war. It ran from the gates in Park Avenue to Sandgate Road and was intended for motor traffic. The returned soldiers cleared and levelled  of roadway following the curve of Kedron Brook. It was gravelled and lined with trees and was informally known as the "Diggers' Drive". The Governor of Queensland, Sir Matthew Nathan, opened the drive on 31 May 1924. He said that he hoped that the scheme for identifying the trees with metal plaques carrying the names of deceased soldiers would be successfully carried out. However, there was difficulty at the time in obtaining some names and the project was not completed.

In 1925, with the amalgamation of the various Brisbane local government authorities, Kalinga Park passed from Toombul Council into the control of the Brisbane City Council.

A large army staging camp was located at the site between 1943 and 1945 during World War II. As part of this development, the bandstand was sold for removal and many buildings, including a post office for soldiers at the camp, were erected. After the war, these were removed with the exception of the post office building, which was relocated to the western edge of the park, and is used by the Scouts, who have considerably altered and extended it over the years. Thiess Brothers were engaged to restore the park to its pre-war condition, though the bandstand was not replaced. In 1952 Harry Oakman, then Manager of Brisbane parks, planted tallowwoods along the memorial drive to replace trees that had died or been removed.