[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

lines of the German army, while the relatives of their dead and wounded would be treated identically as those of the German army. The General Commissioner of Lithuania appoints the brigade commander, who authors the text of the oath, together with the General Commissariat's Police Department's Head.

That same day, Hermann Harm, SSPF in Lithuania, wrote Kubiliūnas a letter about Plechavičius' conditions, many of which were unmet, such as transfer of officers from police battalions, but Plechavičius agreed regardless to be the LTDF's leader. According to Lithuanian general Stasys Raštikis' memoirs, there were three candidates for its commander, which were himself, Antanas Rėklaitis and Povilas Plechavičius. After the refusal of the first two, Plechavičius was made commander on February 1.

On 31 January 1944, the SSPF headquarters signed an order for the organization of Lithuanian battalions to fight against banditry. That same day, the Reich SSPF Heinrich Himmler issued an order to recruit 50,000 Lithuanians for the Wehrmacht's Army Group North.

Anti-Nazi resistance and negotiations 
Long negotiations between SSPF Ostland Friedrich Jeckeln, Hermann Harm and Lithuanians led to an agreement about a 5,000-strong (later 10,000) unit called the Lithuanian Territorial Defence Force, organized from Lithuanian self-organized military headquarters () that had military units assigned to them. The soldiers would wear Lithuanian insignia on their uniforms. The formal agreement was signed on February 13. 

Lithuanian anti-Nazi resistance organizations supported the LTDF, which they wanted to use to fight against Soviet partisans in Lithuania and the Soviet Red Army when Nazi Germany was defeated. The LTDF was to be the nucleus of the military units for the restoration of the Lithuanian state, on which the army of the Republic of Lithuania would be based. The Nazi occupational authorities viewed the LTDF differently and termed its units police battalions, planning to use them for Eastern Front battles and only minimally to fight Soviet partisans. The German occupying authorities also wanted to recruit tens of thousands of Lithuanians into the Wehrmacht auxiliary units through the LTDF.

Situation in eastern Lithuania 
During the German occupation of eastern Lithuania from 1941 to 1944, there were four different military groups, whose goals differed greatly. The incompatibility of the groups' goals led to an inevitable confrontation and conflict between them. Individuals from the anti-Nazi Lithuanian underground and Polish Home Army attempted to negotiate a joint struggle against the Nazi occupation but failed.

Soviet partisans wanted to return Lithuania to Soviet occupation and were opposed to all others: the Lithuanian Territorial Defence Force, the occupying German troops, and the Polish Home Army. However, Soviet partisans had similar enemies to the latter group, even if their goals differed. The Polish Home Army wanted to restore the Polish state within its pre-1939 borders. 

From 1943, Polish partisan units began to be established in the Vilnius region, 15 of them between April and June 1944. Polish partisans attacked the German and Lithuanian police as well as Soviet partisans. From the end of 1943, the Polish Home Army escalated its activity and began attacking towns and district centers, terrorizing Lithuanians, be they local government officials, teachers or other civilians. Sometimes the Polish Home Army de facto ruled some areas in eastern Lithuania.

The LTDF's main objective was the fight against bandits and partisans widespread in eastern Lithuania. On Lithuanian territory, Soviet partisans operated from two main camps, located near Lake Narach and in , from which the partisan groups reached even Samogitia. Even more numerous were the Polish partisans units from the Home Army. There were also other marauding gangs. Seven LTDF battalions were sent to eastern Lithuania to fight against the Soviet partisans and the Polish Home Army. However, in the battles against the Polish Home Army on 5 May 1944, about 70 LTDF soldiers were killed, several hundred taken prisoner, roughly 30 of them shot in a Polish Home Army court-martial, while others were disarmed and released.

The Germans provided weapons both to the Polish Home Army and the LTDF, with the goal of organizing more non-German troops to fight against the Soviet partisans and the invading Red Army. Unlike in Poland, there was a period of time when officials of the Home Army Vilnius district cooperated with the Nazi German occupational administration. Meanwhile, the Polish Home Army considered LTDF soldiers German collaborators. The Polish–Lithuanian relations were particularly damaged by the May–June 1944 massacres in Glitiškės and Dubingiai. On 6–7 July 1944, the Polish Home Army unsuccessfully attempted to occupy Vilnius, which led to several hundred of its soldiers being killed in clashes with German soldiers.

Formation and organization