[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 2000 United States Senate election in New York

was seriously considering a run for his old would-have-been Senate seat, but the following month he announced he was not running for it or anything else in 2010, signalling an end to his political career. Republicans ended up nominating former congressman Joe DioGuardi, whom Gillibrand beat easily.

Giuliani and Clinton got another chance to battle each other during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, when she was the Democratic nominee and he was one of the few high-profile Republicans to enthusiastically campaign for that party's nominee, Donald Trump.  As The Washington Post wrote, "Rudy Giuliani is finally running the race against Hillary Clinton that he first contemplated some 17 years ago: a brutish bout under a white-hot spotlight."  His actions on behalf of Trump included not only fiery attacks on Clinton's record as Secretary of State but also charges that she was experiencing significant problems with her health.  A Clinton spokesperson responded by pointing out that it was Giuliani who had left the 2000 senatorial race in part for health reasons, not Clinton.  Giuliani said Clinton was "too stupid to be president" for having stayed married to her husband following the Lewinsky scandal.  Clinton sent some mild barbs Giuliani's way during the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner in October 2016, to which Giuliani responded to with stone-faced silence rather than the usual playing-along mirth.  The former mayor also issued a false charge against Clinton's statements regarding her role following the September 11 attacks that he had to apologize for.  And in the days leading up to the election, Giuliani implied, and then denied, that he had had inside knowledge of the FBI's late-in-the-campaign reopening of its investigation into the Clinton emails matter.  Following Clinton's loss, Giuliani was considered to be on Trump's short list for both Attorney General – if picked, he said he would be open to prosecuting Clinton – and Clinton's past job of Secretary of State – where his potential conflicts from his post-mayoral consulting work, advisor roles, and paid speeches for foreign clients and corporations could have exposed him to some of the same charges that he had made against Clinton when she had held that position.  In the event, he was not selected for either position.

The attacks continued; in March 2018 Giuliani made a joke at a fundraiser at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort, the premise of which was that Clinton was almost too fat to fit through doorways.  Judith Giuliani was reported to have given her husband a "most foul look" following the remark; the Giulianis announced they were getting divorced a few weeks later.  News of the breakup caused media outlets to recall how the Rudy-Judith relationship had all first come to light during the hectic weeks of the 2000 senatorial campaign.

Giuliani became even more in the public spotlight as a central figure in the Trump–Ukraine scandal and the attempts to overturn the 2020 United States presidential election, and then as the subject of a federal investigation about possible wrongdoing regarding his actions in Ukraine. Asked about her onetime campaign opponent in April 2021, Clinton said that Giuliani has "been behaving so erratically and seemingly illegally for so long" that "I don't recognize him now. I don't know what's gotten into him, and we'll see what the investigation concludes."

See also 
 2000 United States Senate elections

References

External links 
Candidates at Vote Smart 
Campaign finance at FEC 
Campaign finance at OpenSecrets

Official campaign websites (archived)
 Hillary Clinton
 Rick Lazio

New York
2000
United States Senate
Hillary Clinton
Rudy Giuliani