[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Independent Jewish Voices Canada

h was accused of bias and anti-Semitism. IJV spokesperson Tyler Levitan defended the Church's campaign in a public statement, saying that "The Israel lobby, unable to defend Israel's occupation and brutal treatment of the Palestinian people, can only slur those who support Palestinian human rights."

In 2014, IJV widened its BDS initiatives to include Block the Boat, a campaign to cause financial loss to the Israeli Zim Integrated Shipping Services company by blocking its ships from unloading.

Countering pro-Israel advocacy
In an article written for the Winnipeg Free Press and reprinted widely since, IJV member Jason Kunin wrote that "pro-Israel advocacy depends upon on the active dissemination of Islamophobia. Not surprisingly, engendering hatred in this manner inflames anti-Jewish sentiment among Arabs and Muslims. None of this is a recipe for making Jews safe" and that "Defenders of Israel often argue that Israel is forced to do what it does — to destroy people's homes, to keep them under the boot of occupation, to seal them into walled ghettos, to brutalize them daily with military incursions and random checkpoints — to protect its citizens from Palestinian violence."

In an interview with the Ryerson Free Press in July 2009, then IJV co-chair Diana Ralph expressed confidence that "progressive Jews in alliance with other pro-justice groups had the potential to build a movement powerful enough to expose, weaken and eventually defeat the Canadian Israel lobby." Ralph also claimed that "in spite of heavy pro-Israel propaganda, most Jews are far more progressive than the Israel lobby which claims to speak for them."

2008–09 and 2014 Gaza wars
IJV opposed the Gaza War of 2008–09. In a press release issued at the beginning of the conflict, the group stated that:

IJV participated in the Code Pink delegation which brought humanitarian relief to the territory in May 2009.

IJV was again moved to outrage and action in 2014 by the Israeli bombing and invasion of Gaza, and what they saw as the support of Israel's actions by Stephen Harper and other national parties. "The Liberal party is in lockstep with the Conservatives in not even mentioning Palestinian casualties and the NDP won't mention the word Palestine", said Tyler Levitan of IJV. IJV organized and joined protests across Canada.

Opposition to the Jewish National Fund
IJV has criticized the Jewish National Fund (JNF) for "discriminatory policies of ethnic exclusion, and its role in the historic and ongoing dispossession of Palestinians from their lands." IJV has mounted a campaign in conjunction with other organizations to have the charitable status of the JNF's Canadian branch revoked.

Members of IJV and others disrupted an event put on by JNF Canada in Toronto in September 2014.

Definition of antisemitism
In 2020, IJV published a definition of antisemitism which states that: "antisemitism is not an exceptional form of bigotry. People who hate, discriminate and/or attack Jews, will also hate, discriminate and/or attack other protected groups—including racialized people, Muslims, LGBTQ2+, women, Indigenous peoples."

History

First national conference
The Alliance of Concerned Jewish Canadians and other activists held a national Independent Jewish Canadians Conference on March 28–30, 2008 with Naomi Klein as its keynote speaker. The participants affirmed their support for international law, their opposition to all forms or racism (including anti-Semitism and Islamophobia), and pledged to counter the view that any criticism of Israel's government and military policies is automatically anti-Semitic. Specifically, they opposed the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza which commenced in 1967.

The conference passed a resolution creating an interim steering committee that would found a national progressive Jewish organization. The steering committee adopted the name Independent Jewish Voices (Canada) shortly afterwards. ACJC co-founder Eibie Weizfeld split with the new group and continues to lead an organization called ACJC which is unconnected with IJV.

The seven stated goals of IJV are:

 To give Jewish Canadians an alternative that works for peace and justice
 To challenge the Jewish establishment's views on the Middle East
 To open up discussion about Israeli government and military actions
 To support the right of Canadians to discuss Israeli policies without fear of being accused of anti-Semitism
 To promote contacts with Muslims and Arabs in Canada and to demonstrate that we can work together for peace
 To oppose wars of aggression
 To work in solidarity with the peace movements and war resisters within Israel