[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Giorgio La Pira

cial visit was to La Pira's grave.

Praise
Cardinal Stanisław Ryłko hailed La Pira for his courage to express and show witness to his faith in the exercise of a public office. The cardinal referred to La Pira as "a Christian of unsurpassable coherence", whose faith was "the axis of all of his life".

On 1 November 2004 the pope sent a letter to Cardinal Antonelli for the occasion of the centennial of La Pira's birth and recalled La Pira's "great intellectual and moral energy, strengthened and refined by extensive daily study, thought, ascesis and prayer". The pope further praised La Pira for his fusion of politics and faith while remembering that La Pira liked the motto contemplate aliis tradere which he had learned from Saint Thomas Aquinas.

Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger – future Pope Benedict XVI – hailed La Pira in an address to the National Association of Italian Local Authorities on 26 April 2004 as "an eminent figure in politics" who "worked for the cause of fraternal existence among nations" and attempted to promote the "basic good in various spheres" of life whether it be politics or culture.

Dorothy Day in October 1963 referred to La Pira as "a saint in politics" who "took the unused homes of the rich to make homes for the poor". La Pira's close friend Paul VI characterized him as "the example every Christian ought to keep firmly in mind during his earthly passage towards the kingdom of God", in his General Audience address on 9 November 1977. John Paul II later remarked that La Pira was "an exemplary lay Christian".

Beatification process
The cause for La Pira's beatification commenced in Florence in a diocesan phase that Cardinal Silvano Piovanelli inaugurated on 9 January 1986 and which Cardinal Ennio Antonelli closed two decades later on 4 April 2005. This diocesan process was charged with hearing witness testimonies – which included Hassan II of Morocco – and collecting documents relating to La Pira's life and works. This also included his published and unpublished writings which required theological approval in order to see if there was a potential contravention of doctrine in them. The formal introduction to the cause came under Pope John Paul II on 22 February 1986 once the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued the official edict of "nihil obstat" (nothing against) to the cause and titled La Pira as a Servant of God. Upon the closure of the diocesan process all documents were sealed in boxes to be sent to the C.C.S. in Rome for assessment where the congregation validated this process on 24 October 2007.

The official Positio dossier was submitted to the C.C.S. for assessment in 2017. Pope Francis confirmed La Pira's life of heroic virtue on 5 July 2018 and named him as Venerable.

The current postulator for this cause is the Dominican priest Gianni Festa.

See also
 List of mayors of Florence
 Third Order of Saint Dominic

Published works
La Pira published a great deal of books which is as follows:
 G. La Pira, La successione ereditaria intestate e contro il testament in diritto romano, Firenze, Vallecchi, 1930.
 G. La Pira, L'anima di un apostolo. Vita interior di Ludovico Necchi, Milano, Vita e Pensiero, 1932.
 G. La Pira, La nostra vocazione sociale, Roma, AVE, 1945.
 G. La Pira, La vita interior di Luigi Moresco, Roma, AVE, 1945.
 G. La Pira, Premesse della politica, Firenze, Liberia Editrice Fiorentina, 1945.
 G. La Pira, Il valore della persona umana, Milano, Istituto di Propaganda Libraria, 1947.
 G. La Pira, Architettura di uno Stato democratico, Roma, Edizione Servire, 1948.
 G. La Pira, Istituzioni di Diritto Romano, Firenze, Editrice Universitaria, 1948.
 G. La Pira, L'attesa della povera gente, Firenze, Libreria Editrice Fiorentina, 1951.
 G. La Pira, Per un architettura Cristiana dello Stato, Firenze, Libreria Editrice Fiorentina, 1954.
 G. La Pira, Principi, a cura di Angelo Scivoletto, Firenze, Philosophia, 1955.
 G. La Pira, Così in terra come in cielo, Edizioni O.R., Milano, 1970.
 G. La Pira, Unità, disarm e pace, prefazione di H. Camara, Firenze, Cultura, 1971.
 G. La Pira, Le genesi del sistema nella giurisprudenza romana, Firenze, Setti, 1971.
 G. La Pira, Principi'', ristampa fotostatica con prefazione di Giorgio La Pira, Firenze, Libreria Editrice Fiorentina, 1974.

References

External links
 Hagiography Circle
 Giorgio La Pira - Servant of God
 Fondazione La Pira 
 Santi e Beati

1904 births
1977 deaths
People from Pozzallo
Christian Democracy (Italy) politicians
Members of the Constituent Assembly of Italy
Deputies of Legislature I of Italy
Mayors of Florence
Politicians from the Province of Ragusa
University of Florence alumni
Venerated Catholics by Pope Francis
Italian Roman Catholics