[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Michael Iaconelli

Michael Iaconelli, also known as Mike and by his nickname "Ike", (born June 17, 1972 in Runnemede, New Jersey) is a professional bass fisherman, television personality, and podcast show host from Pittsgrove Township, New Jersey.  Iaconelli competes on Major League Fishing. As of February 11, 2019, Mike's career tournament winnings with B.A.S.S. were $2,500,205, which includes 7 wins.  Iaconelli's major accomplishments include the longest active streak of Bassmaster Classic qualifications with 17 consecutive appearances, the 2017 Major League Fishing Summit Cup Champion, 2003 Bassmaster Classic champion, as well as the 2006 Toyota Tundra Angler of the Year. Iaconelli is the only angler to have won the Bassmaster Classic, Bassmaster Angler of the Year and B.A.S.S. Nation Championship.

Early life and education
Iaconelli was born in South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He grew up living with his mother, his uncle and his grandparents. At a young age, Iaconelli was introduced to fishing on summer trips to the Pocono Mountains. On these trips, he was first introduced to other types of fishing besides bass fishing. His first experiences were with trout and various panfish species.  His first largemouth bass catch came at age twelve during his family's annual summer trek to the Pocono Mountains.  Iaconelli used a 9S Floating Rapala lure to catch the bass.  According to Iaconelli, this moment sparked his interest in bass fishing. His love for bass fishing continued on into high school.

Career

Early career
After high school, Iaconelli founded the bass fishing club, "Top Rod Bassmasters". Top Rod Bassmasters became Iaconelli's first venture into competitive bass fishing. The club had inter-club tournaments among its members. In 1992, after three years of fishing in Top Rod Bassmasters, Iaconelli made the transition to the pro-am circuit. His first tournament on this circuit was the North Carolina Top 100. This event was held on  Lake Norman in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. In this tournament, Iaconelli drew widely known fisherman, Tommy Biffle.  In the following days of the North Carolina Top 100, he would also draw well-known fishermen David Fritts and Gary Klein. In 1994, Iaconelli once again fished the North Carolina Top 100 on Lake Norman. At this tournament, he won his first bass boat. The boat he won was a new Ranger 374.

After Iaconelli won a Ranger 374, he began to tackle the Red Man and Bass Anglers Sportsman Society (B.A.S.S.) Federation trails. In 1997, Iaconelli fished a B.A.S.S. Invitational Tournament on Buggs Island, also known as Kerr Lake. The first day, he was paired with the four-time Bassmaster Classic champion, Kevin VanDam. One of Iaconelli's earliest tournament victories came on New Jersey's Lake Hopatcong. In this Federation tournament, he broke the lake and one-day Federation record of just over 18 pounds. His official weight for that tournament was 19.58 lbs.

In 1999, Iaconelli qualified for the Bassmaster Federation Nationals on the Red River. He would go on to win the event as he qualified for the 1999 Bassmaster Classic berth after the victory. The 1999 Bassmaster Classic was held on the Louisiana Delta in New Orleans, Louisiana. At the 1999 Bassmaster Classic, Classic rookie Iaconelli caught a three-day total of 39 lbs and 12 oz. That total netted him a sixth-place finish. The great finish at the Bassmaster Classic culminated in Dick's Sporting Goods and Daiwa becoming major sponsors for Iaconelli.  In September of the same year, Iaconelli collected his first victory in the professional ranks by winning the Bassmaster Vermont Top 150 on Lake Champlain. Michael Iaconelli bagged over 61 lbs of bass and a $100,000 check. In 2000, Iaconelli made the leap to the professional ranks. He began fishing the B.A.S.S Tour.    Again, Iaconelli qualified for the Bassmaster Classic. The 2000 Bassmaster Classic was held on Lake Michigan in Chicago, Illinois. He was able to net a top finish with a three-day weight total of 20 lbs 1 oz.

In 2002, Iaconelli started the season with a victory on Lake Seminole. The victory on Lake Seminole was the first Tour level victory for Iaconelli.  He qualified for the 2003 Bassmaster Classic after a ninth-place victory at the B.A.S.S. Invitational on Lake Ontario.