[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny

tanza of "Life in Mahagonny", returns to its pastimes. Trinity Moses assures the crowd that Jimmy will pay for his crimes with his life.

Scene 17

At night, Jim alone and chained to a lamppost sings a plea for the sun not to rise on the day of his impending trial.

Act 3

Scene 18: In the courtroom

Moses, like a carnival barker, sells tickets to the trials. He serves as prosecutor, Fatty as defense attorney, Begbick as judge. First comes the case of Toby Higgins, accused of premeditated murder for the purpose of testing an old revolver. Fatty invites the injured party to rise, but no one does so, since the dead do not speak. Toby bribes all three, and as a result, Begbick dismisses the case. Next Jimmy's case is called. Chained, he is led in by Billy, from whom he tries to borrow money; Billy of course refuses, despite Jim's plea to remember their time together in Alaska. In virtually the same speech he used to attack Higgins, Moses excoriates him for not paying his bills, for seducing Jenny (who presents herself as a plaintiff) to commit a "carnal act" with him for money, and for inciting the crowd with "an illegal joyous song" on the night of the typhoon. Billy, with the chorus's support, counters that, in committing the latter act, Jimmy discovered the laws by which Mahagonny lives. Moses argues that Jim hastened his friend Joe's death in a prizefight by betting on him, and Billy counters by asking who actually killed Joe. Moses does not reply. But there is no answer for the main count against him. Jim gets short sentences for his lesser crimes, but for having no money, he is sentenced to death. Begbick, Fatty, and Moses, rising to identify themselves as the injured parties, proclaim "in the whole human race / there is no greater criminal / than a man without money". As Jim is led off to await execution, everyone sings the "Benares Song", in which they long for that exotic city "where the sun is shining." But Benares has been destroyed by an earthquake. "Where shall we go?" they ask.

Scene 19: At the gallows

Jim says a tender goodbye to Jenny, who, dressed in white, declares herself his widow. He surrenders her to Billy, his last remaining companion from Alaska. When he tries to delay the execution by reminding the people of Mahagonny that God exists, they play out for him, under Moses' direction, the story of "God in Mahagonny", in which the Almighty condemns the town and is overthrown by its citizens, who declare that they can not be sent to Hell because they are already in Hell. Jim, chastened, asks only for a glass of water, but is refused even this as Moses gives the signal for the trap to be sprung.

Scene 20

A caption advises that, after Jim's death, increasing hostility among the city's various factions has caused the destruction of Mahagonny. To a potpourri of themes from earlier in the opera, groups of protesters are seen on the march, in conflict with one another, while the city burns in the background. Jenny and the whores carry Jim's clothing and accessories like sacred relics; Billy and several men carry his coffin. In a new theme, they and the others declare, "Nothing you can do will help a dead man". Begbick, Fatty, and Moses appear with placards of their own, joining the entire company in its march and declaring "Nothing will help him or us or you now," as the opera ends in chaos.

Musical numbers

Act 1
 Scene 1: Gesucht werden Leokadja Begbick ("The Desired Progress of Leocadia Begbick")
 Scene 1: Sie soll sein wie ein Netz ("It Should Be Made Like a Net")
 Scene 2: Rasch wuchs ("Growing Up Quickly" ) / Moon of Alabama ("Oh, Show Us The Way...")
 Scene 3: Die Nachricht ("The News")
 Scene 4: In den nächsten Tagen ("In the Next Few Days")
 Scene 5: Damals kam unter Anderen ("Among the Crowd There Came")
 Scene 5: Heraus, ihr Schönen von Mahagonny ("Come Out, You Beauties of Mahagonny")
 Scene 5: Ach, bedenken Sie ("Oh Worries")
 Scene 6: Ich habe gelernt ("I Have Learned")
 Scene 7: Alle großen Unternehmungen ("All Great Things")
 Scene 7: Auch ich bin einmal ("Also I Was Once")
 Scene 8: Alle wahrhaft Suchenden ("All Seekers of the Truth")
 Scene 8: Aber etwas fehlt ("But Something is Missing")
 Scene 9: Das ist die ewige Kunst ("That is the Eternal Art")
 Scene 9: Sieben Jahre ("Seven Years!")
 Scene 10: Ein Taifun! ("A Typhoon!")
 Scene 11: In dieser Nacht des Entsetzens ("In This Night of Terror")
 Scene 11: Nein, jetzt sage ich ("No, I Say Do It Now")
 Scene 11: So tuet nur, was euch beliebt ("So, Just Do What You Like")