[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mushahid Hussain

ere he termed the violation of the Indus Waters Treaty as "an act of war." He viewed the initiation of the strategic corridor as a crucial and one of the largest political achievement of Prime Minister Sharif, and has risen a strong political voice in support Prime Minister Sharif's economic policy.

On 3 January 2017, the PML-Q ousted Hussain from the party due to his "tacit alignment" and support for the PML(N)'s cause. On 4 February 2018, he rejoined the PML(N) and spoke very high of Nawaz's services to the country. In 2018, he was elected as the Pakistan Senator from Federally Administered Tribal Areas on the platform of PML(N) after participating in the senator elections held in March 2018.

Lobbyist and Sinologist

On 1 October 2009, Hussain founded the Pakistan China Institute to promote the bilateral relations with China. He has consistently lobbied for strengthening the relations with China and the Central Asian republics. He also expressed apprehension about the United States’ role in Pakistan while endorsing a deepening of relations with China.

See also

Democratic movements in Pakistan
Civilian control of the military
Civil-military relations
Khakistocracy
 Movement to impeach Pervez Musharraf
General Musharraf vs. Federation of Pakistan, et.al. 
Post Cold War era
Conservatism in Pakistan

References

External links
Political Biography of Mushahid Hussain Syed

1953 births
St. Anthony's High School, Lahore alumni
Forman Christian College alumni
Punjabi people
Pakistani journalists
Walsh School of Foreign Service alumni
Pakistani diplomats
Academic staff of the University of the Punjab
Pakistani political journalists
Pakistani democracy activists
Pakistani prisoners and detainees
English-language writers from Pakistan
Pakistan Muslim League (N) politicians
20th-century Pakistani historians
Communications Ministers of Pakistan
Information Ministers of Pakistan
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Pakistan
Pakistani dissidents
Candidates for President of Pakistan
Pakistani senators (14th Parliament)
Defence and security analysts in Pakistan
Sinologists
Historians of China
Living people