[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anyone Can Whistle

own - he is her fiftieth Cookie. He is a practicing idealist who, after years of attempted heroism, is tired of crusading and has come to the Cookie Jar to retire. Inspired by his record, Fay begins to tear the records up. As she does, the Cookies appear and begin to dance (“Everybody Says Don't”).

Act 3
Act III begins with Cora at her house with her council. Schub has put the miracle on hiatus but announces that they can easily pin the blame on Hapgood. The group celebrates their alliance. (“I've Got You to Lean On”) A mob forms outside the hotel, and Hapgood and Fay, still disguised, take refuge under the rock. Discovering the fraud, Cora and the council confront them. At that moment, Cora receives a telegram from the governor warning that if the quota of 49 cookies is not filled, she will be impeached. Schub tells her that since Hapgood never said who is sane or not, they can arrest anyone at random until the quota is filled. Hapgood refuses to help Fay stop the Mayoress since he has given up crusading. Although she knows she still isn't out of her shell, Fay angrily swears to go it alone. (“See What it Gets You”) As Cora and the police force begin rounding up Cookies, Fay tries to get the key to the wagon from the guards in an extended ballet sequence. (“The Cookie Chase”) As it ends, Fay is captured, and Dr. Detmold recognizes her. Fay tells the townspeople about the fake miracle, but the town refuses to believe her. Detmold tells Cora that even without the records, Fay can identify the inmates from memory. Cora warns that she will arrest forty-nine people, normal or not, and Fay, helplessly, identifies all the Cookies, except Hapgood. She tells him the world needs people like him, and Hapgood can't turn himself in. He asks Fay to come with him, but she still can't bring herself to break free. They regretfully part ways. (“With So Little to Be Sure Of”) Word comes of a new miracle from the town beyond the valley, of a statue with a warm heart, and the townspeople, including Magruder and Cooley, rush off to see if it is real. Soon the town is all but deserted, and Cora is alone again. Again, Schub has the answer - they can turn the entire town into one big Cookie Jar. Cora realizes she and Schub are meant for each other, and they dance off together. As Fay resumes work, Detmold's real new assistant Jane Borden Osgood arrives, and Fay is horrified to realize that she is even more rigid and disbelieving than Fay herself, and the new nurse marches the Cookies off to the next town to disprove the new miracle. Horrified at seeing what she might become, Fay returns to the rock calling for Hapgood. When he doesn't answer, she tries to whistle - and succeeds in blowing a shrill, ugly whistle. Hapgood appears again, saying 'That's good enough for me.' As they embrace, the water begins flowing from the rock - a true miracle this time. (Finale)

Notable casts

Musical numbers
(from the Broadway production)

Act I
Prelude Act I (instrumental) — Orchestra
I'm Like the Bluebird — company
Me and My Town — Cora Hoover Hooper and Boys
Miracle Song — Cora, Treasurer Cooley, Townspeople, Tourists, and Pilgrims
There Won't Be Trumpets — Fay Apple*
Simple — J. Bowden Hapgood and Company

Act II
Prelude Act II (instrumental) — Orchestra
A-1 March — Company
Come Play Wiz Me — Fay, Hapgood, and Boys
Anyone Can Whistle — Fay
A Parade In Town — Cora
Everybody Says Don't — Hapgood
Don't Ballet (instrumental) — Orchestra

Act III
Prelude Act III (instrumental) — Orchestra
I've Got You to Lean On — Cora, Comptroller Schub, Treasurer Cooley, Chief Magruder, and Boys
See What It Gets You — Fay
Anyone Can Whistle (Reprise) — Fay
Cora's Chase (The Cookie Chase) — Company
I'm Like the Bluebird (Reprise 1) — Cookies
With So Little to Be Sure Of — Fay and Hapgood
I've Got You to Lean On (Reprise) — Cora and Schub*
I'm Like the Bluebird (Reprise 2) — Cookies
Finale Ultimo (instrumental) — Orchestra

Notes 
 Asterisk (*) denotes song cut during Previews.
 Despite being cut from the original production, "There Won't Be Trumpets" was nonetheless recorded for the original Broadway cast recording, though it remained unreleased until a 1989 remastered CD. Officially licensed scripts and scores now reinstate the song.
 The 1995 concert production restored the songs "There Won't Be Trumpets" (Fay Apple) and "There's Always a Woman" (Fay and Cora), both previously cut.
 "Finale Ultimo" is attached to the end of "With So Little to Be Sure Of" on the Original Cast Recording.

Critical response
Howard Taubman in his The New York Times review wrote that Laurents's "book lacks the fantasy that would make the idea work, and his staging has not improved matters. Mr. Sondheim has written several pleasing songs but not enough of them to give the musical wings. The performers yell rather than talk and run rather than walk. The dancing is the cream."