[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Treaty of Moscow (1920)

The Treaty of Moscow (, Moskovskiy dogovor; , moskovis khelshekruleba), signed between Soviet Russia (RSFSR) and the Democratic Republic of Georgia (DRG) in Moscow on May 7, 1920, granted de jure recognition of Georgian independence in exchange for promising not to grant asylum on Georgian soil to troops of powers hostile to Bolshevik Russia.

Background 

The Democratic Republic of Georgia, led by the Social Democratic Party, or Menshevik Party, declared its independence from Russia on May 26, 1918. It was not formally recognised by the Soviets at that time, but the Georgian government eventually managed to obtain de facto recognition from the White leaders and the Allies.

Following an abortive Bolshevik coup in Tbilisi and a failed attempt by the Red Army units to penetrate Georgia in early May 1920, Vladimir Lenin's government agreed to sign a treaty with Georgia and to recognise its independence de jure if the Mensheviks formally undertook not to grant shelter on Georgian territory to any force hostile to Soviet Russia. Many Georgian politicians, including Foreign Minister, Evgeni Gegechkori regarded that clause as an infringement of Georgia's sovereignty and supported the rejection of the Russian terms. However, Georgian Prime Minister Noe Zhordania was anxious above all to secure for Georgia international recognition and so agreed to then.

The treaty was finally signed in Moscow by Grigol Uratadze for Georgia and Lev Karakhan for Russia on May 7, 1920.

Provisions 

Article 1 of the treaty of 7th May granted unconditional de jure recognition to Georgia by Russia:

Article I:

Proceeding from the right, proclaimed by the RSFSR, of all peoples to free self-determination up to and including separation from the State of which they constitute a part, Russia unreservedly recognizes the independence and sovereignty of the Georgian State and voluntarily renounces all the sovereign rights which had appertained to Russia with regard to the People and Territory of Georgia.

Article 2 Russia promised to abstain from any interference in her internal affairs:Article II:

Proceeding from the principles proclaimed in Article I above of the present Treaty, Russia undertakes to refrain from any kind of interference in the affairs of Georgia.Article 3 established the frontier between the two countries, providing for the demilitarization, until 1st January 1922, of all mountain passes on the Russo-Georgian border:Article III:

The state frontier between Russia and Georgia, runs from the Black Sea, along the River Psou ... and continues along the northern frontier of the former Chernomorsk, Kutais, and Tiflis provinces to the Zakatalsk circuit and along the eastern boundary thereof up to the frontier of Armenia. The summits of all mountains along this boundary line shall be considered neutral until January 1, 1922. ... The exact determination of the state boundary between the two contracting parties shall be carried out by a special mixed boundary commission composed of an equal number of representatives of each party. The results of the work of this commission shall be confirmed by a special treaty.Article 4 defined Georgian territories and declared that Russia would recognize as belonging to Georgia any territory the latter might acquire by treaty from her neighbours.

Article 5 was a promise by Georgia to disarm and intern all military and naval units which pretended to be the government of Russia or of the states allied with her, as well as persons, organizations, and groups whose purpose it was to depose the Government of Russia or of her allies.

Article 10 was a promise by Georgia to undertake to exempt from punishment and further administrative or judicial prosecution all persons who had in the past been working in favour of the R.S.F.S.R. or the Communist Party.

Article 11 pledged both countries to respect one another’s flags and emblems.

Article 12 accorded most favoured nation treatment to the commerce of each country in the territory of the other.

Article 13 scheduled a commercial treaty for conclusion in the near future.

Article 14 scheduled the establishment of diplomatic relations pending a special convention concerning the mutual status of their consuls.

Article 15 entrusted the settlement of questions of public and private rights arising between citizens to special Russo-Georgian mixed commissions.

Article 16 stated that the treaty would come into force from the moment it was signed and would not require ratification.