[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mohamed Bazoum

to Bazoum said that he had decided on Tchiani’s dismissal at a cabinet meeting prior to the coup, on 24 July as their relations had reportedly become strained. In his address to the nation, Tchiani accused Bazoum of trying to cover up for the country's political, socioeconomic and security problems.

Post-presidency 
On 27 July, Bazoum tweeted that Nigeriens who love democracy would see to it that "hard-won gains will be safeguarded", indicating his refusal to step down from office. His Foreign Minister Hassoumi Massaoudou insisted that the country's "legal and legitimate power" remained with the president and reiterated that Bazoum was in good condition. He also declared himself acting head of state and called on all democrats to "make this adventure fail".

Bazoum is believed to be currently detained at the presidential palace along with his wife Hadiza and son Salem; his daughters were vacationing in Paris at the time of the coup. Despite being detained, Bazoum has continuously refused to resign and has been able to get in contact with world leaders and officials such as French President Emmanuel Macron, UN Secretary-General António Guterres, AU Commissioner Moussa Faki, and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

On 31 July, the office of Chadian President Mahamat Déby released pictures of him meeting with a smiling Bazoum, marking his first appearance since the coup.

In an opinion piece in The Washington Post, Bazoum expressed that he was writing "as a hostage" and called on the US and the "entire international community" to help "restore... constitutional order," warning that the region could "fall further under Russian influence."

On 9 August, Bazoum's PNDS-Tarayya party said that he and his family had been without both electricity and running water for a week, and had only dried and canned foods left to eat. Subsequent reports described his health as in a bad condition. His doctor said the former president was "fine, given the situation" after visiting him on 12 August. 

On 13 August, the junta announced that it would prosecute Bazoum for "high treason" and "undermining the country's security".

References

External links

1960 births
Living people
Presidents of Niger
Foreign ministers of Niger
Ministers of council of Niger
Members of the National Assembly (Niger)
Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism politicians
Leaders ousted by a coup
20th-century Nigerien politicians
21st-century Nigerien politicians
Prisoners and detainees of Niger
People from Diffa Region
People from Zinder Region
Nigerien Arabs
Nigerien Muslims
Cheikh Anta Diop University alumni