[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Non-citizen suffrage

igners to vote (Neuchâtel, Jura, Vaud in 2003, Fribourg in 2004, Geneva in 2005), plus three, Appenzell Ausserrhoden (1995), Graubünden (2003) and Basel-Stadt (2005) which accord to each municipality the authority to decide on the subject. Some referendums unsuccessfully took place in other cantons.

Trinidad and Tobago
(CN members) A Commonwealth citizen who has resided legally in Trinidad and Tobago for a period of at least one year, and has resided in an electoral district/constituency for a least two months, prior to the qualifying date may vote at all levels in Trinidad and Tobago. Non-Commonwealth Citizen who has resided legally in Trinidad and Tobago for a period of at least five years, and has resided in an electoral district/constituency for a least two months, prior to the qualifying date may also vote, but are only eligible to vote in City or Borough elections within Trinidad.  They cannot vote in Parliamentary or Tobago House of Assembly elections. For both Commonwealth and Non-Commonwealth citizens, who meet these requirements can vote if they are over the age of 18.

United Kingdom
(CN member) In the United Kingdom, full voting rights and rights to stand as a candidate are given to citizens of Ireland and to "qualifying" citizens of Commonwealth countries; this is because they are not regarded in law as foreigners. This is a legacy of the situation that existed before 1983 where they had the status of British subjects.

For local elections, supralocal elections (Greater London Authority, Police and Crime Commissioner) and elections to devolved Parliaments and Assemblies (Scottish Parliament, Senedd, Northern Ireland Assembly) elections, EU citizens enjoy the same rights as Commonwealth citizens.

Under Elected Authorities (Northern Ireland) Act 1989, local electors in Northern Ireland were either Commonwealth citizens or citizens of the Republic of Ireland, the Representation of the People Act 2000 replaced that section by "a Commonwealth citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Ireland or a relevant citizen of the Union".

The Representation of the People Act 2000 also introduced a new system of electoral registration, with 2 electoral registers, one for parliamentary elections, one for local elections:
 "A person is entitled to vote as an elector at a parliamentary election in any constituency if on the date of the poll he (...)(c) is either a Commonwealth citizen or a citizen of the Republic of Ireland"; "A person is entitled to be registered in the register of parliamentary electors for any constituency or part of a constituency if on the relevant date he (...) (c) is either a qualifying Commonwealth citizen or a citizen of the Republic of Ireland"
 "A person is entitled to vote as an elector at a local government election in any electoral area if on the date of the poll he (...)(c) is a Commonwealth citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Ireland or a relevant citizen of the Union"; "A person is entitled to be registered in the register of local government electors for any electoral area if on the relevant date he (...) (c) is a qualifying Commonwealth citizen, a citizen of the Republic of Ireland or a relevant citizen of the Union"
 "In this section “qualifying Commonwealth citizen” means a Commonwealth citizen who either"
 (a) is not a person who requires leave under the [1971 c. 77.] Immigration Act 1971 to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, or
 (b) is such a person but for the time being has (or is, by virtue of any enactment, to be treated as having) any description of such leave"

After the British exit from the European Union the British Government announced changes to the right of EU Citizens in that EU Citizens who arrives After January 1, 2021 would only be granted the right to vote in local elections if there was a reciprocal agreement in place. These proposals have yet to be implemented.

Wales
The National Assembly for Wales (now Senedd Cymru or the Welsh Parliament, simply Senedd) passed the Senedd and Elections (Wales) Act 2020 in November 2019. The Act extended the franchise for local and Senedd elections to 16 and 17 year olds and all other resident foreign nationals holding leave under the Immigration Act 1971. This made Wales the first jurisdiction in the UK that allows non-EU and non-Commonwealth citizens to join the electoral register.

Scotland
In February 2020, the Scottish Parliament voted to extend the voting franchise for local and Scottish Parliament elections to include any other foreign nationals holding leave under the Immigration Act 1971. Thus, Scotland immediately followed Wales in allowing non-EU and non-Commonwealth citizens to join the electoral register.

United States