[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Copyright law of Switzerland

5 (art. 66bis).

Already three years later, work on an omnibus revision of the law was begun, but it took more than 30 years to complete this project until in 1992 a new copyright law was passed. It entered in force on July 1, 1993 and extended the copyright term again non-retroactively to 70 years.

In 2004, another revision of the Swiss copyright law was begun with the goal of making the law compliant with the WIPO Copyright Treaty (WCT) and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (WPPT). It was finally approved by both chambers of the Swiss parliament on October 5, 2007. At the same time, the parliament also ratified the Swiss adherence to the WCT and the WPPT. The revised law entered in force on July 1, 2008.

Duration of protection 
Copyright protection for most protected works expires 70 years after the death of the author under Swiss law, the only exception being
computer programs, which are protected for 50 years after the death of the author. The protection also expires if the death must be assumed. The date of death of the last author is relevant in cases of coauthorship, unless the contributions are separable. The 50 or 70 years of protection are counted starting at the end of the year when the author (or last author) died. Works of unknown authors enter the public domain 70 years after the date of publication (even if the author is identified once the protection has ended).

Swiss law also protects performers' rights; the duration of protection is 50 years, starting from the end of the year when the work was performed.

As a result of the non-retroactive revision of 1992, when the 50-year copyright term was extended to 70 years, works that were already in the public domain in 1993, when the new law started being applied, do not benefit from renewed protection; therefore, all works made by authors deceased in 1942 or before are in the public domain in Switzerland.

Official documents 
The following are ineligible for copyright by law:
 laws, decrees, international treaties or other official acts
 decisions, protocols or reports by public authorities
 pieces of currency
 patents or patent applications

It follows that photographs taken from or of these documents are also in the public domain. However:
 a photograph of an official document may constitute a protected work of its own if the photograph is sufficiently original (see below);
 a photograph taken from an official document may have been copyrighted by someone other than the state and been reproduced with permission in the official document.

Lack of originality 

Only "works" in the sense of the law, i.e. "creations of the mind, literary or artistic, that have an individual character", are protected by copyright. What exactly individuality (also referred to as originality) means for photographs has long been a focus of dispute. Up until 2020, it meant that many photographs lacked copyright protection.

In its 2003 Marley decision, the Federal Supreme Court found that the picture at issue (shot by a spectator with a handheld camera) had the required individual character by virtue of the aesthetic appeal of the picture, combined with the orientation of the picture's components and the distribution of light and shadow. It also found that it was a "creation of the mind" by being shot at a specific time during the singer's movement on the stage. Accordingly, the Court held that the picture was protected by copyright.

In its 2004 Meili decision, the Court found that the picture at issue, shot by a reporter to document Christoph Meili with the files he had taken from his employer, lacked individual character. It found that the scope of conceptual and technical possibilities was not exploited, and that the photograph did not distinguish itself in any way from what was common use. For lack of an individual expression of thought, therefore, the Court held that the image was not copyrighted.

Legal scholarship has attempted to summarise the Federal Supreme Court's jurisprudence on the threshold of originality as follows: 
 Images where only the object, but not the photograph, is individual are not protected, as e.g. in art catalogue photographs. Of course, the copyright status of the object depicted, e.g. a painting, must be considered independently.
 "Merely" illustrative and portrait images also tend not to be protected, at least if the composition, post-processing etc. show no individual expression of thought.
 Images are not protected per se because their object is famous or they attract great attention (e.g. the Abraham Zapruder pictures of the Kennedy assassination). On the other hand, an image can be a "snapshot" and still be protected as an individual work.
 The impression is given that the mere aesthetic appeal of a photograph may contribute to its originality.