[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# January 1973

eutenant Colonel William Nolde, 43, of Mount Pleasant, Michigan, was killed by North Vietnamese artillery fire at An Lộc in South Vietnam, at 9:00 in the evening local time, 11 hours before the ceasefire agreed upon in Paris took effect.  Colonel Nolde became the last combat death in the Vietnam War

January 28, 1973 (Sunday)
With the expiration of hostilities the Vietnam War to go into effect at 0:00 Universal Time, the ceasefire began at 8:00 in the morning local time.  The war continued in the neighboring kingdom of Laos, where no truce had been reached, and U.S. B-52 bombers continued to bomb suspected Communist positions and supply lines that were infiltrating South Vietnam.
Elections were held in Senegal, at the time a one-party republic in West Africa, where voters were given a choice of voting yes or no on the slate of candidates offered by the Union Progressiste Senegalaise.  President Léopold Sédar Senghor, unopposed, was approved for a third term of five years, and the 100-member slate of candidates for the Assemblée nationale du Sénégal were endorsed.
The television detective drama Barnaby Jones premiered on the CBS television network for the first of 178 episodes and eight seasons. At the age of 64, Buddy Ebsen, who had starred in the comedy The Beverly Hillbillies from 1962 to 1971, took on a dramatic role as an elderly private investigator seeking to find the killer of his son-in-law between cases.  Actress Lee Meriwether portrayed his daughter-in-law and assistant in the program, a production of Quinn Martin.
The Golden Globe Awards were presented for film and television for the year 1972.
The Argentine Grand Prix was held at the Oscar Gálvez circuit and was won by Emerson Fittipaldi.
Died: 
John Banner, 63, Austrian-born American stage, film and TV actor best known for playing Sergeant Schultz on Hogan's Heroes, died while visiting friends in Austria.
Hayden W. Lingo, 65, American pool player who invented the game of one-pocket

January 29, 1973 (Monday)
The crash of EgyptAir Flight 741 killed all 37 people aboard, as the Ilyushin Il-18 impacted the side of a mountain as it was approaching the city of Nicosia in Cyprus after having departed from Cairo.
An arsonist killed 10 of the 16 residents of Street's Rest Home in Pleasantville, New Jersey, including 106-year-old woman.  A 22-year-old man who resided at the home was chaarged with setting the early-morning fire.
Three people were killed in fighting in Belfast, capital of Northern Ireland.  A member of the Ulster Defence Association (UDA) shot dead a Catholic civilian at his workplace, a petrol station on Kennedy Way, Belfast.  Later, the UDA killed a 15-year-old Catholic civilian in a drive-by shooting at Falls Road/Donegall Road junction, and a Provisional IRA shot and killed dead UDA member Francis 'Hatchet' Smith, rumored to have led the group that shot the teenager.
Born: 
Pavel Voicu, Minister of Internal Affairs for the Republic of Moldova, later its Minister of Defense; in Macaresti, Moldavian SSR, Soviet Union
Jason Schmidt, American baseball pitcher, 2003 National League ERA leader; in Lewiston, Idaho
Arben Bajraktaraj, Kosovo-born Fench film actor; in Isniq, SR Serbia, Yugoslavia
Died: 
Caryl Jenner (stage name for Pamela Ripman), 55, British children's theatre director, died of lung cancer.
Ludwig Stossel, 89, Austrian-born American character actor on stage, film and television