[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Model Town, Lahore

into one master plan (map). For this additional work he was awarded a further Rs. 500.

The final design was approved by the Government of Punjab.

Evacuee property 

The Society was declared Evacuee property after the Indo-Pak partition in 1947, as about 1100 out of 1300 members emigrated to India.

The case went to Chairman Rehabilitation Committee and they gave the historic decision in 1960 that the Society should pay Rs 100 and all assets and liabilities were shifted back to the Society. It was then placed under the management of Riaz-ud-Din Ahmad, agent to the custodian for Model Town. On 19 March 1962, 25 representatives of the Model Town Society held a meeting under the chairmanship of Khawaja Hafiz-ullah and discussed the legal status of the Society and further steps to be taken in connection with the reconstitution. As a result, the institution was registered as The Cooperative Model Town Society (1962) Limited, Lahore on 9 January 1963 by the Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Lahore Region. New bylaws of the society were registered under the Cooperative Societies Act 1925. The basic tenets of the society, however, continued to be the same as were originally planned, namely "to promote the economic and social interests of its members, particularly to plan, establish and maintain a garden town".

Administrator takeover 
The Society, unfortunately, could not maintain its standards and the management staggered until April 1982 when the administrator was forced to take over the Society. The management of the Society was superseded under MLO No. 856, dated 30 March 1982. The general body and the managing committee were dissolved. All the powers and functions of the managing committee and general body were vested in the administrator. The legal status of the society continues to be a Cooperative Society registered under the Cooperative Societies Act 1925, supervised and controlled by the Registrar, Cooperatives Punjab, Lahore. please provide the copy of MLO No.856 dated 30-3-1982

Return of the elected managing committee and general body 
After a lapse of twenty years, the Supreme Court of Pakistan restored the society in July 2002. Accordingly, elections were held in September 2002 under the supervision of the cooperative department. Members voted to elect a new management committee on 29 September 2002, which consisted of President Khalid Ikram Malik, Vice President Tahir A Khan, and 20 members of the Managing Committee (2 from each block) and five nominated / ex-officio members. This MC was dissolved by the Registrar within 18 months for incompetence. For two years again, the Administrator ruled the Society.

The first managing committee after restoration took over the office on 23 October 2002. This MC worked for 17 months only after which it was sacked by the Registrar for incompetence. In November 2005, on the orders of former Chief Minister Punjab, Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi, new elections were ordered. Elections were held in Dec 2005, and retired Colonel Tahir H. Kardar was elected as President and took over the charge with Tahir A. Khan as Vice President. The new managing committee completed many projects and approved its first welfare-oriented budget for the fiscal year 2005–2006. Special attention was given to the development projects in the budget. An amount of Rs. 20 million was allocated for the construction of a Community Center which had remained on paper for many years. Similarly, 15 million were allocated for widening, re-paving and repairing the roads. In order to improve the water supply system, five new tube-wells were installed and rusted water pipelines were replaced. An amount of Rs. 10 million was allocated for this project. A new truck and 25 new transformers were purchased to upgrade the electricity system. Computerization of the office records was undertaken and more technical staff and professionals were recruited to improve efficiency.

The society's administration took up a number of steps for the welfare of the residents:

 Property cess was decreased from 3.5% to 2.5% of the registered value.
 Legal heirs were exempted from transfer fees and other liabilities.
 The electricity rates were subsidized and a relief of over 2.40 Rs. per kWh was given to the members as well as the work members.

Area and population 
Model Town Society is spread over an area of 1463 acres (5.9 km²). This area is further divided into ten blocks (A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, K). Blocks L, M, N, P, Q, R and S are on the outskirts of Model Town and are administered by Lahore Development Authority (LDA). These blocks were named "Model Town Extension" when Model Town Society sold this land to LDA in return for developmental works.

The breakdown of the total area is as follows:

 Residential:  = 56%
 Commercial:  = 2%
 Roads:  = 19%
 Nurseries and playgrounds:  = 4%
 Green area (parks):  = 19%