[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

sion presenter and media mogul Oprah Winfrey, who previously endorsed Obama, will appear with him on the campaign trail.
November 28 – YouTube and CNN host a Republican debate.
November 30 – A man takes hostages in Hillary Clinton's New Hampshire campaign office. He is later arrested.

December 2007

 December 1 – Over two dozen community organizations co-sponsor the Heartland Presidential Candidates Forum in Des Moines, Iowa. The Democratic National Committee votes to strip Michigan of all its delegates to the Democratic National Convention.
 December 4 – National Public Radio and Iowa Public Radio host a radio-only Democratic debate.
 December 6 – Republican candidate Mitt Romney delivers an address on his faith and religion in the United States at the George Bush Presidential Library.
 December 9 – Univision hosts a Republican debate at the University of Miami, in Coral Gables, Florida.
 December 11 – Former Democratic United States Representative Cynthia McKinney announces her candidacy for the Green Party's presidential nomination.
 December 12 – The Des Moines Register and Iowa Public Television host a Republican debate in Johnston, Iowa.
 December 13 – The Des Moines Register and Iowa Public Television host a Democratic debate in Johnston, Iowa.
 December 14 – The Ron Paul Blimp flies for the first time from Elizabeth City, North Carolina to Chester County, South Carolina.
 December 16 – Republican candidate Ron Paul raises more than $6 million through online donations in 24 hours, breaking his own record of $4.3 million to become the highest figure ever raised in a day.
 December 17 – 2000 Democratic vice presidential nominee Joe Lieberman endorses Republican candidate John McCain.
 December 20 – Republican candidate Tom Tancredo announces that he is dropping out of the race for the Republican nomination. He endorses Mitt Romney.

2008

January 2008

 January 3 – The Iowa Democratic caucus is won by Barack Obama, while the Republican caucus is won by Mike Huckabee. Christopher Dodd and Joe Biden drop out of the Democratic race.
 January 5 – The Wyoming Republican caucus is won by Mitt Romney. ABC, WMUR-TV and Facebook jointly host a Republican debate at Saint Anselm College in Goffstown, New Hampshire.
 January 6 – Fox News Channel hosts a Republican debate in Milford, New Hampshire.
 January 8 – The New Hampshire Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain. The New Republic publishes an article relating to a selection of newsletters published under the name of Republican candidate Ron Paul. The article describes the newsletters as showing "an obsession with conspiracies, sympathy for the right-wing militia movement, and deeply held bigotry."
 January 10 – Bill Richardson drops out of the Democratic race. Fox News Channel and the South Carolina Republican Party host a Republican debate in South Carolina.
 January 13 – The Green Party holds a debate in San Francisco, featuring Ralph Nader, Cynthia McKinney, Jared Ball, and Kent Mesplay. Ball withdraws from the race and endorses McKinney
 January 15 – The Michigan Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton, though no delegates are awarded. Only Clinton, Dennis Kucinich, Christopher Dodd and Mike Gravel are on the ballot. The Michigan Republican primary is won by Mitt Romney. Hillary Clinton, John Edwards and Barack Obama appear at a Democratic debate in Las Vegas
 January 19 – The Nevada Democratic caucus is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican caucus is won by Mitt Romney. The South Carolina Republican primary is won by John McCain. Republican candidate Duncan Hunter ends his campaign.
 January 21 – The Congressional Black Caucus Political Education and Leadership Institute hosts a Democratic debate in South Carolina.
 January 22 – Fred Thompson drops out of the Republican race. The Louisiana Republican caucus is won by the "pro-life uncommitted" slate.
 January 24 – A Republican presidential debate is held at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton, Florida. Dennis Kucinich drops out of the Democratic race.
 January 25–February 5 – The Hawaii Republican caucuses are won by John McCain.
 January 26 – The South Carolina Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama.
 January 27 – Caroline and Ted Kennedy endorse Barack Obama.
 January 29 – The Florida Republican primary is won by John McCain. The Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton, though no delegates are awarded.
 January 30 – Rudy Giuliani withdraws from the Republican race and endorses John McCain. John Edwards drops out of the Democratic race in New Orleans. Mike Huckabee, Ron Paul, John McCain and Mitt Romney appear at a Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California.
 January 31 – A Democratic debate is held in Los Angeles.

February 2008