[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Artemivsk, Luhansk Oblast

Kypuche (), formerly known as Artemivsk or Artemovsk (; ) is a city in Perevalsk Raion, Luhansk Oblast, eastern Ukraine. Population:  

Situated in the Donbas region of Ukraine, the city is located approximately  from Bakhmut in Donetsk Oblast, which was also known as Artemovsk during the Soviet era. Russian occupation authorities continue to use the name Artemovsk for both cities.

The city came under the control of the breakaway pro-Russia Luhansk People's Republic (LPR / LNR) in early 2014. In September 2022, Russia declared the incorporation of all LPR territory into Russia.

History
The city was founded as Katerynivka () village in 1910 close to the railway station of Kypyche (Vigorous). Its name was changed to Artema in 1923 and to Artemovsk in 1938 after the Russian revolutionary and Stalinist figure Comrade Artyom.

Artimovsk would remain as part of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic until its dissolution in 1991, and from then has been part of Ukraine. However, the city has not been controlled by Ukraine since early 2014. In Spring of 2014, at the start of the War in Donbas, the city came under the control of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic (LPR).

On May 12, 2016, Ukraine's national parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, decided to restore the name of Kypuche as part of the country's decommunization process. However, the LPR has not recognised this, and so the name change has had only a symbolic effect.

Notable people
 Lidiya Ponomarenko (1922–2013), Ukrainian historian
 Volodymyr Shcherban (born 1950), Ukrainian politician

Economy
Kypuche's major industry is coal mining. Southeast of the town, the important power grid node Donbass-750 is located.

Gallery

References

External links
 http://factfinder.census.gov

Cities in Luhansk Oblast
Cities of district significance in Ukraine
Populated places established in the Russian Empire
Populated places established in 1910
Soviet toponymy in Ukraine
1910 establishments in Ukraine