[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

tate of war and Habeas Corpus no longer applies. He rejects an application to free two of the 5,000 prisoners taken by National forces since the outbreak of the civil war.
16 September – 
Michael Kilroy's Anti-Treaty IRA men attack Newport, County Mayo, but fail to take it and withdraw after a day of fighting.
The Anti-Treaty IRA mount three gun and grenade attacks in Dublin city, at Curzon Street, Capel Street and Drumcondra. Two Free State troops are wounded along with 5 civilians. One civilian is killed.
17 September – CID Headquarters (Oriel House in Dublin) is stormed and a CID officer is shot dead by Anti-Treaty IRA. There is a fire fight on Mount street bridge as the Anti-Treaty party makes its getaway. Republican fighter Patrick Mannion is shot in the head by Free State troops as he lies wounded.
An ambush is mounted on Stephens Green in central Dublin. One civilian is killed in the crossfire. Another civilian is killed during an exchange of fire on Merchant's Quay in the city centre.
18 September – Three Free State troops are killed in an ambush near Nenagh, County Tipperary as they were about to enter a Church for Mass.
19 September – 
Republican fighter Bertie Murphy is shot dead in Killarney, County Kerry, by National Army troops in reprisal for ambushes in the area.
Seán Mac Eoin begins a Free State sweep of northern County Sligo to clear it of Anti-Treaty guerrillas. The operation is largely successful. By the end of the operation, Free State forces are in control of all the towns in County Sligo and the conflict there becomes a low level guerrilla affair. 54 people are killed in the county during the entire civil war, 22 Free State troops, 21 Republicans and 11 civilians. Of these, all but 8 have been killed by the end of September 1922. During MacEoin's operation, a Republican column, including an armoured car, is cornered north of Sligo town. The car is put out of action and six Republicans flee up the slopes of Ben Bulben mountain. All six are killed by the pursuing Free State troops, four of them, it is alleged, are killed after surrendering. Among those killed are Cpt. Harry Benson, and Brian MacNeill, (son of Eoin MacNeill, founder of the Irish Volunteers), who is shot at close range in the forehead. One National Army sergeant is killed in the operation and 30 Irregulars are taken prisoner.
20 September – A Free State soldier is accidentally killed cleaning his rifle in County Cork and a civilian girl is killed in Kildare by bomb she found in an outhouse.
The Free State barracks in Drumshambo, County Leitrim is attacked and one soldier is killed.
Free State Civic Guard Charles Wood accidentally shot dead by a colleague, Ship Street Barracks, Dublin
22 September – One Free State soldier is killed and several soldiers and three civilians are injured in a gun and grenade attack by Republicans on Free State troops at noon on Eden Quay, central Dublin.
23 September – Anti-Treaty fighter Michael Neville, is taken from work in Dublin and found shot dead at Killester Cemetery by Pro-Treaty forces.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in two separate ambushes in Kerry.
The Anti-Treaty IRA mounts three attacks in Dublin. In Drumcondra, 10 civilians are wounded by a grenade thrown at an Army lorry. On Eden Quay, one soldier is killed and three wounded along with four civilians wounded in a gun and grenade attack. On Merchant's Quay, a civilian is killed in another grenade attack.
24 September – the Free State evacuates its garrison at Newport, County Mayo due to the intense guerrilla activity in the area.
27 September – 
The Free State's Provisional Government puts the "Public Safety Bill" before the Dáil, setting up military courts which allow for the execution of men captured bearing arms against the state and aiding and abetting attacks on state forces. It passes by 48 votes to 18. The Irish Labour Party oppose it.
About 500 Anti-Treaty IRA men attack Killorglin, County Kerry, led by Seán Hyde. However, they fail to dislodge a pro-treaty garrison of 60 men from Clare who hold the barracks in the town. British Intelligence reports that 23 Republicans are killed in the action and 30 wounded. Anti-Treaty soldier David Robinson admits to 2 killed, 15 wounded and 14 captured. The Republicans disperse after 24 hours of fighting, when Free State troops arrive from Tralee.
Two Free State soldiers are killed in an ambush at Brennan's Glen, County Kerry.
28 September – In County Kerry, John Galvin, a Republican captured in the Killorglin raid is shot by Free State troops in Tralee and his body dumped in nearby Ballyseedy wood. Galvin had admitted under interrogation to the killing of a National Army officer at Castlemaine. A Free State soldier is also shot dead while on sentry duty at Rathmore courthouse.
Anti-Treaty forces mount an ambush at Kilfenora, County Clare. One Free State captain, Consadine is killed.
The Republican leader Tom Barry, who was captured in the Dublin fighting, escapes from an intern