[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Armenians in Syria

a national football team.

In basketball, Mary Mouradian, Ani Karalian, Elisabeth Mouradian and Magi Donabedian were members of the Syria women's national team during the 1980s and 1990s. Sari Papazian and Vatche Nalbandian from Aleppo are current members of the Syria men's national basketball team.

Music, arts and drama
Many Armenians from Syria had achieved national and international fame in the spheres of music and drama. Salloum Haddad from the Armenian village of Yacoubiyah is a famous contemporary actor in Syrian and Arab drama. Ruba al-Jamal (died in 2005) was a prominent classical Arabic songs performer born as Dzovinar Garabedian. Many other Syrian-Armenian singers and musicians became renowned artists among Armenians around the world like George Tutunjian, Karnig Sarkissian, Paul Baghdadlian, Setrag Ovigian, Arsen Grigoryan (Mro), Karno and Raffi Ohanian. Many others have achieved international fame including Aram Tigran, Haig Yazdjian, Avraam Russo, Wadi' Mrad, Talar Dekrmanjian and Lena Chamamyan. The conductor of the Syrian National Symphony Orchestra is Missak Baghboudarian from Damascus.

Armenian theatres in Aleppo include:
Antranig Theatre Group of the Nor Serount Cultural Association
Bedros Atamian Theatre Group of the Armenian Youth Association
Zavarian Theatre Group of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association
Levon Shant Theatre Group of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association
Kermanig-Vasbouragan Theatre Group of the Kermanig-Vasbouragan Cultural Association
Vartan Ajemian Theatre Group of the Grtasirats Cultural Association

Armenian musical ensembles in Aleppo include:
Zvartnots Choir of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association
Alexander Spendiaryan Choir of the Armenian Youth Association
"Big Band" musical group of the Armenian Youth Association
Gomidas Chamber Orchestra of the Armenian Youth Association
Meghri Children's Choir of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association

Armenian dance groups in Aleppo include:
Nor Serount Dance Group of the Nor Serount Cultural Association
Sartarabad Dance Group of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association
Jirayr Dance Group
Antranig Dance Group of the Armenian Youth Association
Uno Dance Group
Shushi Children's Dance Group of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association

Armenian art academies in Aleppo include:
Martiros Saryan Painting Academy of the Armenian Youth Association
Arshile Gorky Painting Academy of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association
Aram Khachaturian Musical Academy of the Armenian Youth Association
Barsegh Kanachyan Musical Academy of the Hamazkayin Cultural and Educational Association

Medical sciences

Armenians were among the pioneers of modern medical sciences in Syria. The first X-ray generator in Syria and Lebanon was brought by Dr. Asadour Altunian (1857–1950) to Aleppo in 1896. Dr. Altunian opened the first-ever private hospital in Aleppo in 1927. Later, he founded the first nursing school in Aleppo and Syria. After his death in 1950, Dr. Asadour Altunian was honoured by the government of Syria with the Honour Medal of Syrian Merit of the Excellent Degree. In ophthalmology, Dr. Robert Jebejian (1909–2001) was among the first ophthalmologists in Syria. He founded the first-ever private ophthalmological hospital in Aleppo in 1952. Dr. Jebejian had published many valuable researches about leishmaniasis and trachoma. In 1947, Dr. Jebejian performed the first-ever corneal transplantation surgery in the Middle East and the Arab World.

Persecution during the 2010s Syrian civil war
As of November 2014, only 23 Armenian and Assyrian Christian families remain in the city of Raqqa. Christian bibles and holy books have reportedly been burned by ISIS militants.

Syrian-Armenian Relations

Deir ez-Zor and the Armenian genocide

In 1915, the Syrian region of Deir ez-Zor, mainly a desert became a final destination of the Armenians during Armenian genocide where they were killed. A memorial complex commemorating this tragedy was opened in the city. It was designed by Sarkis Balmanoukian and was officially inaugurated in 1990 with the presence of the Armenian Catholicos of the Great House of Cilicia. The complex contains bones and remnants recovered from the Deir ez-Zor desert of Armenian victims of the Genocide and has become a pilgrim destination for many Armenians in remembrance of their dead.

Kessab, Syrian town with an Armenian majority

Kessab (,  K'yesap) is a Syrian border town located in the Latakia Governorate northwest of Syria at a height of 800 meters above sea level just 3 kilometers away from the Turkish border, and 9 kilometers from the Mediterranean sea.

Kessab is an ancient Armenian town, over 1000 years old. Today, The population of the town and the surrounding villages is mainly Armenian with a minority of Syrian Arab.

Kessab is a summer tourist resort and a very popular destination.

Relations between Armenia and Syria