[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eckart conditions

tion

Clearly,  is invariant under translation if and only if

because the vector  is arbitrary. So, the translational Eckart conditions imply the translational invariance of the vectors belonging to internal space and conversely. Under rotation we have,

Rotational invariance follows if and only if

The external modes, on the other hand,  are not invariant and it is not difficult to show that they change under translation as follows:

where M is the total mass of the molecule. They change under infinitesimal rotation as follows

where I0 is the inertia tensor of the equilibrium molecule. This behavior shows
that the first three external modes describe the overall translation of the molecule, while
the modes 4, 5, and, 6 describe the overall rotation.

Vibrational energy
The  vibrational energy of the molecule can be written in terms of coordinates with respect to the Eckart frame as

Because the Eckart frame is non-inertial, the total kinetic energy comprises also centrifugal and Coriolis energies. These  stay out of the present discussion. The vibrational energy is written in terms of the displacement coordinates, which are linearly dependent because they are contaminated by the 6 external modes, which are zero, i.e., the dA's satisfy 6 linear relations. It is possible to write the vibrational energy solely in terms of the internal modes qr (r =1, ..., 3N-6) as we will now show. We write the different modes in terms of the displacements

The parenthesized expressions define  a matrix B relating the internal and external modes to the displacements. The matrix B may be partitioned in an internal (3N-6 x 3N)  and an external (6 x 3N) part,

We define the matrix M by

and from the relations given in the previous sections follow the matrix relations

and

We define

By using the rules for block matrix multiplication we can show that

where G−1 is of dimension (3N-6 x 3N-6) and N−1 is (6 x 6).
The kinetic energy becomes

where we used that the last 6 components of v are zero. This form of
the kinetic energy of vibration enters Wilson's GF method. It is of some interest to point out that the potential energy in the harmonic approximation can be written as follows

where H is the Hessian of the potential in the minimum and F, defined by this equation, is the F matrix of the GF method.

Relation to the harmonic approximation

In the harmonic approximation to the nuclear vibrational problem, expressed in displacement coordinates, one must solve the generalized eigenvalue problem

where  H is a 3N × 3N symmetric matrix of second derivatives of the potential . H is the Hessian matrix of V in the equilibrium . The diagonal matrix M contains the masses on the diagonal.
The diagonal matrix  contains the eigenvalues, while
the columns of C contain the eigenvectors.

It can be shown that the invariance of V under simultaneous translation over t  of all nuclei implies that vectors T = (t, ..., t) are in the kernel of H.
From the invariance of V under an infinitesimal rotation of all nuclei around s, it can be shown that also the vectors S = (s x R10, ...,  s x RN0) are in the kernel of H :

Thus, six columns of C corresponding to eigenvalue zero are determined algebraically. (If the generalized eigenvalue problem is solved numerically, one will find in general six linearly independent linear combinations of S and T).
The eigenspace corresponding to eigenvalue zero is at least of dimension 6 (often it is exactly of dimension 6, since the other eigenvalues, which are force constants, are never zero for molecules in their ground state). Thus, T and S correspond to the overall (external) motions: translation and rotation, respectively. They are zero-energy modes because space is homogeneous (force-free) and isotropic (torque-free).

By the definition in this article, the non-zero frequency modes are internal modes, since they   are within the orthogonal complement of Rext. The generalized orthogonalities:

applied to the "internal" (non-zero eigenvalue) and "external" (zero-eigenvalue) columns of C are equivalent to the Eckart conditions.

References

Further reading
The classic work is:

More advanced book are:

Molecular physics
Quantum chemistry