[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Synecdoche, New York

o this degree isn't the mechanism of art—it's the structure of psychosis." American film critic Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote that "it seems more like an illustration of his script than a full-fledged movie, proving how much he needs a Spike Jonze or a Michel Gondry to realize his surrealistic conceits."

The Moving Arts Film Journal ranked the film at No. 80 on its list of "The 100 Greatest Movies of All Time". In addition, it is the 61st-most acclaimed film of the 21st century according to review aggregator They Shoot Pictures, Don't They?

Top-ten lists
The film appeared on many critics' top-ten lists of the best films of 2008. Both Kimberly Jones and Marjorie Baumgarten of the Austin Chronicle named it the best film of the year, as did Ray Bennett of The Hollywood Reporter.

It appeared on 101 "Best of 2008" lists, with 20 of them giving it the number-one spot. Those who placed it in their top ten included Manohla Dargis of The New York Times, Richard Corliss of Time, Shawn Anthony Levy of The Oregonian, Josh Rosenblatt of the Austin Chronicle, Joe Neumaier of the New York Daily News, Ty Burr and Wesley Morris of the Boston Globe, Lou Lumenick of the New York Post, Philip Martin of the Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, Scott Foundas of LA Weekly, and Walter Chaw, Bill Chambers and Ian Pugh of Film Freak Central (all three of whom placed it at number one).

Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times named it the best film of the 2000s. In the 2012 Sight & Sound poll, four critics ranked it among the 10 greatest films of all time, and Ebert considered the film a strong contender for his own list. Also in 2012, in Time, Richard Corliss ranked it 7th on his list of the "Greatest Movies of the Millennium (Thus Far)".

In a 2016 BBC critics' poll, Synecdoche, New York was ranked the 20th-greatest film of the 21st century.

In 2019, the film ranked as No. 7 in The 100 Best Films of the 21st Century poll conducted by The Guardian.

Awards and nominations

The film was nominated by the Visual Effects Society Awards in the categories of "Outstanding Supporting Visual Effects in a Feature Motion Picture", "Outstanding Matte Paintings in a Feature Motion Picture", and "Outstanding Created Environment in a Feature Motion Picture".

Influence
A number of critics have compared the film to the American docu-comedy television series The Rehearsal created by Nathan Fielder.

See also
 Anomie
 Map–territory relation
 Droste effect

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Gary J. Shipley, The Strangeness of Realism vs. the Realism of the Strange: Themes in Synecdoche, New York, SCRIPT 1.2 (April 30, 2013)

2008 films
2008 comedy-drama films
American comedy-drama films
American independent films
2000s English-language films
Existentialist films
Films about death
Films about depression
Films directed by Charlie Kaufman
Films scored by Jon Brion
Films shot in New York City
Films set in New York City
Postmodern films
Films with screenplays by Charlie Kaufman
Self-reflexive films
Sidney Kimmel Entertainment films
Sony Pictures Classics films
2008 directorial debut films
2008 comedy films
2008 drama films
2008 independent films
Transgender-related films
2008 LGBT-related films
2000s American films