[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services

the decisions that she made over a sometimes rocky tenure," she replied "not at all." Wos was replaced by Rick Brajer, a former medical technology executive. After being sworn in, Brajer asserted to the press that Wos' resignation had been unrelated to the ongoing federal investigation into NCDHHS.

In October 2015, NCDHHS introduced their Medicaid 1115 waiver, which petitioned federal Medicaid authorities to change the state system to a "capitized" billing process, where doctors bill a set per-patient fee as compared to billing for specific medical items. At the time, the state was the "largest state that has not moved from a fee-for-service system to capitated payment." Medicaid was running about $185 million below budget at the time of the proposal. Brajer was praised for the development from lawmakers such as Senator Tommy Tucker, who had previously been vocal in criticizing the department. Tucker also stated "I don’t want us to minimize the effort of these folks and the previous secretary in the reform of the department.... [that effort] has allowed us to look at $200 or $300 million in surplus."

The Opioid epidemic, GenX in drinking water, and the COVID-19 pandemic (2017-22)

In January 2017 Mandy Cohen was appointed Health Secretary of the Department by Governor Roy Cooper.
 She dealt with multiple health crises in North Carolina including the Opioid epidemic, GenX in drinking water, and the COVID-19 pandemic. 

Cohen navigated the political divide over Medicaid in North Carolina, with Democratic Governor Cooper wanting to expand it under the Affordable Care Act and the Republican-majority North Carolina State Legislature opposing such measures. The Department led North Carolina through a transition from free-for-service Medicaid to a model contracted by the state with private insurance companies that are paid pre-determined rates to provide health services. Healthy Opportunities was created, an initiative testing the impact of providing high-need Medicaid enrollees with housing, food, transportation, and interpersonal safety interventions with the goal of improving public health and reducing costs. The initiative was funded with $650 million from state and federal Medicaid, authorized by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. She implemented the Opioid Action Plan, which uses $45.5 million in grant funding to fight opioid misuse in the state. The plan also updated the Controlled Substance Reporting System, helping doctors identify patients at risk of misusing opioids. The plan led to a decline in overdose deaths in North Carolina for the first time in over a decade. In 2019 Cohen criticized the North Carolina House of Representatives' proposed budget for 2019–21, arguing that it harmed North Carolinians by making massive cuts to the Department of Health and Human Services, potentially impacting "everything from health inspections of restaurants to the safety of drinking water to child protective services." Governor Cooper announced on November 30, 2021, that Cohen would leave office on January 1, 2022.

COVID-19 pandemic 
Cohen stressed the need for North Carolinians to wear face masks, practice social distancing, and wash their hands in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. In March 2020 she sent a letter to the president of the 2020 Republican National Convention, asking for detailed plans on how the convention would operate during the COVID-19 pandemic after President Donald Trump published a series of tweets threatening to pull the convention out of North Carolina.  The Department announced the creation of up to 300 testing sites in North Carolina, active through July, and requested more supplies from the federal government.  On June 30, 2020, the Department announced that it would partner with Omnicare, a company owned by CVS Health, to administer tests to 36,000 nursing home residents and 25,000 nursing home employees in over 400 locations.

In the beginning of July, Cohen warned of people becoming desensitized to the data being collected about COVID-19.  She said that she had concerns about teacher safety if schools were to re-open amidst the pandemic, but was confident in studies showing that the virus has minimal health consequences on younger children, saying that schools "have not played a significant role in the spreading of COVID-19." She met with William L. Roper, president of the University of North Carolina, to discuss how to resume in-person instruction for students at North Carolina's public colleges and universities. Earlier that month, during a press conference, she had called the virus a "serious threat". She warned of the state possibly returning to a stay-at-home order. She had also linked North Carolina's rise in cases with the reopening of the state. Cohen indicated that there would be a test surge in areas with troubling metrics.

References