[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 176]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

y should
you believe that the hearing of a single story would change the
characters of all your late friends, when neither the good instructions
you have been so long receiving from Mr Barlow, nor the intimacy you
have had with Harry, were sufficient to restrain your impetuous temper,
or prevent you from treating him in the shameful manner you have done?"

Tommy appeared very much abashed with his father's rebuke. He hung down
his head in silence a considerable time; at length he faintly said,
"Oh, sir, I have indeed acted very ill; I have rendered myself unworthy
the affection of all my best friends; but do not, pray do not give me up
entirely. You shall see how I will behave for the future; and if ever I
am guilty of the same faults again, I consent that you shall abandon me
for ever." Saying this, he silently stole out of the room, as if intent
upon some extraordinary resolution. His father observed his motions, and
smiling, said to Mr Barlow, "What can this portend? This boy is
changeable as a weathercock; every blast whirls him round and round upon
his centre, nor will he ever fix, I fear, in any direction." "At least,"
replied Mr Barlow, "you have the greatest reason to rejoice in his
present impressions, which are good and estimable; and I fear it is the
lot of most human beings to exhaust almost every species of error before
they fix in truth and virtue."

Tommy now entered the room, but with a remarkable change in his dress
and manner. He had combed the powder out of his hair, and demolished the
elegance of his curls; he had divested his dress of every appearance of
finery; and even his massy and ponderous buckles, so long the delight of
his heart and the wonder of his female friends, were taken from his
shoes, and replaced by a pair of the plainest form and appearance. In
this habiliment he appeared so totally changed from what he was, that
even his mother, who had lately become a little sparing of her
observations, could not help exclaiming, "What, in the name of wonder,
has the boy been doing now? Why, Tommy, I protest you have made yourself
a perfect fright, and you look more like a ploughboy than a young
gentleman."

"Mamma," answered Tommy, gravely, "I am now only what I ought always to
have been. Had I been contented with this dress before, I never should
have imitated such a parcel of coxcombs as you have lately had at your
house, nor pretended to admire Miss Matilda's music, which, I own, tired
me as much as Harry, and had almost set me asleep; nor should I have
exposed myself at the play and the ball; and, what is worst of all, I
should have avoided all my shameful behaviour to Harry at the
bull-baiting. But from this time I shall apply myself to the study of
nothing but reason and philosophy, and therefore I have bid adieu to
dress and finery for ever."

It was with great difficulty that the gentlemen could refrain from
laughing at Tommy's harangue, delivered with infinite seriousness and
solemnity; they, however, concealed their emotions, and encouraged him
to persevere in such a laudable resolution; but as the night was now
pretty far advanced, the whole family retired to bed.

The next morning early, Tommy arose, and dressed himself with his
newly-adopted simplicity, and, as soon as breakfast was over, prevailed
with Mr Barlow to accompany him to Harry Sandford's; but he did not
forget to take with him the lamb, which he had caressed and fed with
constant assiduity ever since he had so valiantly rescued him from his
devouring enemy. As they approached the house, the first object which
Tommy distinguished was his little friend at some distance, who was
driving his father's sheep along the common. At this sight his
impetuosity could no longer be restrained, and, springing forward with
all his speed, he arrived in an instant panting and out of breath, and
incapable of speaking. Harry, who knew his friend, and plainly perceived
the disposition with which he approached, met him with open arms, so
that the reconciliation was begun and completed in a moment; and Mr
Barlow, who now arrived with the lamb, had the pleasure of seeing his
little pupils mutually giving and receiving every unaffected mark of the
warmest affection.

"Harry," said Mr Barlow, "I bring you a little friend who is sincerely
penitent for his offences, and comes to own the faults he has
committed." "That I am indeed," said Tommy, a little recovered, and able
to speak; "but I have behaved so ill, and been such an ungrateful
fellow, that I am afraid Harry will never be able to forgive me."
"Indeed, indeed," said Harry, "there you do me the greatest injustice,
for I have already forgotten everything but your former kindness and
affection." "And I," answered Tommy, "will never forget how ill, how
ungratefully I have used you, nor the goodness with which you now
receive me." Tommy then recollected his lamb, and presented it to his
friend, while Mr B