[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Non nobis

rpetual canon with the two following voices entering at the lower fourth and lower octave in relation to the lead melody (dux). This is the version given in most of the early sources, but many other solutions are technically possible, a fact which has perhaps contributed much to its enduring appeal.

Non nobis Domine is the official school song of Clarendon House Grammar School... St. Henry's Marist College Durban, South Africa, the PREB school of textile design; Belfast High School, Foxford Comprehensive School, Coventry, Jordanstown, Northern Ireland; Coleraine High School, Coleraine, Northern Ireland; Craigholme Girls School, Glasgow; and The High School For Girls, Gloucester. It is also the school song of Richard Challoner School, London and the Covenant School of Dallas which is a classical, Christian private school in Dallas, TX. It is the song of the St. Charles Garnier College, of Québec City, the oldest comprehensive secondary school in Canada. It is also the official slogan of Guildford County School in Surrey, UK. Non nobis was also the school song of Lady Edridge Grammar School for Girls, Selhurst, Croydon, Surrey. Lady Edridge was next to the Crystal Palace Football Club ground, Clifton Road, and demolished in the 1980s. However, their version was written by Rudyard Kipling, with music by Roger Quilter (links below). This version was also the school song of Purley County Grammar School for Girls, Stoneyfield Road, Old Coulsdon, Surrey which was also demolished in the 1980s. This song was also the school song of Parklands Girls High School, Seacroft, and Cockburn High School, Beeston, Leeds, West Yorkshire. Parklands was the last remaining all girls school in Leeds and was closed in recent years, The Cockburn High School building was closed because of asbestos contamination, but the School was transferred to another area of Beeston. It was also the school hymn of Cirencester Grammar School (1461 to 1966). Mount Temple Comprehensive School in Clontarf, Dublin has it as a school song, and is sung annually at the carol service. Coleraine High School used Non nobis Domine as their school song before it was passed on to Belfast High School on 25 March 2015. In addition Bromley Technical High School, Bromley, Kent had it as the school song in the 1950s. It is currently the school song of Bishop Anstey High School in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.

Non Nobis is also the name of a Portuguese hard rock/heavy metal record label founded in 1992 in Tomar, but today are based in Lisbon.

Non nobis Domine is the name of a community choir based in Shannon, County Clare, Ireland.  The choir was formed at St. Patrick's Comprehensive School in 1967 and is directed (since formation) by Mr. Clem Garvey.

References

Sources

External links
 "Non Nobis Domine" by Roger Quilter. The Fort Lewis College Men's Choir – The Fort Lewis College Men's Choir sing "Non Nobis Domine" by Roger Quilter (text by Rudyard Kipling)
 Poetry Cat
 Psalm 115:1 Not to us, O LORD, not to us, but to Your name be the glory, because of Your loving devotion, because of Your faithfulness.
 Home

Christian hymns in Latin
Vulgate Latin words and phrases