[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# December 1919

Handley Page Type W aircraft was test flown after making its debut at the Paris Air Show. 
 Born: 
Inder Kumar Gujral, Indian state leader, 12th Prime Minister of India, in Jhelum, British India (d. 2012)
Lawrence Stone, English historian, leading expert on the English Civil War, in Epsom (d. 1999)

December 5, 1919 (Friday) 
 The White counter-revolutionary Regional Government of Northwest Russia was dissolved in Estonia following their defeat by the Red Army.
 Avianca was founded as the Sociedad Colombo-Alemana de Transporte Aéreo in Barranquilla, Colombia. From 2007 it will be the oldest operating airline in the Americas.
 The Uetsu Main Line was extended in the Yamagata Prefecture, Japan, with stations Mototate and Yuza serving the line. As well, the Echigo rail line was extended in the Niigata Prefecture with stations Kirihara serving the line.
 Born: Alun Gwynne Jones, British politician, cabinet minister for the Harold Wilson administration (d. 2020)

December 6, 1919 (Saturday) 
 António José de Almeida was elected the sixth President of Portugal, defeating rival Manuel Teixeira Gomes with 73% of the vote in the presidential election.
 The Sich Riflemen who fought on behalf of the Ukrainian People's Republic were formally dissolved.
 Born: 
Paul de Man, Belgian literary critic, proponent of deconstruction in literature, in Antwerp (d. 1983)
Wilfred Arthur, Australian air force officer, commander of the No. 75 Squadron and No. 81 Wing during World War II, recipient of the Distinguished Service Order and Distinguished Flying Cross; in Sydney (d. 2000)
Jimmy Bivins, American boxer, winner of close to 90 heavyweight fights without ever given a chance to compete for the world title; in Dry Branch, Georgia (d. 2012)

December 7, 1919 (Sunday) 
 Julio Acosta García was elected President of Costa Rica with 89% of the vote, while his Constitutional Party took the parliament with nearly three-quarters of the vote in the general election.
 The Independence Museum of Azerbaijan was established in Baku.
 Born: Charles McGee, American air force officer, member of the 332nd Fighter Group or Tuskegee Airmen during World War II, recipient of 25 Air Medals, three Distinguished Flying Crosses, and two Legion of Merit; in Cleveland (d. 2022)

December 8, 1919 (Monday) 
 The third attempt to fly from England to Australia for a £A10,000 prize by the Australian government ended in failure when Australian explorer Captain Hubert Wilkins and his crew crashed landed their Blackburn Kangaroo aircraft in front of a mental hospital at Suda Bay, Crete.
 Incumbent Joseph Clarke was reelected mayor during municipal elections in Edmonton.
 Weslaco, Texas was established when surveyed properties were put up for sale from $50 to $400 per lot. Many buyers were required to camp on the lot for a full day during the sale. Three cars were also given away as a promotion for sales.
 Born: 
Mieczysław Weinberg, Polish composer, known for works including operas The Passenger; in Warsaw (d. 1996)
Peter Tali Coleman, Samoan state leader, first native of Samoa to be Governor of American Samoa; in Pago Pago (d. 1997)

December 9, 1919 (Tuesday) 
 The Minority Treaty was signed at Paris, with Romania pledging to grant full citizenship and equal rights to its Jewish residents.
 Born: William Lipscomb, American chemist, recipient for the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for research into nuclear magnetic resonance and the element boron; in Cleveland (d. 2011)

December 10, 1919 (Wednesday)