[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stingaree, San Diego

the district. They acted against the recommendations San Diego police chief Keno Wilson, who believed that this would simply spread prostitution into other parts of the city. The health department's action was in keeping with the national Progressive movement that called for closing these districts.

Between 1912 and 1916 over 120 structures were destroyed, transforming the image of the city and creating a large homeless population. Many prostitutes were driven out of town.  A large portion of the Chinatown was razed in the process as well. Although the name of the district disappeared, extensive raids against prostitution took place as late as 1938, and significant massage parlor raids occurred in 1973. Vice and poverty dominated the area until its redevelopment in the 1980s.

Present day
The wild character of the neighborhood was finally removed by modern-day redevelopment.  Many of the neighborhood's residents—and modern red-light uses—were removed with eminent domain, tax increment financing and other strong-arm techniques. The redevelopment efforts hinged on turning the neighborhood into an 1880s-themed upscale shopping area.  The new Gaslamp Quarter recreates a "gaslamp era" town that has few characteristics of its actual history as the Stingaree. The last vestiges of the neighborhood's red-light history have been overcome by historical recreationism.

There was a restaurant and nightclub called Stingaree at the corner of 6th and Island. In 2011, a taxi driver veered his cab into a crowd outside of the bar and injured 23 people. In 2015, Stingaree was bought out by Hakkasan Group and remodeled.

References

Further reading 

 Jeff Smith. Unforgettable: A Walk on the Stingaree Side, Part 1. San Diego Reader. July 1, 2009. See also parts 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
 Mary Lang. San Diego prostitutes after the Stingaree shut down. San Diego Reader. July 15, 1993.

History of San Diego
Historical red-light districts in the United States
Neighborhoods in San Diego
Industrial Workers of the World in California
Crime in California
Red-light districts in California
Former neighborhoods in the United States