[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Inca army

g force would take refuge in a fortress, mountain, or city, the Incan forces would cut communication and supply lines to isolate the enemy and prevent retreat or requests for reinforcements. If negotiations failed, the Inca forces would attempt to storm the fortress and/or starve the opposing force.

Occupied cities and their inhabitants were usually well treated if they surrendered without resistance. If, however, the enemy did resist then they could suffer a number of punishments depending on the degree of resistance offered. If a city or tribe surrendered and then rebelled, the Inca could even authorize the complete annihilation of the city or ethnic group.

If retreat was necessary, the Inca army would usually march along roads in a disciplined way, following the quickest route available. The army would only rest in fortresses with the objective of rearming in case to make a counterattack. Garrisons would be left in the fortresses that controlled the roads to delay a possible advance by the enemy.

Scouting, diplomacy and colonization

The Incas usually sent scouts to watch their enemies. Groups of nobles were sent to negotiate treaties of peace and, on a number of occasions, the servants of these emissaries were spies that tried to bribe the enemy officers so that they would betray their kin by retreating during a crucial moment in the battle.

After the annexation and division of a conquered territory, settlers from other parts of the Tawantinsuyu were sent to reinforce the loyalty to the empire (Mitma) also to teach them new techniques of agriculture, metallurgy, etc.

Military buildings

Colcas

The Colca (from quechua "Qullqa": "depot, storehouse".) was the storage building found along the Inca road system and at the villages and political centers of the Tawantinsuyu, this system guaranteed the survival of the empire and its people in years when harvests were poor, the goods were generally stored in ceramic vessels. Inka engineers understood the environment and built colcas to take advantage of natural airflow to keep stored items fresh.

The qullqas could be round or rectangular, the local population near the colcas centers had the obligation to supply these storehouses with food (like chuño) and other basic products, like weapons, that could be distributed to their armies, officers, conscripted workers and, in times of need, to the population (for example, droughts). Most important provincial centers could contain hundreds of colcas.

Kallankas
These were large rectangular enclosures, up to 70 meters (230 feet) long, associated with important state centers. The structures, mentioned as "barns" in the chronicles due to its size. Some main characteristics generally featured in the kallankas are: several doors, niches, windows, gables and gable roofs, elongated rectangular ground plan, interior usually without divisions (continuous space), presence of internal posts or columns to support the roof (in the case of large structures), several doors placed at intervals in one of the long walls that lead to a square. The size of these structures could be from 17 to 105 meters (56–345 feet), although a minimum size has been established of 40 meters (132 feet), being its best example the kallanka of Huchuy Qosqo.

Due to its importance as political or military administrative centers, several functions have been attributed to it such as: Headquarters or barracks for the soldiers of the empire, places of public meeting or assembly, palaces or lodgings for important individuals, or finally as a multi-role building (it had to be adapted to different purposes and situations).

Pukaras

The Pukaras were the main military fortifications of the Incas, usually built in the limits of the empire and in conflict zones. With the exception of the great strongholds in the Cuzco area, the structure and layout of the Inca fortresses are surprisingly uniform, indicating that they were planned and constructed by a central authority. The pukaras were usually situated on hills; built on concentric terraces that spiraled up the hillside to surround a barracks complex. The size of the pukaras and their garrisons depended on their strategic importance. Sacsayhuaman, overlooking the capital, Cuzco, was of colossal proportions, and was probably the largest pukara in the empire.