[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Benelux

agreements, which are then submitted to the Benelux states (and/or their sub-state entities) for signature and subsequent parliamentary ratification. These agreements can deal with any subject matter, also in policy areas that are not yet covered by cooperation in the framework of the Benelux Union.

These are in fact traditional treaties, with the same direct legally binding force towards both authorities and citizens or companies. The negotiations do however take place in the established context of the Benelux working groups and institutions, rather than on an ad hoc basis.

3. Recommendations

Recommendations are non-binding orientations, adopted at ministerial level, which underpin the functioning of the Benelux Union. These (policy) orientations may not be legally binding, but given their adoption at the highest political level and their legal basis vested directly in the Treaty, they do entail a strong moral obligation for any authority concerned in the Benelux countries.

4. Directives

Directives of the Committee of Ministers are mere inter-institutional instructions towards the Benelux Council and/or the Secretariat-General, for which they are binding. This instrument has so far only been used occasionally, basically in order to organize certain activities within a Benelux working group or to give them impetus.

All four instruments require the unanimous approval of the members of the Committee of Ministers (and, in the case of agreements, subsequent signature and ratification at national level).

Characteristics

Countries

Associated territories

See also 
 Admiral Benelux
 EU Med Group
 Baltic Assembly
 Inner Six
 Low Countries
 Nordic Council
 United Kingdom of the Netherlands
 Visegrád Group
 Polish–Czechoslovak confederation
 Proposed United Kingdom Confederation

Notes

References

Further reading

 Willy van Ryckeghem : Benelux in: The European Economy - Growth and Crisis, Andrea Boltho, Editor, Oxford University Press, 1982, .

External links 

 Official sites
  (in Dutch and French)
 Benelux Court of Justice
 Benelux Office for Intellectual Property 

 
Regions of Europe
History of the Low Countries
Economic history of Belgium
Economic history of Luxembourg
Economic history of the Netherlands
1944 establishments in the Netherlands
1944 establishments in Belgium
1944 establishments in Luxembourg
International economic organizations
International organizations based in Europe
International relations
Supranational unions
Organizations established in 1944
Northwestern Europe
Bottom-up regional groups within the European Union