[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Alfred Gibbs

ushed so far south that the Brock Road was open to immediate use by Grant and Meade. Gibbs's brigade lost the majority of the 154 Union casualties. Most of them were in his own regiment, which suffered more than 80 casualties, the most casualties of any mounted Union regiment in a single engagement.

After the Confederate infantry beat the Union infantry to Spotsylvania Court House, Sheridan was permitted to conduct a raid in the direction of Richmond in order to draw off the Confederate cavalry and to proceed against them. Confederate Cavalry Corps commander, Maj. Gen. J.E.B. Stuart learned of Sheridan's departure within hours and pursued his more than 10,000 Union cavalrymen with fewer than 5,000 troopers so as to leave General Robert E. Lee with cavalry support. On May 11, 1864, Stuart caught up to Sheridan at the Yellow Tavern, six miles north of Richmond and brought on a general engagement. Colonel Thomas C. Devin's brigade, assisted by Gibbs's brigade, held the Brook Turnpike while other units, including George Armstrong Custer's brigade fought with Stuart's forces. Stuart was mortally wounded by one of Custer's men, according to Longacre, and died the next day.

On May 24, 1864, Sheridan's force returned to the Army of the Potomac and just before the Battle of Cold Harbor, May 26–June 3, 1864, Torbert returned to command of the division, Merritt to command of the Reserve Brigade and Gibbs to command of the 19th New York Volunteer Cavalry Regiment. They engaged in bloody preliminary battles at the Battle of Haw's Shop and the Battle of Old Church or the Battle of Matadequin Creek. Then, they took Confederate positions at Cold Harbor, held them against a counterattack and turned them over to the infantry on June 1, 1964.

Gibbs and his regiment fought with distinction under Maj. Gen. Sheridan at the Battle of Trevilian Station, June 11–12, 1864, part of a diversionary operation by Sheridan against the Virginia Central Railroad during Union Lt. Gen. Grant's stealthy transfer of his forces from the lines after the Battle of Cold Harbor to the south side of the James River in an effort to take Petersburg and Richmond while they were only lightly defended. Torbert and Merritt remained in command of the 1st Division and the Reserve Brigade, respectively, during Sheridan's Trevilian Raid. The Battle of Trevilian Station was the largest all-cavalry battle of the Civil War and it resulted in a victory by Confederate cavalry under the command of Maj. Gen. Wade Hampton. Confederate forces counterattacked the Reserve Brigade early on June 11, 1864, after elements of that brigade attacked advance Confederate pickets. Gibbs quickly mounted his men who left their breakfast unfinished and sent them into battle. The Confederates killed and wounded several Union troopers and took several others prisoner, including Lieutenant Colonel Thorp of the 19th New York Cavalry (1st New York Dragoons). Later, Merritt's brigade had to cut their way through Confederate resistance to free Custer's brigade, which had become surrounded. Although the Reserve Brigade cut through to Custer, Custer lost 22 per cent of his men on that day, most of them missing or captured. After eight hours of fighting on a hot day without food or drink, Gibbs was overcome by sunstroke and had to leave the field. The Union forces sustained heavy losses again on June 12, 1864, and were turned back without achieving their objectives of doing significant damage to the Virginia Central Railroad and linking up with Union Maj. Gen. David Hunter and returning with his force to the Army of the Potomac.

After a period of rest, the brigade took part in the Battle of Darbytown Road on July 27–28, 1864 when it was attacked while dismounted by three brigades of Confederate infantry. Then they marched to the Petersburg lines in time to witness the Battle of the Crater.