[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ministry of Culture (Spain)

h the Secretariat of State for Culture was maintained. In 2004 it was created again and in 2011 the Ministry assumed the competencies on bullfighting. It was suppressed again in 2011 until 2018 when the new prime minister Pedro Sánchez recovered this Ministry.

Structure
The Ministry's structure is:

The General Secretariat for Culture and Sport.
The Directorate-General for Books, Comics and Reading.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for the Promotion of Books, Reading and Spanish Literature.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Library Coordination.
The Directorate-General for Cultural Industries, Intellectual Property and Cooperation.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for the Promotion of Cultural Industries.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Intellectual Property.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Cultural Cooperation with the Autonomous Communities.
 The Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage and Fine Arts.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for the Management and Coordination of Cultural Assets.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Records and Documentation of Historical Heritage.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for the Institute of Cultural Heritage of Spain.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for State Museums.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for State Archives.
The Technical Cabinet.
The Deputy Directorate-General for International Relations and European Union
 The National Sports Council (CSD).
 The Directorate-General for Sports.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for High Competition.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Sports Promotion and Innovation.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Women and Sport.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for the Sport Legal Regime.
 The General Secretariat.
 The President's Cabinet.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Professional Sports and Financial Control.
 The Press Office.
 The Undersecretariat of Culture and Sport.
 The General Technical Secretariat.
 The Budget Office.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Economic Management and General Affairs.
 The Deputy Directorate-General for Human Resources and Services Inspection.
 The Technical Cabinet.
 The Information Technology Division.

Public organisms under direction of Ministry of Culture and Sport:
 The Reina Sofía Museum.
The Prado Museum.
 The National Library of Spain.
 The National Institute of Performing Arts and Music.
The Institute of Cinematography and Audiovisual Arts.
The Spanish Anti-Doping Agency.

List of officeholders
Office name:
Ministry of Culture and Welfare (1977)
Ministry of Culture (1977–1996; 2004–2011)
Ministry of Culture and Sports (2018–present)

Awards given out
Established in 1975 and first presented in 1976, the Ministry of Culture awards the Miguel de Cervantes Prize each year to honor the lifetime achievement of an outstanding writer in the Spanish language.

Ministry of Culture also awards various other National Prizes.

See also 

 Right to science and culture
 Right to education
 Welfare rights
 Economic, social and cultural rights
 Culture minister

Notes

References

External links
 Official site of the Spanish Ministry of Culture (in Spanish)

Culture
Culture
Spain
Culture