[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charleston, Arizona

Company which resulted in the murder of mining engineer M. R. Peel was recorded in Millville on March 25, 1882.  In addition, The Tombstone Epitaph on May 6, 1882 said of Charleston that it was "well regulated and free from turmoil" and that it was "one of the most peaceful places we were ever in."

Charleston was also known for Justice of the Peace James Burnett. Burnett was, by all accounts, a corrupt and violent individual. After a disagreement with the Cochise County Board of Supervisors who ostensibly supervised Burnett's action, Burnett declared that he would run his court independently.  From that point on, he was said to administer justice on the spot, outside of his courtroom, in the form of fines that he personally pocketed.  Burnett's fines were diverse, including anything from cattle to cash, and ranged from nine cords of wood for theft, through one thousand dollars when saloon owner Jacob Swart shot and killed a man.  In the absence of other governmental representatives, Burnett became the de facto dictator of Charleston until the town was abandoned around 1889, at which time he left Charleston and became Justice of the Peace in nearby Pearce.  He was shot and killed in Tombstone in July 1897 by William Greene, a local rancher who believed that Burnett blew up a dam which led to the death of Greene's daughter.  There is no known surviving evidence that Burnett was responsible for the dam explosion, though Greene and Burnett did have a history of altercation.

Decline
When the silver mines in Tombstone flooded in 1886, the mills were forced to shut down, and Charleston and Millville went into steep decline.  The large Sonoran earthquake that struck on May 3, 1887, accompanied by more than thirty minutes of aftershocks, left all of the town's adobe structures in ruins, and sealed the town's fate.  The town was quickly abandoned as none of the structures remained habitable. The Charleston Post Office shut down on October 24, 1888, and by 1889, both Charleston and Millville were already ghost towns.

Charleston's population was 15 in the 1960 census.

Remnants
After it was abandoned, Charleston was briefly inhabited in the 1890s by a small population of Mexican immigrants who furthered the town's dismantling by using what was left of the wooden structures for kindling. Later, during World War II, the United States Army used Charleston as a practice site for urban combat, often using live ammunition.  The site was known to the soldiers of nearby Fort Huachuca as "Little Tunisia" due to its climatic and geographic similarity to Tunisia in Africa.  These activities, in and around 1943, led to further deterioration of the site.  The town's location on the very bank of the San Pedro River also contributed to the demise of the town's remains as cliff erosion literally ate away at the land and the adobe structures.

All that is left of Charleston today are a few adobe ruins and scattered pieces of stone foundations, all of which are hidden amongst the underbrush.  Across the river in Millville, a few stone embankments are all that remain of the mills.  What little is left of the local cemetery is approximately a mile and a half north of the Charleston site, though it is difficult to locate, and very few traces remain.  The site is part of the San Pedro Riparian National Conservation Area (NCA) maintained by the Bureau of Land Management.

Charleston and Millville are not accessible by car and can only be reached by hiking up the San Pedro River.  While trails were rough and unmarked for many years, the Bureau of Land Management has begun maintaining trails to and from the area.  The remains of the town can be found on the west bank of the river with Millville's ruins directly across the river on the east bank.

See also
 American Old West
 Boomtown
 History of Arizona
 List of ghost towns in Arizona
 Gunfight at the O.K. Corral
 Silver mining in Arizona

References

External links

 Charleston at Ghosttowns.com
 Charleston at Ghost Town of the Month: recent photos and visitor information.
 Millville – Ghost Town of the Month at azghosttowns.com
 Charleston, AZ at Arizonaghosttowntrails.com

Ghost towns in Arizona
Former populated places in Cochise County, Arizona
Populated places established in 1879
Cochise County conflict
Mining communities in Arizona