[Source: PubMed]

5. Health Econ. 1997 Jan-Feb;6(1):11-30. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199701)6:1<11::aid-hec238>3.0.co;2-7.

National health accounts in developing countries: appropriate methods and recent 
applications.

Berman PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and International Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Better information on the financing of the health sector is an essential basis 
for wise policy change in the area of health sector reform. Analysis of health 
care financing should begin with sound estimates of national health 
expenditure--total spending, the contributions to spending from different 
sources and the claims on spending by different uses of the funds. The member 
countries of the OECD have successfully established such comparative health 
expenditure accounts in terms of standardized definitions of the uses of funds 
and breakdowns by public and private sector sources. This has resulted in 
important research on health system differences which could explain variations 
in the level and composition of financing. The United States has developed a 
more detailed approach called National Health Accounts, which expands the OECD 
method into a more disaggregated 'sources and uses' matrix. In the developing 
countries, analysis of health expenditures has been much less systematic, 
despite several decades of calls by international researchers for more 
attention. This paper reviews previous work done in developing countries and 
proposes renewed attention to national health expenditures, adapting the recent 
experience of the United States. Because most developing countries have more 
pluralistic health financing structures than are found in most industrialized 
countries, an enhanced and adapted version of the 'sources and uses' matrix 
method is proposed. This method should be modified to address the relevant 
categories of expenditures prevalent in the developing countries. Examples of 
recent applications of such 'national health accounts' from the Philippines, 
Egypt, India, Mexico, Colombia and Zambia are presented. Experience to date 
suggests that development of sound estimates using this method in low and middle 
income countries is feasible and affordable. National health accounts estimates 
can significantly influence policy. They provide decision makers with a holistic 
picture of the health sector, showing the actual emphasis of spending and the 
roles of different payers. They also provide a consistent framework for 
modelling reforms and for monitoring the effects of changes in financing and 
provision. An easy to use software tool has been developed for training and data 
management. Regional networks of collaborating national groups are proposed as a 
first step in expanding use of the method and to gain both national and 
cross-national comparative benefits.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199701)6:1<11::aid-hec238>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 9142528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]