[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# JTG

Jayson Anthony Paul (born December 10, 1984) is an American professional wrestler. He is currently signed to National Wrestling Alliance. He is best known for his time in WWE under the ring name JTG.

Paul began his professional wrestling career in 2006 with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), being assigned to their developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), where he was a two-time OVW Southern Tag Team Champion (with Shad Gaspard, as part of Cryme Tyme). In 2006, Cryme Tyme was promoted to WWE's main roster, before both JTG and Gaspard were released from the company the following year. They both returned to the company in 2008, and later split up and feuded with each other until Gaspard's release in 2010.

Later that year, JTG was assigned to NXT, where he was announced as one of the Pros for NXT Redemption, mentoring Jacob Novak. He eventually turned heel and feuded with Vladimir Kozlov's rookie Conor O'Brian and Kozlov himself. He additionally made appearances on SmackDown and Superstars. From late 2012 to 2013, JTG was relegated to jobber status and continued to compete until his release in 2014.

Early life 
Jayson Anthony Paul was born on December 10, 1984, in Brooklyn, New York City, New York. He attended John Dewey High School in Brooklyn, where he participated in acting and drama classes.

Professional wrestling career

World Wrestling Entertainment (2006–2007) 

Paul began his career in 2006, working in the World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) under the ring name The Neighborhoodie. While there, he was placed into a tag team with Shad Gaspard, calling themselves "The Gang-Stars". They held the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship on two occasions.

In 2006, the tag team was promoted from OVW to the Raw brand under the name "Cryme Tyme", with Paul changing his name to JTG. On September 4, 2006, a series of vignettes began airing on Raw, hyping the debut of Cryme Tyme. On the October 16, 2006 episode of Raw, Cryme Tyme debuted and defeated two members of the then named World Tag Team Champions, The Spirit Squad (Mikey and Johnny), in a non-title match. In November 2006, at the Cyber Sunday pay-per-view, Cryme Tyme defeated Lance Cade and Trevor Murdoch, Charlie Haas, Viscera, and The Highlanders in a Texas tornado tag team match (as voted by the fans). As part of their gimmick, Cryme Tyme regularly stole items belonging to other wrestlers and on-air personalities, and sold them to fans. They were also selling false entry numbers at the Royal Rumble. A few months later at the New Year's Revolution pay-per-view, Cryme Tyme won a tag team turmoil match against The Highlanders, World's Greatest Tag Team, Cade and Murdoch, and "Hacksaw" Jim Duggan and Super Crazy, earning them a shot at the World Tag Team Championships. They then competed mainly on Heat for the next few months, although they made a backstage appearance at WrestleMania 23. They also took part in the tag team battle royal on April 2.

After Mr. McMahon's "death", Cryme Tyme plugged some merchandise and auctions on WWE's official website in memory of him. On the June 29, 2007 episode of SmackDown, Cryme Tyme was defeated by Deuce 'n Domino (with Cherry) in an inter-brand match tag team match. While Deuce, Domino and Cherry celebrated their victory, Cryme Tyme appeared on the titantron and, in storyline, stole their car, taking it to Brisco Brothers Auto to sell it for parts chanting their signature catchphrase, "Money money, yeah, yeah". On July 21, 2007, Cryme Tyme defeated The James Boys to win the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship for the second time. On August 13, 2007, Cryme Tyme returned to their hometown of New York City on an episode of Raw from Madison Square Garden, losing to then-World Tag Team Champions Lance Cade and Trevor Murdoch in a non-title match by disqualification when Shad used a chair on Murdoch. On the August 20, 2007 episode of Raw, Cryme Tyme stole Murdoch's hat and sold it to a fan, and the following week, stole Cade's and gave it away to a fan. In the middle of this feud, on September 2, 2007, both Paul and Gaspard were released from WWE.

Independent circuit (2007–2008) 
Paul, along with Gaspard wrestled at the Jersey All Pro Wrestling 10th Anniversary Show on October 27, 2007. Wrestling as Crime Time, they defeated The Dirty Rotten Scoundrelz. Paul appeared in Derby City Wrestling (DCW) at their end of year show. He was then involved in a feud with The Mobile Homers in DCW.

Return to WWE

Cryme Tyme reunion (2008–2010)