[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Economy of Edinburgh

assessment for computer science and informatics the School of Informatics has produced more "world-leading" and "internationally excellent" research (4* and 3-star) than any other university in the UK.

A large number of technology companies are based in the area around the University of Edinburgh.

Retail
Edinburgh has not had as large or as significant a retail sector compared to Glasgow, however large out-of-town shopping developments have taken place in recent years, such as the Gyle development in 1993 and the Fort Kinnaird shopping complex located to the east of the city. The St. James Centre and Princes Mall started in the 1970s, then Cameron Toll in the 1980s. More recent developments are the Gyle centre next to Edinburgh Park, Ocean Terminal in Leith and the retail parks at Hermiston Gait, Straiton and Fort Kinnaird which are all next to the Edinburgh City Bypass. Edinburgh has many modern supermarkets in its suburbs which offer a more day-to-day type of shopping. As a shopping centre, particularly Princes Street, Edinburgh suffered some decline for a number of years, but since 2005 has seen the City centre yield rise in comparison to other similarly sized cities. Recent attempts to encourage shoppers back into the city centre have included the development of top brand department stores on George Street and St Andrew Square and plans to redevelop Princes Street in the future.
In October 2016, the St. James Centre was demolished and rebuilt with a new £1 billion design by Allan Murray Architects and BDP Architects, and was opened to the public in June 2021. It was renamed the St James Quarter and is able to accommodate up to 80 new brands. While it brought a new excitement to the city with many new brands appearing within the quarter, it caused many brands located in Princes Street to relocate to the St James Quarter, undermining the hopes to revitalise the street. St James Quarter was designed to be in the shape of an eye, with the 5-star W Hotels taking pride of place in the 'iris'. This central feature, however, caused a lot of controversy in the city and even put Edinburgh's UNESCO World Heritage status under threat.

Tourism
Tourism is another important mainstay of the economy of Edinburgh, supporting 30,000 jobs in the city worth £1.6 billion to the city economy. In 2011, visitor spending was £1.16 billion, compared to £250 million in 1990. Edinburgh is Scotland's most popular tourist destination in terms of visitor numbers, with numbers growing substantially each year, particularly in the budget travel and backpacking sector, assisted by the growth of Edinburgh Airport and direct rail links to the rest of the country. The annual Edinburgh Festival attracts record numbers, as does the Hogmanay street party each New Year, with over 4.3 million visitors attending Edinburgh's various festival events over 2012. The Edinburgh Festivals in August alone generate in excess of £100 million for the Edinburgh economy. Another component of Edinburgh's tourist industry is business and conference tourism, which generates in excess of £74m for the city. Edinburgh is the UK's most popular conference destination, ahead of both London and Glasgow. Visitors are attracted by the UNESCO World Heritage Sites of the Old Town and the New Town as well as the history and culture of the city most visible in tourist attractions such as Edinburgh Castle and the Palace of Holyroodhouse.

Public sector
Edinburgh is the centre of Scotland's government and legal system. As a consequence many government departments and public sector agencies are headquartered in the city as well as the High Court of Justiciary and the centres of Scotland's legal establishment. As a centre of Scots law, the legal profession has had a long presence in Edinburgh, with many premises in the New Town belonging to legal practices and firms.  Many ancillary economic undertakings and political pressure groups have thus set up around this new seat of government leading to a boom in the recruitment and employment of public sector officials. The City of Edinburgh Council and the National Health Service are the two largest employers in the City.

Education

Edinburgh is a major centre of education in the United Kingdom, and has been since the establishment of the University of Edinburgh in 1583, with another three major higher education institutions in the city developing later. Education and academic research (including medical research) plays a significant role in the economy of the city. The presence of these educational institutions also attracts many overseas students (27,005) and those from the rest of the UK (15,270). For the 2021-22 academic year, there is a student population of 74,710 enrolled across the four universities in the city.