[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pechora Sea

The Pechora Sea (, ) is an Arctic sea to the north-west of European Russia, forming the south-eastern portion of the Barents Sea. It is bordered to the west by Kolguyev Island; to the east by Vaygach Island's western coasts and the Yugorsky Peninsula; and to the north by the southern end of Novaya Zemlya.

Located in the centre of the East-Atlantic flyway with conditions befitting for benthic life, the Pechora Sea supports about 600 taxa and the Barents Sea's highest total biomass. It is the site of the yearly migration of one of the largest salmon stocks in Northern Europe. Compared to the rest of the Barents Sea, the Pechora Sea is unique for its more continental climate, lower salinity, shallowness, separation from the open sea and large input from rivers, as well as a low level of human interference historically. Its temperate characteristics are not typical of the Arctic.

History

Historically, before the adjacent Barents Sea was named as such, the Pechora Sea's own name was already established. The rest of the present-day Barents Sea was known then as Sea of Murmansk ().

The Pechora Sea was used as a starting point of the exploration of the then unknown icy seas lying to the east. The earliest recorded voyage across the Pechora Sea through the Yugorsky Strait was made by early Russian explorer Uleb, from Nizhny Novgorod. Uleb's passing into the Kara Sea was recorded in 1032.

Russian Pomors, the coastal dwellers of the White Sea shores, have explored the Sea and the coast of Novaya Zemlya since the 11th century. The Arctic's first shipping line, the Great Mangazea Route, from the White Sea to the Ob River and the Yenisei Gulf began operating in the latter part of the 16th century. This line opened up the way to Siberia's riches and it worked until 1619, when it was closed for military and political reasons, for fear of possible penetration by Europeans into Siberia.

Geography

The Pechora Sea is blocked by floating ice from November to Junea relatively short period. The main river entering the Sea is the Pechora. The Sea's salinity ranges from 18 to 34 . At the central part of the Sea, the salinity stays around 34 ‰, and the temperature ranges from .

Bathymetry

The Pechora Sea's average depth is , and its deepest point reaches . The mean depth ranges from  in the Bay to  south of Novaya Zemlya. The Atlantic-influenced Kolguyev Current, which influences the temperature and salinity of the central part of the Sea, flows eastwards. There are a few islands close to the coast, the largest of which is Dolgiy Island.

The Sea's shallowness makes it distinct from the rest of the Barents Sea. Over its  area, the average depth in the Sea is around . This shallowness prevents the upwelling of nutrients from the Atlantic, contributing to the Sea's low pelagic productivity.

Hydrology

As with the neighbouring Kara Sea, the Pechora Sea's hydrologic situation is unique for its high input from rivers and heavy continental outflow. The Pechora River alone discharges about  of freshwater into the Pechora Sea from the Pechora Riverthe Pechora Sea's main source of inflowsupplying the Sea with a sediment load of  yearly.

Compared to other seas around the world, the Arctic Ocean's river-heavy source of inflow is significant, giving the Pechora Sea less Arctic-like characteristics than would be expected at latitudes so far from the equator. The Pechora Sea together with the bordering Kara Sea (separated by the jet stream) make up more than a third of the Arctic Ocean's total runoff from continental sources (as opposed to mostly saltwater sources like most oceans). This high input from rivers makes this area of the Arctic Ocean unique.

Temperature and salinity

Ice formation is boosted by the Sea's low salinity. The temperature ranges from  below ;  at the central part of the Sea; and  in summer and autumn at the southern part of the Sea.

Its salinity ranges from 8 to 18 ‰ in the bay, 18 to 26 ‰ in the southern portion, and 34 ‰ in the central part, increasing with distance from the mouth of the Pechora River.

Climate

The Pechora Sea has a humid continental climate. Polar bears and Atlantic walrus are threatened by climate change, which exceptionally burdens the Arctic.

Counteracting the Sea's continental position is the influx of nutrients supplied by the Pechora River, which gives the Sea  of sediment and  of other suspended matter.

The Sea's cold continental climate, a result of its location in the dead centre of the continent, gives favourable conditions to ice formation. As a result of this continental position and abundance of ice, the Sea's water column is stratified, its sediment is heterogeneous and its pelagic productivity is low.

Seafloor sediment

-wide fast ice covers the floor of the Sea's coastal zone. On top of it is flaw polynya.

Biogeography and ecology