[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Space art

"Space art", also known as "astronomical art", is the term for a genre of modern artistic expression that uses the universe as a frame of reference. Like other genres, space art has many facets and encompasses realism, impressionism, hardware art, sculpture, abstract imagery, and zoological art. Though artists have long produced art with astronomical elements, the genre of space art itself is still in its infancy, having begun only when technological advancement allowed for more detailed observation of the night sky. Regardless of style, space art attempts to communicate ideas somehow related to space, often including an artistic interpretation of varied cosmological phenomena and scientific discoveries. In some cases, artists who consider themselves space artists use more than illustration and painting to communicate astronomy or works depicting space, with some working directly with space flight technology and scientists in attempts to expand the arts, humanities, and cultural expression relative to space exploration.

Practitioners of the visual arts have for many decades explored the topic of space using traditional painting media, with a recent shift towards the usage of digital media toward similar ends. Science fiction magazines and picture essay magazines were once a major outlet for space art, often featuring planets, spaceships, and dramatic alien landscapes. Chesley Bonestell, R. A. Smith, Lucien Rudaux, David A. Hardy, and Ludek Pesek were some of the major artists in the early days of the genre. actively involved in visualizing space exploration proposals with input from astronomers and experts in the infant rocketry field, anxious to spread their ideas to a wider audience. NASA's second administrator, James E. Webb, initiated the space agency's space art program in 1962, four years after its founding.Bonestell's work in particular portrayed exotic worlds with their own alien beauty, often emphasizing the destination as much as the technological means of getting there.

Astronomical art

Astronomical art is an aspect of space art devoted to visualizing outer space. A major emphasis on astronomical art is the space environment as a new frontier for humanity. Many other works portray alien worlds, extremes of matter such as black holes, and concepts arising from inspiration derived from astronomy.

Astronomical art was largely pioneered in the 1940s and 1950s by the abilities of Chesley Bonestell to solve perspective problems, paint with the eye of a matte artist to create a visual impression, and seek out the experts in the fields that fascinated him. His work helped inspire many in the post-war era to think about space travel, which seemed fantastic before the V-2 rocket. To this day, artists assist in turning ideas into visible forms in the space community, both in portraying the latest ideas on how to leave Earth and in showing what may exist in space.

Astronomical art is the most recent of several art movements that have explored ideas emerging from ongoing exploration of Earth (Hudson River School or Luminism), the distant past (ancient history and prehistoric animal art), and the steadily revealed universe. Most astronomical artists use traditional painting methods or digital equivalents in a way that brings the viewer to the frontiers of human knowledge gathered in the exploration of space. Such works usually portray things in the familiar visual language of realism extrapolated to exotic environments, whose details reflect ongoing knowledge and educated guesswork. An example of the process of creating astronomical art would be studying and visiting desert environments to experience something of what it might be like on Mars and painting based on such experiences. Another would be to hear of something likely to be amazing to watch up close, then seek out published articles or experts in the field. Usually, there is an artistic effort to emphasize the favorable visual elements, just as a photographer composes a picture. The best astronomical art shares with the viewer what it is that catches the artist's imagination about the subject portrayed.