[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Mary Easley

Mary L. Easley is the Oklahoma Senator representing District 18, which includes Mayes, Tulsa and Wagoner counties, since she won a special election in 2004. She previously served in the Oklahoma House of Representatives from 1996 through 2004, representing District 78.

Early life
Mary Easley was born in Cassville, Missouri, where her parents were farmers. She grew up around the majority of her extended family and has fond memories of being raised in rural Missouri. After high school, Easley attended Southwest Baptist University. She met her husband, Truman, and moved to Wichita, Kansas, with him for his job at Boeing Aircraft. Easley completed her undergraduate degree at Friends University as well as began to work on her master's. For about a year, she worked on her degree while teaching. After that year Easley went to Wichita State. Her first teaching position was in Valley Center, Kansas.

In 1967, the couple moved to Tulsa, Oklahoma. Easley began teaching in Owasso, Oklahoma and remained there for 24 more years. Easley taught English at Owasso High School.

Oklahoma House of Representatives (1997-2004)
Toward the end of her teaching career, Easley's son Kevin was a state senator. This started to inspire Easley to become involved with politics in order to attempt to pass legislation that she was concerned about. Soon Easley decided to retire from education and begin campaigning. Her campaign slogan was the same one her son used: "Easley the Best Choice." Easley was elected to the Oklahoma House of Representatives in 1997. It was the first time that a mother and son served simultaneously, though Kevin was in the Senate at the time. She served until 2004, when she took her son Kevin's Oklahoma Senate seat.

Committees
Banking chairman

Oklahoma Senate (2004-2010)
Kevin decided to leave office to pursue a different career and convinced his mother, Mary Easley, to run for his vacated seat. Easley worked on passing several bills concerned with education during her terms in the Senate. She authored the Autism Insurance Bill, which did not pass. The bill would essentially help to provide insurance for families struggling with an autistic child. Easley was especially dedicated to bettering the education of children with disabilities.

Committees
Education committee
 Vice-chair of the Energy committee
Vice-chair of the Transportation committee

References

External links
 official State Senate website
Project Vote Smart - Mary Easley (OK) profile
Follow the Money - Mary Easley
2008 2006 2004 Senate campaign contributions
2002 State House campaign contributions
Women of the Oklahoma Legislature Oral History Project -- OSU Library

21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
Living people
Democratic Party Oklahoma state senators
Democratic Party members of the Oklahoma House of Representatives
Women state legislators in Oklahoma
Friends University alumni
Oklahoma State University alumni
Politicians from Tulsa, Oklahoma
People from Cassville, Missouri
Year of birth missing (living people)