[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Strategic Research Organization

uses on international relations, international law and political history. Moreover, the journal accepts papers from scholars all over the world on area studies (Balkans, Caucasus, Europe, Central Asia, etc.), international security, international relations, sociology and anthropology.

USAK Yearbook

The USAK Yearbook of Politics and International Relations is an annual, peer-reviewed, English language scholarly journal. The publication consists of USAK experts and researchers’ most exclusive articles and reviews written during that year. Original works written by other academicians and researchers in their respective fields are also included in the yearbook. Therefore, it handles a broad range of issues that were visible in the year prior to its publication, ranging from politics to economy and international law to security.

Journal of Turkish Weekly

Journal of Turkish Weekly (JTW) is a respected Turkish news source that reports on international politics in the English language. It was established in 2004. Apart from the reports and comments of its staff, JTW also republishes articles from respected international news sources including Anadolu Agency, Hurriyet Daily News, RFERL, VOA News, Voice of Russia, IWPR, Jerusalem Post, Mehr News, Balkan Insight, Independent Balkan News Agency, SETimes, Xinhua, voxEU.org, Project-Syndicate, REGNUM, Eurasian Home, Uzreport, Sofia News Agency and others.

International partners

USAK often undertakes activities with its international partners, including common field research, conferences & seminars and joint publications.

Brookings Institution
Council on Foreign Relations (CFR)
The Washington Institute for Near Eastern Policies (WINEP)
Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS)
Near East South Asia Center for Strategic Studies (NESA)
Atlantic Council
Think-tanks from the Middle East, Central Asia and Southeast Asia

USAK House

USAK's main building, "USAK House", is Turkey’s first ever think-tank building. The 7-story building was opened by President Abdullah Gül on November 4, 2009. The architect of the building is Soner Gükdemir.

References

Think tanks established in 2004
Think tanks based in Turkey
2004 establishments in Turkey