[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# False Mirrors

his destiny and the two merge. This restores all of Leonid's abilities, as well as abilities of other Divers. He contacts Chingiz and finds out that he managed to perform CPR in time to save Pat. Leonid then returns to the "Labyrinth" and frees the Emperor from his captivity in the game.

Characters

Major characters 
 Leonid/Gunslinger ()  – former diver, who, at the end of the first novel, gained advanced abilities allowing him to enter Deeptown without the aid of technology and manipulate any program at will. Those abilities disappeared along with the divers' ability to "see" programming holes and back doors. Now he works as a furniture mover for a Deeptown delivery company. Leonid is suffering from deep psychosis, a condition he is trying to hide from his wife Vicka.
 Vicka (short for Victoria, ) – former diver. After losing most of her diver abilities, she gave up the deep and focused on real life. Shortly after the end of the first novel, she married Leonid and moved to Moscow with him, abandoning her psychological studies in Deeptown. Apparently, she is aware of Leonid's deep psychosis, but is unwilling to confront him about it.
 Chingiz () – hacker-turned-businessman. Former acquaintance of Maniac. Agrees to help Leonid discover the truth behind the stolen files.
 Bastard/Anton Stekov ( – Padla) – hacker, lives in Chingiz's apartment. Known to use jargon and swear profusely, which tends to annoy the more cultured Chingiz, especially in the company of Pat, of whom Chingiz is protective. Took on a hacking job for a mysterious figure and got a friend of his killed.

Minor characters 
 Pat/Sasha () – teenage hacker, lives in Chingiz's apartment. Sees Chingiz as a father-figure. Constantly seeks to prove himself in the computer world.
 Roma/Grey Wolf () – former diver, teenager. After the diver community fell apart, he became an amateur hacker. Was shot and killed by a third-generation weapon while hacking a small company. Owner of one of the three keys to the Temple of Diver-in-the-Deep (his key was destroyed when Bastard reformatted his hardrive).
 Alexander/Maniac () – hacker. Divorced his third wife and moved to the US shortly after the end of the first novel. Good friend of Leonid's. Creator of the famous "Warlock 9000" virus. Later has created "Warlock 9300" – upgraded version of "Warlock 9000".
 Mage/Computer Mage/Zuko () – computer expert. Formerly worked on creating security measures in Vicka's virtual brothel.
 Crazy Tosser/Dick/Richard Parker – former diver. Still works for "Labyrinth of Death" security, though he moved up in ranks. Owner of one of the three keys to Temple of Diver-in-the-Deep (His key was hidden in the final level of the newest version of Labyrinth of Death). His Deep exit trigger is the image of his neighbor girl's face.
 Dmitry Dibenko () – creator of the deep-program. Uses a prototype 886 processor, give him extremely high processing power and speed. For his accomplishments, he was given a special medal that gives him access to every Deeptown system, no matter how secure. His usual avatar has its face covered in mist.
 Dark Diver – mysterious figure, apparently able to use diver abilities unavailable to the rest. He hired Bastard to do the hacking job that got Roma killed.

Publication history 
Lukyanenko initially had no plans to continue the story from Labyrinth of Reflections, but was asked to do so by readers of the first book. Lukyanenko didn't have a contract for second book and had to negotiate one with his publisher, who didn't believe the book would be a success. However, more than 100,000 copies were eventually printed. According to Lukyanenko, the 1998 first-person shooter computer game Unreal was important for the premise of the book. He has also stated that, as he finished the book, he did not plan to continue writing the series after False Mirrors.

Reception 

The novel was the runner-up awardee for at the Zvyozdnyy Most fantasy festival for best continued work. It was awarded the long form award at Interpresscon, and nominated in the "Bronze Snail" and "Sigma-F" awards. The book has been translated into Czech, Polish, Bulgarian and German.

References

Cyberpunk novels
Novels by Sergey Lukyanenko
2001 science fiction novels
AST (publisher) books
2001 novels
2001 Russian novels