[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# People's Alliance for Democracy

asingly anti-Thaksin talkshow on the road, broadcasting via satellite (through his NEWS1 ASTV channel based out of Hong Kong) and webcasting via the website of his Manager Daily newspaper. Talkshow sites, including Sanam Luang and the King Rama V equestrian statue, became magnets for the PAD crowds.

After the 2006 military coup, the military junta ordered broadcaster MCOT to cover weekly tapings of Muangthai Raisabdah. Sondhi was also given a slot on the junta-run National Broadcasting Service of Thailand's Channel 11 where he hosted Yam Fao Paendin, a pro-junta, anti-Thaksin talkshow which made accusations of excessive government spending at Suvarnabhumi Airport.

2008 

During the 2008 political crisis, armed masked PAD forces broke into the government-owned National Broadcasting Service of Thailand and seized control of the television station.  The television broadcast of the morning news program briefly showed pictures of PAD forces breaking into the gates of the station before blacking out for several hours.  NBT employees were threatened with violence and forced out of the station.  Police eventually regained control of the building and arrested 80 of the raiders, seizing guns, knives, golf clubs, and drugs.  The raiders were charged with causing damage to public property and illegal possession of weapons and drugs.  Later in the same day, hundreds of hundreds of PAD members, led by Amorn Amornrattananon, again seized the NBST station.  Police eventually regained control of the station.  The Southeast Asian Press Alliance and the Thai Journalists Association condemned what it called the "mob attack" on the station, and noted that the unjustifiable and went against the principles of democracy, free flow of information, and fair play that the PAD themselves have claimed to justify their illegal act.

Journalists at PAD-controlled Government House reported that they were intimidated, pelted with water bottles, and attacked with a metal pipe. The Nation a journalist reported that PAD leaders incited hostility towards outsiders, particularly journalists. Channel 9 news crew were attacked after the PAD claimed their news reporting was biased toward government. The PAD limited media access to Government House claiming that the media might be undercover policemen or anti-PAD groups in disguise.

A photographer from the Thai-language newspaper Thai Rath was attacked by PAD security forces after he took photos of them beating a man at Don Muang airport.  PAD security forces also stopped reporters and photographers from covering the detention capture of Sompop Nathee, a captured policeman, at Suvarnabhumi airport.

A TNN television truck was repeatedly shot at by PAD security forces while lost in PAD-controlled Don Muang airport.  Phanumart Jaihork, a TNN relay controller, said his truck came under heavy gunfire even though it carried the logos of the company and TV station on its sides and a microwave transmitter in its bed.

After 2009 protests
On June the second 2009, the PAD formed a political party called New Politics Party or NPP. This party split into two factions in 2011. It holds no seats in the parliament.

Many important PAD leaders have been involved in the 2013-14 protests against the government of Thaksin's sister, Yingluck Shinawatra. The group renamed itself the "People's Movement to Overthrow the Thaksin Regime" () and is a key member of the People's Democratic Reform Committee (PDRC). Leaders Sondhi Limthongkul, Chamlong Srimuang and others were indicted on December 27, 2012 for storming the prime minister's office compound and sealing off Parliament during the massive anti-government rallies in 2008.

See also 
 2010 Thai political protests
 Politics of Thailand
 Sale of Shin Corporation to Temasek Holdings
 April 2006 Thai general election
 October 2006 Thai general election

References

Literature

External links 

 Manager Online (website of a news group close to the PAD)
 People's Alliance for Democracy - Personal Blog
 AntiThaksin - People's Alliance for Democracy

Political advocacy groups in Thailand
Political history of Thailand
2005 establishments in Thailand
Far-right politics in Thailand
Fascism in Thailand
Network monarchy