[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Breakfast at Tiffany's (novella)

Marilyn Monroe as Holly, and lobbied the studio for her, but the film was done at Paramount, and though Monroe did independent films, including for her own production company, she was still under contract with Twentieth Century Fox, and had just completed Let's Make Love with Yves Montand.

Musical

A musical version of Breakfast at Tiffany's (also known as Holly Golightly) premiered in 1966 in Boston. The initial performances were panned by the critics and despite a rewrite by Edward Albee, it closed after four previews and never officially opened.

Television
Three years after the musical adaptation, Stefanie Powers and Jack Kruschen starred in another adaptation, Holly Golightly (1969), an unsold ABC sitcom pilot. Kruschen's role was based on Joe Bell, a major character in Capote's novella who was omitted from the film version.

Plays
There have been two adaptations of the novella into stage plays, both directed by Sean Mathias. The first production was written by Samuel Adamson and was presented in 2009 at the Theatre Royal Haymarket in London, starring Anna Friel as Holly Golightly and Joseph Cross as William "Fred" Parsons. The second version was written by Richard Greenberg for a 2013 Broadway production at the Cort Theatre, starring Emilia Clarke as Holly Golightly, Cory Michael Smith as Fred, and George Wendt as Joe Bell. The Greenberg play was produced in the UK in 2016, called "a play with music". It ran at the Theatre Royal Haymarket in the West End in June to September 2016, with Pixie Lott starring as Holly Golightly.

References
Notes

Bibliography

External links
 "Breakfast at Tiffany's" at the Internet Archive
 GradeSaver study guide on Breakfast at Tiffany's
 Breakfast at Tiffany's teaching guide
 Breakfast at Tiffany's Homepage - The Novel - Critical Analysis

1958 American novels
American novellas
American novels adapted into films
Novels by Truman Capote
Novels set in New York City
Novels set in the 1940s
Random House books
Works originally published in Esquire (magazine)
American novels adapted into plays