[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Wounded Knee Occupation

venting federal officers from performing their assignment. His trial was not held until January 1976 in Rapid City, South Dakota, where he was found guilty in under an hour. He was later released in September of 1976 after his legal team brought in thousands of support letters from around the globe.

Legacy
The legacy of the Siege of Wounded Knee is rife with disagreements, due to the controversial approaches of AIM and the FBI. The FBI has faced criticism for their speculated underhanded attempts to undermine AIM through COINTELPRO-like methods, such as releasing false information and having undercover individuals sow disorder within AIM and Wounded Knee. It has also been suggested that the FBI and the federal government in general were too focused on Watergate at the time to give the situation at Wounded Knee the attention it deserved. If the federal government were more focused on Wounded Knee, it might not have lasted as long as it did.

AIM's handling of Wounded Knee has also met its fair share of critics. Special Agent in Charge at the time, Joseph H. Trimbach, has argued that AIM used federal funds to purchase weaponry, rather than aid the American Indian people. Trimbach and others have also suggested that AIM members murdered Anna Mae Aquash because they thought she was a spy. Even individuals within the movement, such as Mary Crow Dog, have been critical of AIM. In her autobiography, Mary Crow Dog says, "There were a lot of things wrong with AIM. We did not see these things, or did not want to see them."

On June 30, 1980, the Great Sioux Reservation won a legal case in the Supreme Court that acknowledges the illegality of U.S. acquisition of reservation land in 1876. The Sioux claim had perpetually been tossed out by the courts since the 1920s, and the case reached the Supreme Court through no coincidence. Following a decade of media exposure and fights for Tribal Sovereignty, the American Indian narrative became known, as opposed to being brushed away.

During the one-hundred-year anniversary of the 1890 Wounded Knee Massacre, in 1990, Russell Means barred South Dakota Governor George S. Mickelson from taking part in commemorating the dead there. Means argued, "It would be an insult because we live in the racist state of South Dakota, and he is the Governor." 

Despite disputes about the handling of Wounded Knee, the incident shed a light on the problems facing American Indians and showed them that they could have a voice. Wounded Knee is now an important symbol of American Indian activism, fittingly building on its initial symbolic meaning of the atrocities committed by the US government against American Indian people.

See also
 Lakota Woman, 1990 memoir by Mary Brave Bird concerning in part the Wounded Knee Occupation
 Thunderheart, 1992 film, a loosely based fictional portrayal of events relating to the Wounded Knee incident in 1973
 Leonard Peltier
 List of incidents of civil unrest in the United States

References

Further reading
 R. A. Bonney, (1977). "The Role of AIM Leaders in Indian Nationalism" [Electronic version]. American Indian Quarterly, 3, 209–224.
 Mary Crow Dog and Richard Erdoes (1990). Lakota Woman, Harper Perennial ().
 Steve Hendricks (2006). The Unquiet Grave:  The FBI and the Struggle for the Soul of Indian Country, Thunder's Mouth Press ()
 Akim D. Reinhardt (2007). Ruling Pine Ridge: Oglala Lakota Politics from the IRA to Wounded Knee, Texas Tech University Press
 Paul Chaat Smith and Robert Allen Warrior. (1996) Like a Hurricane: The Indian Movement from Alcatraz to Wounded Knee, New York: The New Press
 Vicky Waltz (2009). "Interview with William Means: From Wounded Knee to Comm Ave", BU Today, Boston University, April 21, 2009
 Joseph H. Trimbach and John M. Trimbach, (2007). American Indian Mafia: An FBI Agent's True Story about Wounded Knee, Leonard Peltier, and the American Indian Movement (AIM), Outskirts Press (self-published)
Sayer, John William. Ghost Dancing the Law: The Wounded Knee Trials. (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1997). 
Akard, William Keith. "Wocante Tinza: A History of The American Indian Movement." (P.d.D thesis, Ball State University, 1987).
Busacca, Jeremy. "Seeking Self-Determination: Framing, the American Indian Movement, and American Indian Media." (P.h.D Dissertation, Claremont University, 2007). 
Chastang, Amanda B. "Reclaiming Identity: How the Black Panther Party and the American Indian Movement Challenged External Media Misrepresentations through Self-Representation." (Master's Thesis, The University of Tulsa, 2018).

External links
 "Records of Wounded Knee Legal Defense/Offense Committee", available for research use at the Minnesota Historical Society
 Owen Luck Photographs Collection, 1973–2001, Princeton University, open for research. Luck was at the incident and took 39 photographs held in this collection.