[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Yu Fan

would allow him to return to Jianye (建業; in present-day Nanjing, Jiangsu).

Yu Fan spent more than a decade living in exile. He died at the age of 70 (by East Asian age reckoning). Sun Quan permitted Yu Fan's family to bring his remains back to Yuyao County for burial. He also freed them from exile.

When Yu Fan was living in exile, he was still very concerned about state affairs. For example, he strongly opposed Sun Quan's idea of sending an army across the sea to attack the warlord Gongsun Yuan in Liaodong (in northeastern China). However, he did not dare to voice his opinion directly to Sun Quan, so he asked Lü Dai to help him pass his message to Sun Quan, but Lü Dai did not do so. Sun Quan heard about it later and was so angry with Yu Fan for opposing his decision that he banished Yu Fan further south to Mengling County (猛陵縣), Cangwu Commandery (蒼梧郡), which is located in present-day Guangxi. Sun Quan sent a fleet to attack Gongsun Yuan, but he regretted his decision later when storms caused the fleet to sustain heavy damage and losses. He remembered Yu Fan and quickly sent messengers to Jiao Province to fetch Yu Fan back to Jianye, but Yu Fan was already dead by then.

Family
Yu Fan had 11 sons. Among them, the notable ones were Yu Si, Yu Zhong, Yu Song and Yu Bing. The names of his other sons were not recorded in history.

Appraisal
Chen Shou, who wrote Yu Fan's biography in the Records of the Three Kingdoms, noted that Yu Fan was very candid and direct in his speech. He also commented that Sun Quan's lack of tolerance for Yu Fan was a sign that Sun Quan was not as magnanimous as he seemed.

In Romance of the Three Kingdoms
Yu Fan appeared as a character in the 14th-century historical novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms, which romanticises the history of the late Eastern Han dynasty and the Three Kingdoms period. In chapter 43, Yu Fan was one of the Wu scholars who debated with Zhuge Liang over Sun Quan's decision to ally with Liu Bei against Cao Cao. In chapter 75, during Lü Meng's invasion of Jing Province, Yu Fan succeeded in persuaded Guan Yu's subordinate Fu Shiren to surrender.

See also
 Lists of people of the Three Kingdoms

Notes

References
 Citations from Sanguozhi volume 57

 Chen, Shou (3rd century). Records of the Three Kingdoms (Sanguozhi).
 Citations from annotations in the Sanguozhi Pei, Songzhi (5th century). Annotations to Records of the Three Kingdoms (Sanguozhi zhu).
 Other sources

 
 Luo, Guanzhong (14th century). Romance of the Three Kingdoms (Sanguo Yanyi).
 Sima, Guang (1084). Zizhi Tongjian''.

164 births
233 deaths
Chinese spiritual writers
Eastern Wu essayists
Eastern Wu government officials
Han dynasty essayists
Government officials under Sun Quan
Politicians from Ningbo
Writers from Ningbo