[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Reorganization plan of United States Army

t, and Unclassified messaging, a necessary function for the Intelligence community. The JSIL connection of experimental networks with Army battle labs is a way to determine the bandwidth needed for these vignettes, to prepare Project Convergence 2021 for Joint All-Domain Command and Control (JADC2).

Defender Pacific 2021 focuses on the southwest Pacific region. The Army was to draw from a pre-positioned stock for its units, exercise its watercraft and an MDTF's long range precision fires. In 2021 the 28th Secretary of Defense, Lloyd Austin, stated he expected to "review our posture in the Pacific from all aspects including presence, capabilities, logistics, exercises, infrastructure, and capacity building and cooperation with allies and partners" during his questioning by the Senate Armed Services Committee. Integrated deterrence is the objective of the 28th Secretary of defense, in joint exercises in Australian waters, with HMS Queen Elizabeth (R08)
in the South China Sea, and by US Special Forces soldiers (Green Berets) with Japan's Self-defense force (JGSDF) parachuting onto Guam.
On 15 September 2021 the ministers of defense, and foreign affairs, and the secretaries of defense, and state for Australia, and the US, respectively, namely Peter Dutton, Marise Payne, Lloyd Austin, and Antony Blinken signed statements of intent to jointly build nuclear submarines, and share National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) data, as well as a space framework. See AUKUS. On 24 September 2021 the heads of state of Australia, India, Japan, and the US (the Quadrilateral Security Dialog) met face-to-face to discuss cybersecurity, and fix supply chain vulnerabilities, such as electronic chip, and 5G technology. FY2021 marks the end of the Army's manpower expansion, in its effort to modernize.
Arctic strategy
In January 2021 the Army announced its arctic strategy, for arctic, extreme cold, and mountainous environments, which affect the NORTHCOM, EUCOM, and INDOPACOM combatant commands. A two-star multi-domain-enabled operational headquarters will be established for the Arctic. Soldiers will be receiving extra support for adapting to the Alaskan Arctic, beginning in 2022 and going forward. The BCTs of US Army Alaska are reflagging as of 6 June 2022 from 1st SBCT/25th ID, and 4th IBCT/25th ID, to 1st IBCT/11th ID (Airborne), and 2nd IBCT/11th ID (Airborne) respectively; US Army Alaska is now 11th Infantry Division (Airborne) as of 6 June 2022. The Bundeswehr is thinking of training in Alaska.
An Arctic Multi-domain task force (MDTF) was planned, to balance the interests of the 8 partners of the Arctic Council, which include Russia, and China as an observer nation. See Cold Response
Defender Europe 2022
Defender Europe 2022 started 3 May 2022, under the command and control of V Corps, which has had a forward-deployed Headquarters in Europe since 2021. The exercises will involve 11 allied and partner nations, including Denmark, Estonia, Germany, France, Latvia, Lithuania, Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden, and Great Britain. Defender Europe 2022 had been previously planned, on a longer timescale than the wartime events of 2022, such as the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine. For example, a float ribbon bridge was erected by troops from Fort Hood, Texas who are deploying to Europe. The bridge came from pre-positioned stocks drawn from APS-2, located in Europe.
PC22
 Australia, New Zealand, the UK, Canada, and other allies and partners (such as universities) expect they will bring experiments or prototype capabilities to Project Convergence 2022. PC22 will require connection of the allies and partners; the connections were exercised during COMMEX 1B in June. Global defender 2022 (GD22) will culminate with Project Convergence 2022 (PC22). In the week of 6 Jun 2022 planning for PC22 at Fort Bliss was finalized. The UK and Australian planners were added to the PC22 experiment; their concepts join the 100 technologies incorporated by USAF, Navy, Marines, and Space Force planners. The commander of AFC's Futures and Concepts Lieutenant Gen. Scott McKean, and peers for the services and allies took this opportunity to mutually review their plans for the FY2022 event.

The Synthetic Training Environment's One World Terrain (OWT) data sets are beginning to be used as operational planning tools, for example by V corps, and at PC20, and at PC21. As virtual maps, rather than paper maps, they can project scenarios which will also be used at PC22 in October and November 2022.