[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eva Bartok

Rome to join the show's rehearsals prior to the show opening in December 1951 at the Teatro Manzoni in Milan. The show was a success and over the following four months there were performances in Florence, Venice, Genoa and other cities, ending with a six-week long run in Rome at the Teatro Quirino.

In 1951, A Tale of Five Cities was finally released in the United Kingdom. It was seen by actor-producer Burt Lancaster and director Robert Siodmak, who were visiting England, looking for an actress to play opposite Lancaster as his romantic interest, Consuelo, in the upcoming production of the comedy-adventure film The Crimson Pirate. Impressed by Bartok's performance and appearance, they telegraphed her in Italy, asking for her to attend a screen test. Bartok, by now wary of countless unsuccessful auditions, replied: "No test. Send script." To her surprise, she was offered the role, and was asked to report for location shooting on the island of Ischia. In total, she spent over three months working on the project.

Also in 1952, Bartok appeared alongside Richard Todd in The Venetian Bird.

The success of The Crimson Pirate bought Bartok numerous role offers, though most were either in "B" movies and German-language movies. In 1953, Bartok made her first German film, Rummelplatz Der Liebe (Circus of Love), starring opposite actor Curd Jürgens. Their on-screen chemistry led to a demand for more collaborations, which came one after another in rapid succession: Der letzte Walzer, Meines Vaters Pferde I. Teil Lena und Nicoline, and Orient Express.

In 1955, Bartok acted on the stage in The Lovers, at the Opera House in Manchester, England. Directed by Sam Wanamaker, it was an adaptation and translation of Émile Zola's novel, Thérèse Raquin, by Marcelle Maurette.
In 1957, Bartok appeared in the musical Ten Thousand Bedrooms, opposite Dean Martin. The movie was filmed in Italy and in Hollywood, and for a time, she resided in Los Angeles.

Following that production, her best-known roles were in The Doctor of Stalingrad, which was released in 1958, and in 1961's , opposite O. W. Fischer.

In 1955, Bartok published a novel, Fighting Shadows, and in 1959, an autobiography, Worth Living For.

Later life
Bartok had been introduced to the philosophy of the Subud sect, while being treated for ovarian cancer in the late 1950s. As her career declined in the mid-1960s, she began spending more and more involvement with the sect, and ended up spending three years studying with the sect near Jakarta, Indonesia. She later taught its philosophy in a school she opened in Honolulu.

In the last years of her life, she lived as a permanent paying guest in a small London hotel.

She died on 1 August 1998 at St. Charles's Hospital in London.

Personal life

Bartok was married from 1944 to Hungarian officer Géza Kovács, until it was annulled after the Second World War, on the grounds of coercion of a minor.

Her second husband was the producer Alexander Paal, who had assisted her in her escape from Hungary in 1948. They divorced in 1951.

She acquired British citizenship through her third marriage to English theatrical publicity agent William "Bill" Wordsworth in 1952. Wordsworth was the great-great-grandson of the poet of the same name. That marriage fell apart, with him claiming that she had deserted him within a month of their marriage, to move to Rome to make a movie in 1952, but the divorce was not finalised until 7 March 1955, with Bartok not contesting Wordsworth's application.

She met the British aristocrat David Mountbatten, 3rd Marquess of Milford Haven, at a London dinner in 1952. They embarked on a high-profile relationship that lasted for several years. Romaine, Marchioness of Milford Haven, cited Bartok in her divorce petition. Mountbatten was prominent part in the London demi-monde of the 1950s, which brought together a colourful mix of aristocrats and shadowy social climbers, such as osteopath Stephen Ward.

Her relationship with Mountbatten ended after Bartok began a relationship with German actor Curd Jürgens when they acted in a movie together in Germany. Amidst great media interest, she married Jürgens on 13 August 1955 in Schliersee, Germany. It was Jürgens's third marriage. They divorced on 6 November 1956. Shortly after her marriage to Jürgens had ended, Bartok gave birth to a daughter, Deana, in London, on 7 October 1957.

Three decades later, Bartok claimed Deana's biological father was actually Frank Sinatra, as a result of a very brief affair in 1956 with him, following the break-up of Sinatra's marriage to Ava Gardner. Bartok had first met Frank Sinatra at a party while she was in Hollywood in 1955, while appearing in the film Ten Thousand Bedrooms, alongside Dean Martin. Sinatra never acknowledged that he was the father.

In 1980, Bartok married her fifth husband, the American producer Dag Molin, and lived with him in Los Angeles until their divorce in 1983.