[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Economy of the Middle East

12 months, compared to 30% in Levant and North Africa. 65% of those who planned to hire in the following 3 months indicated that they would be hiring for up to 10 positions. Over three-fifths (64%) of working respondents stated that their companies have hired new employees in the previous 6 months.

The trend continued from past waves with most employers planning to hire people for junior or mid-level executive positions. Accountants (17%) and sales managers (16%) were the top job roles companies expected to be hiring in the 3 months following the survey. Post-graduate degrees in business management were the most sought-after qualification in the MENA. This was followed by degrees in engineering and commerce. Good communication skills in Arabic and English were the top attribute companies sought in a respondent, followed by 'being a team player'. In terms of experience, managerial skills were the most sought, followed by experience in sales and marketing, and computer skills.

Overall, two-fifths believed that their country of residence was more attractive as a job market in comparison to other MENA countries. When compared to the Levant region (16%) and North Africa (19%), significantly more respondents in the GCC (40%) thought that their country of residence is a more attractive job market. Almost half of working respondents rated their own industry as being more attractive as a potential employer in comparison to other industries. Overall, banking and finance were first in terms of the industry which respondents considered to be attracting/retaining talent in their country of residence.

Economic reform
Following the oil boom of the 1970s, Middle Eastern economies have implemented several reform policies aimed at sustaining economic growth and increasing participation at the macroeconomic level. The implementation of these economic reforms became more urgent in the region as oil price volatility threatened the economic stability of major oil-exporting countries. While each country follows its own economic agenda, many face similar challenges and target issues which affect the region as a whole. The policies are especially concerned with attracting foreign investment in an integrated global economy.

Countries within the Middle East have also begun implementing policies to promote integration between Middle Eastern countries. These are hoped to help the region reach its full economic potential and to sustain the stability of countries that have accomplished higher rates of growth and development.

Background 
Following the OPEC embargo of October 1973, the market price of oil per barrel rose from $3 to $12 per barrel in reaction to the 5% production cut and reduction of supply by OPEC countries. The OPEC embargo was directed at the United States and other countries (the Netherlands, Portugal and South Africa), in retaliation for their financial aid and support of Israel during the Yom-Kippur War. The embargo was also prompted by the decision of President Richard Nixon to take the United States off the gold standard, hurting oil-producing countries which collected revenue in US dollars. While the OPEC embargo exacerbated the deep recession and inflation in the United States, the economies of the Middle East witnessed rapid expansion and growth in GDP as well as an increase in the Middle East's share of global world trade from 3.6% in 1972 to 8% in 1979. In addition to experiencing economic growth, the Middle East also made improvements in development indicators such as infant mortality and life expectancy, and a decrease in unemployment across most sectors.

Following the oil boom and the OPEC embargo of the 1970s, the Middle East became a heavily integrated region in terms of economic growth and employment. The increase in the export of oil by the major oil-exporting countries in the Middle East led to a mass influx of foreign workers from Arab and Asian countries. Towards the end of the 1980s the growth began to stop as the price of oil fell in an increasingly competitive global market. As a result, countries such as Morocco, Tunisia and Jordan began to implement economic reforms during the mid-1980s. Soon after, most countries within the region had implemented some form of economic stabilisation policy. During the 1990s the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries (Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman and Qatar) were becoming increasingly vulnerable to oil-price volatility.