[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bernd Dost

er Hanitzsch and editor Brigitte Schroedter and good relationships with colleagues Wolfgang Kahle, Thilo Schneider, Dietmar Ebert, Karl Neumann, Henric L. Wuermeling, Jürgen Martin Moeller, Meggy Steffens, Christel Hinrichsen, and with Rudolf Mühlfenzl, the somewhat baroque, liberal editor-in-chief.

In 1978, Bernd Dost married Caroline von Harder, a businesswoman, who headed the PR department of the Beck clothing store in Munich and who set up a mail order business of her own selling decorative household accessories. Their daughter Franziska Dost studied TV journalism and later, European Ethnology in Berlin.

Fiction
In 1998, Bernd Dost founded the Vedra Verlag in which he first published his own novels under the pseudonym of R.B. van Mattruer and later other books under his own name plus an extensive collection of short stories by Elisabeth Dost (Elli Dost). In the same year he wrote the book "Schiffe Versenken", a vivid novel set in the world of harbours, smugglers and thieves, using the language of the dockers and seamen and elements of  Low German ("Platt") which you still can hear in Hamburg today (example: "Ich werd euch nun, min Deern un' min Jung, verklaren, wie's mit mir und Ronja weiterging.").

His next book "Tote leben länger" describes the media hype created around a man in coma who was found in a corn field covered with wounds and suffering from a brain injury, while the TV talk show host Buck Blohm tries to present him as the returned and incarnated Jesus Christ. The book is outlined as a crime thriller though the actual story deals in a sarcastic way with conspiracy theories, tasteless politicians, bizarre journalists and other ominous characters all suddenly interested in the body of the unknown more-dead-than-alive man.

With "die zornigen" (the enraged) Bernd Dost wrote his most transgressive/transgressional novel, telling the story of a small group of common people who "just can't take it anymore" and who turn to actions of terrorism against the mass media system.

"The book "die zornigen" is an infectious story of people who want to change our world. It throws a bridge of ideas stemming from the French Revolution over the dropouts of ´68 across to the raging opponents to the merciless globalization of today. The story revolves around three people: Roger, the hesitating journalist, Cat, the aggressive nurse and Sol, the charismatic social worker. They among others, comprise "the enraged" - more enraged than ever, in view of the menacing annihilation of our pride, our freedom, our culture after 9/11." (press text)

In 2004 Dost wrote the surreal and tragicomic book "Mensch Frankenstein". The fantastic, mystical novel is the story of an honest, belligerent human creature born in a subway in the San Francisco, who is arrested and made to fit in with the rules of the predominant form of society; he receives a character mask and then a sculpted plastic body armour and rises to become a successful monster in the world of politics and industry. Self-revelation, the love of a courageous woman and the encounter with a mystic in Zurich save "Frankenstein the Man" and allow the natural true being to re-emerge. The US Administration sentences the creature, whom it regards as a danger to the state, and disposes of it in a branch of Guantánamo.

Bernd Dost's last novel was called "Der Zug ohne Wiederkehr" (The train of no return). The novel clearly continues the humanistic and humanitarian ideas of "the enraged" and "Mensch Frankenstein". It was published in 2008.

Filmography / Bibliography

Documentary Films 

1972:
 "Diseases of Society: Stress: a disease of civilization" (30')
 "Brains Inc. - A psychological show about manipulation (60’)
 "About Ourselves: Protracted Old Age" (32’)
 "Review of a Year: a Psychogram of the Events of 1972" (66')

1973:
 "Slow Motion: Eros and Politics" (47´)
 "Human Games: An Experiment in Group Dynamics" (80´)
 "Slow Motion: When You're on Your Way: Understanding the Other" (45´)
 "Slow Motion: The Star is Dead - is the Star Dead?" (45´)
 "A Year in Retrospect: Psychogram of the Events of 1973" (58´)

1974:
 "Slow Motion: A Number for Everyone - Registered, Programmed, Controlled" (45´)
 "Slow Motion: Worker and Model" (43’)
 "A Year in Retrospect: Psychogram of the Events of 1974" (45´)

1975:
 "Death of a Sea: The Mediterranean Sewage Pit" (45´)
 "Slow Motion: The Rumor" (45´)
 "The Big Prize" (43´)
 "What They Call Normal or: Life is Child’s Play" (44´)

1976:
 "Cypriot Family Life" (42´)
 "Apprenticeship in Feeling: Esalen, Big Sur" (45´)

1977:
 "Hope of Healing: Lourdes and Faith Healers" (45´)
 "Miracles Happen All the Time; About People that Have Survived Against the Odds" (45´)
 "People, Drinks and Politics: Portrait of a Standup Bar" (45´)
 "Olé HSV! - Football - A Circus for Millions" (58´)
 "Workplace Situation: Nobody Don't Know Nothing!" (45´)
 "Family Vacation. One German, One Swedish and One Italian Family in Lignano" (45’)