[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Interleukin 15

Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the IL15 gene. IL-15 is an inflammatory cytokine with structural similarity to Interleukin-2 (IL-2). Like IL-2, IL-15 binds to and signals through a complex composed of IL-2/IL-15 receptor beta chain (CD122) and the common gamma chain (gamma-C, CD132).  IL-15 is secreted by mononuclear phagocytes (and some other cells) following infection by virus(es).  This cytokine induces the proliferation of natural killer cells, i.e. cells of the innate immune system whose principal role is to kill virally infected cells.

Expression 

IL-15 was discovered in 1994 by two different laboratories, and characterized as T cell growth factor. Together with Interleukin-2 (IL-2), Interleukin-4 (IL-4), Interleukin-7 (IL-7), Interleukin-9 (IL-9), granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), IL-15 belongs to the four α-helix bundle family of cytokines.

IL-15 is constitutively expressed by a large number of cell types and tissues, including monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells (DC), keratinocytes, fibroblasts, myocyte and nerve cells. As a pleiotropic cytokine, it plays an important role in innate and adaptive immunity.

Gene 

IL-15 is 14–15 kDa glycoprotein encoded by the 34 kb region of chromosome 4q31 in humans, and at the central region of chromosome 8 in mice. The human IL-15 gene comprises nine exons (1–8 and 4A) and eight introns, four of which (exons 5 through 8) code for the mature protein (Figure 1).

Two alternatively spliced transcript variants of this gene encoding the same protein have been reported. The originally identified isoform, with long signal peptide of 48 amino acids (IL-15 LSP) consisted of a 316 bp 5'-untranslated region (UTR), 486 bp coding sequence and the C-terminus 400 bp 3'-UTR region. The other isoform (IL-15 SSP) has a short signal peptide of 21 amino acids encoded by exons 4A and 5. Both isoforms shared 11 amino acids between  signal sequences of the N-terminus. Although both isoforms produce the same mature protein, they differ in their cellular trafficking. IL-15 LSP isoform was identified in Golgi apparatus [GC], early endosomes and in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). It exists in two forms, secreted and membrane-bound particularly on dendritic cells. On the other hand, IL-15 SSP isoform is not secreted and it appears to be restricted to the cytoplasm and nucleus where plays an important role in the regulation of cell cycle.

It has been demonstrated that two isoforms of IL-15 mRNA are generated by alternative splicing in mice. The isoform which had an alternative exon 5 containing another 3' splicing site, exhibited a high translational efficiency, and the product lack hydrophobic domains in the signal sequence of the N-terminus. This suggests that the protein derived from this isoform is located intracellulary. The other isoform with normal exon 5, which is generated by integral splicing of the alternative exon 5, may be released extracellulary.

Although IL-15 mRNA can be found in many cells and tissues including mast cells, cancer cells or fibroblasts, this cytokine is produced as a mature protein mainly by dendritic cells, monocytes and macrophages. This discrepancy between the wide appearance of IL-15 mRNA and limited production of protein might be explained by the presence of the twelve in humans and five in mice upstream initiating codons, which can repress translation of IL-15 mRNA. Translational inactive mRNA is stored within the cell and can be induced upon specific signal. Expression of IL-15 can be stimulated by cytokine such as GM-CSF, double-strand mRNA, unmethylated CpG oligonucleotides, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) through Toll-like receptors (TLR), interferon gamma (IFN-γ) or after infection of monocytes herpes virus, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Candida albicans (Figure 2).

Signaling 

The prevailing mechanism of IL-15 action seems to be juxtacrine signaling or also determined as cell-to-cell contact. It also includes intracrine and reverse signaling. IL-15 was initially characterized as a soluble molecule. Later it was shown that IL-15 also exists as a membrane-bound form which represents the major form of IL-15 protein. In membrane-bound form it could be bound directly to cellular membrane or presented by IL-15Rα receptor.

The main mechanism of IL-15 signaling is trans-presentation which is mediated by membrane-bound complex IL-15/IL-15Rα (Figure 3). IL-15 bind to IL-15Rα receptor alone with an affinity of Ka = 1.1011/M. It can also bind to IL-15Rβγc signaling complex with lower affinity (Ka = 1.109/M) (Figure 4).