[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alexander King (scientist)

Alexander King  (26 January 1909 – 28 February 2007) was a British chemist and pioneer of the sustainable development movement who co-founded the Club of Rome in 1968 with the Italian industrialist Aurelio Peccei. The Club was one of the first institutions to voice concerns about the impact on the environment of unprecedented economic growth in the 20th century. "Peccei and King were lonely prophets at a time of overwhelming optimism," who did much to push environmental issues on to the political agenda. At the time of the Club's founding, King was Director-General for Scientific Affairs at the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).

Life and career
Born in Glasgow, King attended Highgate School and later studied chemistry at Imperial College, where he edited the college's literary magazine and served as president of its literary and debating society. From 1929 to 1931, he pursued postgraduate research on a fellowship at the University of Munich. On his return to London, he became a lecturer and then senior lecturer in physical chemistry at Imperial. In 1938, he was awarded the Edward Harrison Memorial Prize by the Royal Society of Chemistry. 

With the outbreak of WWII, Sir Henry Tizard invited King to join the Ministry of Production as Deputy Scientific Adviser. It was during this period that a letter from the Geigy Company in Switzerland to its Manchester branch office, detailing the composition of a new "mothballing agent" dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane, was intercepted by the censor. King recognised the importance of the chemical agent and its potential use as an insecticide, allegedly coining the acronym DDT. In 1943, King travelled to the United States, becoming Head of the UK Scientific Mission and Scientific Attaché at the British Embassy in Washington.
Following the war, King became Secretary of the Advisory Council on Scientific Policy and personal adviser to the Lord President of the Council, Herbert Morrison. King was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1948 Birthday Honours. He later became Chief Scientific Adviser to the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research.

In 1957, King joined the European Productivity Agency (EPA) as Director in Paris, subsequently becoming Director-General for Scientific Affairs at the OECD At the OECD, "he initiated the Science Policy Surveys, which took a critical look at the state of science and technology in the OECD countries. Among other things, his initiatives encouraged new forms of education." He retired from the OECD in 1974, taking up the chairmanship of the International Federation of Institutes of Advanced Studies (IFIAS), an organisation based in Stockholm.

The Club of Rome 
King has been described as "a cool catalyst with the golden knack of transforming ideas into action." It was while working at the OECD that King co-founded the influential think tank the Club of Rome. In 1966, he came across the transcript of a speech given by Aurelio Peccei and the two met to discuss common interests. With the support of the Agnelli Foundation, they invited 30 European scientists, economists and industrialists to Rome to discuss global issues. While the initial 1968 meeting at Accademia dei Lincei (Palazzo Corsini) was a failure, it led to the formation of a network of individuals with shared concerns about the environmental consequences of untrammelled global development. The first formal meeting of the Club of Rome took place in Bern in 1970.

The 1972 best-selling report The Limits to Growth, which was commissioned by the Club of Rome and funded by the Volkswagen Foundation, was the first attempt to simulate the consequences of development on the earth's limited resources. The book "challenged the economic orthodoxy that the earth would always provide the resources for human prosperity, and became the biggest-selling environmental book in history." In questioning prevalent assumptions about the inevitability and benefits of economic growth, the Club of Rome provoked sometimes fierce controversy and accusations of elitism. Its warnings about the dangers of anthropogenic environmental change were disputed in ways that anticipate contemporary opposition to scientific assessments of global climate change. The Club of Rome's concerns with overpopulation were viewed by some as neo-Malthusian. However, the Club of Rome's mission to bring awareness to the pressures of development on the environment – and in particular the publication of The Limits to Growth – according to King's obituary, "touched a raw nerve in the body politic. Its warnings resonated with the fears of others that there was an emerging environmental crisis. The United Nations Environment Programme was established a few months after [the book] appeared. The word 'environment' does not even appear in the 1945 UN Charter, and King helped expand the UN's role into environmental protection."