[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Barry Farm

gh the collection of real estate taxes" and 2) these government agencies' desire to clear downtown Washington, DC, of African Americans and move them to Barry Farm-Hillsdale and Marshall Heights. The residents successfully stopped this redevelopment, but continually had to battle future destruction.

Through the city's New Communities Initiative and the Federal Choice program (the new HOPE VI), the DC Government demolished almost all of Barry Farm to redevelop Barry Farm from single-use public housing where households pay 30% of their incomes to reside in the community, into a mixed-use, higher density community with 1,600 units including homes for sale. In 2013, about 50 Barry Farm residents teamed up with community organizing group Empower DC. They formed the Barry Farm Tenants and Allies Association to stop the city from evicting them from their homes before new housing was built, to demand that the redeveloped site match the intentions of the site's original design in providing sufficient green space, and to guarantee their right to return.

From April 2018 until January 2019, hundreds of families were relocated from Barry Farm, and early 2019, demolition began. The Barry Farm Tenants and Allies Association successfully won a historic landmark designation for five public housing buildings that were home to well-known activists. Other than a recreation center, these were the only buildings that remained on the site as of 2022.

See also

Anacostia
List of public housing developments in the United States
Public housing in the United States

References

Further reading 

 Amos, Alcione M. (2021) Barry Farm - Hillsdale in Anacostia: A Historic African American Community Charleston, SC: The History Press.
 Shoenfeld, Sarah (July 9, 2019) "The history and evolution of Anacostia's Barry Farm" DC Policy Center publication.
 Sullivan, Keely (March 12, 2019) "With Barry Farm All but Abandoned, the Fight for its Future is Just Beginning" East of the River.

External links
DC Home Rule
DC Legacy Project: Barry Farm-Hillsdale
District of Columbia Housing Authority
Empower DC

1867 establishments in Washington, D.C.
African-American history of Washington, D.C.
Articles containing video clips
Freedmen's Bureau
Neighborhoods in Southeast (Washington, D.C.)
Public housing in the United States