[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# USAF Air War College

heir views with students, faculty, and our NSF attendees. The NSF is also intended to broaden perspectives and garner a mutual understanding of the U.S. Air Force and national and international security issues between NSF attendees and senior U.S. and international officers and civilian equivalents.

Guests are nominated from across the Air Force and by active and retired Regular Air Force, Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard general officers and previous NSF attendees.  AWC forwards the nominations to the Secretary of the Air Force for his/her approval and his/her personal invitation.  Approximately 150 selectees attend NSF each year.  Specific details for NSF are provided with each nominee's invitation.  Budgetary constraints preclude the Air Force from defraying guests' expenses.  As a result, guests are responsible for their own transportation to Maxwell AFB, the cost of Distinguished Visitors Quarters (DVQ) lodging at Maxwell AFB, and the cost of meals.

Accreditation

The umbrella organization for AWC, the Air University, is accredited by the Commission of Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS), and is authorized to grant the following degrees:

Master of Strategic Studies – offered by the Air War College

Master of Military Operational Art and Science – offered by the Air Command and Staff College (ACSC)

Master of Aerospace Studies – offered by the School of Advanced Air and Space Studies (SAASS)

Master of Science in Flight Test Engineering – offered by the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School (USAFTPS)

Associate in Applied Science – offered for USAF enlisted personnel by the Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) with majors in 68 areas

Notable personnel
Paul D. Phillips, former member of the staff & faculty; former oldest living West Point graduate, retired as a Brigadier General.

See also
 National War College
 Dwight D. Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource Strategy (formerly known as the Industrial College of the Armed Forces)
 Army War College
 Naval War College
 Marine Corps War College

References

External links
Air War College Homepage

Military education and training in the United States
Universities and colleges established in 1946
War College
War colleges
1946 establishments in Alabama
Air War College alumni