[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Music Institute

usic), electronic music, several operas and ballet scores, and music for educational purposes.

CD label 

The IMI produces CDs both on its own label and in cooperation with several other non-profit musical institutions in Israel, as well as markets CDs of Israeli art music produced by other labels.

The institute made its first steps in the field of music production during the 70s, with the production of several records (LPs) and even a first tape cassette. In 1990, the institute was invited to join and run an existing project- music in Israel (MII). The collaborating organizations were The Jerusalem Music Center, Kol Israel (The Voice of Israel radio station), Acum (Association for composers, writers and publishers), and the Ministry of Education and Culture. The MII produced 26 CDs. It was active for 7 years, after which the institute continued to issue CDs independently. It has produced 61 CDs so far.

Collaborations and yearly events 

IMI collaborates with major orchestras, choirs, chamber ensembles and musical education institutions in
Israel, as well as with numerous musical bodies around the world. As Israel's leading music publishing
house, it is involved with virtually all musical events which include commissions from Israeli composers,
performances of Israeli music and premieres, including major events such as the Paul Ben-Haim
Competition- Young Artists Play Israeli Music (organized by Jeunesses Musicales Israel); the Arthur
Rubinstein International Piano Master Competition; The International Harp Contest in Israel; and the
Zimriya- the World Assembly of Choirs in Israel. It also collaborates with TARF festival for recorder
music, the Israeli conservatory's composition competition, and the Israel Contemporary Players’ concert
series (in Tel-Aviv and Jerusalem), among others. The institute supplies scores for concerts held at the
Jerusalem Music Centre which include Israeli premieres and supports Meitar contemporary music
ensemble. Between 2006 and 2018, IMI produced the Israel Music Festival, an annual festival of Israeli
music held in Jerusalem and other cities in Israel. The Institute also exhibits its various publications at
different musical events in Israel and abroad.

Past events which IMI has been involved with (during the late 90s and early 2000s) are the Biennial
events for Contemporary Music at Tel-Aviv Museum of Art, the contemporary music concert series by
the Musica Nova Consort (at the Tel-Aviv Museum of Art), and the yearly Classical Music Festival in the
Upper Galilee. During the 90s, the institute, in collaboration with the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra,
produced two composition competitions for orchestral works. The project had two main goals: to encourage composition of quality symphonic works, and to increase public awareness of the institute
and its activities. The jury was international, and during the finals, three works were played by the
orchestra in front of a live audience and broadcast live.

Information center 
Not long after the IMI was established, the Israel Council for Culture and Arts, an adjunct of the Ministry
of Education, Culture and Sports, decided it should also function as an information center, IMIC- the
Israel Music Information Center. As such, it is a member of IAMIC, the International Association of Music
Information Centers. In the beginning, it provided information on all things musical happening in Israel
(not just Israeli music), but once the composers’ association founded the Israel Music Center (IMC) and a
battle over funds began, the IMIC’s functions were expanded to encompass those of worldwide MICs,
and it also became a publisher. Thus, the institute actually comprises two different publishing
companies: IMI and IMIC, although today, IMIC is no longer active, and most of its publications are
included in the general IMI catalogue.

Between 1990 and 2009, IMI published a comprehensive bulletin, IMI News. In addition to documenting
the Institute’s own activities, the journal encompassed the entire concert music scene in Israel, as well
as performances of Israeli music across the globe. Today, IMI’s website provides access to the Institute’s
catalogues (including the possibility of ordering scores, books and recordings) and is currently being
updated to also provide information regarding all Israeli music performances and composers. At IMI’s
Listening Center, a collection of some 2700 scores by over 250 composers is available for perusal and
the archive of recorded music holds some 1600 items. The institute is currently in the process of
creating a central library for Israeli music, which aims to make music by all Israeli composers available to
musicians for perusal and consultation, both in scores and (where possible) in recordings.

External links