[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christopher Soghoian

Consumer privacy research and activism

Between 2009 and 2010, he worked for the US Federal Trade Commission as the first ever in-house technical advisor to the Division of Privacy and Identity Protection. While at the FTC, he assisted with investigations of Facebook, Twitter, MySpace and Netflix.

In October 2010, Soghoian filed a complaint with the FTC, in which he claimed that Google was intentionally leaking search queries to the sites that users visited after they clicked on a link from the search results page. Two weeks later, a law firm filed a class action lawsuit against Google for this practice. The lawsuit extensively quoted from Soghoian's FTC complaint. In October 2011, Google stopped leaking search queries to the sites that users visited, and then in 2015, the company settled the search query leakage class action lawsuit for 8.5 million dollars.

In May 2011, Soghoian was approached by public relations firm Burson-Marsteller and asked to write an anti-Google op-ed, criticizing the company for privacy issues associated with its social search product. Soghoian refused, and instead published the email conversation. A subsequent investigation by journalists revealed that the PR firm, which had refused to identify its client to Soghoian, had been retained by Facebook.

In May 2011, Soghoian filed a complaint with the FTC, in which he claimed that online backup service Dropbox was deceiving its customers about the security of its services. Soon after Soghoian first publicly voiced his concerns, Dropbox updated its terms of service and privacy policy to make it clear that the company does not in fact encrypt user data with a key only known to the user, and that the company can disclose users' private data if forced to by law enforcement agencies.

Boarding pass security

Soghoian first gained public attention in 2006 as the creator of a website that generated fake airline boarding passes. On October 26, 2006, Soghoian created a website that allowed visitors to generate fake boarding passes for Northwest Airlines. While users could change the boarding document to have any name, flight number or city that they wished, the generator defaulted to creating a document for Osama bin Laden.

Soghoian claimed that his motivation for the website was to focus national attention on the ease with which a passenger could evade the no-fly lists. Information describing the security vulnerabilities associated with boarding pass modification had been widely publicized by others before, including Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY)
and security expert Bruce Schneier.

On October 27, 2006, then-Congressman Edward Markey called for Soghoian's arrest. At 2 am on October 28, 2006, his home was raided by agents of the FBI to seize computers and other materials. Soghoian's Internet Service Provider voluntarily shut down the website, after it received a letter from the FBI claiming that the site posed a national security threat. On October 29, 2006, Congressman Markey issued a revised statement stating that Soghoian should not go to jail, and that instead, the Department of Homeland Security should "put him to work" to fix the boarding pass security flaws. The FBI closed its criminal investigation in November 2006 without filing any charges, as did the TSA in June 2007.

References

Sources 
  Yves Eudes, Hacker vaillant rien d'impossible, Le Monde, November 17, 2012, pp. 36–37. Also published in Le Temps, Saturday December 8, 2012, pp. 26–27
 Glenn Fleishman, A knight in digital armour, The Economist, September 1, 2012
 Mike Kessler, The Pest Who Shames Companies Into Fixing Security Flaws, Wired, November 23, 2011

External links 

 Soghoian's homepage
 Soghoian's blog
 Twitter
 Soghoian's CNET Blog (2007–2009)
 

1981 births
Living people
People associated with computer security
American bloggers
American computer scientists
Johns Hopkins University alumni
James Madison University alumni
Indiana University alumni
Berkman Fellows
American people of Armenian descent