[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2002 United States gubernatorial elections

to former Governor Terry Branstad, narrowly won the Republican Party's primary in a crowded and competitive primary election. In the general election, Vilsack was able to improve slightly on his margin of victory four years earlier to win what would be his second and final term as governor.

Kansas

The 2002 Kansas gubernatorial election was held on November 5, 2002. Incumbent Governor Bill Graves, a Republican, was barred from seeking a third term by the Kansas Constitution. Kansas Insurance Commissioner Kathleen Sebelius, the Democratic nominee, ran against Kansas State Treasurer Tim Shallenburger, the Republican nominee, with Sebelius defeating Shallenburger to become the second female Governor of Kansas after Joan Finney who served as governor from 1991 to 1995.

Maine

The 2002 Maine gubernatorial election took place on November 5, 2002. Incumbent Independent Governor Angus King was term limited, and unable to seek re-election. U.S. Congressman John Baldacci won the Democratic primary uncontested, while former State Representative Peter Cianchette emerged from the Republican primary victorious. Baldacci and Cianchetti squared off in the general election, along with Green Party nominee Jonathan Carter and independent State Representative John Michael. 

Ultimately, Baldacci prevailed to win what would be his first of two terms as governor. John Baldacci's win marked the first Democratic gubernatorial victory in the state since 1982.

Maryland

The 2002 Maryland gubernatorial election was held on November 5, 2002. Democratic Governor Parris Glendening was term-limited and could not seek a third term. Republican Bob Ehrlich defeated Democrat Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, making him the first Republican governor of Maryland since Spiro Agnew, who served from 1967 to 1969. This was the last time Charles County voted Republican for any office.

This election marked the first time since the 1934 gubernatorial election that a Republican won Maryland without Baltimore City or Montgomery County.

Massachusetts

The 2002 Massachusetts gubernatorial election was held on November 5, 2002. Incumbent Republican acting governor Jane Swift chose not to seek a full term in office. Republican businessman Mitt Romney defeated Democratic Treasurer Shannon O'Brien.

This would be the last time Mitt Romney won this state, as in 2012, he lost the state to Barack Obama by a large margin.

Michigan

The 2002 Michigan gubernatorial election was one of the 36 United States gubernatorial elections held on November 5, 2002. Incumbent Republican Governor John Engler, after serving three terms, was term-limited and was ineligible to run for a fourth term; his lieutenant governor Dick Posthumus, also a Republican, ran in his place. Jennifer Granholm, then Attorney General of Michigan, ran on the Democratic Party ticket. Douglas Campbell ran on the Green Party ticket, and Joseph M. Pilchak ran on the Constitution Party ticket.

Granholm won with 51% of the vote, followed by Posthumus' 47%, Campbell with 1%, and Pilchak with less than 1%.  This made Granholm the first female Michigan governor and the first Democratic governor of Michigan in 12 years.

Minnesota

The 2002 Minnesota gubernatorial election took place on November 5, 2002 for the post of Governor of Minnesota. Republican candidate Tim Pawlenty defeated Democratic candidate Roger Moe and Independence Party of Minnesota candidate Tim Penny. Due to personal reasons regarding the health of his spouse, incumbent Governor Jesse Ventura chose not to seek re-election. Pawlenty comfortably won the election, which was attributed in part to Moe's uninspired campaign, with Moe being dubbed a "cautious dullard" four years later by the City Pages.

Nebraska

The 2002 Nebraska gubernatorial election, held on November 5, 2002, featured incumbent Republican Governor of Nebraska Mike Johanns defeating his Democratic opponent Stormy Dean in a landslide.

This was the first gubernatorial election in Nebraska where the winning primary candidates chose their running mates after the primary election. Prior to this, both the governor and the lieutenant governor were chosen at the primary election. This was also the first gubernatorial election in which a Republican was re-elected in more than forty years.

Nevada

The 2002 Nevada gubernatorial election took place on November 5, 2002. Incumbent Republican Governor Kenny Guinn defeated Democratic nominee and Nevada Senator Joe Neal in a landslide to win a second term.

New Hampshire

The 2002 New Hampshire gubernatorial election was held on November 5, 2002. Three-term incumbent Democratic Governor Jeanne Shaheen opted to unsuccessfully run for the United States Senate rather than seek a fourth term as governor. Republican Craig Benson, a self-funded businessman, defeated Democrat Mark Fernald, a state senator, in the general election after both won contested primary elections.