[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

e in an alleyway.

Human Reform League 
The  is a supranational political-economic community consisting of several countries on the Asian continent which includes China, India, Russia and the ASEAN nations. It controls the second-completed of the three orbital elevators located in the South Pacific.

 
 Sergei Smirnov (Russian: Сергей Смирнов) is a colonel and mobile suit squadron commander of the Human Reform League. He is a respected man who follows orders without question and shows true dedication on his missions in spite of doubt, he firmly believes that soldiers exist to protect the civilians at any cost. He served as a father figure to Soma when she was assigned to him, he felt uneasy about letting such a young child to grow up as a cold soldier so he eventually manages to form a bond with her, offering to adopt her in the four years gap between the first and second season. But when he finds Soma with Allelujah, and discovers that her original identity was overwritten, he lets her join Celestial Being and falsely reports Soma as KIA. 
 He has a stranded relationship with his son,  Andrei Smirnov, as Andrei blames him for letting his mother die under Sergei's charge, at that time he was forced to choose between protecting the civilians under his care or sending the troops to aid the stranded soldiers on the frontline, where his wife was among them, choosing the former, stating that his wife was a soldier and she knew what was the duty of both, which ended with his wife dying and her body never being found. Doubting the ways of the A-Laws, Sergei learns that his old friend Pang Hercury is attempting a coup d'etat. Though secretly sent by the government to give him their demands, Sergei is killed by his son, Andrei, who assumed that he was part of the coup d'etat. However, after the A-Laws were disbanded, Sergei became a martyr. 

 
 Soma Peries is a super soldier from the Human Reform League. Originally , she was an orphaned test subject who lost her physical senses due to psychosomatic paralysis. She was befriended by Allelujah before he and the other flawed subjects escape. Once put through the latter stages of her supersoldier treatment, Marie's personality was rewritten and become Soma Peries, to allow her regain her five senses she lost when turned into a super-soldier. At her first appearance, Soma pilots the MSJ-06 II-SP Tieren Taozi, and later a GNX-603T GN-X unit. During the first season, she targeted the Kyrios' pilot as a traitor, unaware he is Allelujah, while viewing Sergei as a father figure over time. While drafted into the A-Laws during season 2, Soma is given the customized GNX-704T/SP Ahead Smultron. However, while confronting Allelujah, Soma regains her original identity of Marie as they put the past behind them. As of that, Allelujah and Marie became lovers. As a member of Celestial Being, she initially serves only as a passenger, before eventually piloting the GNR-101A GN Archer as Allelujah's co-pilot. When Sergei is killed by Andrei, Marie's personality reverts to being Soma out of grief, but she remains with Celestial Being in order to get revenge on Andrei. She eventually reverts to her Marie personality fully after she and Andrei are able to reconcile. In the series aftermath, she and Allelujah have apparently left Celestial Being and are finding their place in the world. In "Awakening of Trailblazer" she and Allelujah reenlist Celestial Being and jointly they pilot Harute Gundam which uses the Marute-System (a Super Soldier-only Trans-Am version) against the ELS invasion. There is stated that both Allelujah and Marie can change willingly to their alter egos.

Advanced European Union 
The , or AEU, is a supranational politico-economic community consisting of Iceland, the islands of the Barents Sea, Greenland, Anatolia, European Russia and the entirety of the traditional continent of Europe. Its institutional makeup is comparable to that of the real-world European Union. Despite the AEU's control of the presently incomplete orbital elevator tower in Africa, it possesses no member states on the continent.

 
 Patrick Colasour is an ace pilot of the AEU and the first to be confronted by a Gundam during a public demonstration of the AEU's new Enact mobile suit. He serves as the series' comic relief. Although the Enact was completely destroyed by Gundam Exia, Patrick survives with only his ego wounded. Patrick's subsequent encounters with the Gundams do not fare any better, although he manages to wound Gundam Dynames's pilot, Lockon Stratos, while Lockon shields a disabled Gundam Virtue, piloted by Tieria Erde, from Patrick's attack.