[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Scholars at Risk

ng institutions, organizations and agencies of higher education in Canada, Mexico, the United States, and around the world. CONAHEC develops programs and educational opportunities to prepare globally knowledgeable professionals able to contribute to the region's continued success and a better world.

Academy for Research and Higher Education (ARES): As the federation of francophone universities in the Wallonie region of southern Belgium, ARES coordinates the activities of 127 higher education institutions. ARES supports the participation and development of its member institutions in their local and international collaborations by promoting the international visibility of higher education.

International Migration, Integration and Social Cohesion (IMISCOE): IMISCOE is a European network of scholars in the area of migration and integration and works on comparative research and publications which are published in the IMISCOE book series and the CMS journal.  IMISCOE has a solidarity fund and uses it to support their member institutes to host researchers under threat. To this end it has become a member of SAR.  IMISCOE contributes to the training of young researchers and their exchange throughout Europe. Also, IMISCOE plays an important role in the mutual dialogue between researchers and society (policy, politics, civil society).

European Students' Union (ESU): The European Students' Union (ESU) is the umbrella organisation of 46 National Unions of Students (NUS) from 39 countries. The aim of ESU is to represent and promote the educational, social, economic and cultural interests of students at the European level towards all relevant bodies and in particular the European Union, Bologna Follow Up Group, Council of Europe and UNESCO. Through its members, ESU represents around 15 million students in Europe.

Mexican Association for International Education (AMPEI): The Mexican Association for International Education (Asociación Mexicana para la Educación Internacional) is a non-profit membership organization which aims to strengthen the academic quality of Mexican institutions of higher education through internationalization and international cooperation.

International Association of La Salle Universities (IALU): IALU is an effective instrument to strengthen Lasallian Higher Education, promote the development of the universities in its network and encourage individual and collective response to the expectations and requests made to universities.

See also 

 Academic Freedom
 Council for At-Risk Academics
 Scholar Rescue Fund
Committee of Concerned Scientists

References

External links 
 
 
 Scholars at Risk Network schedules conference, visit by Egyptian scholar

Freedom of expression organizations
Human rights organizations based in the United States
Organizations established in 1999
Academic freedom
1999 establishments in the United States