[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pablo Ganguli

ants include Pharrell Williams, Rossy de Palma, Paul Schrader, Thomas Heatherwick, Daniel Wu and Khalil Fong. Vogue China editor in chief said it was one of the very few free cultural events open to the public. The event was reportedly a wild ride with Pharrell Williams as the headliner.

Arab World

Majestic Petra

The Majestic Petra Festival was originally scheduled to be held in December 2006 in Petra, Jordan. Ganguli postponed the festival in October, citing 'security concerns'. In mid-December 2006 it was reported that the festival's location had changed to Dubai. It eventually did not take place.

Russia

Jewel of Russia

An international festival of arts, literature and music called "Jewel of Russia" was held in St Petersburg from 27 to 31 October 2007. As of February 2007, Ganguli was hoping to stage talks, readings and discussions.

The St PetersBall

Pablo Ganguli and Liberatum were commissioned by Corinthia Hotels to develop a festival in St Petersburg in November 2010. The St PetersBall celebrated ballet, art, film and fashion.

Turkey

Istancool

Ganguli founded and directed a major festival of cultural diplomacy and international arts in Istanbul in July 2010 under the title 'Istancool'.

Istancool 2

Liberatum and Ganguli worked in partnership with Turkish agency Istanbul '74 and AnOther Magazine'' on the second edition of Istancool in May 2011.

Europe

England

On 23 November 2010, Pablo Ganguli launched the Liberatum Cultural Honour award and hosted a Liberatum dinner in honour of Nobel Laureate Sir VS and Lady Naipaul. The dinner was held in London at the Langham Hotel.

In 2011, Pablo Ganguli, Liberatum and W Hotels hosted an event celebrating fashion and cinema with Andre Leon Talley, Dame Vivienne Westwood and Manolo Blahnik in London.

Films

Inspiring Creativity

Ganguli directed a short film with illy in international press. The film featured several world-renowned artists, musicians and actors such as James Franco, Tracey Emin and Hans Zimmer. It was co-directed by Tomas Auksas.

Artistry/Technology

Ganguli directed another short film with Tomas Auksas on the relationship between art and technology featuring Frank Gehry, David Hockney, Francis Ford Coppola and MIA.

In This Climate

Ganguli made a feature-length documentary with Tomas Auksas on climate change and the environment called in This Climate featuring Sir David Attenborough, Mark Ruffalo and Cher.

Personal life
In 2000, Ganguli met Simon Scaddan, then British Deputy High Commissioner to eastern India, at a musical soiree in the French Consulate in Calcutta. When Scaddan became British High Commissioner to Papua New Guinea in 2001, Ganguli moved into his diplomatic residence as his official consort/partner. The relationship became public in 2003.

In August 2006 it was reported that the Ganguli and Scaddan had split, although remaining friends, and that Ganguli was living in Scaddan's Edinburgh apartment. In 2007, it was reported that Ganguli was living in Wales. In 2009, The Times stated that Ganguli was based in London.

The Times reported in 2009 that Ganguli's partner was the Lithuanian artist Tomas Auksas who joined him at his Moscow festival.

References

External links
Liberatum

Living people
Businesspeople from Kolkata
Bengali Hindus
Arts managers
1983 births
Indian LGBT businesspeople
Indian LGBT rights activists
Activists from West Bengal