[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lewis B. Gunckel

on. The organization of the Central Home as an institution dates from March 26, 1867, at which date Gunckel, Resident Manager, took formal charge of the disabled soldiers then at the Home, a role he would continue for the next decade. The people of Dayton regarded this as his greatest and best work.

In the selection of a site for the Central Home, the Board of Managers looked at the rich and fertile Miami Valley, and entered into negotiations for the purchase of  of land, about three miles (5 km) west of the city of Dayton. The cost of this site was $46,800 of which $20,000 was a donation from the citizens of Dayton under the leadership of Gunckel. Congress had given to the Home the lumber from temporary buildings at Camp Chase, and under Gunckel's direction buildings were rapidly and economically constructed and filled with disabled soldiers as fast as they were made ready.

In 1871, Ulysses S. Grant's Secretary of the Interior appointed Gunckel special commissioner to investigate frauds upon the Cherokee, Creek and Chickasaw Indians. His subsequent report led not only to the detection and punishment of the guilty parties, but to important reforms in the Indian service.

In 1872, Gunckel was elected to the Forty-third United States Congress from Ohio's 4th congressional district. He served on the military committee, became conspicuous in the House by his relentless opposition to public corruption and organized raids on the national treasury. He voted to repeal the bill known as the "salary grab," and always refused to accept the salary due him under the retroactive clause of that law. He was a frequent speaker, both on the floor of the House and in public meetings, on the need for cheap transportation. In 1874, Gunckel was unanimously nominated by his party for re-election, but the country was suffering from the financial Panic of 1873 and was torn by the temperance movement. These brought about a political revolution in Ohio and resulted in the election of Democrat John A. McMahon, Gunckel's law partner. Gunckel was nominated again in 1884, but declined to run.

Return to legal practice 
After serving in Congress, Gunckel returned to Dayton and continued his practice of law. It was said that "he has the courage to fight for a principle and the persistence to continue the fight to the last ditch; but he has learned by experience and observation that compromise is often better than litigation; that higher courage is sometimes displayed by him who conciliates than by him who fights. The greatest lawyer is understood to be the one who protects the interest of his client without litigation. It requires tact and skill and superior ability to gain the ends aimed at by diplomacy."  He was known as "the peacemaker of the Dayton bar."

He was a delegate from the Ohio state bar to the newly formed National Bar Association from 1888 to 1890, also serving as treasurer and member of the executive committee of the latter. In the later years of his life, Gunckel was President of the Dayton Public Savings Bank.

Gunckel died of pneumonia and heart trouble in Dayton and is interred in Woodland Cemetery and Arboretum.

References

 The History of Montgomery County, Ohio.  Chicago: W. H. Beers & Co., 1882.
 Kennedy, James Harrison.  The bench and bar of Cleveland.  Cleveland: Cleveland Printing and Publishing Co., 1889, 376 pgs.
 Edgar, John F.  Pioneer Life In Dayton and Vicinity 1796-1840.  Dayton, Ohio: United Brethren Publishing House, W. J. Shuey, Publisher, 1896.
 Conover, Frank, ed.  Centennial Portrait and Biographical Record of the City of Dayton and of Montgomery County, Ohio.  Logansport, Ind.: A. W. Bowen & Co., Press of Wilson, Humphreys & Co., 1897.
 History of the Republican Party in Ohio.  Chicago: Lewis Publishing Co., 1898, 1579 pgs.
 Taylor, William Alexander.  Ohio in Congress from 1803 to 1901.  Columbus, Ohio: XX Century Publishing Company, 1900, ©1899, 319 pgs.
 "Lewis B. Gunckel."  New York Times, October 4, 1903, pg. 7.

Further reading
 Alleged frauds against certain Indian soldiers: June 8, 1872: laid on the table and ordered to be printed.  Washington, D.C.: The House, 1872, 590 pgs.

External links
National Military Home - Dayton, Ohio
Hon. Lewis B. Gunckel of Ohio, Speech on Cheap Transportation, March 25, 1874
Guide to the Central National Soldiers' Home (1891)

1826 births
1903 deaths
People from Germantown, Ohio
Ohio Whigs
Ohio state senators
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Burials at Woodland Cemetery and Arboretum
Miami University alumni
University of Cincinnati College of Law alumni
19th-century American politicians
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Ohio