[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of Manitoba

of the world market combined with a steep drop in agricultural production due to drought led to economic diversification, moving away from a reliance on wheat production. The Manitoba Co-operative Commonwealth Federation, forerunner to the New Democratic Party of Manitoba (NDP), was founded in 1932.

Canada entered the Second World War in 1939. Winnipeg was one of the major commands for the British Commonwealth Air Training Plan to train fighter pilots, and there were air training schools throughout Manitoba. Several Manitoba-based regiments were deployed overseas, including Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry. In an effort to raise money for the war effort, the Victory Loan campaign organised "If Day" in 1942. The event featured a simulated Nazi invasion and occupation of Manitoba, and eventually raised over C$65 million.

Latter 20th century

Winnipeg was inundated during the 1950 Red River Flood and had to be partially evacuated. In that year, the Red River reached its highest level since 1861 and flooded most of the Red River Valley. The damage caused by the flood led then-Premier Duff Roblin to advocate for the construction of the Red River Floodway; it was completed in 1968 after six years of excavation. Permanent dikes were erected in eight towns south of Winnipeg, and clay dikes and diversion dams were built in the Winnipeg area. 

The province celebrated in 1970 the centennial of its entry into Confederation. Princess Anne and Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, presided over the official celebrations.

In 1990, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney attempted to pass the Meech Lake Accord, a series of constitutional amendments to persuade Quebec to endorse the Canada Act 1982. Unanimous support in the legislature was needed to bypass public consultation. Manitoba politician Elijah Harper, a Cree, opposed because he did not believe First Nations had been adequately involved in the Accord's process, and thus the Accord failed.

In 1997, the "Flood of the Century" caused over  in damages in Manitoba, but the floodway prevented Winnipeg from flooding.

21st century
Manitoba voters are divided along numerous cleavages, such as rural and urban, north and south, British (WASP) and ethnic, and businessmen/ professionals/ farmers/ workers. The New Democratic Party (NDP) has a base among the ethnically diverse and low-income communities of Northern Manitoba and north Winnipeg. The base for the Progressive Conservatives (PCs) is in the wealthier, southern regions of the province and Winnipeg. Wesley argues that the key to success lies in designing moderate platforms that avoid extremes, emphasize progress, and pursue a middle-of-the-road path.  Leading politicians including Duff Roblin, Edward Schreyer, and Gary Doer have reached across the social, geographical and cultural divisions in Manitoba to stake their claim to be the "progressive centre" and thereby gain control of the middle ground of Manitoba party politics.

See also

History of Winnipeg
Timeline of Winnipeg history

Timeline of Manitoba history
List of historic places in Manitoba
District of Saskatchewan
Archives of Manitoba
John Bean (explorer)
Natural Resources Acts
History of Canada

References

Bibliography
Series

 Transactions of the Manitoba Historical Society. Manitoba Historical Society. 1879–1979. — series of published lectures by the MHS on various topics.
 Manitoba History (journal). Manitoba Historical Society. 1980–2019. . — a journal featuring peer-reviewed scholarly, written works relating to the social, economic, political, intellectual, and cultural history of Manitoba and the Canadian West.
 Manitoba Pageant (magazine). Manitoba Historical Society. 1956–1979.
 Prairie History (journal).  (print) and  (online) — a journal featuring scholarly articles, popular history, book reviews, and other specialty pieces.

Reference works
 Bumsted, J. M. 1999. Dictionary of Manitoba Biography. Winnipeg: Univ. of Manitoba Press. ISBN 0887552641. Google Books.
 Bumsted, J. M., Ken S. Coates, and Peter McLintock. 2023 February 24. "Manitoba." Encyclopedia Britannica.
 "Manitoba", The Canadian Encyclopedia. Historica Canada. — a very good starting point
 The Canadian Encyclopedia (2008)
 The Dictionary of Canadian Biography (1966–2006) — scholarly biographies of every important person in Canadian history
 "From the Red River Settlement to Manitoba (1812–70)"
Representative Men of Manitoba: History in Portraiture. Winnipeg: Tribune Publishing Company. 1902 [2007]. Google Books.