[Source: PubMed]

2. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2023 Oct 5;10(10):CD013456. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD013456.pub2.

Psychosocial interventions for survivors of rape and sexual assault experienced 
during adulthood.

O'Doherty L(1)(2), Whelan M(1), Carter GJ(1), Brown K(3), Tarzia L(2)(4), 
Hegarty K(2)(4), Feder G(5), Brown SJ(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Wellbeing, Coventry University, Coventry, UK.
(2)Department of General Practice, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Psychology and Sports Science, University of Hertfordshire, 
Hatfield, UK.
(4)The Royal Women's Hospital, Victoria, Australia.
(5)Centre for Academic Primary Care, Population Health Sciences, Bristol Medical 
School, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(6)Faculty of Arts, Business and Law, Law School, USC: University of the 
Sunshine Coast, Sippy Downs, Australia.
(7)Faculty of Health and Applied Sciences, University of the West of England, 
Bristol, UK.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD013456.

BACKGROUND: Exposure to rape, sexual assault and sexual abuse has lifelong 
impacts for mental health and well-being. Prolonged Exposure (PE), Cognitive 
Processing Therapy (CPT) and Eye Movement Desensitisation and Reprocessing 
(EMDR) are among the most common interventions offered to survivors to alleviate 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other psychological impacts. Beyond 
such trauma-focused cognitive and behavioural approaches, there is a range of 
low-intensity interventions along with new and emerging non-exposure based 
approaches (trauma-sensitive yoga, Reconsolidation of Traumatic Memories and 
Lifespan Integration). This review presents a timely assessment of international 
evidence on any type of psychosocial intervention offered to individuals who 
experienced rape, sexual assault or sexual abuse as adults.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of psychosocial interventions on mental health 
and well-being for survivors of rape, sexual assault or sexual abuse experienced 
during adulthood.
SEARCH METHODS: In January 2022, we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, 12 other 
databases and three trials registers. We also checked reference lists of 
included studies, contacted authors and experts, and ran forward citation 
searches.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Any study that allocated individuals or clusters of 
individuals by a random or quasi-random method to a psychosocial intervention 
that promoted recovery and healing following exposure to rape, sexual assault or 
sexual abuse in those aged 18 years and above compared with no or minimal 
intervention, usual care, wait-list, pharmacological only or active 
comparison(s). We classified psychosocial interventions according to Cochrane 
Common Mental Disorders Group's psychological therapies list.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used the standard methodological procedures 
expected by Cochrane.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 36 studies (1991 to 2021) with 3992 participants 
randomly assigned to 60 experimental groups (3014; 76%) and 23 inactive 
comparator conditions (978, 24%). The experimental groups consisted of: 32 
Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT); 10 behavioural interventions; three 
integrative therapies; three humanist; five other psychologically oriented 
interventions; and seven other psychosocial interventions. Delivery involved 1 
to 20 (median 11) sessions of traditional face-to-face (41) or other individual 
formats (four); groups (nine); or involved computer-only interaction (six). Most 
studies were conducted in the USA (n = 26); two were from South Africa; two from 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo; with single studies from Australia, 
Canada, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the UK. Five studies did not disclose 
a funding source, and all disclosed sources were public funding. Participants 
were invited from a range of settings: from the community, through the media, 
from universities and in places where people might seek help for their mental 
health (e.g. war veterans), in the aftermath of sexual trauma (sexual assault 
centres and emergency departments) or for problems that accompany the experience 
of sexual violence (e.g. sexual health/primary care clinics). Participants 
randomised were 99% women (3965 participants) with just 27 men. Half were Black, 
African or African-American (1889 participants); 40% White/Caucasian (1530 
participants); and 10% represented a range of other ethnic backgrounds (396 
participants). The weighted mean age was 35.9 years (standard deviation (SD) 
9.6). Eighty-two per cent had experienced rape or sexual assault in adulthood 
(3260/3992). Twenty-two studies (61%) required fulfilling a measured PTSD 
diagnostic threshold for inclusion; however, 94% of participants (2239/2370) 
were reported as having clinically relevant PTSD symptoms at entry. The 
comparison of psychosocial interventions with inactive controls detected that 
there may be a beneficial effect at post-treatment favouring psychosocial 
interventions in reducing PTSD (standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.83, 95% 
confidence interval (CI) -1.22 to -0.44; 16 studies, 1130 participants; 
low-certainty evidence; large effect size based on Cohen's D); and depression 
(SMD -0.82, 95% CI -1.17 to -0.48; 12 studies, 901 participants; low-certainty 
evidence; large effect size). Psychosocial interventions, however, may not 
increase the risk of dropout from treatment compared to controls, with a risk 
ratio of 0.85 (95% CI 0.51 to 1.44; 5 studies, 242 participants; low-certainty 
evidence). Seven of the 23 studies (with 801 participants) comparing a 
psychosocial intervention to an inactive control reported on adverse events, 
with 21 events indicated. Psychosocial interventions may not increase the risk 
of adverse events compared to controls, with a risk ratio of 1.92 (95% CI 0.30 
to 12.41; 6 studies; 622 participants; very low-certainty evidence). We 
conducted an assessment of risk of bias using the RoB 2 tool on a total of 49 
reported results. A high risk of bias affected 43% of PTSD results; 59% for 
depression symptoms; 40% for treatment dropout; and one-third for adverse 
events. The greatest sources of bias were problems with randomisation and 
missing outcome data. Heterogeneity was also high, ranging from I2 = 30% 
(adverse events) to I2 = 87% (PTSD).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Our review suggests that survivors of rape, sexual 
violence and sexual abuse during adulthood may experience a large reduction in 
post-treatment PTSD symptoms and depressive symptoms after experiencing a 
psychosocial intervention, relative to comparison groups. Psychosocial 
interventions do not seem to increase dropout from treatment or adverse 
events/effects compared to controls. However, the number of dropouts and study 
attrition were generally high, potentially missing harms of exposure to 
interventions and/or research participation. Also, the differential effects of 
specific intervention types needs further investigation. We conclude that a 
range of behavioural and CBT-based interventions may improve the mental health 
of survivors of rape, sexual assault and sexual abuse in the short term. 
Therefore, the needs and preferences of individuals must be considered in 
selecting suitable approaches to therapy and support. The primary outcome in 
this review focused on the post-treatment period and the question about whether 
benefits are sustained over time persists. However, attaining such evidence from 
studies that lack an active comparison may be impractical and even unethical. 
Thus, we suggest that studies undertake head-to-head comparisons of different 
intervention types; in particular, of novel, emerging therapies, with one-year 
plus follow-up periods. Additionally, researchers should focus on the 
therapeutic benefits and costs for subpopulations such as male survivors and 
those living with complex PTSD.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews published 
by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. on behalf of The Cochrane Collaboration.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD013456.pub2
PMCID: PMC10552071
PMID: 37795783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: With the exception of Kelsey Hegarty and Laura 
Tarzia, all review authors were funded for their work on this review by the 
Multidisciplinary Evaluation of Sexual Assault Referral Centres for better 
Health (MESARCH) project; a project (number 16/117/04) funded by an 
institutional research grant from the National Institute for Health and Care 
Research (NIHR) Health and Social Care Delivery Research (HSDR) Programme to 
Coventry University. LOD: reports a grant (September 2018 to January 2023) from 
the NIHR (16/117/04) for the MESARCH project on which she is the Principal 
Investigator; the grant covers travel support and payment for writing this 
review; paid to Coventry University. SB: has declared that she has no conflicts 
of interest. MW: has declared that she has no conflicts of interest. KB: has 
declared that she has no conflicts of interest. GC: has declared that she has no 
conflicts of interest. LT: has declared that she has no conflicts of interest. 
KH: has contributed to a special series on mental health and intimate partner 
violence for the Lancet Psychiatry, and to a narrative review on gender‐based 
violence published in the Medical Journal of Australia. GF: is a GP at 
Montpelier Health Centre, Bristol, UK, and an unpaid board member of IRISi, a 
social enterprise that works to improve the healthcare response to gender‐based 
violence, including rape and sexual assault. GF reports having written 
editorials and blogs on the health care response to domestic violence.