[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shlomo Moussaieff (businessman)

and Princess Ashraf and Princess Shams of Iran, and celebrities such as, Richard Burton, Elizabeth Taylor, Stavros Niarchos, Zsa Zsa Gabor, Joan Collins, Bob Cummings, Shirley MacLaine, George Raft, Peter Sellers and Frank Sinatra. In the late 1990s he developed a following among affluent Israelis.

Moussaieff's collection included rare stones such as the Moussaieff Blue Diamond, a flawless 6.04 carat stone that Alisa purchased at a 2007 Sotheby's auction in Hong Kong for $7.98 million, setting a world record in price per carat, with a final bid of $1.32 million per carat. The Moussaieff Red Diamond, a trilliant cut, 5.11 carat red diamond purchased in 2001 or 2002, is the world's largest known red diamond.

Moussaieff retired from the business in 2004 while his wife continued to oversee sales, designs and acquisitions.

Antiquities collection

Moussaieff was regarded as one of the foremost private collectors of antiquities of the Bible and ancient Near East. According to his own estimate, he owned 60,000 artefacts, specialising in ancient manuscripts and personal seals from the First and Second Temple periods.

Since he was willing to pay large sums for antiquities that proved the historical authenticity of the Bible, antiquities experts believe that some fakes and forgeries crept into in his collection. In 2004 Moussaieff testified as a victim in a forgery trial involving the James Ossuary and the Jehoash Inscription. Moussaieff had bought two ostracons (inscriptions on pottery shards) from Oded Golan, one of the defendants in the trial; these purchases were also determined to be forgeries. In March 2012 the defendants were acquitted of the forgery charges. Moussaieff was also involved in a seven-year lawsuit filed against him by the Republic of Iraq, accusing him of stealing artefacts from ancient Nineveh after the fall of Saddam Hussein. Though Moussaieff claimed he had bought the antiquities legitimately from a Swiss dealer, he returned them all to the Iraqi government to avoid undue publicity.

Awards and recognition 
Moussaieff received an honorary degree from Bar Ilan University in 2000. The university announced his death in a statement on July 1, 2015.

Further reading

 ]

References

External links
Moussaieff Jewellers Ltd. – Legal information (2011)

Israeli Jews
British Jews
Bukharan Jews
Israeli emigrants to the United Kingdom
Israeli businesspeople
Jews from Mandatory Palestine
Businesspeople from Jerusalem
Businesspeople from London
Irgun members
British Army personnel of World War II
Israeli prisoners of war
1925 births
2015 deaths
People with dyslexia
20th-century English businesspeople