[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# History of Oregon

servative causes and undo liberal reformns. In the 21st century state ballots often include right-wing proposals such as anti-gay and pro-religious measures side by side with politically liberal issues like drug decriminalization which demonstrates the wide spectrum of political values in the state.

The historical policies of racial discrimination have had long-term effects on Oregon's population. A 1994 report from an Oregon Supreme Court task force found minorities more likely to be arrested, charged, convicted, incarcerated and on probation than "similarly situated non-minorities." The report does not place blame on individuals, but instead points out the problems of institutional racism. The report recommends multicultural training of the existing justice system personnel and also recommends diversifying the perspectives, backgrounds and demographics of future hires.

The COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed to have reached the U.S. state of Oregon on February 28, 2020. On that day, Governor Kate Brown created a coronavirus response team; on March 8 she declared a state of emergency; and on March 23 she issued a statewide stay-at-home order with class C misdemeanor charges for violators.

In April, Oregon joined Washington and California in the Western States Pact, an agreement to coordinate the restarting of economic activity while controlling the outbreak. By the end of June 2020, Governor Brown announced that face masks would be required indoors, effective July 1.

Economic impacts of COVID-19 in Oregon included stock market losses for major companies, reduced airline flights, losses for food and entertainment industries, and closures of libraries and museums.

In early March 2020, universities and K–12 schools closed statewide, and began providing online instruction. Professional and college sports teams cancelled training, games, and tournaments.

By May 14, 2021, 31 of Oregon's 36 counties had met OHA requirements to enter the first phase of a three-phase process to reopen businesses.

, 77.3% of the adult population has completed the primary vaccination series. 84.9% of the state's adult population has received at least one dose of a vaccine.

See also

 Bibliography of Oregon history
 Capital punishment in Oregon
 History of Portland, Oregon
 History of the Pacific Northwest
 History of the Western United States
 List of fiction set in Oregon
 List of governors of Oregon
 List of native Oregon plants
 List of Oregon ballot measures
 List of Oregon county name etymologies
 List of Oregon judges
 List of Oregon shipwrecks
 List of Oregon State Government Agencies
 List of people from Oregon
 List of Registered Historic Places in Oregon
 Mount Hood Freeway
 Postal history of Oregon
 Territorial evolution of Oregon
 Timeline of Oregon history

References

Further reading

 Oregon Encyclopedia of History and Culture (2022), not yet in print format; it is online here with 2000 articles

 Brock, Emily K. Money Trees: The Douglas Fir and American Forestry, 1900-1944 (Oregon State University Press, 2015). 272 pp. 
 Clark, Malcolm. "The Bigot Disclosed: 90 Years of Nativism." Oregon Historical Quarterly, 75#2 (1974), pp. 109–90. online. on nativism, xenophobia, KKK and attacks on Catholics and Asians in the state.
 Clucas, Richard A., Mark Henkels, and Brent Steel, eds. Oregon politics and government: progressives versus conservative populists (U of Nebraska Press, 2005). online
 Dillow, Frank. "Connecting Oregon: The Slow Road to Rapid Communications, 1843-–2009." Oregon Historical Quarterly 111.2 (2010): 184–219. in JSTOR
 

 Edwards, G. Thomas. "Six Oregon Leaders and the Far-Reaching Impact of America's Civil War." Oregon Historical Quarterly 100#1 (Spring 1999): 4-31.
 Edwards, G. Thomas, and Carlos A. Schwantes, eds., Experiences in a Promised Land: Essays in Pacific Northwest History (University of Washington Press, 1986) six Oregon essays by scholars.

 Etulain, Richard W. Lincoln and Oregon Country Politics in the Civil War Era (2013).
 Inglis, Robin. Historical Dictionary of the Discovery and Exploration of the Northwest Coast of America (Scarecrow Press, 2008) online.