[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Israeli views on the peace process

iew point of Barak's regarding the peace process is that there were no preconceived solutions to the process and negotiations; for him there was not an expectation that Israel would definitely withdraw to the 1967 borders for example, everything was under discussion in an open ended process.

Sharon

Ariel Sharon succeeded Barak as Prime Minister in 2001 and brought with him a rightwing government in the face of the violent period of the second intifada. His reluctance to implement the goals of the 'Road Map for Peace' demonstrated his unwillingness to negotiate and make gestures towards developments in the peace process. Indeed, Ben-Ami says that Sharon has always harboured a hidden agenda: "the sterilization of the Palestinian national movement…and the confinement of a Palestinian homeland within scattered enclaves surrounded by Israeli settlements, strategic military areas and a network of bypass roads for the exclusive use of the Israeli occupier." As Sharon views a Palestinian national movement as a threat to Israel and its 'Jewishness'’ and consequently would rather allow an independent state, although militarily weak. The dismantling of settlements in Gaza, instigated by Sharon, represents not only an unprecedented step by Israel but also that Sharon had decided unilateral action rather than a two state negotiation was the way forward to move towards peace.

Views from Israeli society
Israel is characterised by a multitude of opinions and views of the peace process that vary across time as well as across society. There are right-wing opinions (both secular and religious) which believe Israel should not concede to Palestinian demands and instead should maintain the original Zionist vision of Israel. There are those that hold left-wing viewpoints that believe Palestinians should have a sovereign state and Israel needs to go further in compromising to create peace; and there is a spread of people in between with varied views. For example, Israeli elites wanted peace in the 1990s so as to build Israel's economy and integrate into the global economy that was opening up in the post–Cold War period. The slowing down and deterioration of peace relations with Palestinians under Netanyahu's leadership frustrated many Israelis who view peace as a path to stability. Public opinions change, as Slater says, the notion of a withdrawal from the territories and Palestinians gaining their own state was unthinkable in most circles prior to the 1990s, however a decade later it was an accepted central theme of the peace process for many. The violence of the second intifada however has altered this opinion to a popular belief that this may no longer be a viable solution as military responses rather than negotiation has taken precedence.

A poll conducted in 2010 by Israel Democracy Institute suggested that 15% of right-wing Jewish Israelis and 16% of left-wing Jewish Israelis support a binational state solution over a two states solution based on 1967 lines. According to the same poll, 66% of Jewish Israelis preferred the two-state solution.

Anti-peace terrorism 

Fringe Israeli extremists have historically been opposed to the peace process. They fear that Israel would be forced to give too much land in the peace agreement, and show they opposition by using terrorism, which can be a real threat to any Israeli government pursuing peace. By example, in 1989–1990, the terrorist group Sicarii made arson and graffiti attacks, as well as death threats, against Jewish leftist political figures who supported the peace process. More recently, on August 10, 2003, a Jewish settler was arresting for threatening to kill Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.

Most violent opponents to the peace process were Kahanists, and have links to Meir Kahane's former Kach political party, which was outlawed as racist in 1988. Kahane, among other things, encouraged retaliatory violence against Arabs who attacked Jews.

References

See also
Israeli-Palestinian peace process
Palestinian views of the peace process
Israeli–Palestinian conflict
History of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Oslo Accords
Camp David 2000 summit
Road Map for Peace

Israeli–Palestinian peace process
Point of view