[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pavee Point

Pavee Point (PP) is a government-funded non-governmental organisation based in Dublin, Ireland that was formed to improve the human rights of Irish Travellers and to bridge the economic and social inequalities between Travellers and settled people. Irish Travellers are an ethnic minority group that originated from nomadic tradespeople.

Travellers have suffered a long history of ethnic discrimination. Over time, the subsequent social prejudice and disparity between settled and Traveller educations has economically handicapped the community. Those early disadvantages have since manifested themselves into an elevated dependence on social welfare, a high risk of poverty, and a low life-expectancy for Travellers.

To improve the living conditions of Travellers and to preserve their cultural identity, Pavee Point operates in the following areas: public education, capacity building, advocacy, youth programs, research and policy submissions. The organisation is permanently headquartered in Dublin, but regularly collaborates with other Traveller's rights groups throughout Ireland.

History
Pavee Point was founded in 1985, when the founders purchased Free Church, a defunct Methodist church located on North Great Charles Street, which now functions as the organisation's centre of operations. In 2012 Pavee Point decided to officially change its name to Pavee Point Traveller and Roma Centre.
Pavee Point was originally formed as a training agency to promote skill-building and solidarity within the travelling community, but later PP's leaders decided to expand the scope of its activities to a national level.  Pavee Point set itself apart from existing Traveller groups in the 80s because they framed their situation in terms of human rights: "-an ethnic minority experiencing discrimination and racism from the majority population."

Mission statement
Pavee Point operates in accordance with its seven core principles:
 Human rights
 Social solidarity
 Cultural diversity
 Community development
 Multi-dimensionality
 Partnership
 Equality
.  health
.  youth
.  community development
.  education
.  violence against women
.  communications
.  drugs
.  alcohol

Finances and organisation
Pavee Point is a government-funded NGO because the majority of its income is obtained from a variety of official departments and agencies, but its operational activities are managed independent of the Irish government.

In 2016 its income was €1,474,609. The main agencies which provided grants were the Dept. of Social Protection, the City of Dublin Youth Service Board, Pobal and the Health Service Executive Authority.

Organizational structure
Pavee Point is managed by its two co-directors; Martin Collins, a Traveller, and Ronnie Fay, a settled person. They oversee a senior management team, which is also composed of a mixture of Travellers and settled people- thus encouraging solidarity between the two groups. The senior management team governs sub-groups for issue-oriented programs, including: education, building, men, communications, women, training, international, and a policy forum. In 2016 the average number employed was 3 in administration and 50 in Community Projects.

Activities and issues

According to the 2016 Census, there are 30,987 Irish Travellers in Ireland. Pavee Point functions as a national resource for that community, in addition to those that work with Travellers, by implementing a multidimensional strategy of action. Pavee Point holds non-Travellers accountable for the conditions of Travellers because inaction allows the problems to persist, "Non-Travellers have a responsibility to address the various processes which serve to exclude Travellers from participating as equals in society." Pavee Point works on local, regional, national, and international levels. The service-oriented programs at Pavee Point are designed to remedy specific issues faced by the travelling community.

Education
According to the 2002 Census, 54.8% of Traveller children don't pursue an education beyond primary school, and their literacy levels are well below those of settled children, across the board. To help change this, Pavee Point established The Parents and Traveller Education project in August 2004. The goals of the project are: to get Traveller parents more involved in their children's school  by educating them about the system itself; and to work with the schools to make them more accepting of Traveller parents. As of 2005, Pavee Point has produced an educational DVD to help familiarise parents with the school system, facilitated workshops for parents about getting involved in school, and provided one-on-one support and advice.