[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Campaign to Defend Siping

The Campaign to Defend Siping () was a struggle between the Nationalists and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) for the control of Siping in 1946 during the Chinese Civil War. This campaign was characterized by the fact that the supreme commanders of both sides had overestimated their strength and set unrealistic goals, but in both cases, the frontline commanders on both sides averted the potential catastrophes by convincing their respective supreme commanders to change their original decisions.

Prelude
After the defeat of Jinjiatun Campaign, the nationalists resumed their offensive with vengeance.  In a short period of just two days, the nationalists were able to regroup and re-supply completely, and continued their push toward Siping.  Chiang Kai-shek was determined to take Changchun after taking Siping, and Mao Zedong was equally determined to hold Siping  to the end and prevent the nationalists from taking both Siping and Changchun.  Both sides realized the upcoming campaign would be a difficult one and both sides placed one of their best field commanders in charge:  Du Yuming for the nationalists and Lin Biao for the CCP.

Order of battle
Attackers: nationalist order of battle:
New 1st Army
New 6th Army
71st Army
93rd Army
Army-sized 207th Division of the Youth Army
Defenders: CCP order of battle:
  Column
Southern Manchurian 3rd Column
Western Manchurian 3rd Division
Northern Manchurian 7th Division
Shandong 1st Division
Shandong 2nd Division
Shandong 3rd Division
3rd Division of the New Fourth Army
8th Brigade of the New Fourth Army
359th Brigade

First stage
Under Mao Zedong's strategy, the communists were determined to hold Siping to the end.  In order to fortify the city, everyone was mobilized to build bunkers inside the city, while food, ammunition and other supplies were stacked.  Lin Biao and Mao Zedong had personally inspected communist fortifications at important defensive positions such as Pagoda Mountain (Tazishan, 塔子山) and Three Lines of Groves (Sandaolinzi, 三道林子) with Peng Zhen in preparation for a prolonged campaign.  Lin Biao also held a conference at Lishu County to plan the strategy of the defense:  To better coordinate the defense of Siping, the communist formed an urban defense command inside the city headed by the , the commander of the communist 1st Brigade, while the general headquarters retreated to the suburb at Lishu County.  In order to boost the morale of defenders, a newspaper titled "Self Defense Newspaper" was created with , the deputy director of the political directorate of the communist general headquarters as the chief editor.  The communist decided to deploy only two regiments in the city to check the nationalist attacks while the bulk of their force would be deployed in the rear, in the region between Siping and Lishu County and the region between Siping and .  Once the attacking nationalists were checked by the defensive force of the city in fortification, the communists would then concentrate their force to strike the weakest nationalist 71st Army.

On April 17, 1946, Nationalist frontline commander Zheng Dongguo and his deputy Liang Huasheng (梁华盛) moved their headquarters to Shuangmiao and ordered an immediate attack on the city.  On April 18, the railways reaching the city was successfully severed.  Two regiments of the 30th Division of the nationalist 71st Army under the command of Chen Mingren attacked the enemy positions from the south from Haifeng Village (Haifeng Tun, 海丰屯), Pobozi (泊脖子), and Duck Lake Pao (Ya Hu Pao, 鸭湖泡) regions, but were beaten back three times consecutively.  After the initial setback, Zheng Dongguo held a military conference on April 19.  The nationalist army and divisional commanders attending the conference concluded that the frontal attack on the strongly defended enemy positions was impossible, and attacks from flanks or other weak points must be selected instead in order to achieve a successful breakthrough.  The railway junctions that provided the link between the 3rd Battalion of the communist 1st Regiment and the communist 56th Regiment appeared to be a good point for the breakthrough.  After the conference, under heavy artillery cover, the 30th Division of the nationalist New 1st Army launched its offensive on the junction of the two communist units, and the nationalists had successfully taken the enemy position as expected.  The loss of the position at the railway junction signaled that the defensive force inside the city must be strengthened and Lin Biao immediately did so, and informed the defenders in the city.