[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# To Kill a King (film)

an old army comrade, Sergeant Joyce, to help him. Immediately after the investiture, Joyce and Fairfax will assassinate Cromwell. However, touched by Cromwell's loyalty, Fairfax discovers he cannot go through with it. Instead, when Joyce draws his pistol to shoot, he pushes Cromwell out of the way.

Joyce is captured, and Cromwell orders him to be executed immediately. Fairfax confesses to Cromwell that he had organised the assassination attempt, and Cromwell orders his arrest and execution also. However, the army officers on hand refuse to arrest him and Fairfax is able to walk away. The people, unaware of his confession, cheer him as he leaves. Fairfax retires to the country and takes no further part in politics.

Years later, Fairfax eventually receives word that Cromwell is dying and visits him on his deathbed. They each discuss their disappointment in the other. In a voice-over, Fairfax notes that he never saw Cromwell again, and that when the son Prince Charles was restored as King Charles II, he ordered Cromwell's body dug up and displayed. He regrets again that he failed him.

Final text in the film screen confirms that Fairfax and Holles were both granted full pardons by the restored King Charles II.

Cast

Tim Roth – MP / Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell
Dougray Scott – Lord General Thomas Fairfax
Olivia Williams – Lady Anne Fairfax
James Bolam – Denzil Holles
Corin Redgrave – Baron Vere
Finbar Lynch – Henry Ireton
Julian Rhind-Tutt – James
Adrian Scarborough – Sgt. Joyce
Jeremy Swift – Earl of Whitby
Rupert Everett – King Charles I
Steven Webb – Boy at Naseby
Jake Nightingale – Col. Thomas Pride
Thomas L. Arnold – Messenger at Naseby
Sam Spruell – King's guard
Julian Rivett – Little
Richard Bremmer – Abraham
Melissa Knatchbull – Lady Margaret
Patricia Kerrigan – Mrs. Elizabeth Cromwell
John-Paul Macleod – Richard Cromwell
Benedict Cumberbatch –  Royalist

Production
Principal photography took place in several England locations, including Kent's Dover Castle (doubling as the Tower of London), Penshurst Place, Harrow School, Ham House, and Hampton Court Palace.

Awards
25th Moscow International Film Festival – 2003, Mike Barker
Emden International Film Festival – 2003, Mike Barker 
 BAFTA Award nomination – 2004, Jenny Mayhew (writer)

Reception 
The overall production was praised in Variety: "Widescreen lensing by Danish d.p. Eigil Bryld has a bleak, wintry look and subdued colors, heavy on ochres, off-reds and deep blacks, but his mobile camera and the lived-in look of the production and costume design give the film a physical feel that matches the perfs."
Empire gave the film a mixed review stating. "This less extravagant voyage back to the 17th century and the English Civil War can't quite hold its own next to, say, the visually lavish likes of The Lion In Winter, but it certainly boasts a thoughtful and accessible script that engages with the political climate of the time."

References

External links

2003 films
2003 biographical drama films
British biographical drama films
Cultural depictions of Oliver Cromwell
Biographical films about British royalty
English Civil War films
Films directed by Mike Barker
Cultural depictions of Richard Cromwell
2003 drama films
Cultural depictions of Charles I of England
Films set in the 1650s
Films set in the 17th century
2000s English-language films
2000s British films