[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charles E. Apgar

world. By May the Telefunken station at Sayville and another at Tuckerton, New Jersey, were accused of sending messages to a German U-boat providing information that allowed the submarine to "ambush" and sink the RMS Lusitania. This led to greater scrutiny of activity at the station.

Investigation 

Apgar noticed the peculiar messages sent from Sayville. He informed an inspector from the Department of Commerce Radio Bureau about the odd messages and his recordings of them. Apgar knew L. R. Krumm, Chief Radio Inspector for the Port of New York and New Jersey, and the inspector had been aware of his recordings for some time. Krumm visited Apgar to examine his apparatus and witness a demonstration. Krumm then alerted the United States Secret Service and suggested that they contact Apgar. At the request of William J. Flynn, Chief of the Secret Service, Apgar commenced making regular recordings of the station on June 7, 1915. This continued every night for two weeks. He alternated between two cylinder recorders to ensure uninterrupted capturing of the messages while he replaced a full cylinder with a new blank one. During this time he made 11 hours of permanent recordings that captured 25,000 words transmitted by the station. Apgar was paid for this work by the government through Flynn.

The original messages, approved by government censors, were suspected to contain subsequently altered Morse code that could be used as a cipher. The Sayville station was equipped with a type of Wheatstone system that used perforated paper tape to automatically key the transmitter. An operator produced the tape containing the message before sending. The tape was then run through the transmitter control equipment at a high speed. It operated at 150 wpm (words per minute), significantly faster than the 50 wpm that a highly skilled operator could send manually. The transmissions were so rapid that it made the messages unintelligible to a listener. It was a "meaningless, musical hum or buzz which puzzled all hearers" and sounded like a "titanic bumblebee." Apgar transcribed the previous night's recording each morning by playing the wax cylinder on a phonograph at a much slower speed. He would then telephone the Secret Service to file a report about the transmissions. He made 175 recordings of these suspicious messages, each cylinder containing 4 minutes of transmission time. In addition to his daily reports he turned over the original cylinder recordings to government investigators.

The messages from Sayville were then discussed by the Cabinet of the United States. The recordings proved that the suspected covert messages were present within the approved transmissions. Apgar's "canned" messages are credited with establishing the truth about the Sayville station's activity, though the exact nature of the messages on the recordings remained an official secret. This evidence led to Wilson ordering the US Navy to seize the facility on July 8, 1915. The seizure caused consternation among officers in the Imperial German Navy. The US Navy operated the station in trust to send commercial messages for the duration of the war.

Encoded messages 

After listening to the recordings it took the Secret Service four months to decode the hidden messages. A covert message interspersed with the censor approved text might include the addition of "5-8-K-14-B" for example. This would direct the recipient to the fifth and eighth words on page 11, and the fourteenth word on page 2, of a rare edition of a German dictionary.

A variety of alternate methods of encoding were used. For long distance communication in this era it was standard practice to employ repetition to ensure successful reception. The message "Pr 3." would be sent "Pr 3. Pr 3." for example. The Sayville transmissions varied this practice by sometimes sending "Pr Pr 3 Pr. 3." – a significant variation that a casual listener might overlook. These were alleged to be a key to an acrostic code.