[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Powhatan Beaty

selected scenes from Macbeth, with Beaty playing the title role and Davis as Lady Macbeth. Newspapers in both the black and white communities of Cincinnati praised the performances of the two actors, with the Commercial stating that Beaty "threw himself into his part with masterly energy and power".

The successful festival led to Beaty being invited to play as a principal actor in a Washington, D.C., Shakespearean production organized by Davis. A company including Davis, Beaty, and amateur actors from the D.C. area performed Richard III almost in entirety, three scenes from Macbeth, and one scene from Ingomar, the Barbarian. Davis, the premier black Shakespearean actress of the time, was the star of the show and Beaty played opposite her as Macbeth, King Henry VI, and Ingomar. The May 7, 1884, production was played in Ford's Opera House to a full house of more than 1,100 people; among them was Frederick Douglass. There was some heckling during the play, primarily from some of the white attendees, however a reviewer from The Washington Post reported that "the earnestness and intelligence of several of the leading performers were such as to command the respect of those most disposed to find cause for laughter in everything that was said or done". Washington newspapers praised the principal actors, but noted that the inexperience of some of the supporting cast was evident. Reviewers for African American newspapers were especially pleased to see such a production in an important venue like Ford's Theater. The New York Globe wrote of the performance "[t]hus leap by leap the colored man and woman encroach upon the ground so long held sacred by their white brother and sister".

Beaty continued to tour with Davis and performed a show in Philadelphia before returning to Cincinnati. He helped form his city's Literary and Dramatic Club and, in 1888, became the organization's drama director. 

He lived out the rest of his life in Cincinnati and died at age seventy-nine on December 6, 1916; he was buried at Union Baptist Cemetery.

Medal of Honor citation
Citation:

Took command of his company, all the officers having been killed or wounded, and gallantly led it.

See also

 List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: A–F
 Melvin Claxton and Mark Puls, Uncommon valor : a story of race, patriotism, and glory in the final battles of the Civil War, (Wiley, 2006) ()

Notes

References

External links
 

1837 births
1916 deaths
Male actors from Cincinnati
19th-century American slaves
African Americans in the American Civil War
African-American male actors
African-American theatre
19th-century American male actors
American male stage actors
United States Army Medal of Honor recipients
Military personnel from Cincinnati
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Union Army soldiers
Cincinnati in the American Civil War
American Civil War recipients of the Medal of Honor
Military personnel from Richmond, Virginia
American male Shakespearean actors
19th-century African-American people
Elocutionists