[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# International Programme for the Development of Communication

dom related issues as encryption, hate speech online, privacy, digital safety and journalism sources. The outcome of this multidimensional research will be publicized in June 2018. The final indicators will be submitted to the International Programme for Development of Communication for endorsement.

The Gender Sensitive indicators for Media 
The goal of the Gender Sensitive Indicators for Media framework (GSIM) is to contribute to gender equality and women's empowerment in and through media of all kinds. The framework covers two dimensions: gender equality within media organizations; and gender portrayal in media content. It is designed for use by all media organizations. The GSIM has been applied under IPDC on a number of occasions and in different contexts, including the following:

 In 2014, Gender and Media in Southern Africa (GEMSAT) applied it (after refinement for use locally) in Tanzania to seven community radio stations enhancing understanding of the issues and encouraging change.
 In 2015, it was implemented in Paraguay by an NGO, Global News Agency, focusing primarily on content in two each of print and digital media and of television channels, and analyzing over 1,100 articles and 400 advertisements.
 Thai Public Service Broadcasting (TPSB) was established in 2008 partly to become a best practice leader in media. The GSIM fitted well with its goal, and TPSB's training institute implemented it in 2014 - 2015 across six prominent broadcasting outlets both public and commercial. The goal was also to raise awareness among these media organizations, the media regulator and the public.
 In the Dominican Republic in 2014, a Project implemented both the MDI and GSIM by the Dominican College of Journalists, in a wide consultation process.
 A similar Project of the Haiti State University’ Communications Department began in 2016 implementing the GSIM and MDI together, with the goal of producing a set of recommendations to strengthen the development of the media sector and guide future policy.
 In Mongolia, Globe International Centre from 2015 to 2016 took the GSIM and translated it into Mongolian, and piloted it in the public service broadcaster MNB, the private TV station UBS, and the Confederation of Mongolian Journalists.

See also 
 Freedom of expression
 Journalism
 Media censorship

References

External links 
 "About IPDC", UNESCO
 Declaration on fundamental principles concerning the contribution of the mass media to strengthening peace and international understanding, to the promotion of human rights and to countering racialism, apartheid and incitement to war, UNESCO, 28 November 1978.
 Sean Macbride et al., Many Voices, One World – Macbride Report, Paris, UNESCO Publishing, 1988

Further reading 
 O.Boyd-Barrett & T.Rantanen, The Globalisation of News, London, Sage Publications, 1998.

UNESCO
Communications and media organizations
Freedom of expression organizations