[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

keep the excavation clear of water while the work proceeded. By late 1903, the street surface above the station had been restored and repaved. The subway was nearly complete, but the IRT Powerhouse and the system's electrical substations were still under construction, delaying the system's opening.

The Canal Street station opened on October 27, 1904, as one of the original 28 stations of the New York City Subway from City Hall to 145th Street on the Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line. After the first subway line was completed in 1908, the station was served by local trains along both the West Side (now the Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line to Van Cortlandt Park–242nd Street) and East Side (now the Lenox Avenue Line). West Side local trains had their southern terminus at City Hall during rush hours and South Ferry at other times, and had their northern terminus at 242nd Street. East Side local trains ran from City Hall to Lenox Avenue (145th Street).

To address overcrowding, in 1909, the New York Public Service Commission proposed lengthening the platforms at stations along the original IRT subway. As part of a modification to the IRT's construction contracts made on January 18, 1910, the company was to lengthen station platforms to accommodate ten-car express and six-car local trains. In addition to $1.5 million (equivalent to $ million in ) spent on platform lengthening, $500,000 (equivalent to $ million in ) was spent on building additional entrances and exits. It was anticipated that these improvements would increase capacity by 25 percent. Platforms at local stations, such as the Canal Street station, were lengthened by between . Both platforms were extended to the north and south. Six-car local trains began operating in October 1910.

BRT and Dual Contracts 
After the original IRT opened, the city began planning new lines. A proposed Tri-borough system was adopted in early 1908, combining the Broadway–Lexington Avenue and Nassau Street lines; a Canal Street subway from the Fourth Avenue Subway in Brooklyn via the Manhattan Bridge to the Hudson River; and several other lines in Brooklyn. The lines were assigned to the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company (BRT; after 1923, the Brooklyn–Manhattan Transit Corporation or BMT) in the Dual Contracts, adopted on March 4, 1913. The BRT was authorized to construct a line under Broadway with a station at Canal Street, as well as a line under Canal Street with a station at Broadway. The development of the BRT stations resulted in increased real-estate values in the area.

Also as part of the Dual Contracts, the Lexington Avenue Line opened north of Grand Central–42nd Street in 1918, and the original line was divided into an "H"-shaped system. All local trains were sent via the Lexington Avenue Line, running along the Pelham Line in the Bronx.

Centre Street Loop 
As early as 1902, Parsons had devised plans for a subway line under Centre Street in Lower Manhattan. The line would have had four tracks from the Brooklyn Bridge north to Canal Street; from there, two tracks would split eastward to the Manhattan Bridge, and two tracks would continue north and east to the Williamsburg Bridge. By 1904, the route had been widened to four tracks from the Brooklyn Bridge to the Williamsburg Bridge. The Centre Street Loop (later the Nassau Street Line) was approved on January 25, 1907, as a four-track line. The route was to connect the Brooklyn Bridge, Manhattan Bridge, and Williamsburg Bridge via Centre Street, Canal Street, and Delancey Street, with a spur under Canal Street. Unlike previous subway contracts that the city government had issued, the BRT was responsible only for constructing the Centre Street Loop and installing equipment, not for operating the loop.

The work was split into five sections; the Canal Street station was built as part of the two sections of the line that ran under Centre Street. The city began receiving bids for these sections in March 1907. The Degnon Construction Company was hired to build section 9-0-2, from Canal Street north to Broome Street, while the Cranford Company was hired to build section 9-0-3, from Canal Street south to Pearl Street. The line had to be built through the former site of Collect Pond, which still had high amounts of groundwater. Contractors drained the groundwater, causing a huge crack in a nearby courthouse building.