[Source: PubMed]

41. Surgery. 2025 Jun;182:109306. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2025.109306. Epub 2025 Mar
24.

Atypical care of burned patients is typical in war: Adapting old dogma for 
maximal survival.

Sienko P(1), Vercruysse GA(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.
(2)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI. Electronic address: 
vercruys@med.umich.edu.

During the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, US troops experienced burns were 
stabilized and quickly evacuated out of theater to Germany and then to the US 
Army Institute of Surgical Research in San Antonio, Texas. This was not true of 
casualties involving non-US or non-North Atlantic Treaty Organization soldiers 
and medical systems. In such situations, soldiers and civilians alike were 
treated in North Atlantic Treaty Organization medical treatment facilities 
and/or were transferred to host nation health care facilities until they healed 
or died from their wounds. Before 1970, most burns worldwide were treated 
conservatively and managed with some form of resuscitation and dressing changes. 
Debridement and skin grafting were reserved for burn wounds that became infected 
or granulated after separation of the burn wound eschar. This treatment 
algorithm was developed because of a lack of modern equipment (such as a 
dermatome or skin mesher) and partly because of adherence to dogmatic principles 
adopted for the previous century of battlefield burn wound treatment. Modern 
burn care standards in developed countries have advanced dramatically in the 
last several decades. However, employing these standards in under-resourced and 
overburdened hospital systems, such as those in the combat environment, will 
lead to a waste of resources and unnecessary loss of life. The following is a 
primer to burn care in war, tailored for providers in austere systems, that will 
maximize survival, help obviate the need for intensive care unit care, and save 
valuable resources and hospital bedspace.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2025.109306
PMID: 40132298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest/Disclosure The author has 
no relevant financial disclosures.