[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Brian Green (game developer)

Brian "Psychochild" Green (1973 – 6 August 2020)  was an American software engineer, game developer and game designer known for his work on one of the first 3D, MMORPG's in existence, Meridian 59 (released 1996).  Operated now by Open Source volunteers, the Meridian 59 servers continue operation after more than nearly twenty-five years.

Youth

Culture and education

He first used the pseudonym Psychochild (sometimes shortened to just "PC") on a MUD called Genocide.  But among his most favorite MUD's was Kerovnia, which he played avidly in college (as well as others, such as Highlands, Farside, and Astaria).  As he describes...

His interest in online game development grew out of his experience as a "wizard" working on a MUD.  A "wizard", in this context, was someone who played the game and was also actively allowed to edit the game, using the game's source code, which is what Psychochild was doing with this game.

Origins of the name "Psychochild"

In an interview, he was asked the origin of his name, and said, "Back in the dorms, one guy I played Street Fighter with called me 'you psycho child' when I'd give a victory whoop, so I used that. The name stuck."

Gaming development career

Beginning of Meridian 59

He worked on the game for 3DO.  After 3DO swapped interests to single-payment games, instead of subscription games, 3DO sold Meridian 59 to Brian Green, who then co-founded Near Death Studios in 2001.  In 2003, Green gave an interview about his newest developments in Meridian 59: "The biggest thing it allows us to do is show off the great artwork in Meridian 59," while detailing the active, hardware acceleration options in the new engine.  Psychochild's contribution to Meridian 59 is cited to span the period of 2001 to 2010.

Transition of Meridian 59 to open source

In the early 2000s, 3DO suffered massive failures after their releases of Army Men (1998) and a poorly-received Jurassic Park release; 3DO immediately went out of business.  After thinking that buy-to-play was the future and that subscription payments were the past, 3DO considered offloading Meridian 59 to its original developers.  Psychochild and Q (another iconic, developer personality associated with Meridian 59's perseverance) persisted in getting 3DO to sell them the rights to Meridian 59, which was licensed to their new company, Near Death Studios (a pun on the phrase "your opponent is weak, and near death", that appeared, briefly, before winning a battle in the game itself, in pure MUD-style). The transition occurred officially in 2001.  Before this transition, Psychochild said that the Meridian 59 division of 3DO was "on life support" for the previous five years. Near Death Studios remained intact for another ten years until a volunteer team of open source developers took over maintaining and administering the servers for Meridian 59 ().  This open source development team holds steady until the present, with currently-maintained servers, active development on GitHub, free support, free service, and regularly-organized events (auctions, quests, parties, etc.).

After Meridian 59

In a 2016 interview with Massively OP, Green was said to have been "one of the creators of Meridian 59," but that now he has been "since, having worked on Storybricks, EverQuest Next, and Camelot Unchained."

Storybricks 

Brian was a key part of the team behind Storybricks, a "toolset that allows users to tell stories in a computer RPG and share them with friends". Although a Kickstarter to raise funds for the Storybricks system was unsuccessful, the team worked with Sony Online Entertainment to integrate the system into their forthcoming game EverQuest Next. Brian parted ways with Storybricks in early 2014.

Camelot Unchained 

In May 2014 Brian joined City State Entertainment on the Camelot Unchained team.

Brian left City State Entertainment in April 2016.

Gaming development social activity

Social networking

He was a frequent gaming conference speaker and wrote for a number of game design websites, including GamersInfo.net.  In early 2020, he did consulting and legal expert work, and co-hosted a weekly podcast called "Grim Talk" about game development.  According to Gamasutra's obituary for the late Psychochild, after Meridian 59, he "took to sharing his knowledge, thoughts, and reflections on MMOs and beyond with other members of the game industry though his own blog posts while, recently, working on an unannounced online game."  To quote The Ancient Gaming Noob, "He was as involved in that [MMORPG] community as anybody and often made time to read and comment on blogs large and small that were interested in the genre."  In 2012, he began contributing to StoryBricks, a story-building system for video games.

Publishing

Green was also co-editor with S. Gregory Boyd of the book Business & Legal Primer for Game Development, published by Charles River Media (2007) , and was a contributor to the webzine Imaginary Realities.

Legacy

Remembrances