[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# LGBT rights in the Bahamas

08
 Marvin Wilson, Waiter, 3 June 2008
 Paul Whylly, Dancer, 19 October 2008
 Shavado Simmons, Photographer, 17 July 2011
 Elkin Moss, Waiter, 20 July 2013
 Devince Smith, Banker, 25 December 2015

Accused in 2007 for the slaying of handbag designer Harl Taylor, Troyniko McNeil was found not guilty.

Events and instances where Anti-LGBT violence occur:
 An American man who was allegedly attacked by a group of persons during a concert at Bahamas Junkanoo Carnival early Saturday morning is alleging that he was "targeted and beat up" because he is gay.

LGBT rights movement in the Bahamas 
Due to a lack of confidence in the judicial system, legal inequalities, and homophobia in the Bahamas, many LGBT people keep their sexual orientation or gender identity private. While LGBT rights organizations have been permitted to exist, LGBT groups are often pressured to keep their social events hidden. The former LGBT rights group, the Rainbow Alliance of The Bahamas, launched a public campaign against discrimination and participated in talk shows on the subject. Today, Bahamas LGBT Equality Advocates and the DMARCO Foundation are speaking out against homophobia through social media.

A new day of advocacy came for the LGBT community of the Bahamas when transgender women started taking the lead on LGBT issues. The Bahamas Transgender Intersex United (BTIU) launched its multi-level equality campaign, "Bahamian Trans Lives Matter" on 26 April 2016, which seeks to secure equal rights for transgender Bahamians. BTIU President and Founder of the DMARCO Foundation, Alexus D'Marco, stepped up and engaged the national conversation at a press conference held in Nassau, Bahamas, where she was joined by other women to bring awareness to the overlooked issues transgender people often face. These women sparked controversy as an Equality Referendum was about to take place in the country.

The Prime Minister stated, "I want to be clear: these bills do not propose radical change. Instead, this is about making sure that the supreme law of the land reflects our values and our commitment to fairness." The bill did not legalize same-sex marriage in the Bahamas nor was it inclusive to the transgender or intersex community. This movement sparked outrage from a member of the government, Leslie Miller, who publicly called for the "Exile of Transgender out of the Bahamas." Miller had forcefully denounced the growing transgender community in this country, while urging people to financially contribute to having this sect of society exiled to their own private island to ensure "they stay out of the way". He pledged to give the group its first $1,000 toward this relocation.

In 2019, the "Bahamas Organisation of LGBTI Affairs" was formed. It aims to formalize a means of public sensitization and education of LGBTI issues.

Public opinion

In 2013, Foreign Affairs Minister Fred Mitchell said that Bahamians should accept a gay or lesbian politician. However a survey revealed that his views are not shared by  the population with only 12% showing positive feelings towards a gay or lesbian person running for office. Over 84% all respondents said they strong disapproved of the idea of a gay or lesbian politician.

In 2015, a survey published in The Nassau Guardian reports that 85.5% of respondents strongly disapprove of same-sex marriage, with only 10.6% approving of it.

Summary table

See also

Politics of Bahamas
LGBT rights in the Commonwealth of Nations
LGBT rights in the Americas
LGBT rights by country or territory

References

External links
Bahamas LGBT Equality Advocates - Bahamas National Gay Rights Organization