[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Marriage in Korea

ove without going through matchmakers or family-arranged meetings. Most often, the bride and groom first met on a blind date arranged by friends, on a group date, at their workplace, or while in college or university. South Korean families accept this type of marriage more readily than they used to.

Divorce 
Historically, the divorce rate in South Korea was comparatively low before it began rapidly increasing in the mid-1990’s. The divorce rate peaked at 3.5 divorces per 1,000 people within the population, which is noted to be a higher rate than several European countries. The divorce rate in South Korea began to decline in the 2010’s, with a rate of 2.1-2.3 per 1,000. The South Korean population has generally shown conservative attitudes towards divorce but has increasingly shown open attitudes alongside the rising divorce rate. There is limited data available to determine the likelihood of remarriage after divorce in Korea.

Studies have shown that marriages between a Korean national and foreign spouse are much more likely to divorce. Approximately 19% of marriages between a Korean husband and a foreign wife were dissolved within 48 months, while approximately 13% of marriages between a Korean wife and foreign spouse dissolved within 48 months. In comparison, only 6% of marriages between Korean nationals ended within 48 months. Studies also suggest that marriages between a Korean Husband and a foreign wife may have the highest rate of divorce due to their lower quality of married life. While less educated wives and husbands have an overall higher risk of divorce, foreign wives with a lower level of education face an extremely high risk of divorce in Korea.

It has been noted that an increasing percentage of the Korean population end marriages at a later age. The average age of males and females who have filed for divorce rose to 50.1 and 46.8 in 2021. Within the last decade, the average age for males divorcing rose 4.7 years and the average age for females rose 5.2 years. The rate of divorce for other age groups declined in 2021, while those over sixty saw an increase, which is known as a “gray divorce”. Couples that have separated after living 30 or more years together increased 7.5 percent in 2021, which is more than double compared to the previous decade”. 

Korean law may dictate which spouse may file for divorce. The Supreme Court of Korea may not grant a divorce if the petitioner is found responsible for the breakdown of a marriage. If one spouse has committed an act of unchastity the other spouse may file for divorce. There are exceptions that include any serious cause that may make it difficult to continue a marriage. The Supreme Court of Korea does not completely rule out divorce that is petitioned by the spouse that was found to be at fault. Several other factors may be taken into consideration, such as the amount of time that has passed since separation and the feelings of the other spouse. A couple that mutually consents may be granted a divorce without court proceedings. Korean attorneys expect that Korea will move to a no-fault divorce system in the future. In 2015, the Constitutional Court decided that a law that made adultery a crime was unconstitutional.

See also
Multicultural family in South Korea

References

Further reading
Norimitsu Onishi, Divorce in South Korea Striking a New Attitude, The New York Times, 21 September 2003

External links
Norimitsu Onishi, Korean Men Use Brokers to Find Brides in Vietnam, The New York Times, 22 February 2007
Paul Wiseman, Asian men seek brides from poorer nations, USA Today, 27 February 2008
Differences between South & North Korean Wedding

 
Korea
Society of South Korea
South Korean culture
Articles containing video clips