[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Al-Azraq Treaty of 1245

is troops for another crusade to the Holy Land. Al-Azraq had run out of allies by this point and was forced to accept the terms of surrender. The desperation both parties felt also gives context to why it is lenient in al-Azraq's favor since James I did not know how close his opponent was to defeat.

Feudalism 
Historian R.J. Barendse states that, while feudalism has both Roman and Germanic origins, it "was essentially a new system, arising out of military changes and tensions with the agrarian economy and society in the tenth century rather than being a synthesis" of the other two. It existed in various forms in other parts of the world, but in Western Europe it developed during the Carolingian Empire's deterioration of authority in the tenth century. It then spread to regions such as al-Andalus, England, Scandinavia, and other parts of Europe. The parceling out of lands created a class that was able to collectively amass more power than their sovereign and the Church. Barendse also argues that feudalism specifically subjugated peasants and "[f]eudal armies were predominantly instruments for the subjugation of the peasantry" as were "symbols of feudalism" such as "illegally erected castles." During the tenth and eleventh centuries, as land was parceled out in smaller chunks, a new "class of mounted and armored warriors" was created in which the different Christian kingdoms were able to draw military power from. Furthermore, there was also an overall increase in agricultural productivity during these centuries along with the development of trade routes. This allowed for more power and wealth to become centralized into the hands of a few, such as rich farmers and merchants. In the Islamic world, vassalage was not practiced as it was in the West which is one of the reasons the Arabic lines of the treaty make no mention of it. Mamlukism is the closest equivalent, in which men were enslaved and then imported from areas such as the Caucasus, Uzbekistan, and Kazakhstan, all of which came from horse archer/warrior cultures. They also tended to have Turkish tribal origins; in the tenth century, Turks were absorbed and converted in large numbers by Islamic states. Mamluks went through years of intense training to be properly prepared for warfare and they were kept in isolation in order to prevent them from forming bonds with the local people and to encourage loyalty to their Sultan.

Aftermath

New Laws 
Common Law in Aragón was becoming heavily influenced by the old beliefs of Rome which can be seen in different edicts enacted by James I. This was due in part because of the influence of universities in Bologna and Montpellier whose students graduated and went to work in the court of Aragón and its judiciary. In 1238, James I issued the Regni Valentie, a territorial code dictating the governance of the newly conquered Valencia that was heavily inspired by Justinian's Digest. In it, a wide variety of actions are marked as "treasonous": "Acts of rebellion against royal authority, including counterfeiting and inciting townsmen or villagers to riot," "conspir[ing] with the enemy or travel[ing] through enemy territory without royal permission," as well as "family members who murdered any of their relatives and then would not submit to royal officials for punishment." It also included rules surrounding vassalage. In Aragón, a practice known as "defiance" allowed "aggrieved vassals ten days to formally abrogate ties with their lords" and those "who violated this 'cooling-off period' in any way would be considered a 'proven traitor'." Those convicted of treason were typically beheaded, but were supposed to have been convicted only after evidence of "true, legitimate, and clear proofs" had been presented. In 1242, James I issued decrees warning people not to insult converts to Catholicism specifically by calling them a "renegade" or a "turncoat." He also declared that Muslim members of a convert's family could not take their property while the aforementioned convert was still alive. Another edict, the Fueros de Aragón, was presented in 1247 and was written in the vernacular (whereas the Regni Valentie was written completely in Latin). In this code, James I stated that any person who did not comply was to be charged as committing treason against their monarch. In 1256, near the end of the Mudéjars revolt, Alcoi was established as a Christian town in a region that had been predominantly Moorish before its defeat. The town was established for defensive purposes in an attempt to protect Valencia from attacks by al-Azraq and his troops. The Christians populace in this new city did not remain isolated; while not having property in the town itself, Mudéjars continued to hold lands surrounding Alcoi.