[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2006 New Orleans mayoral election

s still in the area, absentee voters would not be as significant a factor in the election as previously believed.  The NAACP and other civil rights groups disputed these findings, arguing that they do not take into account people who are dispersed but have not filled out change-of-address paperwork.

On April 1, thousands of civil rights demonstrators marched across the Crescent City Connection calling for satellite voting locations to be set up outside the state to give displaced New Orleanians the same voting rights as those who have returned to the city.  The march - the largest New Orleans has seen in several years - was organized by Jesse Jackson and the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition, and prominent speakers included Bill Cosby, former mayor Marc Morial, Al Sharpton, U.S. Rep. Bill Jefferson, and Mayor Ray Nagin.

Satellite voting stations opened on April 10 in nine parishes in order to allow displaced New Orleans residents to cast votes.  ACORN organized buses to transport out-of-state displaced voters to these stations, which remained open until April 15.  A total of 10,585 votes were cast at these satellite polls in the five allotted days.

Campaign timeline

Primary
December, January, and February saw intense speculation among political observers as to who would emerge as Nagin's main rival in the upcoming campaign.  It was expected that either Ron Forman or Mitch Landrieu would run with the support of much of the city's business and political communities.  After months of private discussion and negotiation, both candidates decided to run; an unexpected development which had the potential to split the support of voters opposed to Nagin.

On January 24, Louisiana Governor Kathleen Blanco ended months of public debate and legal wrangling by signing Secretary of State Al Ater's plan to reschedule the primary election for April 22 and the runoff for May 20.

Ron Forman officially declared his candidacy on February 14 at the Audubon Tea Room in front of a crowd of business leaders and other supporters.

On February 22, Mitch Landrieu made his long-anticipated official campaign announcement, with players in the city's hospitality and tourism industry and powerful real estate developer Pres Kabacoff featured prominently among his supporters.

On February 23, Nagin held a public reconciliation with Bishop Paul Morton, a prominent black pastor who publicly criticized Nagin in 2004 for failing to provide enough city contracts to black-owned businesses, and had called Nagin "a white man in black skin."

On February 24, the first public poll of the election was released.  Conducted between January 26 and February 13, the poll showed Mitch Landrieu leading with 35% of the vote and Ray Nagin trailing with 25%.   Ron Forman received 9% and Peggy Wilson stood at 7%.  However, only residents who had returned to the city were polled; without the input of absentee voters, the pollster acknowledged that the results could not be considered representative.

March 2 saw the release of the election's second poll, conducted by CNN, USA Today, and Gallup.  19% of  those polled said they would definitely vote for Ray Nagin, while 44% said they would definitely not vote for him.
Mitch Landrieu received 18% definite support, while 29% would definitely not vote for him.  Ron Forman stood with 12% of those polled certain to vote for him, and 35% unwilling to consider voting for him.   Peggy Wilson received the definite support of 7%, and 62% would not vote for her.  4% would definitely vote for Tom Watson, while 63% would not vote for him.  Other candidates were not mentioned in the poll, and only voters currently living within the city were polled.

March 3 was the deadline for mayoral candidates to file their qualification papers.  In addition to the expected candidates, a large number of newly announced candidates emerged.  The most notable surprise announcement was that of Clerk of Criminal Court Kimberly Williamson Butler, who emerged from a week of hiding from an arrest warrant for contempt of court in order to announce her candidacy for mayor.  A record number of 23 candidates have declared their intention to challenge Nagin.

On March 4 Nagin appeared before an audience of New Orleans evacuees at an event organized by the NAACP, where he made the statement that "there was all this talk about this being an opportunity to change New Orleans forever and maybe everybody shouldn't come back, and maybe this is an opportunity to kind of change New Orleans and go back to what it used to be. I have 23 candidates running for mayor and very few of them look like us.  There's a potential to be a major change in the political structure of New Orleans." Some perceived these comments to be a divisive follow-up to his "Chocolate City" remarks, while others point out that the fact that Nagin is the only major African-American candidate in a field of 23 is a sign of the demographic shift in a city that was over two-thirds black before Katrina.