[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Abdel-Wahed El-Wakil

ltiple other elements all created without repetition. The structural forms, such as the triangular minaret at Miqat in Madinah, grow organically from functional and programmatic exigencies.

Other Buildings 

Apart from mosques and houses, El-Wakil has designed and built a variety of building types:

An early project in Jeddah was the design of a car showroom and offices, a pioneer example of the integration of Saudi Arabian elements with conventional concrete structure.
A later project was The Souk Al-Dawoodiah at Al-Madinah Al-Munawarah; consisting of a shopping mall and office building, this also was a commercial building utilising traditional forms.
A Lighthouse by the coast in Jeddah, inspired by medieval Islamic towers, was of interesting design although never built.
Two Public buildings designed but not built were the Ministry of Pilgrimage and Endowment Head office in Jeddah and the offices of Public Waterworks.

International works 

In 1991, the crisis of the Gulf War forced the closure of El-Wakil's offices in the UK. Being aware of the situation, Andrés Duany invited El-Wakil to come to Miami as visiting professor at the University of Miami. El-Wakil also joined a charette organised by Duany for the development of South Beach. The developer Thomas Kramer, impressed by El-Wakil, asked him to design his new residence on Star Island. Duany presented El-Wakil with several consultancy opportunities of which The Kemer County Development offered him the opportunity to experiment with Traditional Turkish Architecture in the Design of the Country Club. El-Wakil kept a base in Miami until the tragic events of 911.

El-Wakil has been championed by The Prince of Wales who shares his approach to architecture. The Prince selected him among his advisors for the Prince of Wales School of Architecture, and as Patron to the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies; the Prince commended him for the design of the centre's building. El-Wakil cherishes this recognition as he personally believes Prince Charles to be the true patron of Tradition.

The Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies (OXCIS) went through a long and sometimes painful process but has recently neared completion. The building blended the tradition of Oxford architecture with the spirit of Traditional Islamic Architecture. The medieval character of both architectures made it a happy marriage. The building reintroduced load-bearing brick structures, eliminating steel and concrete.

The almost-completed centre appeared on the front cover of the UK Financial Times Magazine on March 10/11, 2007.

Awards 
El-Wakil has received recognition for his contribution to traditional architecture and sustainable building technology for the third world, addressing at an early date the now more widely understood issues of sustainability.

In 1980, The Agamy Beach house claimed the first Aga Khan Award for Architecture. El-Wakil shared the award with his mason Ala-el-Din Moustafa who was one of the master masons to build Hassan Fathy's village in Gourna.
In 1985, he received the King Fahd Award for Research in Islamic Architecture.
In 1986, El-Wakil's work was recognized by the American Institute of Architects and was made Honorary Fellow at San Antonio in Texas.
In 1987, on the occasion of The International Year of Shelter for the Homeless (IYSH), a competition was organised for New Technological Solutions for Social Housing (CINTUS). Out of entries from 75 nations, El-Wakil's design won him an award.
In 1988, El-Wakil was accorded the title of professor by the International Academy of Architecture and the International Union of Architects.
In 1989, El-Wakil acquired a second Aga Khan Award for the design of the Corniche Mosque in Jeddah. The Award Ceremony was held in Cairo, El-Wakil's hometown and was presented to him by the First Lady Suzanne Mubarak.
In 1993, El-Wakil received a Certificate of Appreciation from Dade County in Miami for his entry, within a charette of 20 architectural firms organised by Andres Duany, for the urban design development for South Beach, Miami.
In 1994, El-Wakil received an Award and Trophy for his achievements within the city Al-Madinah Munawarah, an achievement unique for a non-Saudi.
In 1994 El-Wakil also received a Certificate of Appreciation from Solidere in Beirut, Lebanon for his contribution as president of the jury for the reconstruction of the Souks of Beirut.
In 1999 El-Wakil was honoured in Riyadh at the International Congress for Mosque Architecture with the First Prize for the Design of the Contemporary Mosque Architecture.
In 2008, El-Wakil was named the 2009 winner of the Richard H. Driehaus Prize for his contributions to classical architecture.

Memberships 

El-Wakil has also participated as a member of several juries on architecture and advisor to several institutions. He has been: