[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# RANK

urvival signals to promote  the final stages of lactating mammary gland development.  Dysfunctional RANK or RANKL causes the arrest of differentiation and expansion of the alveolar bunds into mature lobulo-alveolar mammary structures, disabling the production of milk.

Clinical significance

Cancer 

RANK and RANKL have been reported to be expressed in some breast cancer and prostate cancer cell lines.  RANKL expression in infiltrating T cells within mammary carcinomas activate RANK-expressing neoplastic mammary epithelial cells which stimulate metastasis.  The expression of RANKL in these cells and the expression of RANK in bone cells may be the biological presentation of Paget's seed and soil idea.  The affinity for RANK of RANKL may be the reason these cancers tend to metastasize to bone.  Once the tumor is seeded in the bone, the tumor cells stimulate bone resorption by secreting factors such as RANKL or prompting the surrounding stroma to express growth factors.  These growth factors then upregulate production of RANKL which leads to osteoclastogenesis and bone destruction.  The destruction of bone releases more growth factors and RANKL which induces more osteoclastogenesis, triggering a vicious cycle of bone destruction that is seen in metastatic bone tumors.

Targeted therapies 

Most therapies that target the RANK/RANKL/OPG axis aim to either down-regulate expression of RANKL or upregulate the expression of the decoy receptor OPG.  For example, denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody that is directed against RANKL. In phase I and II trials, denosumab led to a decrease in bone resorption in multiple myeloma, prostate cancer and breast cancer patients.  Another study looked into developing small mimetics based on the structure of OPG that bind to RANK as well as RANKL and cause defective coupling between the two.

Interactions 

RANK has been shown to interact with:
 TRAF1, 
 TRAF2, 
 TRAF3,
 TRAF5,  and
 TRAF6.

See also 
 RANKL
 Osteoprotegerin
 Osteoimmunology

References

Further reading

External links 
 

Clusters of differentiation
TNF receptor family