[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# IPCC Fourth Assessment Report

Climate Change 2007, the Fourth Assessment Report (AR4) of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), was published in 2007 and is the fourth in a series of reports intended to assess scientific, technical and socio-economic information concerning climate change, its potential effects, and options for adaptation and mitigation. The report is the largest and most detailed summary of the climate change situation ever undertaken, produced by thousands of authors, editors, and reviewers from dozens of countries, citing over 6,000 peer-reviewed scientific studies. People from over 130 countries contributed to the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report, which took six years to produce. Contributors to AR4 included more than 2,500 scientific expert reviewers, more than 800 contributing authors, and more than 450 lead authors. 

"Robust findings" of the Synthesis report include:
 "Warming of the climate system is unequivocal, as is now evident from observations of increases in global average air and ocean temperatures, widespread melting of snow and ice and rising global average sea level".
 Most of the global average warming over the past 50 years is "very likely" (greater than 90% probability, based on expert judgement) due to human activities.
 "Impacts [of climate change] will very likely increase due to increased frequencies and intensities of some extreme weather events".
 "Anthropogenic warming and sea level rise would continue for centuries even if GHG emissions were to be reduced sufficiently for GHG concentrations to stabilise, due to the time scales associated with climate processes and feedbacks". Stabilization of atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations is discussed in climate change mitigation.
 "Some planned adaptation (of human activities) is occurring now; more extensive adaptation is required to reduce vulnerability to climate change".
 "Unmitigated climate change would, in the long term, be likely to exceed the capacity of natural, managed and human systems to adapt".
 "Many impacts [of climate change] can be reduced, delayed or avoided by mitigation".

Overview
Like previous assessment reports, it consists of four reports:
 Working Group I: The Physical Science Basis
 Working Group II: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability
 Working Group III: Mitigation
 Synthesis Report
Global warming projections from AR4 are shown below. The projections apply to the end of the 21st century (2090–2099), relative to temperatures at the end of the 20th century (1980–1999). Add 0.7 °C to projections to make them relative to pre-industrial levels instead of 1980–1999. (UK Royal Society, 2010, p=10). Descriptions of the greenhouse gas emissions scenarios can be found in Special Report on Emissions Scenarios.

"Likely" means greater than 66% probability of being correct, based on expert judgement.

Sections

The report was released in four principal sections:

 Contribution of Working Group I (WGI): Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis.
 Contribution of Working Group II (WGII): Climate Change 2007: Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability.
 Contribution of Working Group III (WGIII): Climate Change 2007: Mitigation of Climate Change.
 Contribution of Working Groups I, II, and III: The Synthesis Report (SYR).

Working Group I: The Physical Science Basis 

The full WGI report was published in March 2007, and last updated in September of that year. It includes a Summary for Policymakers (SPM), which was published in February 2007, and a Frequently Asked Questions section.

This section of the report, Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis, assessed current scientific knowledge of "the natural and human drivers of climate change" as well as observed changes in climate. It looked at the ability of science to attribute changes to different causes, and made projections of future climate change.

It was produced by 676 authors (152 lead authors, 26 review editors, and 498 contributing authors) from 40 countries, then reviewed by over 625 expert reviewers. More than 6,000 peer-reviewed publications were cited.

Before being approved, the summary was reviewed line by line by representatives of 113 governments during the 10th session of WGI, in January to February 2007.

On the issue of global warming and its causes, the SPM states that:
"Warming of the climate system is unequivocal."
"Most of the observed increase in global average temperatures since the mid-20th century is very likely due to the observed increase in anthropogenic greenhouse gas concentrations."

Very likely and likely mean "the assessed likelihood, using expert judgment" are over 90% and over 66%, respectively.

Observations 

The report notes many observed changes in the Earth's climate including atmospheric composition, global average temperatures, ocean conditions, and other climate changes.

Changes in the atmosphere