[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Demographic dividend

Demographic dividend, as defined by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), is "the economic growth potential that can result from shifts in a population’s age structure, mainly when the share of the working-age population (15 to 64) is larger than the non-working-age share of the population (14 and younger, and 65 and older)". In other words, it is “a boost in economic productivity that occurs when there are growing numbers of people in the workforce relative to the number of dependents”. UNFPA stated that “A country with both increasing numbers of young people and declining fertility has the potential to reap a demographic dividend."

Demographic dividend occurs when the proportion of working people in the total population is high because this indicates that more people have the potential to be productive and contribute to growth of the economy.

Due to the dividend between young and old, many argue that there is great potential for economic gains, which has been termed the "demographic gift". In order for economic growth to occur the younger population must have access to quality education, adequate nutrition and health including access to sexual and reproductive health.

However, this drop in fertility rates is not immediate. The lag between produces a generational population bulge that surges through society. For a period of time this “bulge” is a burden on society and increases the dependency ratio. Eventually this group begins to enter the productive labor force. With fertility rates continuing to fall and older generations having longer life expectancies, the dependency ratio declines dramatically. This demographic shift initiates the demographic dividend. With fewer younger dependents, due to declining fertility and child mortality rates, and fewer older dependents, due to the older generations having shorter life expectancies, and the largest segment of the population of productive working age, the dependency ratio declines dramatically leading to the demographic dividend. Combined with effective public policies this time period of the demographic dividend can help facilitate more rapid economic growth and puts less strain on families. This is also a time period when many women enter the labor force for the first time. In many countries this time period has led to increasingly smaller families, rising income, and rising life expectancy rates. However, dramatic social changes can also occur during this time, such as increasing divorce rates, postponement of marriage, and single-person households.

Recent education dividend theory
Recent research shows that the demographic dividend is an education-triggered dividend.

Statistical overview

Approximately 1.8 billion people between 10 and 24 years old exist in the world today; the highest total number of young people than ever before. According to the UN Population Fund (UNFPA), this number is expected to increase until 2070. Much of the increase has derived from the least developed countries who have experienced rapid and large growth in their youth populations. Within least developed countries’ populations roughly 60% are under 24 years old. The large proportion of young people in least developed countries creates an opportunity to realize a demographic dividend. However, this realization comes with challenges.

UNFPA stated that: 

Therefore, in order to reap the benefits of a demographic dividend, countries must recognize and cultivate the potential of young people and close the gap between the demands placed on young people and the opportunities provided to them.

Examples

East Asia

East Asia provides some of the most compelling evidence to date of the demographic dividend. The demographic transition in East Asia occurred over 5–15 years during the 1950s and 1960s, a shorter time period than anywhere previously. During this time, East Asian countries invested in their youth and expanded access to family planning allowing people to start families later and have fewer children. More resources began to become available, investment in infrastructure began and productive investments were made as fertility rates fell resulting in unprecedented economic growth. For example, UNFPA stated that “The Republic of Korea, saw its per-capita gross domestic product grow about 2,200 per cent between 1950 and 2008 and Thailand’s GDP grew 970 per cent."

East Asia was able to benefit from knowledge, experience, and technology of other countries that had already passed through the demographic transition. It has been argued that the demographic dividend played a role in the "economic miracles" of the East Asian Tigers  and accounts for between one fourth and two fifths of the “miracle”.

Ireland