[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 1928 Indianapolis 500

brief. After only a few laps under yellow, the field went back to racing. At that moment, on his 162nd lap, Earl Devore skidded coming out of the north turns due to the wet conditions and eventually crashed into the outside wall in turn one. The fuel tank was crushed, and Devore was out of the race.

Finish
With twenty laps to go, Tony Gulotta led Jimmy Gleason and Louis Meyer. A margin of only 2.04 seconds separated 1st-2nd-3rd place. On lap 181, Gulotta began slowing down and stalled in turn three. A tiny leak in the fuel tank was causing his fuel pressure to drop, and his fuel line was clogged. Gulotta's crew would need an hour-long pit stop to make repairs. Gulotta and Dutch Bauman took turns nursing the car around to 10th-place finish. Meyer took the lead on lap 182, but Gleason was in second, and was in close contention.

On lap 195, Gleason headed for the pits to take on water for the radiator. A crew member missed the radiator and accidentally doused the car's magneto with water. The engine was ruined with a cracked water jacket as well, and Gleason was out of the race in sight of a chance for victory. Louis Meyer cruised at a steady pace to victory, winning by a little less than one lap margin over a charging Louis Schneider (in Lou Moore's car). Meyer is credited as a being a rookie winner, since his previous experience in the 1927 race was only in a relief driver role. Meyer made only one pit stop, a routine stop for oil, fuel, and to change two tires.

Ray Keech, despite bad burns on his leg, remarkably came home fourth. All three cars of the front row dropped out, and yet again, the supercharged front-engine machines failed to achieve victory. The highest finishing front wheel drive car was Babe Stapp in 6th place.
 Sources: The Indianapolis News 500 Miles To Go

Box score

Statistics

Broadcasting
The race was carried live on radio on WKBF-AM, in a partnership arranged with the Indianapolis News. The broadcast began at 9:30 a.m. local time, and was about six hours in duration. It was the fourth consecutive year the race was being carried on the radio through this format. WFBM also picked up the broadcast. The broadcast originated from the Pagoda, with microphones also set up in the pit area. The booth announcing staff was led by Chris Albion. John Mannix led the pit reporting crew.

For the first time ever, NBC came on air for live national coverage of the final hour of the race. At approximately 2:10 p.m., anchor Graham McNamee's call was picked up on WKBF and numerous other NBC affiliates across the country.

Notes

Works cited
 Indianapolis 500 History: Race & All-Time Stats – Official Site
 1928 International 500 Mile Sweepstakes at ChampCarStats.com

References

Indianapolis 500 races
Indianapolis 500
Indianapolis 500
1928 in American motorsport
May 1928 sports events