[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1864 Democratic National Convention

on started to throw their votes behind the general, who finished comfortably in excess of the required two-thirds majority at the end of the first ballot. A motion to have McClellan's nomination be declared unanimous was carried.

Vice presidential nomination

Vice presidential candidates

Declined 

Eight names were placed in nomination: George H. Pendleton, James Guthrie, Lazarus W. Powell, George W. Cass, John D. Caton, Daniel W. Voorhees, Augustus C. Dodge, and John S. Phelps. Following the first ballot roll call, the names of Guthrie, Powell, Caton, and Phelps were withdrawn from consideration when it was revealed none of them desired the nomination. Before the first ballot could be finalized, 70 delegates who had supported one of the withdrawn candidates shifted their votes to Pendleton. As a result, Pendleton was supported by a majority of the delegates when the vote for the first ballot was finalized. With the exception of Pendleton, the remaining contenders were favorite son candidates who only had the support of their home states. During the second ballot roll call, each state recorded its vote for Pendleton.

Pendleton, a close associate of Vallandigham, was an Extreme Peace Democrat representative from the electoral-rich state of Ohio. Since the Democrats were divided by issues of war and peace, Pendleton's well-known rejection of the Lincoln administration's assertion of the constitutional right to coerce a state back into the Union balanced the ticket.

See also 
 History of the United States Democratic Party
 List of Democratic National Conventions
 U.S. presidential nomination convention
 1864 Republican National Convention
 1864 United States presidential election

References

Bibliography 
 Official proceedings of the Democratic national convention, held in 1864 at Chicago

External links 
 Democratic Party Platform of 1864 at The American Presidency Project

1864 United States presidential election
1864 in Illinois
1860s in Chicago
Political conventions in Chicago
George B. McClellan
Democratic Party of Illinois
Political events in Illinois
Democratic National Conventions
1864 conferences
August 1864 events
19th-century political conferences
1860s political events