[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Andrei Karyaka

Andrei Konstantinovich Karyaka (; born 1 April 1978) is a Russian football coach and a former player who played as a midfielder.

Club career

Early career
Growing up in Dnipropetrovsk in the 1980s, Karyaka was deeply influenced and inspired by the performances of the local club Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk. After multiple championships and two quarter-final finishes in European competition, it is not surprising that his major heroes were the Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk leaders, such as Gennadiy Litovchenko and Oleg Protasov. Karyaka attended the Dnipropetrovsk Sports Youth School, coached by W. M. Nikulin, starting at the age of 7, and the Dnipropetrovsk Olympic Reserve School starting at the age of 12. In 1985, he moved to Zaporizhzhia where he initially played for the Metalurh Zaporizhya youth team.

Karyaka's debut for the main team occurred on 3 March 1996, in the 1/16 round of the Ukrainian Cup against the Shakhtar Donetsk reserve, and ended in a 1–0 victory for Metalurh, while Karyaka earned a yellow card. His Ukrainian Premier League debut occurred on 26 March 1996 against his original home team Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk, and ended with a 2–1 Metalurh victory. He scored his first goal on 13 November 1996 in the Ukrainian Cup, and on 10 April 1997 in the Ukrainian Premier League. Other memorable games include a tie against Dynamo Kyiv in blistering heat on 30 June 1997.

In 1998, Karyaka transferred to CSKA Kyiv, trained by the former Dynamo Kyiv midfielder Vladimir Bessonov. With CSKA, he was able to participate in the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, first playing against Cork City, and consequently, against FC Lokomotiv Moscow. Yet in the next season, things did not work out as well, and he spent the majority of the 1999–00 season playing for the reserve team.

Krylia Sovetov
In the summer of 2000, Karyaka was able to impress the at-the-time FC Krylia Sovetov Samara coach Aleksandr Tarkhanov during a trial match against Lada with his approach and style. He debuted for Samara against Anzhi Makhachkala on 13 August 2000, earning a penalty and rescuing a tie. He spent five games on the pitch in the 2000 season. After a thorough preparation for the 2001 season, he secured a regular spot as a left midfielder on the main team. In 2002, Karyaka became the top scorer of Samara with 12 goals in 28 games, and on 19 August 2003 he became the top scorer of the team overall in the history of the Russian Premier League with 29 goals. That season he scored 10 goals total in 29 games, but his real success at Samara would come in 2004, where he tallied 22 goals in 37 games. 17 of these came in the Russian Premier League and he missed the best scorer title by only one goal. A number of his goals came from free kicks from 30 yards out and more.

Benfica
Following the start of the 2005 Russian Premier League, Karyaka's club at that time Krylia Sovetov Samara encountered financial difficulties which saw the club sell some of its high valued players. This was the case for Karyaka who in June 2005 signed for Benfica of the Primeira Liga. He signed for the Portuguese side on a fee worth €1 million.

Karyaka made his team debut as an 80th-minute substitute in a 1–0 victory over Vitória de Setúbal in the 2005 Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira. During the first part of the 2005–06 season, he would feature regularly in Benfica's side where he was primarily used by coach Ronald Koeman as a substitute. He scored his first goal for the club on 22 October 2005 in a league match against Estrela da Amadora.

In January 2006, Russian sports newspaper Sovetsky Sport published an interview with Karyaka who criticized his role at the club and his stay in Portugal. In the interview, Karyaka criticized manager Ronald Koeman for him being used as a substitute as well as saying that Koeman favored Benfica's Brazilian players ahead of him. In the interview he also expressed his desire to return to Russia as well as expressing his desire to leave Portugal as he felt uncomfortable by the country and the city of Lisbon. Following the interview, Benfica's manager Ronald Koeman publicly expressed his opinion on the situation and said that he was surprised by Karyaka's statements and that he did not favor the clubs Brazilian players. One day following the publication of the interview in the Russian sports newspaper, Benfica suspended Karyaka. Following Karyaka's suspension, Benfica would file a lawsuit against the player. Karyaka's suspension saw him publicly express his outrage and disappointment with Benfica's decision to suspend him as well as denying the accusations publicized by Sovetsky Sport. He also went on to say that he would file a lawsuit against the newspaper which published the controversial interview. In May 2006, Karyaka would return to Benfica's squad for the first time since December. He would play 59 minutes in the last fixture of the 2005–06 season against Paços de Ferreira.