[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kekuni Blaisdell

rsity of Hawai'i Native Hawaiian Students Committee, Program and Hawaiian Scholars Program. He served on the 1986-1988 University of Hawai'i System Ka'u (Hawaiian Studies) Task Force and, in 1987-1989, as acting interim director of the then-created University of Hawaiʻi Center for Hawaiian Studies.2

1970 Blaisdell served on the Hui Hanai (Queen Lili'uokalanai Children's Center Auxiliary) Board of Directors, as president, 1980-1982.  He worked  on the Nana I ke Kumu (Look to the Source) Book Committee, 1972–1979; and Queen's Songbook Committee, 1980-1990.2

1990 Living Treasure Award. The Living Treasures of Hawaiʻi program was created by the Buddhist temple Honpa Hongwanji Mission of Hawaii to honor residents of Hawaii. The criteria for selection are, "First, the designee must demonstrate continuous growth in his or her field; second, the potential Living Treasure must have made significant contributions toward a more humane and fraternal society (and this perhaps is the most important criteria); and finally, he or she must have shown an on-going striving for excellence and a high level of accomplishment." Honorees are nominated by members of the general public by August 1 of each year, and chosen by a committee designated by the temple.

1997. Asian and Pacific Island American Health Forum Lifetime Achievement Award in San Francisco

1998. Ahahui O na Kauka, charter member, board member.

2000. University of Chicago Alumni Community Service Award.

2001. Consultant, Native Hawaiian Center of Excellence, Dept of Native Hawaiian Health, University of Hawaii JABSOM.

2003. Prof Emeritus of Medicine, JABSOM.

Recipient of the Republic of Palau Joint House and Senate Commendation Resolution and Pacific Basin Medical Association Recognition and Appreciation Award.

2007. Kekuni Blaisdell Endowment Lectureship was formed at the University of Hawaii by Osama Fukuyama, M.D.

2008. Awarded the Hawaiian Historical Society's Paa Moolelo Award in appreciation for "steadfast leadership and dedication to promoting and preserving the proud history of our islands."

2009. Awarded Honolulu Hawaiian Civic Club "I Ola Ka Lahui" Award.

2010 David Malo Award.  Sponsored by the Rotary Club of West Honolulu.    The award recognizes an individual of Hawaiian ancestry whose accomplishments and life have portrayed the idea of high achievement in such fields as art, music, dance, education, science, community service, government, religion, business or sport. The award is named after David Malo whose accomplishments and life exemplify the ideal of high achievement and community service for the betterment of the world around us.

2011 O'o Award April 7, 2011.  The ‘Ō‘ō Award has become one of the most prestigious honors presented to outstanding Native Hawaiians who, through their talents, have made significant contributions to improve our communities and the well being of Native Hawaiians. The ‘ō‘ō itself is made from precious hardwoods firmly rooted in the ‘āina. Today, the tool is used as Native Hawaiian Chamber of Commerce’s symbol representing each honoree’s keen sense of firmly rooted values, business acumen, skill, and dedication to service – key ingredients for sustaining success in modern Hawai‘i, while maintaining ancient traditions and values.

2015 Kalani Ali'i Award September 12, 2015, Sponsored by: 'Aha Hipu'u: The Royal Order of Kamehameha I, The 'Ahahui Ka'ahumanu, The Hale O Na Ali'i O Hawai'i & The Daughters and Sons of Hawaiian Warriors - MAMAKAKAUA

Kānaka Maoli Medicine, research and Hawaiian sovereignty movement
Kānaka Maoli. In the 1980s, Dr. Blaisdell discovered the term Kanaka Maoli, in Historical Text.  He was the first to ask the questions: if one compares original historic  descriptions of Hawaiians (robust health) with current statistics (ill health), what is it about western contact other than the obvious that explains  near extinction of a race?  More importantly, what can be done?

After this, he began to pioneer serious study of Kanaka Maoli Health Research as a medical field.

Na 'Oiwi O Hawaii. In 1984, Blaisdell helped to found Na 'Oiwi O Hawai'i with the goal of promoting Kanaka Maoli Independence. Na 'Oiwi O Hawai'i sponsored the first Native Hawaiian Sovereignty Conference at The Kamehameha Schools. As a major speaker, Blaisdell emphasized that the health of Kanaka Maoli is connected to the 'āina, and to  preservation of cultural traditions and knowledge of one's own history and way of life.  (This later became the basis for an M. Oneha dissertation, which Blaisdell nurtured and supported.)3,5