[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mars Matrix

on. Since this mission has been classified as extreme, no support will be available.
Location: Maneris Starport
Boss: A giant crustacean mech that deploys seed-like aircraft with different patterns of firing bullets. The head turns into a cannon and the pincers turn into gatling guns when destroyed.

4. Red Sky Project
Briefing: With the success of the last mission, the spaceport has been secured. The decision has been made to alter the next assignment to mission code 075. The ACID unit should assemble with the fleet and destroy the remaining enemy forces. Keep in mind that there is a powerful gravity force high in the mid-Atlantic.
Location: A small rebel armada, Mars Mid-Atlantic.
Boss: A huge command ship known as the Exodus. It can launch from the front a fish-like escape pod.

5. True Darkness
Briefing: The remaining enemy armada and its command ship "EXODUS" has been destroyed. The remaining enemy forces are assumed to be down to 20% approximately. The mission is entering the final phase. Our fleet will remain in orbit backing up the ACID unit while you attack the headquarters of the enemy.
Location: Rebel train station.
Boss: An armored train of 5 cars. 3 cars have a gatling cannon and two doors that bring out turrets, mines, and fighters. The fourth car has several turrets. Inside is a legless mech with two chain guns. The last car is the engine car with arms with bazookas that shoot dozens of electric missiles.

6. Forbidden Fruit
Briefing: None
Location: Rebel Headquarters
Boss: There are three bosses with the same time limit. The first boss is a hovering saucer that can turn into a crustacean or a spiked wheel. The second boss is a control tower. It is between two control units that shoot sprays of missiles. The third boss has two stages. The first stage is a mutant flower that shoots out a seed-like ship and an almost impassable pattern of bullets. The second stage is the sorceress behind the death of the ancient Mars civilization, with a cocoon and skull form until she is destroyed.

At the end of each stage, player gains points based on following criteria:
 Time: Depends on how many seconds left after destroying last boss in the completed stage.
 Level: Depends on the just completed level number.
 Shootdown: Depends on the total points gained by destroying enemy units.
Total Score earned for completing a stage is the sum of points in Time, Level, Shootdown fields.

Ports
The Dreamcast version includes:
 Arcade mode: Plays like the arcade game. Despite the claim of perfect conversion, the base scores for enemy units are different.
 Elite Mode (Arrange Mode): Player can adjust various options such as combo time, ship speed and GHB charge speed. In Elite A mode, enemy ships and formations are changed. In Elite B mode, the stages are same as Arcade mode.
 Score Challenge Mode (Score attack mode): Killing an enemy with piercing cannon causes multitude of cubes to appear. Each cube increases successive cube values by 1.
 Shop system: It allows game options to be unlocked by purchasing them with cubes.
 Strategy modes: It includes a sample replay for each stage where every stage is completed.
 An introduction movie.
 A gallery.
 The bug where player's score cannot go beyond 999,999,999,990 points was fixed by adding 2 extra digits in the score table.

Soundtrack
Mars Matrix & Giga Wing 2 Original Soundtrack Box was released by Suleputer.

Reception

The Dreamcast version received "generally favorable reviews" according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. In Japan, Famitsu gave it a score of 31 out of 40.

Also in Japan, Game Machine listed the arcade version in their July 15, 2000 issue as the seventh most-successful arcade game of the year.

References

External links
Takumi MM page: arcade, DC
Capcom page

2000 video games
Arcade video games
Capcom games
CP System II games
Dreamcast games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
Takumi Corporation games
Vertically scrolling shooters
Video games developed in Japan
Video games set on Mars