[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Perušić

management of local affairs. At the 2023 Croatian national minorities councils and representatives elections Serbs of Croatia fulfilled legal requirements to elect 10 members minority council of the Municipality of Perušić but the elections were not held due to the absence of candidatures.

Climate

The Lika region has a temperate oceanic climate with Köppen climate classification Cfb, moderately humid with a warm summer.  The Velebit mountain range restricts the thermal influence of the Adriatic Sea, but allows moist air to reach the interior resulting in high precipitation (particularly in winter and autumn). The growing season is 210–250 days, and there are 140–180 days with temperatures above .

Economy
Farming and agricultural industries are the main occupation. The nearby highway brought rapid economic development, though Perušić remains one of the poorest inhabited municipalities in Croatia.

Culture

Literature

According to historical documents, Perušić can be called the cradle of Croatian literacy. Shortly after a printing machine was invented in the nearby village of Kosinj, Missale Romanum Glagolitice (Croatian: Misal po zakonu rimskoga dvora) was printed, one of the oldest printed books in Croatia and Europe, with numerous illustrations and ornaments. It was printed in 1483, just 28 years after the Gutenberg Bible.

Sport
The local football team is NK Perušić.

Landmarks

Grabovača
Grabovača is a cave park situated between the Lika karstic plains and fields,  from the center of Perušić. It is  above sea level at the mid-elevations of the Velebit mountains, near the karst basin of the river Lika. In an area of  there are an abundance of underground karst forms, complex calcite formations. The park represents one-quarter of the protected caves in Croatia. The caves are closed to the public in winter.

Protected landscape Risovac-Grabovača
It covers the area of 5620,72 ha. Its unique geological feature is Velebit breccia rock. There are 118 species of plants (16 strictly protected, 6 endemic), 19 species of cave fauna (Typhlotrechus bilimekii kiesenwetteri, endemic beetle), 15 species of butterflies (8 strictly protected), 81 bird species (24 strictly prohibited), 10 strictly prohibited species of bats and more than 20 species of mammals. Golden eagle is critically endangered.

Kosinj Bridge
Kosinj Bridge is a  stone bridge crossing the river Lika, connecting Upper and Lower Kosinj.  It was designed in the 19th century by architect Milivoj Frković, built using an early Croatian bridge-building technique known as uklinjenje kamena (clipping stone).

Kruščica
Lake Krušćica is an artificial lake and reservoir created in 1966 to help control flooding of the Lika. Behind a dam  high, the reservoir contains a flooded village with the church of St. Ilya.

Old town Perušić
Old town, known as "Gradina" or "Turkish tower" () on the locality Vrhovina was first mentioned in 1071. It was ruled by Frankopan family. Town was renamed in 1487 and bestowed to the brothers Perušić. During Ottoman occupation (until 1696) Perušić became Turkish stronghold due to its position and proximity to the Venetian Republic and Habsburg monarchy. After the liberation of Lika and Krbava by the Catholic priest Marko Mesić, remaining Turkish population were baptised. Perušić was first part of Croatian Military Frontier, then in 19th century part of Banate of Croatia.

References

External links
  

Municipalities of Croatia
Populated places in Lika-Senj County