[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Howell

cific: “The 32nd U.S.C.T. [United States Colored Troops] will be charged with the construction of this work and will furnish daily as large a detail for this purpose as the strength of the Regiment will permit. The working parties will report to the Engineer Officer superintending the construction.”

Fatigue details from the 32nd United States Colored Infantry, camped nearby at Camp Baird (named for their colonel) did most of the construction from late August or early September to mid-October 1864, using shovels, spades, picks, and axes, and working under the supervision of Captain Patrick McGuire of Company A, 1st New York Engineers (Serrell's Engineers) and the officers and enlisted men of several companies of that regiment.

The 32nd United States Colored Infantry numbered approximately 500 officers and men, with white commissioned officers and black noncommissioned officers and other enlisted men, as was standard practice with black regiments in the United States Army during the Civil War.

Its work on the fort was slowed and complicated somewhat by its officers’ apparent reluctance to assign sufficient men to the task, and by its soldiers’ apparent reluctance toward or inability to perform the hard labor necessary to complete it. It was common for Federal commanders to assign their black units to fatigue duty, and especially to employ them to build or improve of field fortifications. In this way they could “save” their white units for combat. Officers in the Department of the South were no exception.  Captain Joseph Walker of the 1st New York Engineers, who supervised black troops working on the fortifications of Morris Island in 1863, expressed a view typical of many Federal officers when he wrote that African-American soldiers “have great constancy. . . . Their status is mediocrity, and this uniformity and mediocrity, for military fatigue duty, I think answers best.”

The white officers and black enlisted men of the United States Colored Troops, however, often protested such treatment, sometimes informally, and sometimes in writing. African-American soldiers and their white officers often resented their being assigned to tasks that white units were ordered to do less frequently, and especially so in the case of building field fortifications, when the example of slaves being made to construct them for the Confederates was such an obvious parallel to their status as blacks, even as free men, in the United States Army.

One of the most eloquent protests over excessive fatigue duty was that written by Private Nimrod Rowley of the 20th United States Colored Infantry, serving in Louisiana, to Abraham Lincoln in August 1864. Rowley, weary of working in “one of the most horable swamps in Louisiana stinking and misery,” addressed his appeal to “My Dear Friend and x Pre” about the same time the 32nd United States Colored Infantry began building Fort Howell on Hilton Head Island. Rowley wrote Lincoln, we are treated in a Different maner to what others Rigiments is Both Northern men or Southern Raised Rigiment Instead of the Musket It is the Spad and the Whelbarrow and the Axe.

As for the work of constructing Fort Howell that fall, McGuire reported more than once that between 250 and 300 members of the 32nd United States Colored Infantry were typically assigned to guard duty either in their camp or in Mitchelville for the day, performing a non-essential duty, but only 150 to 200 of them were typically assigned to work on the fort for the day. McGuire and Suter, however, expected a daily average of 250 to 300 men working on the fort out of a total strength of about 450-500 available, and were frustrated by their inability to form larger work details. On 2 September Suter wrote Potter, commanding the Hilton Head District, about the problem. “I think that a regiment of this size ought to furnish at least from 250 to 300 for duty and in this I think you will agree with me. Their camp guard for instance is absurdly large.”

On 3 October Foster wrote Rear-Admiral John A. Dahlgren of the United States Navy, commanding the South Atlantic Blockading Squadron, proposing that the army remove the garrison then at Fort Seward, at Bay Point on Phillips Island opposite Fort Welles. Fort Seward, originally a Confederate earthwork built in 1861 and named for Confederate General P.G.T. Beauregard (1818-1893), had been renamed for United States Secretary of State William H. Seward (1801-1872) by the Federals after the Battle of Port Royal Sound. On 8 June Suter had reported to Foster's predecessor Hatch that Fort Seward then held 13 guns, but his report did not specify their types or sizes.