[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# IKBKG

3 lymphoma, highlighting the great clinical need to define targets for cancer therapy. Notably, the NBD peptide targets the inflammation induced NF-κB activation pathway sparing the protective functions of basal NF-κB activity allowing for greater therapeutic value and fewer undesired side effects.

The NBD peptide was designed by identifying the amino acid binding sequence on IKK-α and IKK-β to which NEMO binds. A small region on the carboxyl terminus of IKK-α (L738-L743) and IKK-β (L737-L742) is essential for a stable interaction with NEMO and for the assembly of the active IKK complex. Henceforth this region is called the NEMO binding domain (NBD).  The NBD peptide consists of the region from T735 to E745 of the IKK-β subunit fused with a sequence derived from the Antennapedia homeodomain that mediates membrane translocation. Furthermore, wild type NBD peptide has been shown to dose-dependently inhibit interaction of IKKB with NEMO compared to mutant controls. Additionally, NF-κB activation was suppressed in HeLa cells after incubation with NBD wild type peptides. Moreover, to better understand the potential efficacy of the NBD peptide in suppressing inflammation, NBD peptide was tested on collagen induced rheumatoid arthritis mouse models. Notably, aberrant NF-κB activity is strongly associated with many aspects of the pathology of rheumatoid arthritis. Mice injected with wild-type NBD peptide showed only slightly visual signs of paw and joint swelling whereas mice injected with PBS or mutant NBD control peptides developed severe joint inflammation.  Additionally, analysis of the number of osteoclasts present in the joints of rheumatoid arthritic showed to be more prevalent in mice treated with PBS or the mutant NBD peptide compared to the NBD wild type peptide. Markedly, throughout the mouse model studies neither toxicity or lethality nor damage to kidneys or livers, was observed.

Despite the potential for NBD peptide as a viable NF- κB inhibitory drug, disadvantages arise because of its peptide form. Peptides as drugs lack membrane permeability, are poorly orally viable, and generally have lower metabolic stability than small molecule drugs. Therefore, the NBD peptide is unable to be an orally available compound and must be administered either intravenously or via intraperitoneal injection.

Interactions 
IKBKG has been shown to interact with:

 BCL10, 
 CDC37, 
 CHUK and 
 IKK2, 
 IRAK1, 
 NCOA3, 
 PPM1B, 
 TANK,
 TNFAIP3, 
 TRAF3IP2,  and
 TRAF6.

References

Further reading

External links 
 
  GeneReviews/NIH/NCBI/UW entry on Incontinentia Pigmenti
 OMIM IKBKG
  GeneReviews/NCBI/NIH/UW entry on Anophthalmia / Microphthalmia Overview

Proteins
EC 2.7.11