[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Maryam Namazie

who won't submit" makes it suited for a women's liberation movement. 
She has explained that the creation of the movement was sparked by contemporary movements and revolutions around the world, especially those in the Middle East and North Africa, although she emphasizes Fitnah has global relevance.

In September 2015, the students' union of Warwick University briefly banned her from a forthcoming talk on campus organised by the Warwick Atheists, Secularists and Humanists' Society because of a fear that she might "incite hatred" of the university's Muslim students. In an interview with the Coventry Telegraph Simon Gilbert, she was quoted as saying: "It angers me that we're all put in a little box and that anyone who criticises Islam is labelled racist. It's not racist, it's a fundamental right. ... The Islamic movement is a movement that slaughters people in the Middle East and Africa. It's important for us to speak about it and criticise it." The ban was lifted after a few days.

In December 2015, she gave a talk about blasphemy at the Goldsmiths University in London, sponsored by the university's Atheist, Secularist and Humanist society. During her talk, members of the university's Islamic Society caused a disruption by heckling and switching off her PowerPoint presentation when Namazie displayed a cartoon from the series Jesus and Mo. Some of the students were alleged to have issued threats. In response to the incident, the university's Feminist Society released a statement on Tumblr, expressing support for the Islamic Society, and condemning the Atheist, Secularist and Humanist Society for hosting "known Islamophobes" to speak at the university.

Namazie is the spokesperson for One Law for All and the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain. Namazie is an honorary associate of the National Secular Society, and a patron of Pink Triangle Trust. She is also involved with the International Committee against Stoning. In the past she used to be spokesperson for Iran Solidarity, and for Equal Rights Now - Organisation Against Women's Discrimination in Iran, that seeks to defend women's rights and the struggle against "sexual apartheid" in Iran.

Politics 

Maryam Namazie used to be a Central Committee member of the Worker-communist Party of Iran, as editor for the Worker-communist Review. She advocated ideas inspired by worker-communism, especially those of the Iranian theorist Mansoor Hekmat. 
Maryam Namazie and Fariborz Pooya resigned from membership of the Worker-communist Party of Iran on 1 January 2009. Central Committee secretary Hamid Taqvaie regretfully accepted their resignation, saying the party would 'continue to support [their] social activities and campaigns against political Islam', and expressed hope that Namazie and Pooya would continue to work on the Bread and Roses programme.

Namazie strongly distances herself from far-right anti-Islamic groups, whom she does not regard as allies, but enemies as well. At the World Atheist Conference in Dublin in 2011, referring to the far-right, she said "they are like the Islamists" and that Muslims need equal protection under the law, while she stressed the need to be able to criticize religion. She strongly condemned the far-right movements after the terrorist attacks on mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, which took away 50 victims' lives, stating that "We stand with Muslims everywhere who face discrimination, violence and terror".

Works 
 Maryam Namazie, Sharia Law in Britain: A Threat to One Law for All and Equal Rights  (2010). One Law For All.
 Adam Barnett & Maryam Namazie, Enemies Not Allies: The Far-Right  (2011). One Law For All.
 Maryam Namazie, Nahla Mahmoud, Atoosa Khatiri e.a., Political and Legal Status of Apostates in Islam  (2013). Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain.

Documentaries 
Namazie is featured in the following documentary films:
Among Nonbelievers (2015), directed by Dorothée Forma, produced by HUMAN
Islam's Non-Believers (2016), directed by Deeyah Khan, produced by Fuuse

See also 
Mina Ahadi
Criticism of Islam
Pragna Patel

References

Bibliography 

 Benn, Piers. Intellectual Freedom and the Culture Wars. Germany, Springer International Publishing, 2020.

External links 

 
 One Law For All – Campaign against Sharia Law in Britain
 Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain