[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Port of Ashdod

The Port of Ashdod () is one of Israel's three main cargo ports. The port is located in Ashdod, about 40 kilometers south of Tel Aviv, adjoining the mouth of the Lachish River. Its establishment significantly enhanced the country's port capacity. It handles the largest volume of cargo containers annually (1.525 million TEU in 2017) of all Israeli ports. Ships carrying humanitarian aid for the Gaza Strip also unload their cargo at Ashdod.

History 

The need to open another deep water port arose in Israel's early years, when it became clear that the expansion of the existing ports of Haifa and Eilat could not ensure efficient handling of the increasing volume of export and import cargoes. The decision to start the new port was based on a number of considerations:
 The port meshes with the concern for population dispersal and the establishment of urban centers in the southern part of the country.
 The port substantially shortens the overland transport of cargoes to and from the southern and central parts of the country.
 The distance from the citrus groves of Rehovot to the Port of Ashdod is 102 km shorter than to Haifa's port and the transport of potash from Sodom to the Port of Ashdod is 120 km less than to Haifa.
 The port is close to the existing transport arteries with the possibility of developing new routes in the future.
 The port is situated near the industrial and production centers of the country, as well as to Tel Aviv, the commercial center.

The Port of Ashdod remains one of the few deep water ports in the world to be built on the open sea, and its construction involved great engineering challenges. The decision on the location and construction of the port was preceded by a maritime and climatic survey which confirmed the engineering feasibility of its construction. The physical design began in 1957-1958, a critical time, both from the point of view of the development of maritime transport and port facilities for cargo handling, and from the point of view of the development of cargo vessels. It was during this period that modern shipping concepts began to be applied throughout the world.

Its construction was based on a long term development plan. Breakwaters were built to create a harbor where quays could be built and developed in stages. In the first stage, quays 1 and 3 were built, mainly for the handling of citrus and other agricultural exports.
Other parts of the port were allocated for future development, as special needs arose.
Thanks to this approach, the Port of Ashdod has managed so far to supply satisfactory solutions to the new types of cargoes and vessels which developed since its opening.
Modern vessels, maritime transport methods, and appropriate port facilities have developed very rapidly over the last 30 years. World shipping has undergone a real revolution vis-a-vis vessel size, new cargo handling concepts based on containerized and unitized cargo, large consignments of liquid and dry bulk products. etc.

The port began operations on November 21, 1965, with the entry of the Swedish ship "Wingland" and its cargo of sugar.

Eitan terminal 
The Eitan terminal, completed in 2006, involved extending the main breakwater by 1,150 meters and reclaiming 100 hectares which allowed the addition of 1,700 meters of new operational quays capable of supporting Super Post-Panamax vessels.

During the construction of the breakwater, retired IDF Chief of Staff Rafael "Raful" Eitan, who was supervising the construction, died when he was swept off the breakwater by a large wave into rough seas. In his memory, the new section of the port was named the 'Eitan Terminal'.

General cargo 
Most of the work is carried out on six conventional piers which handle such cargoes as agricultural exports, citrus fruit, timber, metals, pelletized cargo, sling cargo, bulk cargo in grabs, etc. These piers can handle all types of ships of up to 30,000 tons. Pier no. 5 has been deepened and fitted to work Panamax type ships of up to 60,000 tons deadweight. The piers are outfitted with excellent equipment for efficient working. There are also 4 berths for Roll On/Roll Off ships, one of them on the container pier.

Storage 
The port's storage space totals about 500,000 m². Of these, 50,000 m² are covered, for general cargo storage. There is also a special shed for storing hazardous materials, chemicals, etc. which may not be stored in enclosed spaces or open areas.