[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# War Refugee Board

ration camps and supplemented these private projects with a food-parcel program of its own financed from the emergency funds of the president.

Through the efforts of the War Refugee Board, refugee camps were prepared in North Africa and safe haven was arranged in Palestine, Switzerland, and Sweden.

In August 1944 the WRB brought 982 Jewish refugees, who were in Italy from many countries, to The Fort Ontario Emergency Refugee Shelter in Oswego, in New York. These refugees were admitted outside the immigration quota laws, but given no status, and it was intended that they would be repatriated to their home countries at a (successful) war's end.

The WRB used the example of Fort Ontario to influence other countries to also allow additional refugees over their borders.

The WRB lobbied Roosevelt to publicly condemn the mass murder of Jews by the Nazis, which he did on March 24, 1944.

By attracting international attention to the Hungarian government and putting pressure on them, the WRB contributed to the cessation of deportations of Jews from Hungary to Auschwitz, possibly saving many of the Jews of Budapest. The Board sent the Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg, and others to protect the Jews of Budapest. Through the WRB, the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (the Joint,) funded Wallenberg's rescue work there. The work by Wallenberg in Hungary was one of the most successful and important rescue efforts by the War Refugee Board.

It is difficult to determine the exact number of Jews rescued by the War Refugee Board, since so much of their work was done behind enemy lines and involved psychological warfare and other intangible rescue activities.  One historian, David Wyman, credits them with saving as many as 200,000 people; the WRB staff themselves estimated they saved tens of thousands. However, near the end of his life, WRB director Pehle described the work as "too little, too late" in contrast with the totality of the Holocaust.

With the close of the war in Europe, the work of the board was at an end. By the terms of Executive Order No. 9614 the board was abolished on September 15, 1945.

See also
 Auschwitz bombing debate

References

External links

Primary sources and research databases
Yad Vashem Shoah Research Center
Executive Order Creating War Refugee Board at the Jewish Virtual Library
Digitized papers of the War Refugee Board, from the FDR Library in Hyde Park, NY.
Lexis Nexis Papers of the War Refugee Board (finding aid to the papers at the FDR Library)
Lexis Nexis Papers of the War Refugee Board Part 2 (finding aid to the papers at the FDR Library)
War Refugee Board: Day by Day (sample of primary sources compiled by the author of Rescue Board: The Untold Story of America's Efforts to Save the Jews of Europe.

Media reports and study guides
Yad Vashem Chronology of the Holocaust (1942-1945)
Jewish Virtual Library Entry on War Refugee Board
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Holocaust Encyclopedia: War Refugee Board Background and Establishment
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Holocaust Encyclopedia: War Refugee Board Activities

External links

Organizations which rescued Jews during the Holocaust
The Holocaust and the United States
Franklin D. Roosevelt
Agencies of the United States government during World War II
Establishments by United States executive order
1944 establishments in the United States