[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Code of Conduct for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief

umanitarian action, beginning with an evaluation of the Gujarat earthquake of 2001 and covering many subsequent evaluations. The evaluators have used the code as a framework, presenting their findings of agencies' performances in relation to each principle in the Code.

Limits and misinterpretations

Evaluators differ about the usefulness of the code.  In the DEC evaluation of the Gujarat earthquake of 2001, the evaluators concluded 
"The Red Cross Code can be used effectively in evaluation as a measure of quality. In the full report we take each Principle in turn, focus on key issues (as far as possible those specified in the terms of reference) and then examine performance against the Principle. We are able to show which Principles require more attention and thus focus attention on learning."
However, because of the lack of indicators of compliance with code they were forced to rate overall performance based on the aggregation of their impressions and judgement rather than on an objective measurement. The evaluators of the DEC Tsunami Crisis Response were unable to  do this because of different perceptions of different team members. However, the opening paragraph of the executive summary of the Tsunami evaluation states 
"Following usual DEC practice, the primary measure of assessment is the Red Cross Code. This is a precise set of standards, signed up to by all DEC members; by using the standards, personal judgement by the evaluators can be kept to a minimum."

This is at odds with the conclusions of Hillhorst's review of the code which states:
"The code does not provide ... clear proactive regulation with respect to the provision of humanitarian aid. The code is not regulatory because of its cautious language, with phrases like ‘we shall endeavour to’, instead of ‘we shall’.  By using this language, room for manoeuvre is also created for international NGOs with different approaches. The cautious language makes the code comprehensive and appropriate as an instrument for discussing policy and operational matters and dilemmas. It makes the code less useful, though, for NGOs seeking guidance vis-à-vis their actions and for purposes of accountability."

Hillhorst's paper draws on a survey of code signatories and a conference to review the code, as well as detailed analysis of the code itself.

References

External links
Code of Conduct for the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement and NGOs in Disaster Relief
Fundamental Principles of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement Red Cross movement
ICRC Summary
John Bennett, RPN
Humanitarian Practice Network
Nick Leader, ODI
Disasters Emergency Committee

Further reading
Hilhorst, Dorthea (2005) "Dead letter or living document? Ten years of the Code of Conduct for disaster relief." Disasters 29:4, 351-369
Walker, Peter (2005) "Cracking the code: the genesis, use and future of the Code of Conduct." Disasters 29 (4), 323-336.
Valid International (2005) "Independent Evaluation of the DEC Tsunami Crisis Response"
Humanitarian Initiatives (2001) "Independent Evaluation: The DEC Response to the Earthquake in Gujarat"

War casualties
International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement
Codes of conduct
Risk management
1992 documents