[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Night of the Murdered Poets

such a great number of discrepancies and contradictions, twice made attempts to appeal to the Soviet leadership to reopen the investigation and was denied both times. Even after sentencing the defendants, Cheptsov attempted to lengthen the process by declining to immediately execute the defendants.

Sentence
The sentence stated that the defendants would receive "the severest measure of punishment for the crimes committed by them jointly: execution, with all of their property to be confiscated." The court also stripped the men of their medals and made petitions to remove military commendations such as the Order of Lenin and the Order of the Red Banner of Labour. On 12 August 1952, thirteen of the defendants (excluding Lina Stern and Solomon Bregman) were executed in the basement of Lubyanka Prison. After the execution of the defendants, the trial and its results were kept secret. There was not a single reference to the trial or the execution in Soviet newspapers. Defendants' families were charged with "being relatives of traitors to the motherland" and exiled in December 1952. They did not learn about the fates of their family members until November 1955, when the case was reopened.

The defendant Lina Stern was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in a correctional labour camp, followed by five years of exile; however, after Stalin's death, she was able to return to her home and continue her studies. During the trial, she was determined to be "no less guilty" than the other defendants but was considered important to the state because of her research; she, therefore, received a lesser sentence than the others. Officials counted her time spent in prison before the sentencing towards her labour camp term, so she went into exile immediately after the sentencing.

During his imprisonment, Solomon Bregman collapsed and was placed in the prison infirmary. He remained unconscious until his death on 23 January 1953.

Aftermath
Stalin continued his oppression of Jews with the Doctors' plot. Weeks after Stalin's death, on 5 March 1953, the new Soviet leadership renounced the Doctors' plot, which led to questions about the similar situation with the JAC defendants. Upon the discovery that much of the testimony from the trial was the result of torture and coercion, the proceedings were reexamined. On 22 November 1955, the Military Collegium of the Supreme Court of the USSR determined that there was "no substance to the charges" against the defendants and closed the case.

Many of the surviving members of the JAC emigrated to Israel in the 1970s. A memorial for the JAC victims was dedicated in Jerusalem in 1977, on the 25th anniversary of the Night of the Murdered Poets.

The anniversary of the murders was commemorated by the activists of the Soviet Jewry Movement in the 1960s through the 1980s as an example of a particularly grim anti-Jewish act by the Soviets.

See also
 Doctors' plot, an alleged post-war conspiracy by Jewish doctors to murder Stalinist officials, later proved fictitious.
 Nathan Englander, whose short story "The Twenty-seventh Man" is an allusion to this event.
Raoul Wallenberg, who rescued countless Jews during the Holocaust through the War Refugee Board, was possibly also killed in the Lubyanka Building.

Notes

External links
50 Years After The Night of the Murdered Poets By Shai Franklin
50th anniversary of the Night of the Murdered Poets National Coalition Supporting Soviet Jewry August 12, 2002, Letter from President Bush, links
Stalin's Secret Pogrom: The Postwar Inquisition of the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee (introduction) by Joshua Rubenstein
Seven-fold Betrayal: The Murder of Soviet Yiddish by Joseph Sherman
Unknown History, Unheroic Martyrs by Jonathan Tobin
 
 Photographs of a 1986 Night of the Murdered Poets vigil at the American Jewish Historical Society, New York, NY

1952 in the Soviet Union
Antisemitic attacks and incidents in Europe
Jews and Judaism in the Soviet Union
Soviet rehabilitations
Political and cultural purges
Yiddish-language literature
Jews executed by the Soviet Union
Antisemitism in the Soviet Union
Trials in Russia
Soviet show trials
August 1952 events in Europe
1952 in Moscow
1952 in Russia
1952 in Judaism
Persecution of intellectuals
1952 murders in the Soviet Union
Executed writers