[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Terry Hurlock

Full Members Cup Final, losing 3–2 to Nottingham Forest after extra time. Hurlock made 33 appearances during the inaugural season of the new Premier League, before falling out of favour the following year departing in February 1994. He made 71 appearances and scored two goals in -years at The Dell.

Return to Millwall 
Hurlock dropped down to the First Division to rejoin high-flying Millwall on 25 February 1994 on a free transfer. He had an ignominious return to action with the Lions, lasting just nine minutes after being the first of three players sent off in a 0–0 draw with Leicester City on 6 March. Hurlock made 15 appearances during what remained of the 1993–94 season, helping the club to a third-place finish and a spot in the playoffs, but his season ended on a sour note after a 5–1 defeat on aggregate to Derby County in the semi-finals. Hurlock departed the club after the season and finished his Millwall career having made 138 appearances and scored 10 goals across his two spells. He is regarded with legend status amongst the Lions supporters and is a member of the club's Hall of Fame.

Fulham 
Hurlock signed for Third Division club Fulham in July 1994. He made 27 league appearances and scored one goal during the 1994–95 season, in which the Cottagers narrowly missed out on a place in the playoffs. Ahead of the 1995–96 season, Hurlock sustained a double leg break at the hands of Brentford defender Martin Grainger in a pre-season friendly between the two clubs. The injury forced him to retire from football at the age of 36. During his one season with Fulham, Hurlock set an unwanted record of 61 disciplinary points.

International career 
Hurlock's performances for Millwall in the First Division during the 1988–89 season saw him called into the England B squad for three friendlies in May 1989. He scored on his second appearance, opening the scoring in a 2–0 win over Iceland.

Quotes
 "I stayed away from him as much as possible!" – David Beckham recalls a match against Fulham during his loan spell at Preston North End
 "Some of us [Millwall players] were playfully goading Terry about what he was going to do to Vinnie Jones in the upcoming fixture with Wimbledon. Without saying a word, he got up from the table and walked to the entrance of the pub and ripped the door off its hinges" – Millwall teammate Tony Cascarino
 "Absolute hero. He was a very, very hard player, but a very, very intelligent player" – Millwall supporter Bob Crow
 "Intimidating? He just had to growl at the opposition and they'd be scared, but he was also a decent player" – Millwall teammate Teddy Sheringham
 Q: "What's your favourite animal?" A: "Terry Hurlock" – Millwall teammate Neil Ruddock
 "Hurlock was like Michael Bolton crossed with a pit-bull and was brought in to add some bite to the Saints midfield" – Chris Rann, Metro
 "I'd come here (Brentford) as a young professional and he just epitomised it. He was just a leader and I only thought – if I could emulate this fellow. He'd get press for his ruggedness and tough tackling, but he could play. Week in, week out, year after year Tel was ripping up trees for Brentford. He was a great player. If you're a poor player you aren't going to go on and play for Glasgow Rangers" – Brentford teammate Terry Evans

Personal life 
During his time with Brentford, Hurlock was convinced by chairman Martin Lange to buy a house next to the club's Griffin Park ground. He was friends with Millwall supporter Bob Crow and has worked for the RMT since 2012.

Career statistics

Honours
Reading
Football League Third Division: 1985–86

Millwall
Football League Second Division: 1987–88

Rangers
 Scottish League Premier Division: 1990–91
 Scottish League Cup: 1990–91

Southampton
Full Members Cup runner-up: 1991–92

Individual
Brentford Supporters' Player of the Year: 1980–81
 Brentford Players' Player of the Year: 1980–81
 Football League Third Division PFA Team of the Year: 1985–86
 Millwall Player of the Year: 1988–89
 Millwall Hall of Fame

References

External links

Living people
1958 births
England men's B international footballers
English men's footballers
Brentford F.C. players
Reading F.C. players
Millwall F.C. players
Rangers F.C. players
Southampton F.C. players
Fulham F.C. players
Enfield F.C. players
Premier League players
Footballers from the London Borough of Hackney
West Ham United F.C. players
English Football League players
Scottish Football League players
Redbridge Forest F.C. players
Isthmian League players
Men's association football midfielders