[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alexander Boteler

estroyed: the homes of Andrew Hunter near Charles Town and "Bedford", the home of Edmund J. Lee (cousin of the Confederate general) were also burned per that order, although the home of Charles J. Faulkner in Martinsburg would be spared based on the entreaties of his wife and Union-allied relatives.

On April 25, 1865, Boteler wrote his wife about his attempt to return to Petersburg on April 2, 1865, then receiving a parole from Grant at Appomattox Court House on April 9, falling ill during his journey to devastated Richmond (feeling "utterly lost and bewildered in the midst of ruins which extend as far as the eye can reach"), and being unable to return home via the railroad from Baltimore because of Lincoln's assassination.

Postwar years
After the war, Boteler's cement mill was sold at auction in 1867 since he lacked funds to rebuild it (having invested in Confederate war bonds). Rebuilt by investors, it remained in operation until 1901.

Living in Shepherdstown, Boteler remained active in his community. He led projects to bring the Shenandoah Valley Railroad to Shepardstown, as well as to connect his hometown by telegraph to the wider world. In 1871, Boteler helped found Shepherd College, in the vacant building built by his late son-in-law that Shepherdstown had hoped would remain the county courthouse (Charles Town regained the county seat after considerable litigation). Boteler benefited from legislation restoring political rights to Confederates in June 1872, and then unsuccessfully ran for Congress as an Independent in 1872 and 1874.

Boteler also continued to write and sketch, although his books about James Rumsey and about temperance were never published. He traveled widely, speaking at Confederate reunions, which delighted in his tales about Stonewall Jackson and J.E.B. Stuart as well as John Brown's raid. In 1883, Boteler responded to a speech by Frederick Douglass at the dedication of Storer College in Harpers Ferry by publishing an article about his experience of that raid in Century Magazine. A decade later the Boston Military History Society bought some of his sketches. His account of Stonewall Jackson's Campaign in 1862 was published posthumously by the Southern Historical Society.

Appointed West Virginia's representative to the Centennial Commission in 1873, Botler was later appointed a member of the Tariff Commission by President Chester A. Arthur (which caused him to travel widely in 1882-1884). He also was employed as a pardon clerk in the Department of Justice by Attorney General Benjamin H. Brewster, serving until 1889. (Following the Panic of 1890, the Republican party would lose badly in the 1990 election)

In 1885, the Morgans Grove Agricultural Association held a fair on the property of his neighbor William A. Morgan. The Shenandoah Valley Railroad built a stop for the event, which was a great success. The fair continued annually, becoming a four day event and in June 1889 the association bought Boteler's Fountain Rock property, moved some fair buildings onto it, then constructed a wooden pavilion in 1890.

Death and legacy

Boteler died in Shepherdstown, West Virginia, on May 8, 1892, months after his wife of five decades and was interred with her at Elmwood Cemetery. Duke University's library holds the Boteler family's papers. His diary is in the William Elizabeth Brooks Collection in the Library of Congress.

The ruins of Boteler's cement mill still exist and were bought in 2011 by a coalition of government and nonprofit groups, with the intention of adding that site to the Antietam National Battlefield Park. The former site of "Fountain Head" overlooking the Potomac River became the site for the gazebo in Morgans Grove Park. Only the spring house (constructed by his father in 1831) remains from Boteler's lifetime. The fairs continued annually after Boteler sold the acreage in 1889, but came on hard times in 1931, so the property was sold to a farmer circa 1941. The Shepherdstown Men's Club bought 20 acres in 1961 for use as a civic park; a gazebo was built on the overlook where the Fountain Head manor house had once stood. Shepherd College in 1952 erected a male residence hall and named it for Boteler, but it was demolished in 1990 when asbestos was discovered.

See also

Morgan's Grove

References

 

|-