[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gideon Greif

ng the number of Serb victims at Jasenovac." According to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, somewhere between 77,000 and 99,000 Serbs, Jews, Roma, and Croat opponents of the Ustaša regime were killed at Jasenovac, of whom between 45,000 and 52,000 were ethnic Serbs.

Srebrenica Commission

In 2019, Grief was appointed by Bosnia's member of presidency and Serb entity Republika Srpska leader Milorad Dodik to head an independent International Commission of Inquiry to probe the events of the Srebrenica massacre during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina (1992-1995). The concluding report published in July 2021 denied genocide in Srebrenica, "also repeatedly casts the Bosniaks as aggressors and the Bosnian Serbs as victims" prior to 1995. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia as well as the International Court of Justice and domestic courts have characterised these killings as genocide. American and U.N. diplomats and the Srebrenica Genocide Memorial Center commented that the commission was a bid to rewrite history, as the Republika Srpska's officials, including Milorad Dodik, had openly minimised the number of killed or denied it was a genocide. General Counsel of the World Jewish Congress, Menachem Z. Rosensaft, who teaches genocide law at Columbia Law School, strongly criticised the report, calling it an "embarrassment". Brezar commented that Serb nationalist politicians "are hiring Jewish experts on the Holocaust – and not for their expertise. Rather, they need Jews as tokens to legitimize their projects of historical revisionism". Writing in the Israeli newspaper Haaretz,  Rosensaft criticized Greif for declaring on Republika Srpska television that "I am Jewish, I know what genocide means… Nobody can tell me what genocide is, and this event was no genocide."

In November 2021, Greif was announced as a recipient for an award of special achievement by the German government for his work on the Holocaust. However, following diplomatic fallout in Germany due to his contention that the Srebrenica massacre perpetrated by Bosnian Serb forces in 1995 did not constitute genocide, the German Foreign Ministry in December 2021 announced that the award has been "withdrawn", explaining that the conclusions of the commission headed by Greif "contradict the case law of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, the International Court of Justice and the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide".

Later, Israeli media published alleged Greif's interview where he said that he accepted number of 8,000 deaths, but still denies it was genocide due to the fact that absolute majority of victims were men in the attempt to break towards the territory controlled by Bosniak army, prompting the associate executive Vice President of the World Jewish Congress, Menachem Rosensaft to say this was "a rather desperate attempt at damage control." "No amount of prevarication or sophistry on his part can change the fundamental fact that the parameters of the crime of genocide are set forth in the Genocide Convention and have been repeatedly and consistently applied to Srebrenica by successive tribunals", Rosensaft added. Greif denied later on that he gave any statement to Israeli media and accused radical organisation Muslim brotherhood and Bosniak politicians for the anti-campaign against the report.

Awards
For his involvement "in defense of the truth about the suffering of the Jewish, Serbian and other peoples during the World War II" he was awarded the Golden Medal for Merits of the Republic of Serbia.

 Knight of the St. Sava Order of Diplomatic Pacifism (Serbian: Vitez svetosavskog pacifizma)
 Sretenje Order- Golden Award for Merits (Serbian: Sretenjski orden - zlatna medalja za zasluge)
 Plaque of Jasenovac Martyrs (Serbian: Plaketa Jasenovackih stradalnika)
 Sokolov Award, Israeli journalism award, awarded by the Tel Aviv municipality, in memory of Nahum Sokolow.

Books
 Jasenovac Ausvic Balkana - Ustaska Imperija Okrutnosti, Jasenovac Auschwitz of the Balkans - Ustasha Empire of Cruelty, 
  Alojzije Stepinac Ustaski Vikar - Pokrsti Se Ili Umri - 101 Razlog Zasto Ne Moze Biti Svetac - Alojzije Stepinac Ustasha Vicar - Convert or Die - 101 Reason Why He Cannot Be a Saint, 
 Ustasko Konacno Resenje Pre Nacistickog - Ustasha Final Solution Before Nazi Final Solution,

References 

1951 births
Historians of the Holocaust
Israeli historians
Living people
Tel Aviv University alumni
University of Vienna alumni
Deniers of the Bosnian genocide