[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Martin Witherspoon Gary

goal of overturning the Republicans.

Gary's tactics helped Hampton to win, as black Republican voting was deeply suppressed in Aiken and Edgefield counties. In addition, Hampton had expressed himself as a moderate with paternalistic interest in blacks and won their trust and votes in several areas.

In Edgefield and Laurens counties, the total votes for Hampton exceeded the total number of registered voters. The election returns from these two counties were challenged by the state board of returns. Their contribution was critical, as Hampton had a victory margin of only 1100 votes statewide. Hampton's victory resulted from a deal between South Carolina Democratic leaders and the national Republican Party.  In April 1877 Republican candidate Hayes received the hitherto contested votes of South Carolina electors and was finally declared the winner of the contested United States presidential race. In return, he ordered the withdrawal of Federal troops from South Carolina and Louisiana, ending the formal Reconstruction era.

Gary was elected to the state senate from Edgefield County in 1876, defeating Lawrence Cain, and was reelected in 1878. During his time in the State Senate, he became a vocal opponent of Governor Hampton because Hampton blocked his appointment to a U.S. Senate seat in 1877 and 1879.  In addition, Hampton and his allies prevented Gary's candidacy in the gubernatorial election of 1880. Upon leaving the South Carolina Senate in 1881, Gary returned to his family home in Cokesbury. He died there on April 9, and was buried in Tabernacle Cemetery in Cokesbury.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References

External links
 
South Carolina Legislature Biography of Martin Witherspoon Gary
South Carolina Encyclopedia Biography of Martin Witherspoon Gary

1831 births
1881 deaths
People from Cokesbury, South Carolina
South Carolina lawyers
Democratic Party South Carolina state senators
Democratic Party members of the South Carolina House of Representatives
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
People of South Carolina in the American Civil War
Harvard University alumni
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers
American white supremacists