[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 4th Engineer Battalion (United States)

The 4th Engineer Battalion (the Vanguard of the 4th Division) is an engineer battalion of the United States Army. It is made up of combat engineers. The unit saw action in the American Civil War, World War I, World War II, Vietnam War, and the Global War on Terrorism, to include Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom.

Coat of arms

Blazon

 Shield: Gules, a fess wavy Argent, on a canton Or an anchor debruised by two oars in saltire of the field.
 Crest: From a wreath Argent and Gules a dexter cubit arm mailed Proper grasping four arrows Gules armed and feathered Argent.
 Motto: "VOLENS ET POTENS" (Willing and Able).

Symbolism
 Shield: Scarlet and white are the colors of the Corps of Engineers.The wavy fess alludes to the outstanding feat accomplished by the organization in World War I, in which the regiment bridged the Vesle under heavy fire, making possible the forcing of the passage by the Division.The yellow canton, representative of the color of the Engineers' facing when the old companies of the regiment were organized in 1861, refers to the 2nd Engineers, from which the 4th Engineers was organized in 1916.The device on the canton was the badge of the Engineers and Pontoniers of the American Civil War.
 Crest: The mailed hand and arrows are indicative of the combat capabilities of the unit, the number of arrows corresponding to the numerical designation of the battalion.
 Background: The coat of arms was originally approved for the 4th Engineer Regiment on 21 January 1921.It was redesignated for the 4th Engineer Battalion on 4 December 1940.

Distinctive unit insignia
 Description: A Gold metal and enamel device  in height overall consisting of a shield blazoned: Gules a fess wavy Argent; on a canton Or an anchor debruised by two oars in saltire of the field. Attached below the shield is a Gold scroll inscribed "VOLENS ET POTENS" in red letters.
 Symbolism: Scarlet and white are the colors of the Corps of Engineers.The wavy fess alludes to the outstanding feat accomplished by the organization in World War I, in which the regiment bridged the Vesle under heavy fire, making possible the forcing of the passage by the Division.The yellow canton, representative of the color of the Engineers' facing when the old companies of the regiment were organized in 1861, refers to the 2nd Engineers, from which the 4th Engineers was organized in 1916.The device on the canton was the badge of the Engineers and Pontoniers of the Civil War.
 Background: The distinctive unit insignia was originally approved for the 4th Regiment Engineers on 18 February 1927.It was redesignated for the 4th Engineer Battalion on 5 December 1940.

Formation and early history

The battalion was organized 31 December 1861 in the Regular Army at Washington, D.C., from new and existing companies of engineers as a provisional engineer battalion. The battalion participated in major campaigns and battles in the American Civil War to include: Peninsula Campaign (March 1862), Battle of Antietam (September 1862), Battle of Fredericksburg (December 1862), Battle of Chancellorsville (April 1863), Battle of the Wilderness (May 1864), Battle of Spotsylvania Court House (May 1864), Cold Harbor (June 1864), Siege of Petersburg (June 1864-March 1865), and the Confederate surrender after the Battle of Appomattox Court House (April 1865). It was constituted 28 July 1866 as the Battalion of Engineers. The battalion also participated in the War with Spain at the Battle of Santiago in July 1898 and the Philippine Insurrection in 1899. The battalion was then expanded 14 March-7 June 1901 to form the 1st and 2nd Battalions of Engineers.

The Great War and World War II