[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dimitri Kitsikis

n life and worship. As Orthodoxy prevailed over the heresy of Iconoclasm in the 9th century and restored the use of the icon in Christian worship, he stood convinced that the Old Calendar will once again be adopted by those Orthodox Churches which rejected it in the earlier part of the 20th century.

Since the 1970s he has taught Chinese and Turkish history, political ideologies and geopolitics at a number of universities in the West. His plethora of books have been translated in many languages, while articles concerning his work have been published in Chinese, South Slavic languages, German, French, Albanian, English, Spanish, Portuguese and Russian. He also taught at Boğaziçi University in Istanbul, where he had as a student, the future prime minister of Turkey, Ahmet Davutoğlu. Kitsikis is considered to have had a decisive influence, on Davutoğlu's geopolitical theory.

Later, he taught at Bilkent University in Ankara and Gediz University in Izmir and became one of the closest friends and advisers of the President of the Turkish Republic, Turgut Özal. In Greece, he was resident researcher at the National Institute of Social Studies and taught at Deree College, the American College in Athens.

He was a public figure in Greece and had been a close friend and advisor of Greek Premier Konstantinos Karamanlis senior in the 1960s and 1970s. He contributed regularly with political articles to Greek magazines and, since 1996, published in Athens a Greek quarterly journal of Geopolitics named after his civilisation model, «Endiamese Perioche, Ἐνδιάμεση Περιοχή» or "Intermediate Region".

Named after his father, who died in 1978, the "Nikos Kitsikis Library and Archives" resides in the home of family member, the former high commissioner of Smyrna (during the Greek occupation of the city between 1919 and 1922) Aristidis Stergiadis (1861–1949), in Herakleion, Crete. Dimitri Kitsikis was honoured by the Greek State in 2006. The latter established and financed the "Dimitri Kitsikis Public Foundation and Library" in Athens.

Work 

Kitsikis, since the 1960s, has been the recognised theorist, first in Greece and then in Turkey, of the idea of a Greek-Turkish Confederation, which he has promoted by influencing statesmen, politicians, journalists, artists and thinkers in both countries. His books in Turkish became best sellers in Turkey and were praised by the Prime Minister of Turkey. He kept close ties with Prime Ministers Konstantinos Karamanlis senior of Greece and Turgut Özal of Turkey as well as the Chinese leaders Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping. His books in Greek created one of the greatest controversies ever encountered in Greek historiography. They were even debated in the Greek Parliament. The well-established notion of Greeks enslaved by Turks and a series of beliefs on the Ottoman Empire, which had been traditionally taught in schools and universities throughout Greece, such as the story of the so-called "secret school," were strongly questioned. While his father, Nikos Kitsikis, rector of the Polytechnical School, was a leftist Member of Parliament, Senator and elected Mayor of Athens, Dimitri Kitsikis was averse towards the parliamentary system, which he regarded as foreign to the Greek model of a government by the people or laocracy, Greek "λαοκρατία".

He has been the initiator in France of the branch of the History of International Relations that deals with propaganda and pressure as a government weapon of foreign policy. He also opened the way to the study of technocracy in international politics. He has insisted that religion is an essential component of international politics and strove by conferences and other means to facilitate the collaboration between the four main religions of Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Hinduism. He organised Orthodox dialogues with Iranian Shiites and Indian Hindus. He worked with Israeli Jews and fundamentalist Catholics from Quebec, where he, along with his students, produced the quarterly journal Aquila (eagle) which, with a double-headed eagle on the front cover promoted the Byzantine imperial idea in Catholic circles. He also worked closely with Fethullah Gülen's Hizmet movement (See Gülen's "Dialog of Civilizations Platform"). However, the idea of a global hellenism is prevalent in all his works and teaching.

He created a model for a new approach of the three political ideologies of liberalism, fascism and communism, and he has published on the history of China. He is the founder of the branch of study known as Photohistory.