[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Baker (British politician)

hundred miles from the forward base to discover the location of German troops. Late in 1943, the squadron withdrew to Trani, where Baker developed abdominal pains; he was flown back to Britain before Christmas, and was given four weeks' sick leave before being passed as fit for sedentary duty only.

He was then recruited by MI9, and was offered and accepted the command of a small reconnaissance and intelligence unit which was part of Intelligence School 9 (Western European Area). I.S.9 (W.E.A.) was a small executive branch formed by Airey Neave and Jimmy Langley (after the war IS 9 was transformed into the 23 SAS Regiment based in the Midlands). Baker's role was to run and reorganise resistance groups and escape routes in France and Belgium in preparation for the forthcoming landings in France on D-Day; his section was attached to 21st Army Group under the ultimate command of SHAEF. Assembling near Portsmouth at the end of May 1944, and crossed into France on D-Day itself (with the unit's support equipment crossing seven days later).

In Operation Marathon, Baker was part of the group, led by Airey Neave, that rescued a group of 152 Allied pilots who were hidden in the Fréteval Forest near Châteaudun. Upon their return, they discovered that 10 escapees were unaccounted for, and Baker returned to save the others. He followed the Allied armies into Paris and Brussels when they were liberated, before arriving in the Netherlands and basing himself in Eindhoven in September 1944. He was told to find a member of the Dutch resistance who could cross behind the German defences in Holland to act as a liaison between the allies and the resistance in preparation of the allied landings during Operation Market Garden. It was strongly suggested that Baker would make use of a member of Bernhard von Lippe-Biesterfeld's entourage by the name of Christiaan Lindemans, who turned out to be a double-agent codenamed 'King Kong'.

Taken prisoner
In early October, Baker and Neave moved their unit to just west of Nijmegen, and Neave obtained permission to send Baker (codenamed 'Harrier') through enemy lines to make contact with the Dutch Resistance. Baker was ordered to wear his British Army uniform and not leave his safe house during the day. On 11 October, Neave accompanied Baker to the River Waal, where he crossed in a canoe, and eventually made contact with the Resistance. The same canoe was used to bring out Dutch diplomat Herman van Roijen (later Dutch foreign minister) with critical intelligence information for his government in exile.

He stayed at a farmhouse where he was hosted by local resistance member Fekko Ebbens and his family. Baker was joined there a day or two later by Private First Class Theodore Bachenheimer (from the 504th Parachute Infantry of the US Army). Baker disobeyed orders by exchanging his military uniform for civilian clothes upon the insistence of the local resistance. Baker and PFC Bachenheimer walked around the area during the day and within sight of German troops.

On the night of 16–17 October, the house was raided by German forces who had already been surveilling the farm. Baker and Bachenheimer were arrested while sleeping and taken away as prisoners of war. Fekko Ebbens, the head of the Ebbens family was executed some months later as reprisal for an attack on German troops by the Dutch resistance. Baker's superiors were furious that his disobedience threatened the rescue, Operation Pegasus, of hundreds of British paratroopers stranded in German-controlled territory.

Escape attempt
After interrogation in a primary school in Tiel, Baker and Bachenheimer were taken to a transit camp at Culemborg, and were then marched 45 km on foot to another transit camp near Amersfoort. From there, a five-day train journey took Baker to Stalag XI-B at Bad Fallingbostel where he was to stay until sent on to Oflag 79 in Braunschweig. During the journey, PFC Bachenheimer escaped, but was shot by German forces near the village of 't Harde on the night of 22–23 October. Baker was forced to abandon his own plans to escape from the train, but on arriving at Fallingbostel noticed that escape was possible there. He joined with a Belgian officer and a Malagasy French liaison officer named Jacques Hannebicque to make plans.