[Source: PubMed]

60. J Law Med Ethics. 2025;53(S1):55-58. doi: 10.1017/jme.2025.22. Epub 2025 Mar
21.

The Proposed Pandemic Agreement: A Pivotal Moment for Global Health Law.

Villarreal PA(1), Gross A(2), Phelan A(3).

Author information:
(1)German Institute for International and Security Affairs, Berlin, BE, Germany.
(2)Tel Aviv University Buchmann Faculty of Law, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Tel Aviv 
District, Israel.
(3)Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, 
Maryland, United States.

This article discusses the prospects and pitfalls of a legally binding pandemic 
agreement under the auspices of the World Health Organization, currently under 
negotiation in Geneva. Such an agreement could foster a rules-based pandemic 
prevention, preparedness and response as a reaction to the failures by states 
during the COVID-19 pandemic, including a lack of effective coordination for 
sharing all kinds of data and the global inequity in the distribution of medical 
goods fueled by vaccine nationalism. Achieving these goals, however, will depend 
upon a meaningful engagement by delegations negotiating the agreement, a legally 
sound formulation of its provisions, and overcoming the currently pervasive 
emergency-bias in this field of global health law. Thus, as advocated by 
Lawrence Gostin in his seminal treatise on Global Health Law ten years ago, the 
pandemic agreement could help realize the transformative potential of law for 
facing one of the greatest health threats to humanity.

DOI: 10.1017/jme.2025.22
PMID: 40116223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. BMJ Glob Health. 2020 Jun;5(6):e002606. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2020-002606.

Rapid urban health security assessment tool: a new resource for evaluating 
local-level public health preparedness.

Boyce MR(1), Katz R(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health Science & Security, Georgetown University, 
Washington, District of Columbia, USA mb2266@georgetown.edu.
(2)Center for Global Health Science & Security, Georgetown University, 
Washington, District of Columbia, USA.

Urbanisation will be one of the defining demographic trends of the 21st 
century-creating unique opportunities for sustainable capacity development, as 
well as substantial risks and challenges for managing public health and health 
emergencies. Plans and policies for responding to public health emergencies are 
generally framed at higher levels of governance, but developing, improving and 
sustaining the capacities necessary for implementing these policies is a direct 
function of local-level authorities. Evaluating local-level public health 
capacities is an important process for identifying strengths and weaknesses that 
can impact the preparedness for, detection of and response to health security 
threats. However, while various evaluations and assessments exist for evaluating 
capacities at other levels, currently, there are no readily available health 
security assessments for the local-level. In this paper, we describe a tool-the 
Rapid Urban Health Security Assessment (RUHSA) Tool-that is based on a variety 
of other relevant assessments and guidance documents. Assessing capacities allow 
for local-level authorities to identify the strengths and weaknesses of their 
local health security systems, create multiyear action plans and prioritise 
opportunities for improving capacities, effectively engage with development 
partners to target resources effectively and develop compelling narratives and a 
legacy of leadership. While the RUHSA Tool was not designed to be used in the 
midst of a public health emergency, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, it 
may also be adapted to inform a checklist for prioritising what capacities and 
activities a city needs to rapidly develop or to help focus requests for 
assistance.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2020-002606
PMCID: PMC7299020
PMID: 32546588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.