[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1st Iowa Infantry Regiment

The 1st Iowa Infantry Regiment was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. The regiment's soldiers had enlisted for a period of three months after President Abraham Lincoln called for 75,000 volunteer soldiers in April 1861 after the outbreak of the war. The regiment was officially mustered in on May 14, and John F. Bates was elected as the regiment's commander. Starting out its service at Keokuk, Iowa, the regiment was transferred to Missouri in June, where it joined the forces of Nathaniel Lyon at Boonville. In July, the regiment marched with Lyon from Boonville to Springfield, and it participated in a skirmish at Forsyth on July 22.

On August 2, two companies of the regiment were present at the Battle of Dug Springs, and the entire regiment was engaged at the Battle of Wilson's Creek on August 10, when Lyon launched a surprise attack against the combined camps of the Missouri State Guard and a Confederate States Army force. At Wilson's Creek, the 1st Iowa fought on a prominence known as Bloody Hill, first on Lyon's left flank and then moving to another position to support the 1st Kansas Infantry Regiment. After Lyon was killed, his army, including the 1st Iowa, withdrew to Rolla. Mustered out at St. Louis on August 20 or 23, the men of the regiment returned to Iowa, where many reenlisted in other units.

Service

Formation
The American Civil War began on April 12, 1861, with the Battle of Fort Sumter, in which troops of the Confederate States of America fired on a United States Army installation in Charleston Harbor. The Confederacy was a collection of slaveholding states that had seceded from the United States following the election of abolitionist Abraham Lincoln as president. The fort's garrison surrendered the next day, and on April 15 Lincoln called for troops to suppress the Confederacy. As part of Lincoln's call, which asked for 75,000 volunteer soldiers, the state of Iowa was asked to furnish a single regiment. In the patriotic fervor of the early days of the war, more men volunteered than Iowa's single regiment could contain. Ten companies were chosen to compose the infantry regiment, each with a minimum of 78 men; two companies each were taken from Des Moines County, Muscatine County, and Dubuque County, with single companies from Johnson County, Linn County, Henry County, and Scott County. The basis for these companies were pre-existing local militia units. A number of the soldiers were immigrants, with three companies being predominantly German and another Irish. Most of the men enlisted out of a desire to put down a rebellion against the United States government, and not out of abolitionist sentiment.

While the companies had been admitted to federal service by local officials upon their formation, regimental organization officially occurred on May 11, after the men had gathered at Keokuk, Iowa. That same day, the regiment held an election for officers. John F. Bates was elected colonel, William H. Merritt as lieutenant colonel, and Asbury B. Porter as major. The regiment mustered in three days later, to serve for a term of three months, although the regiment believed that their term of service had an earlier beginning date than what the federal government considered it to be. The total number of men enrolled in the regiment was 959.  The First Iowa remained in Keokuk into June, although the regiment trained as individual companies instead of as an entire regiment until late May. Uniforms for the regiment were homemade and were not consistent throughout the unit: the shirts worn by the men varied in type and were a mixture of black, white, grey, and various shades of blue and blue-grey, while the pants could be pink, black, grey, or blue-grey.

Joining Lyon
The regiment was ordered to head to Missouri and join the forces of Brigadier General Nathaniel Lyon on June 13. Lyon was leading a multi-pronged offensive in Missouri, with his men clearing the pro-Confederate Missouri State Guard out of the Missouri River Valley, while other forces moved into southern Missouri to discourage Confederate involvement from Arkansas and to block the retreat of the forces Lyon had driven south. At the time they left Keokuk, the men were armed with antiquated flintlocks that had been converted to use the percussion cap system.  The next day, the regiment arrived at Hannibal, Missouri, where it guarded the Hannibal and St. Joseph Railroad from pro-Confederate bushwhackers.  Continuing on to Macon City on June 15, some of the men briefly took over a pro-Confederate newspaper.  On June 16, the 1st Iowa traveled to Renick by train, and then began a march to Boonville, where the men joined Lyon's main force on June 20 or June 21. During the march to Boonville, the regiment encountered several fugitive slaves: six were returned to their masters, and another one was driven from the camp.