[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness

done in September 1954 (The Status Convention).  This completed the unfinished work of the Refugee Convention three years prior.

On 4 December 1954 the UN General Assembly by Resolution adopted both drafts as the basis of its desire for a conference of plenipotentiaries and an eventual Convention.

How the convention works to reduce statelessness
In respect of contracting states:
 "Stateless birth" on their territory attracts the grant of their nationality (article 1). 
 Otherwise stateless persons may take the nationality of the place of their birth or of the place where they were found (in the case of a foundling), otherwise they may take the nationality of one of their parents (in each case possibly subject to a qualifying period of residence in that State) (article 2).
 A stateless person has some time beyond attaining adulthood to seek to claim the benefit of the Convention.  That time is always at least three years from the age of eighteen (article 1(5)).
 Transfer of territory between states must occur in a manner that avoids the occurrence of statelessness for persons residing in the territory transferred.  When a State acquires territory, the inhabitants of that territory presumptively acquire the nationality of that State (article 10).
 Persons otherwise stateless shall be able to take the nationality of one of their parents (possibly subject to a period of prior residence not more than three years) (article 4).
 Absent circumstances of fraudulent application or disloyalty toward the contracting state, deprivations and renunciations of citizenship shall only take effect where a person has or subsequently obtains another nationality in replacement (article 8).
 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) will issue travel documents evidencing nationality to persons, otherwise stateless, having a claim of nationality under the convention.
 Birth on a sea vessel or aircraft may attract the nationality of the flag of that vessel or craft (article 3).
 Disloyal or certain criminal conduct may limit an individual's ability to avail the benefit of the Convention (article 8). 
 The benefit of the Convention may be claimed by guardians on behalf of children (article 1(1)).
 States may impose a period of residence qualification for granting nationality to persons who may be otherwise stateless.  That period is a maximum five years immediately prior to application and maximum of ten years overall (article 1(2)).

Substantive provisions of the convention

There are 21 Articles, summarised below: