[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# De Oratore

know that, sometimes, the speech does not have the intended effect that the speaker wished it to have.
Also, orators tend to be judged harsher than others, as they are required to know so much about so many topics.
An orator is easily set-up by the very nature of what he does to be labeled ignorant.

Antonius completely agrees that an orator must have natural gifts and no master can teach him them. He appreciates Apollonius of Alabanda, a great master of rhetoric, who refused to continue teaching to those pupils he did not find able to become great orators.
If one studies other disciplines, he simply needs to be an ordinary man.
But for an orator, there are so many requirements such as the subtility of a logician, the mind of a philosopher, the language of a poet, the memory of a lawyer, the voice of a tragic actor and the gesture of the most skilled actor.
Crassus finally considers how little attention is paid in learning the art of oratory versus other arts.
Roscius, a famous actor, often complained that he hadn't found a pupil who deserved his approval. There were many with good qualities, but he could not tolerate any fault in them. If we consider this actor, we can see that he makes no gesture of absolute perfection, of highest grace, exactly to give the public emotion and pleasure. In so many years, he reached such a level of perfection, that everyone, who distinguishes himself in a particular art, is called a Roscius in his field.
The man who does not have the natural ability for oratory, he should instead try to achieve something that is more within his grasp.

Crassus replies to some objections by Cotta and Sulpicius
Sulpicius asks Crassus if he is advising Cotta and him to give up with oratory and rather to study civil right or to follow a military career.
Crassus explains that his words are addressed to other young people, who have not the natural talent for oratory, rather than discourage Sulpicius and Cotta, who have great talent and passion for it.

Cotta replies that, given that Crassus stimulates them to dedicate themselves to oratory, now it is time to reveal the secret of his excellence in oratory.
Moreover, Cotta wishes to know which other talents they have still to reach, apart those natural, which they have—according to Crassus.

Crassus says that this is quite an easy task, since he asks him to tell about his own oratory ability, and not about the art of oratory in general.
Therefore, he will expose his usual method, which he used once when he was young, not anything strange or mysterious nor difficult nor solemn.

Sulpicius exults: "At last the day we desired so much, Cotta, has come! We will be able to listen from his very words the way he elaborates and prepares his speeches".

Fundamentals of rhetoric
"I will not tell you anything really mysterious", Crassus says the two listeners.
First is a liberal education and follow the lessons that are taught in these classes.
The main task of an orator is to speak in a proper way to persuade the audience; second, each speech can be on a general matter, without citing persons and dates, or a specific one, regarding particular persons and circumstances.
In both cases, it is usual to ask:
if the fact has happened and, if so,
which is its nature
how can it be defined
if it is legal or not.
There are three kind of speeches: first, those in the courts, those in public assemblies, and those that praise or blame someone.

There are also some topics (loci) to be used in trials, whose aim is justice; other ones to be used in assemblies, whose aim is give opinions; other ones to be used in laudatory speeches, whose aim is to celebrate the cited person.

All energy and ability of the orator must apply to five steps:
find the arguments (inventio)
dispose them in logical order, by importance and opportunity (dispositio)
ornate the speech with devices of the rhetoric style (elocutio)
retain them in memory (memoria)
expose the speech with art of grace, dignity, gesture, modulation of voice and face (actio).

Before pronouncing the speech, it is  necessary to gain the goodwill of the audience;
then expose the argument; after, establish the dispute;
subsequently, show evidence of one's own thesis; then, rebut the other party's arguments;
finally, remark our strong positions and weaken the other's.

As regards the ornaments of style, first one is taught to speak with pure and Latin language (ut pure et Latine loquamur); second to express oneself clearly; third to speak with elegance and corresponding to the dignity of the arguments and conveniently.
The rhetors' rules are useful means for the orator. The fact is, however, that these rules came out by the observation of some people on the natural gift of others.
That is, it is not the eloquence that is born from rhetoric, but the rhetoric is born by eloquence.
I do not refuse rhetoric, although I believe it is not indispensable for the orator.