[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Forgotten (1973 film)

stributors Derann, under their Crystal sub-label. The running time was truncated to less than 80 minutes; still, it was branded as a Video Nasty, and though it escaped prosecution, was effectively a 'banned' title. The film was passed uncut with a '15' certificate for DVD release in 2005.

Reception

Critical reception for The Forgotten has been mixed to negative.
Dave Sindelar on his film review website Fantastic Movie Musings and Ramblings gave the film a mixed review. In his review on the film Sindelar criticized the film's premise, calling it "hard to swallow" and the unnecessary nastiness of film's climax. However, Sindelar also wrote, "Nonetheless, the characters are quite interesting, and the acting from the cast of unknowns is excellent for such a low-budget movie, and there are enough moments sprinkled throughout the movie that show a sense of real sadness and a sense of humanity that give a greater texture to the proceedings. Ultimately, the strong points make the movie work, and I can appreciate it well enough, even if it does remain in that realm of movies that are simply not much fun for me."
Rob Gonsalves from ‘’eFilmCritic.com’’  awarded the film one out of five stars, calling it “a grade-Z horror flick”.

Cavett Binion of AllMovie gave it a generally favorable review, writing, "somehow the intrinsic sleaziness generated by the threadbare production manages to lend it a remarkably suitable ambience."
TV Guide gave the film a positive review, writing, “Despite the overall cheapness of the production, director S.F. Brownrigg does manage to convey a sense of seedy claustrophobia during the depraved proceedings.” Almar Haflidason from BBC gave the film three out of five stars.

Legacy

Remake
In May 2008, a remake of the film was being planned by directors Alan Rowe Kelly and Anthony G. Sumner. Filming was scheduled for October 2008 in Indiana with a planned 2009 release, but this version never came to fruition.

In March 2017, former horror punk guitarist from the Misfits, Doyle Wolfgang Von Frankenstein, was put to star in Death Ward 13, a remake and continuation of Don't Look in the Basement, to be directed by Todd Nunes (All Through the House) and produced by The Readmond Company. The second planned remake has not yet come to fruition.

Sequel
In December 2013, a sequel titled Id: Don't Look in the Basement 2 was announced with Anthony Brownrigg, son of S.F. Brownrigg, directing. The film was shot in Texas in March/April 2014 and used several of the same locations from the original film. The sequel was eventually released in 2015.

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 

1973 films
1973 horror films
American psychological horror films
1970s psychological horror films
Films set in psychiatric hospitals
Films shot in Texas
Necrophilia in film
Video nasties
1970s English-language films
1970s American films