[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

e (Business US 20) and a former portion of Michigan Street from Lasalle Avenue to Marion Street. This is a part of the former northbound route of SR 933. From 2005 to 2017, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive followed the former Chapin Street from Washington Street to Lincoln Way West (Business US 20).

Iowa
 Des Moines: Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway (formerly Harding Road) originally traveled from Madison Avenue in the North Central part of the city south to Ingersoll Avenue near Downtown. Later, a new bypass was built just south of Downtown and was also named Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway. To connect the original parkway to the new beltway, an extension of the original street was built south of Ingersoll by constructing an underpass at Grand Avenue, bridges over the Raccoon River, and a new "T" intersection at Fleur Drive and the new Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway (beltway section). A left turn (to travel eastbound) is required at Fleur Drive to continue on Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway (Fleur Drive continues south). The new beltway extension of Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway is an east–west route that currently ends at S.E. 30th Street, east of the downtown area.

Kansas
The "Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. memorial highway" includes various portions:
 Coffeyville: A portion of US 166
 Kansas City: A portion of US 24 Fifth Street in Kansas City is also designated the "Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Highway".
 Topeka: A portion of Interstate 470
 Wichita: A portion of Interstate 135
 Manhattan: North/South from College Heights Rd. to Ft. Riley Boulevard, running past Ahearn Gymnasium where King gave his last speech at a University. 
Also:

Bonner Springs:  Martin Luther King Avenue is a two-block east–west residential street between S. 136th and 138th Streets.

Kentucky
 Ashland: Twelfth Street is also designated Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Frankfort: Frankfort's Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard travels south from US 60 and is designated KY 1659.
 Fulton: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a street in Fulton, from KY 129 to US 45. About half of the street is part of KY 307.
 Henderson: Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue runs from O'Byrne Street to US 41/US 60.
 Hopkinsville: US 68 Bypass is named Dr. Martin Luther King Drive.
 Lebanon: Martin Luther King Avenue travels parallel to US 68 and one block north of it through the center of town.
 Lexington: Martin Luther King Boulevard travels northeast–southwest in Lexington, from East 6th Street to Euclid Avenue. It crosses east Main Street, which divides it into North and South Martin Luther King Boulevard.
 Louisville: I-65 in Louisville is named the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway. In addition, the one block stretch of street in front of the Romano L. Mazzoli Federal Building is named Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Place.
 Paducah: Martin Luther King Drive is US 60 Business in Paducah.
 Somerset: Consists of Monticello Street and South Main Street between Oak Hill Road and South Richardson Drive, the bridge over the Norfolk Southern Railway is also named in his honor.

Louisiana