[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Silent Speaker

important—on it, Boone identifies his own murderer. Phoebe, a passionate BPR supporter, intended to reveal it once the NIA had been damaged as much as possible by the controversy over Boone's death, but managed to alert the murderer that she was aware of his identity and was killed for her silence.

After a meeting with Boone's widow, where she confirms that Phoebe did indeed possess the cylinders, Wolfe takes the unprecedented step of terminating his contract with the NIA and returning the group's $30,000 fee. As this removes the protection he has received through the status of his clients and will begin a barrage of police and media interest in him, he fakes a mental breakdown in order to hold the police off and buy time until the cylinder is found. Before the police can expose his deception, Wolfe realises that the only place Phoebe could have hidden the cylinder and known it was safe was Wolfe's own office. He thus has Archie, Fritz and Theodore search the room for the cylinder, where it is found concealed in a bookcase. When played, both Wolfe and Cramer are vindicated; the murderer is revealed to be Alger Kates, who was bribed by Don O'Neill to pass on confidential BPR information and was exposed on the cylinder as a traitor. Having heard the cylinder, Phoebe discovered his guilt but revealed her knowledge to Kates when after pressuring him to return numerous items, possessing sentimental value to Boone's widow, that were stolen from the corpse to fake a theft.

The novel ends with Archie confronting Wolfe, having realized that Wolfe staged the cylinder's discovery and in fact knew it was in his office the whole time. He is simply unsure of whether Wolfe waited so long for "art's sake," or simply to ensure that he could collect a $100,000 reward offered by the NIA instead of the $30,000 fee. Wolfe does not disagree with either hypothesis, but suggests another motivation: having come to respect Phoebe Gunther's intelligence and determination, Wolfe decided to continue as far as possible her objective of causing damage to the NIA. In gratitude for saving his career, Inspector Cramer timidly gives Wolfe an orchid for a gift.

The unfamiliar word
In most Nero Wolfe novels and novellas, there is an unfamiliar word, usually spoken by Wolfe. The Silent Speaker contains just this one:
Gammer. Chapter 29.

Cast of characters

Nero Wolfe – The private investigator
Archie Goodwin – Wolfe's assistant (and the narrator of all Wolfe stories)
Doctor Vollmer – Wolfe's neighbor and practitioner of choice when medical treatment is needed

For the BPR:
 Cheney Boone – Director of the BPR (compare to the real-life Chester Bowles, head of the OPA from 1943 to 1946)
 Solomon Dexter – Acting Director of the BPR following Cheney Boone's death
Phoebe Gunther – Boone's confidential secretary, and second in command at the BPR in all but title
Alger Kates – A researcher for the BPR
Mrs. Cheney Boone – Widow of the murdered BPR director
Nina Boone – Boone's niece

For the NIA:
Frank and Edward Erskine – Father and son members of the NIA's Executive Committee
Messrs. Breslow and Winterhoff –  Other members of the Executive Committee
Don O'Neill – Chairman of the dinner committee for the NIA event at which Boone was murdered
Hattie Harding – Assistant Director of Public Relations

For New York law enforcement:
Inspector Ash, Inspector Cramer, Sergeant Purley Stebbins, Commissioner Hombert and District Attorney Skinner

Sentiment
The reader is given the opportunity to see how much Wolfe's attitude toward sentiment changes over a brief span of time. In The Silent Speaker, he tells Archie, "One of your most serious defects is that you have no sentiment." Only two years later, in And Be a Villain, he tells Archie, "You would sentimentalize the multiplication table."