[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Allen County Museum

The Allen County Museum is located in the city of Lima, the county seat of Allen County, Ohio, United States.  Occupying a half city block, the museum campus includes the main museum building, a log house, the MacDonell House (a Victorian mansion), a Shay Locomotive display, the Children's Discovery Center, genealogy and local history library, railroad archives, and the Children's Garden.  The museum is accredited by the American Alliance of Museums. According to recent reports of the American Alliance of Museums Accreditation Department, less than 800 museums, out of more than 11,000 in the United States, are accredited.  Standards for accreditation apply across the board to both small and large institutions.

History 
The Allen County Museum is operated by the Allen County Historical Society which was formed in 1908.  Originally located in Lima's Memorial Hall, the Historical Society outgrew the available space by 1935, and began privately raising funds to build a museum.  Spearheaded by Elizabeth M. MacDonell, and supported by the notable John Wesley Van Dyke, Chairman of the Atlantic Refining Company, the organization successfully raised the needed funds to build a separate facility.

World War II interrupted construction plans, but by 1954 the cornerstone was laid—a stone from the original White House, Washington, D.C. Since that time, the Historical Society has amassed a large collection of items—both local and international.  Archival and documentary railroad collections include builder's prints and diagrams from the Lima Locomotive Works, which was the third largest steam locomotive builder in the United States.  Central to the production of the Lima Locomotive Works was the Shay engine, invented by Ephraim Shay.

Notable Exhibits

Sheriff Sarber/ John Dillinger Jail Cell 
One of the museums most popular exhibits is a replica 1930's county jail cell; the exhibit portrays life-size wax figurines of infamous gangster and bank robber John Dillinger and local police Sheriff Jess Sarber.  In May 1933, Dillinger had made parole after serving a nine and a half year prison sentence at the Indiana Reformatory and Indiana State Prison. A month after his parole, Dillinger began his bank robbing spree.  After robbing banks in New Carlisle and Bluffton, Ohio, Dayton police captured Dillinger in August 1933 and delivered him to the Allen County Jail in Lima where he was held in connection to his crimes. Upon entrance into the jail, Dillinger was searched where investigators found prison escape plans. When asked about the papers, Dillinger refused to answer.  The papers were a blueprint for the escape of eight prisoners, known as the First Dillinger Gang.  The plans, already in the hands of the prisoners, proved successful and the convicts escaped their prison cells four days after Dillinger's capture.  Three of Dillinger's men: Pete Piermont, Russell Clark, and Charles Mackley made their way to the Lima jail where they impersonated Indiana State police officers seeking to extradite Dillinger back to Indiana.  When Sheriff Sarber asked for identification, Piermont shot and killed Sarber.  The three then unlocked Dillinger's cell and escaped back to Indiana where they met up with the rest of the gang.  The exhibit is a testament to the life and work of Sheriff Sarber, displaying artifacts and newspapers of the Sheriff's work and heroism. The death of Sheriff Sarber also led the FBI to name Dillinger Public Enemy #1.

Shay Locomotive 
After the expansion of the museum from 2006 to 2009, the No. 10 Shay Locomotive Engine found its new home behind of the museum's iron clad window structure, making it the visual centerpiece of the museum.  The Engine was manufactured by the Lima Locomotive Works in 1925 for the Lima Stone Company.  The engine is a 3-foot gauge, two-truck geared locomotive and weighs approximately 24 ton.  The stone company that used the locomotive operated a quarry near E. North Street in Lima from about 1914 to 1933. The locomotive was rescued in 1953 only hours before being cut up for scrap, and was restored at no cost by Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton for the Allen County Historical Society.  The train was placed on a lot on Metcalf Street where a shelter was built around it until it was permanently relocated inside the museum.  The locomotive is just one example of the numerous engines to come out of the city of Lima. During its height, Lima Locomotive Works was the third largest producer of steam locomotive engines.