[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of social nudity places in North America

rt has  of fields and woods as well as some indoor facilities and is open year-round.
 Sherwood Forest in Dover-Foxcroft
 Maine Coast Solar Bares nudist travel club that meets at the Sauna in Richmond
 Frenchman's Hole in Newry
 Lakewood Park in Bar Harbor
 Richmond Sauna Bed & Breakfast in Richmond

Maryland
 Maryland Area Naturist Association is the first ever and currently the only family nudist club in Baltimore County and City.
 Camp Ramblewood in Darlington is available for groups wishing to host clothing-optional events.
 Maryland Health Society in Davidsonville is a privately owned nudist club.
 Pine Tree Associates in Annapolis, was founded in 1934, and is a cooperatively-owned family nudist club. Conveniently located between Baltimore and Washington, DC on 96 secluded acres. The club features: outdoor pool, indoor pool, large hot tub, tennis and pickleball courts. Camping and RV sites are also available. Open year-round.

Massachusetts
 Cape Cod:
 Marstons Mills: Sandy Terraces Associates is a family oriented, co-operative campground.
 Provincetown: Public nudity has at times been tolerated on the beaches around Provincetown, especially in the small area that is not part of the Cape Cod National Seashore.
 Truro: Public nudity is unofficially tolerated on Longnook Beach.
 Cummington, Westfield River, Chesterfield State Forest downstream of Swift River, Parking limited, look for overcrowded pulloff along rt 9.  Cross stream and follow the wooded trail for .
 Great Barrington, Green River, rt 23, Follow wading stream well past the popular swimming hole for .
 Huntington, Knightville Dam  Westfield River: follow roadway upstream to the most northern portion of the flood basin, park in the provided lot, hike  beyond the yellow fireroad gate.
 Hancock: Berkshire Vista Nudist Resort is a family oriented, privately owned facility.
 Nantucket: Public nudity is unofficially tolerated in the area between Miacomet Beach and Surfside Beach.
 Martha's Vineyard:
 Moshup Beach in Aquinnah contains an area where public nudity is unofficially tolerated. (Both the Aquinnah area and Moshup Beach are often called "Gay Head", the former legal name of the town of Aquinnah.)
 Lucy Vincent Beach in Chilmark contains an area where public nudity is permitted.
 MVBoat offers private charter trips on which nudity is permitted.

Michigan
 Nuance Bed and Breakfast in Battle Creek
 Turtle Lake Resort in Union City
 Northaven Resort in Brooklyn
 Cherry Lane Resort in North Adams
 Forest Hills Club in Saranac
 Spruce Hollow Campground in Mesick
 Whispering Oaks Nudist Resort in Oxford
 The Schvitz in Detroit

Minnesota
 Avatan in East Bethel (affiliated with AANR)
 Oakwood Club is located 35 minutes north of Minneapolis–St. Paul and is a private AANR-affiliated landed club.
 Two Creeks Campground is located 69 minutes north of Minneapolis–St. Paul and is a clothing optional association.
 Several other landless clubs operate in the northern suburbs of Minneapolis and St. Paul.

Mississippi
 West Ship Island, near Gulfport
 Sandy Bares Travel Club in Moss Point
 Running Bare B&B in Long Beach

Missouri
 Cactus Canyon Campground, located just outside Ava, caters to the gay/bi/straight male population who enjoys nudity in the outdoors. Located on 720 private rolling acres of the Ozark Mountains.
 Forty Acre Club, nicknamed "America's Gateway Family Nudist Resort" for its proximity to the famous Gateway Arch, is a friendly, nudist (not clothing-optional) resort for couples and families located on  of Missouri woodlands approximately  southwest of St. Louis in Lonedell.
 Show Me Acres in Stover is a family oriented nudist resort and campground nestled in over , wooded, in a very serene picturesque setting near Lake of the Ozarks. It is affiliated with The Naturist Society. Resort is now closed (2016) due to owner's retirement.
 Heartland Naturists is a non-landed group organized in Kansas City affiliated with The Naturist Society.

Montana
Nudity is not against the law in the rural areas of Montana, as long as it's basic simple nudity and is not accompanied by any sexual activity or any activity intending to affront or alarm another or for sexual gratification. Here is the Montana law regarding nudity:
MCA 45-5-504. Indecent exposure

Use caution, while nudity is legal in rural Montana it doesn't mean that you can't be cited for something like disturbing the peace if you were creating a nuisance.

However, many towns and municipalities have separate ordinances restricting nudity within town and city limits.

Lolo Hot Springs allows nudity (21+) in the evening time until closing, on Wednesdays & Sundays

Bridger, Montana A clothing-optional primitive campground and recreation area called club33naked.Com is a 33-acre Club, nudity is sometimes required in the inner most portion of the club grounds in the pool, hot tub, and sauna area called zorrogarden.Com
It is a Club and not a resort, so you need to request membership.