[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Karma in Jainism

vious cause. A soul is able to advance on the spiritual ladder called , only when it is able to eliminate the above causes of bondage one by one.

Fruition

The consequences of karma are inevitable, though they may take some time to take effect. To explain this, a Jain monk, Ratnaprabhacharya says: 

The latent karma becomes active and bears fruit when the supportive conditions arise. A great part of attracted karma bears its consequences with minor fleeting effects, as generally most of our activities are influenced by mild negative emotions. However, those actions that are influenced by intense negative emotions cause an equally strong karmic attachment which usually does not bear fruit immediately. It takes on an inactive state and waits for the supportive conditions—like proper time, place, and environment—to arise for it to manifest and produce effects. If the supportive conditions do not arise, the respective karmas will manifest at the end of maximum period for which it can remain bound to the soul. These supportive conditions for activation of latent karmas are determined by the nature of karmas, intensity of emotional engagement at the time of binding karmas and our actual relation to time, place, surroundings. There are certain laws of precedence among the karmas, according to which the fruition of some of the karmas may be deferred but not absolutely barred.

Jain texts distinguish between the effect of the fruition of karma on a right believer and a wrong believer:

Modifications
Although the Jains believe the karmic consequences as inevitable, Jain texts also hold that a soul has energy to transform and modify the effects of karma. Karma undergoes following modifications:

Udaya (maturity) – It is the fruition of karmas as per its nature in the due course.
Udīraṇa (premature operation) – By this process, it is possible to make certain karmas operative before their predetermined time.
Udvartanā (augmentation) – By this process, there is a subsequent increase in duration and intensity of the karmas due to additional negative emotions and feelings.
Apavartanā (diminution) – In this case, there is subsequent decrease in duration and intensity of the karmas due to positive emotions and feelings.
 (transformation) – It is the mutation or conversion of one sub-type of karmas into another sub-type. However, this does not occur between different types. For example, papa (bad karma) can be converted into punya (good karma) as both sub-types belong to the same type of karma.
Upaśamanā (state of subsidence) – During this state the operation of karma does not occur. The karma becomes operative only when the duration of subsidence ceases.
Nidhatti (prevention) – In this state, premature operation and transformation is not possible but augmentation and diminution of karmas is possible.
Nikācanā (invariance) – For some sub-types, no variations or modifications are possible—the consequences are the same as were established at the time of bonding.

The Jain karmic theory, thus speaks of great powers of soul to manipulate the karmas by its actions.

Release
Jain philosophy assert that emancipation is not possible as long as the soul is not released from bondage of karma. This is possible by samvara (stoppage of inflow of new karmas) and nirjarā (shedding of existing karmas through conscious efforts). Samvara is achieved through practice of:
Three guptis or three controls of mind, speech and body,
Five samitis or observing carefulness in movement, speaking, eating, placing objects and disposing refuse.
Ten dharmas or observation of good acts like – forgiveness, humility, straightforwardness, contentment, truthfulness, self-control, penance, renunciation, non-attachment and continence.
Anuprekshas or meditation on the truths of this universe.
Pariṣahajaya, that is, a man on moral path must develop a perfectly patient and unperturbed attitude in the midst of trying and difficult circumstances.
Cāritra, that is, endeavour to remain in steady spiritual practices.

Nirjarā is possible through tapas, austerities and penances. Tapas can be either external or internal. Six forms of external tapas are—fasting, control of appetite, accepting food under certain conditions, renunciation of delicious food, sitting and sleeping in lonely place and renunciation of comforts. Six forms of internal tapas are—atonement, reverence, rendering of service to worthy ones, spiritual study, avoiding selfish feelings and meditation.

Rationale
Justice Tukol notes that the supreme importance of the doctrine of karma lies in providing a rational and satisfying explanation to the apparent unexplainable phenomenon of birth and death, of happiness and misery, of inequalities and of existence of different species of living beings. The Sūtrakṛtāṅga, one of the oldest canons of Jainism, states: