[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# V'Zot HaBerachah

n of Nun, a young man, stirred not from the midst of the Tent." And yet in Joshua 1:8, God enjoined even Joshua: "This Book of the Torah shall not depart out of your mouth, but recite it day and night." The Tosefta concluded that all the more so should the rest of the people have and read the Torah.

Rabbi Berekiah, Rabbi Hiyya, and the Rabbis of Babylonia taught in Rabbi Judah's name that a day does not pass in which God does not teach a new law in the heavenly Court. For as Job 37:2 says, "Hear attentively the noise of His voice, and the meditation that goes out of His mouth." And meditation refers to nothing but Torah, as Joshua 1:8 says, "You shall meditate therein day and night."

A Midrash deduced from Joshua 1:11 and 4:17 that Israel neither entered nor left the Jordan without permission. The Midrash interpreted the words of Ecclesiastes 10:4, "If the spirit of the ruler rise up against you, leave not your place," to speaks of Joshua. The Midrash explained that just as the Israelites crossed the Jordan with permission, so they did not leave the Jordan River bed without permission. The Midrash deduced that they crossed with permission from Joshua 1:11, in which God told Joshua, "Pass through the midst of the camp and charge the people thus: Get provisions ready, for within three days you are to pass over this Jordan." And the Midrash deduced that they left the Jordan River bed with permission from Joshua 4:17, which reports, "Joshua therefore commanded the priests, saying: 'Come up out of the Jordan.'"

A Midrash pictured the scene in Joshua 1:16 using the Song of Songs as an inspiration. The Midrash said, "Your lips are like a thread of scarlet and your speech is comely," (in the words of Song of Songs 4:3) when the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh said to Joshua (in Joshua 1:16), "All that you have commanded us we will do, and we will go wherever you send us."

The Gemara attributes to Solomon (or others say Benaiah) the view that the word only (, ) in Joshua 1:18 limited the application of the death penalty mandated by the earlier part of the verse. The Gemara tells how they brought Joab before the Court, and Solomon judged and questioned him. Solomon asked Joab why he killed Amasa (David's nephew, who commanded Absalom's rebel army). Joab answered that Amasa disobeyed the king's order (and thus under Joshua 1:18 should be put to death), when (as 2 Samuel 20:4–5 reports) King David told Amasa to call the men of Judah together within three days and report, but Amasa delayed longer than the time set for him. Solomon replied that Amasa interpreted the words but and only (,  and , ). Amasa found the men of Judah just as they had begun Talmudic study. Amasa recalled that Joshua 1:18 says, "Whoever rebels against [the King's] commandments and shall not hearken to your words in all that you command him, he shall be put to death." Now, one might have thought that this holds true even if the king were to command one to disregard the Torah. Therefore, Joshua 1:18 continues, "Only (, ) be strong and of good courage!" (And the word only (, ) implies a limitation on the duty to fulfill the king's command where it would run counter to Torah study.)

Notes

Further reading
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these sources:

Biblical
Genesis 49:2–28 (12 tribes).
Exodus 3:2–6 (bush).
Judges 5:1–31 (12 tribes).

Early nonrabbinic
Josephus, Antiquities of the Jews 4:8:47–49 . Circa 93–94. In, e.g., The Works of Josephus: Complete and Unabridged, New Updated Edition. Translated by William Whiston, pages 124–25. Peabody, Massachusetts: Hendrickson Publishers, 1987.