[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Futoshi Matsunaga

o return, whereupon she was subjected to continued abuse. He also raped Junko's married sister, Rieko. Junko's family gave 63 million yen (about US$777,116) to Matsunaga, after which he held them captive and psychologically controlled them in ways similar to the methods of cult-leader Shoko Asahara.

On December 21, 1997, Matsunaga coerced Junko to shock her 61-year-old father, Takashige, to the point of death. When Shizumi's mental state began to deteriorate, Matsunaga commanded Rieko and her husband, Kazuya, to strangle her on January 20, 1998. Several weeks later, he commanded Kazuya to strangle Rieko while their 10-year-old daughter, Aya, held her down. Matsunaga and Junko then confined Kazuya to a bathroom, where he starved to death on April 13, 1998. Matsunaga then forced Junko and Aya to kill Rieko's 5-year-old son, Yuki. During the trial, Kumio's daughter testified that Matsunaga and Junko had tortured Aya with electricity. Junko's testimony differed, saying the girl's recollections might have been inaccurate because of guilty feelings about committing her first murder. Kumio's daughter strangled Aya on June 7, 1998. Matsunaga and Junko dismembered and boiled their victims' remains in pots, then finally disposed of them in washrooms or into the sea. Matsunaga blamed the murders on Junko, who, with their two children, were the only survivors in her family.

In July 2000, Matsunaga convinced another woman to go away with him, lured by the prospect of marriage. In August 2001, she gave her twin children to him and Junko. Matsunaga and Junko then convinced the woman to give them 20 million yen (about US$246,580), telling her that they would need the money to bring up her children.

Arrest and trial 
Kumio's daughter, who was being held captive, escaped from Matsunaga on January 30, 2002, but Matsunaga found the girl on February 15 and took her back into captivity. He then tortured the girl with electric shocks. On March 6, the girl escaped from Matsunaga again and reported the crimes to the police. She was 17 years old. The police arrested Matsunaga and Junko the next day when they tried to retrieve the girl. The twins and the couple's two children were taken into police protection.

The media initially reported only that Matsunaga and Junko had held their victims captive, similar to the case of Fusako Sano, until details of the couple's murders emerged.

The pair were charged with Aya's murder on September 18, 2002; Takashige's murder on October 12, 2002; Shizumi's murder on December 6, 2002; Yuki's murder on January 11, 2003; Kumio's murder on February 3, 2003; Rieko's murder on February 25, 2003; and Kazuya's murder on May 30, 2003. No murder charges were brought against Kumio's daughter. Junko calmly confessed to her part in the murders, but Matsunaga insisted that the women had fabricated their stories about him. Police never recovered any human remains and found no physical evidence, so they relied primarily upon the testimonies of Kumio's and Junko's daughters during the investigation.

On September 28, 2005, a district court in Fukuoka sentenced Matsunaga and Junko to die by hanging. The court tried six cases, but considered that they had not killed Takashige directly, but had only injured him by electric shocks which later resulted in his death.

The pair appealed the verdict. On September 26, 2007, the Fukuoka High Court upheld Matsunaga's original sentence, but Junko's sentence was changed from death to life imprisonment because Matsunaga had exerted control over Junko to force her to kill the victims.

Victims 
  – The girl's father, 35 year-old, his daughter escaped from Matsunaga again and reported the crimes to the police. She was 17 years old.
  – Junko's father, 61 year-old
  – Junko's mother, 58 year-old
  – Junko's sister, 33 year-old
  – Rieko's husband, 38 year-old
  – Junko's nephew, 5 year-old
  – Junko's niece, 10 year-old

In film
In 2019, Sion Sono announced the making of his project The Forest of Love, which is based on Matsunaga's crimes. It was released by Netflix on October 11, 2019.

See also 
Milgram experiment – experiment using electric shocks
Murder of Junko Furuta – another high-profile torture murder in Japan
Capital punishment in Japan
List of serial killers by country

Further reading 
Ryūzō Saki (2005)  (Naze kazoku wa koroshiatta noka, translation; Why did the family kill each other?) 
Masayoshi Toyoda (2005)  (Kesareta ikka: kitakyūshū renzoku kankin satsujin jiken, translation; The Extinguished Family—Serial Captivity-Murders Case in Kitakyushu)

References