[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ramsey House (Knox County, Tennessee)

s clients.  He also accused Ramsey's son, John Crozier Ramsey (1824–1868), whom Brownlow called "a few degrees removed from an idiot," of creating false pension funds for employees.  His continued attacks helped Horace Maynard defeat John Crozier Ramsey for the district's Congressional seat in 1859.

At the outbreak of the Civil War, the Ramseys, who were states' rights Democrats, sided with the Confederacy, drawing them further into conflict with Brownlow, who was a radical anti-secessionist.  In December 1861, John Crozier Ramsey, who had been appointed Knox County's district attorney, had Brownlow jailed on charges of conspiring to burn railroad bridges in East Tennessee.  The Ramseys demanded Brownlow be hanged, but the Confederate Army, fearing a public backlash, released him.  Due in part to Brownlow's influence, J.G.M. Ramsey's Mecklenburg mansion— with its invaluable  library— was burned when the Union Army occupied Knoxville in 1863.

With Mecklenburg in ruins, the Ramseys, who had fled to South Carolina on approach of the Union Army in 1863, decided not to return to Knoxville.  The Ramsey House was sold to William Spurgien in 1866, and afterward began to deteriorate.  J.G.M. Ramsey eventually moved back to Knoxville in the 1870s, and was deeply saddened at the state of the Ramsey House.  His autobiography, written during this period, included a poem lamenting the house's decline.

Preservation

In 1927, the Bonnie Kate Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution placed a marker at the Ramsey House commemorating the site as the birthplace of J.G.M. Ramsey, whose book, the Annals of Tennessee, had become an important work on the state's early history.  In the following decade, the house was documented by the Historic American Buildings Survey.  In 1952, APTA's Knoxville Chapter purchased the house with the help of state and local governments, and began restoring it.  The roof and windows were replaced, and an old log cabin was moved to the site to represent the cabin used by the Ramseys in the 1790s while the main house was being built.

Design

The Ramsey House is a two-story Late Georgian house, built primarily of local pink marble with blueish-gray limestone trim.  This blueish-gray limestone forms a "belt" around the house about midway up the walls, and also forms the house's four corners.  The house has a "dogtrot" kitchen wing, with the southwest corner of the kitchen wing joining the northeast corner of the main house.  Exterior ornamentation includes hand-carved cornices and window arches consisting of nine narrow stones each.

The house's interior follows a central hall floor plan.  The front door opens into a hallway, with a library/parlor room to the left and a dining room to the right.  The second floor has two bedrooms, a bonus room, and a door which used to lead to the roof of the porch (the porch is no longer there).  The kitchen wing is also two stories, although there is no passage from the second story of the main wing to the second story of the kitchen wing.  The house has three chimneys— one at both ends of the main wing, and one at the end of the kitchen wing— and six fireplaces in all.  The interior has been outfitted with period furniture, most notably two Chippendale chairs given to Francis Alexander Ramsey and his wife, Peggy, as a wedding present.

See also
Alexander Bishop House
Blount Mansion
Craighead-Jackson House
James Park House
Statesview
History of Knoxville, Tennessee

References

Resources
 Isenhour, Judith Clayton.  Knoxville - A Pictorial History. (Donning, 1978), page 20.  
 Rothrock, Mary U., editor.  The French Broad-Holston Country: A History of Knox County, Tennessee. (Knox County Historical Committee; East Tennessee Historical Society, 1946).
 Knoxville: Fifty Landmarks. (Knoxville: The Knoxville Heritage Committee of the Junior League of Knoxville, 1976), p. 9.

External links

 Ramsey House Plantation — official site
 Library of Congress - Historic American Buildings Survey: Ramsey House
 Knoxville MPC Historic Buildings

Houses in Knox County, Tennessee
Houses on the National Register of Historic Places in Tennessee
Historic American Buildings Survey in Tennessee
Historic house museums in Tennessee
Museums in Knox County, Tennessee
Scotch-Irish American culture in Tennessee
National Register of Historic Places in Knox County, Tennessee