[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry Bard, 1st Viscount Bellomont

Chipping Camden, where he quickly established a reputation for brutality and extortion. By early 1645, the Royalists were short of men and to bolster the Oxford field army reduced their garrisons, including the one at Chipping Camden; before doing so, Bard destroyed his headquarters at Camden Hall.

Now commander of a brigade or tercio, Bard played a leading role in the capture of Leicester on 29 May, in which over 700 civilians and prisoners were massacred after surrendering. At Naseby on 14 June, the Oxford field army was destroyed, reducing the Royalist presence outside South West England to a few isolated garrisons. These included Worcester, where Bard was appointed governor; he began raising money and men but in May Charles surrendered to the Scots Covenanters outside Newark on Trent and the war ended when Oxford capitulated in June.

Despite military defeat, Charles attempted to regain his political position by building a coalition of moderate Parliamentarians and English, Scottish and Irish Royalists. On 8 July 1646, Bard was created Viscount Bellomont and given a commission to raise a regiment of cavalry in Ireland but was captured by the Parliamentarian navy crossing the Irish Sea and held in Plymouth. With the help of his brother Maximilian, he was released in December 1647 after promising to go into exile and not to return without permission. He and his family joined the court of Charles II in The Hague, where he converted to Catholicism. 

This meant he took no part in the 1648 Second English Civil War, which resulted in the trial and execution of Charles I in January 1649. On 12 May 1649, he was arrested and charged with the murder of Isaac Dorislaus, newly installed Commonwealth ambassador to the Dutch Republic, but was released without charge. In 1653, he was sent as an envoy from Charles to Shah Abbas II of Persia, seeking payment of an alleged debt for English support in the 1622 capture of Ormuz. This proved unsuccessful and in 1655 he went onto India, hoping to obtain aid from Shah Jahan.   

He reached Surat in January 1656 but died at Hodal on 20 June while making his way to Delhi and was later buried in the Catholic cemetery in Agra. He was accompanied by Niccolao Manucci, a 19 year old recruited in Venice to act as his guide, who settled in India and wrote a comprehensive first hand account of the Mughal Empire.

References

Sources
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

1616 births
1656 deaths
People from Staines-upon-Thames
Bellomont, Henry Bard, 1st Viscount
Peers of Ireland created by Charles I
People educated at Eton College
Alumni of King's College, Cambridge
Fellows of King's College, Cambridge
Royalist military personnel of the English Civil War
English amputees
English expatriates in India
Burials in India
Explorers of India