[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

attorney David Unkovic as the city's receiver, but Unkovic resigned after only four months. Unkovic blamed disdain for legal restraints on contracts and debt for creating Harrisburg's intractable financial problem and said the corrupt influence of creditors and political cronies prevented fixing it.

As creditors began to file lawsuits to seize and sell off city assets, a new receiver, William B. Lynch, was appointed. The City Council opposed the new receiver's plans for tax increases and advocated a stay of the creditor lawsuits with a bankruptcy filing, while Mayor Thompson continued to oppose bankruptcy. State legislators crafted a moratorium to prevent Harrisburg from declaring bankruptcy, and after the moratorium expired, the law stripped the city government of the authority to file for bankruptcy and conferred it on the state receiver.

After two years of negotiations, in August 2013 Receiver Lynch revealed his comprehensive voluntary plan for resolving Harrisburg's fiscal problems. The complex plan called for creditors to write down or postpone some debt.  To pay the remainder, Harrisburg sold the troubled incinerator, leased its parking garages for forty years, and was to briefly go further into debt by issuing new bonds. Receiver Lynch had also called for setting up nonprofit investment corporations to oversee infrastructure improvement (repairing the city's crumbling roads and water and sewer lines), pensions, and economic development. These were intended to allow nonprofit fundraising and to reduce the likelihood of mismanagement by the then-dysfunctional city government.

Harrisburg's City Council and the state Commonwealth Court approved the plan, and became implemented. The city balanced its budget in the late 2010s, was expected to have a surplus of $1 million in 2019, and maintained a surplus in 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic.

References

Further reading 

 Barton, Michael. An Illustrated History of Greater Harrisburg: Life by the Moving Road. Sun Valley, Calif: Amer Historical Press, 1998.
 Beers, Paul. City Contented, City Discontented: A History of Modern Harrisburg. Edited by Michael Barton. Harrisburg: Midtown Scholar Press, 2012.
 Donehoo, George P. Harrisburg: The City Beautiful, Romantic and Historic. Stackpole, 1927.
 Pettegrew, David, and James B. LaGrand. 'Special Issue: Harrisburg, Digital Public History, and the 'City Beautiful'." Pennsylvania History: A Journal of Mid-Atlantic Studies 87, no. 1 (2020). https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.5325/pennhistory.87.1.issue-1
 Jackson, Jr., Calobe, Katie Wingert McArdle, and David Pettegrew, eds. One Hundred Voices: Harrisburg’s Historic African American Community, 1850–1920. Grand Forks, ND: The Digital Press at the University of North Dakota, 2020. https://thedigitalpress.org/100-voices/.

External links 

 Digital Harrisburg