[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Louisiana Democratic Party

The Louisiana Democratic Party (, ) is the affiliate of the Democratic Party in the state of Louisiana.
 
Dominated by the conservative planter elite through much of the 19th century, the party was historically prominent in politics since before the American Civil War. It struggled to regain power through Reconstruction, when the Republican Party became competitive due to support by most African Americans and many other Unionists. Democrats won the governorship in every election from 1877 to 1980, when Republican David Treen was elected.

Governor John Bel Edwards is the only Democrat elected statewide in Louisiana.

Current elected officials

Members of Congress

U.S. Senate
None

Both of Louisiana's U.S. Senate seats have been held by Republicans since 2015. Mary Landrieu was the last Democrat to represent Louisiana in the U.S. Senate. First elected in 1996, Landrieu lost her bid for a fourth term in 2014 to Bill Cassidy, who has held the seat since then.

U.S. House of Representatives
Out of the 6 seats Louisiana is apportioned in the U.S. House of Representatives, 1 is held by a Democrat:

Statewide offices
Democrats controlled one of the seven elected statewide offices, the last statewide Democrat in Governor John Bel Edwards until 2023.

State legislative leaders
 Senate Minority Leader: Gerald Boudreaux
 House Minority Leader: Sam Jenkins

Mayors
 New Orleans: LaToya Cantrell (1)
 Baton Rouge: Sharon Weston Broome (2)

Party structure
The party and its members are governed by a set of by-laws, which explain how the party is to operate and the responsibilities officials of the party have.  The party further operates under a party constitution adopted in 1998 consisting of 11 articles. The articles cover the topics of: subordination, name, purpose, party membership, management, election, composition and appointment of the Democratic State Central Committee, organization of committee, officers, by-laws and amendments.

Party leadership is broken up into three section: the Executive Committee, the Louisiana Democratic Central Committee and Parish Executive Committees. The Executive Committee consists of a chairman, four vice-chairman, two DNC committee persons, one DNC at-large, a vice chair of elected officials, a secretary, treasurer, clerk, legal counsel, and a parliamentarian. Each congressional district also receives two seats on the executive committee. The Louisiana Democratic Central Committee consists of a female and male committee member from each of the 105 State House Districts. Parish Executive Committees are set up in a similar fashion as the Party Executive Committee. Members serving in these positions generally serve a term of four years and are elected at the same time of the presidential elections.

The party also has staff positions occupied by Stephen Handwerk as executive director, Michelle Brister as Deputy Executive Director, and D'seante Parks as Communications Director.

Party history

Early history

The Democratic Party developed in Louisiana by the middle 1830s. The party was the product of the Jacksonians, "who had come to be called simply Democrats." The early support for the Democratic Party came from cotton planters, who supported its anti-tariff stance, and people of ethnic French and Spanish ancestry, who were descended largely from colonists. Anglo-Americans who had settled the state from other parts of the South sometimes supported the Whigs. By the 1840s New Orleans had a large increase in population due to an influx of thousands of Irish and German immigrants; most of them became Democrats, as the party worked to integrate them into American life.

As the Civil War approached, the main opposition party to the Democrats, the Whigs, collapsed. The dispute over the issue of slavery divided the Whigs into two main camps: those who opposed the expansion of slavery and those who agreed with the Democrats' stance "that the expansion of slavery was essential to its survival." As a result, the Democratic Party dominated antebellum Louisiana. The new opposition party, the Know-Nothings, who were nativists, held power only in New Orleans for a brief period of time.

Governors of Louisiana

The Democratic Party won its first governorship in 1843 with the election of Alexandre Mouton. It would continue to win elections throughout the rest of the antebellum period. At the onset of the Civil War, the Democratic party won both elections held for the governorship in the portions of Louisiana that were held by the Confederate States of America. During Reconstruction, the Republican Party rose to power in the state with the enfranchisement of freedmen under constitutional amendments; they affiliated with the party that had gained their freedom and the end to slavery.