[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Short Sperrin

h as improved Avon models and the de Havilland Gyron would also be installed on the two prototypes for test purposes. The airframe was built largely of light aluminium alloys, principally 75ST; the light-alloy stressed-skin had a very smooth surface which contributed to the low drag of the aircraft.

The Sperrin employed a traditional straight wing, although the fixed leading edge was slightly swept and featured curved fillets at the junction with the engine nacelles. The trailing edge had simple flaps inboard of the nacelles and large ailerons outboard; the outer flaps were to incorporate air brakes, but were replaced with split-brakes prior to the first flight. Both the flaps and air brakes were operated hydraulically, with an independent system for emergency actuation. Up to  of fuel could be housed in a total of 22 fuel tanks, 14 of these in the wings and 8 in the fuselage; the tanks were pressurized to prevent collapse during fast dives and other manoeuvres. The wing was located in a mid position on the fuselage between the bomb bay and fuselage fuel tanks.

The fuselage of the Sperrin consisted of separate nose, centre, and tail sections, which were constructed as single units; the upper area of the forward fuselage contained the pressurized drum for the crew, while the lower part of the forward fuselage, which initially contained concrete ballast, was intended to house the H2S Mk.9 airborne radar behind a fibreglass radome. There was a flat window for visual aiming. The centre fuselage had four heavy transverse beams, with fixings for the mainplanes.  Neither armament nor countermeasures were installed in either of the prototypes; according to Bill Gunston and Peter Gilchrist, the required bombload of  would have been easily achievable and could have been increased. Separate bomb bay and camera doors were fitted to suit either aerial reconnaissance or bombing missions.

The Sperrin was equipped with a tricycle undercarriage (a twin-wheel nosewheel and a pair of four-wheel bogies). The nose gear retracted backwards and the main gear into the wings towards the fuselage. A safety circuit prevented retraction of the landing gear until a sufficient air speed had been reached. The nose-wheel was steerable which was unusual for a British aircraft, the Sperrin being one of the first British aircraft to be fitted with one; the landing gear was operated by a Messier hydraulic system. A 24/28-volt DC electrical system was supplied by two generators; both generators and a compressor for cabin pressure were driven from two accessory gearboxes that were housed within the wings.

The SA.4 was designed for a crew of five: pilot, copilot, bomb-aimer, navigator and air signaller (later called air electronics officer). The prone bomb aimer's position was a tube extending forward of the cockpit above the radome. It was fitted with an opaque nosecone, as the Sperrin was never used for visual bomb aiming. The pilots were the only crew members to have Martin-Baker ejector seats and these were positioned beneath a jettisonable roof panel; other crew members had to bail out through a door under the navigator's console from their rear-facing positions located behind the pilots. Unusual for an aircraft of this size, the flying controls were manually operated using servo tabs, a feature also used on the Bristol Britannia; artificial feel was also incorporated. Bill Gunston and Peter Gilchrist describe the control system as having been simple, light, reliable, and low-friction and contrast it positively against powered systems of the era.

Operational history

Testing
The first prototype (serial VX158), powered by four Rolls-Royce Avon RA.2 engines of  of thrust and piloted by Tom Brooke-Smith, had its maiden flight on 10 August 1951. By this time, in the light of the latest knowledge, and the fact that the Valiant project was now proceeding well and only six months behind the Sperrin the judgement of the Air Ministry was that an insurance project was now no longer needed, and a decision was taken to order the Vickers Valiant instead of the Sperrin and the Sperrin project was cancelled. Construction nevertheless continued on the two prototypes, as the Ministry of Supply determined that the Sperrin would serve as a research aircraft. The second prototype (VX161) flew for the first time on 12 August 1952 with Squadron Leader "Wally" Runciman at the controls, accompanied by Flight Test Development Engineer Malcolm Wild. It was fitted with more powerful Avon RA.3s of  thrust.