[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Louis Dodds

secure a first-team spot for Jack Lester's "Spireites" after a series of niggling injuries caused his form to dip. Chesterfield were relegated out of the English Football League at the end of the 2017–18 campaign and he was made available for a free transfer by new manager Martin Allen in May 2018.

On 21 June 2018, Dodds secured a return to the Football League after joining former club Port Vale on loan for the 2018–19 season. Manager Neil Aspin said that Dodds had been keen on a return to Vale Park and "he has cost us next to nothing really". Despite a good pre-season, he was on the bench for the opening game of the campaign after Aspin decided to stick with his preferred formation and starting eleven. He failed to find the net in 17 appearances before his loan was cancelled early by Aspin on 25 January. He was released by Chesterfield in May 2019.

Non-League
On 1 August 2019, Dodds signed with National League club Chorley after impressing manager Jamie Vermiglio on trial. He made 20 appearances for the "Magpies" in the 2019–20 season, which was permanently suspended on 26 March due to the COVID-19 pandemic in England, with Chorley bottom of the table. He confirmed his departure from Victory Park in May 2020. On 1 July 2020, Dodds signed for Southern League Premier Division Central side Hednesford Town. The 2020–21 Southern League season was curtailed early due to the ongoing pandemic on 24 February.

On 6 May 2021, Dodds returned to Stoke-on-Trent to join ambitious North West Counties League Premier Division Central club Hanley Town, who were managed by his former Port Vale teammate Carl Dickinson. Hanley were transferred to the Midland League Premier Division for the 2021–22 season and would win the league title to secure a place in Northern Premier League Division One West. Hanley finished 16th at the end of the 2022–23 campaign.

Style of play
A skilful and pacey player, due to his goalscoring ability he is able to play as both a midfielder and as a striker. He has stated that he prefers to play in the centre of the pitch. Despite his finishing skills from open play, he is a very poor penalty-taker.

Personal life

Dodds was born in Sheffield, and grew up supporting Sheffield Wednesday, but now lives in Stoke-on-Trent with his wife and children. During his time at Vale Park he was considered the "ringleader of the dressing-room banter". He began writing a column in Staffordshire newspaper The Sentinel in November 2015.

Career statistics

Honours
Port Vale
League Two third-place promotion: 2012–13

Hanley Town
Midland League Premier Division: 2021–22

References

1986 births
Living people
Footballers from Sheffield
Footballers from Leicester
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Men's association football forwards
Leicester City F.C. players
Northwich Victoria F.C. players
Rochdale A.F.C. players
Lincoln City F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Shrewsbury Town F.C. players
Chesterfield F.C. players
Chorley F.C. players
Hednesford Town F.C. players
Hanley Town F.C. players
National League (English football) players
Southern Football League players
English Football League players
North West Counties Football League players
English columnists