[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Behavior of nuclear fuel during a reactor accident

ins mass. The authors report that a layer of U3O7 was present on the uranium dioxide surface during this induction time. They report that 3 to 8% of the krypton-85 was released, and that much less of the ruthenium (0.5%) and caesium (2.6 x 10−3%) occurred during the oxidation of the uranium dioxide.

Heat transfer between the cladding and the water
In a water-cooled power reactor (or in a water-filled spent fuel pool, SFP), if a power surge occurs as a result of a reactivity initiated accident, an understanding of the transfer of heat from the surface of the cladding to the water is very useful. In a French study, metal pipe immersed in water (both under typical PWR and SFP conditions), was electrically heated to simulate the generation of heat within a fuel pin by nuclear processes. The temperature of the pipe was monitored by thermocouples and for the tests conducted under PWR conditions the water entering the larger pipe (14.2 mm diameter) holding the test metal pipe (9.5 mm outside diameter and 600 mm long) was at 280 °C and 15 MPa. The water was flowing past the inner pipe at circa 4 ms−1 and the cladding was subjected to heating at 2200 to 4900 °C s−1 to simulate an RIA. It was found that as the temperature of the cladding increased the rate of heat transfer from the surface of the cladding increased at first as the water boiled at nucleation sites. When the heat flux is greater than the critical heat flux a boiling crisis occurs. This occurs as the temperature of the fuel cladding surface increases so that the surface of the metal was too hot (surface dries out) for nucleation boiling. When the surface dries out the rate of heat transfer decreases, after a further increase in the temperature of the metal surface the boiling resumes but it is now film boiling.

Hydriding and waterside corrosion
As a nuclear fuel bundle increases in burnup (time in reactor), the radiation begins changing not only the fuel pellets inside the cladding, but the cladding material itself.  The zirconium chemically reacts to the water flowing around it as coolant, forming a protective oxide on the surface of the cladding.  Typically a fifth of the cladding wall will be consumed by oxide in PWRs.  There is a smaller corrosion layer thickness in BWRs.  The chemical reaction that takes place is:

Zr + 2 H2O → ZrO2 + 2 H2 (g)

Hydriding occurs when the product gas (hydrogen) precipitates out as hydrides within the zirconium.  This causes the cladding to become embrittled, instead of ductile.  The hydride bands form in rings within the cladding.  As the cladding experiences hoop stress from the growing amount of fission products, the hoop stress increases.  The material limitations of the cladding is one aspect that limits the amount of burnup nuclear fuel can accumulate in a reactor.

CRUD (Chalk River Unidentified Deposits) was discovered by Chalk River Laboratories. It occurs on the exterior of the clad as burnup is accumulated.

When a nuclear fuel assembly is prepared for onsite storage, it is dried and moved to a spent nuclear fuel shipping cask with scores of other assemblies.  Then it sits on a concrete pad for a number of years waiting for an intermediate storage facility or reprocessing.  The transportation of radiation-damaged cladding is tricky, because it is so fragile.  After being removed from the reactor and cooling down in the spent fuel pool, the hydrides within the cladding of an assembly reorient themselves so that they radially point out from the fuel, rather than circularly in the direction of the hoop stress.  This puts the fuel in a situation so that when it is moved to its final resting place, if the cask were to fall, the cladding would be so weak it could break and release the spent fuel pellets inside the cask.

Corrosion on the inside of the cladding
Zirconium alloys can undergo stress corrosion cracking when exposed to iodine; the iodine is formed as a fission product which depending on the nature of the fuel can escape from the pellet. It has been shown that iodine causes the rate of cracking in pressurised zircaloy-4 tubing to increase.

Graphite moderated reactors
In the cases of carbon dioxide cooled graphite moderated reactors such as magnox and AGR power reactors an important corrosion reaction is the reaction of a molecule of carbon dioxide with graphite (carbon) to form two molecules of carbon monoxide. This is one of the processes which limits the working life of this type of reactor.

Water-cooled reactors

Corrosion
In a water-cooled reactor the action of radiation on the water (radiolysis) forms hydrogen peroxide and oxygen. These can cause stress corrosion cracking of metal parts which include fuel cladding and other pipework. To mitigate this hydrazine and hydrogen are injected into a BWR or PWR primary cooling circuit as corrosion inhibitors to adjust the redox properties of the system. A review of recent developments on this topic has been published.