[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# War Trash

of Yu's trustworthiness, Commissar Pei, the leader of the Chinese pro-Communist camp, sends Yu as his representative. The Chinese camp gathers information and passes it to the North Korean camp, which subsequently lures Bell in for negotiations then kidnaps him, a propaganda coup for the Communists.

Soon, the prisoners are sent to better organized camps on Cheju Island.  The facilities are better, but the methods of prisoner control are also enhanced, making it harder to resist.  Commissar Pei, for instance, is separated from the men.  Also, the prisoners begin to feel very isolated from their country, and worry that they will be treated with suspicion after returning to China, as it can be considered treason to be captured rather than fight to the death. However, with ingenious methods of communication developed, Pei sends orders to raise homemade Chinese communist flags on national day, a provocation which creates a confrontation and raises morale, though lives are lost in the ensuing battle.

To the Nationalists, and back again
At some point a small group of pro-Communist officers—including Commissar Pei's right-hand man, Party member Chang Ming—is ordered to Korea to "re-register".  Fearing that this will permanently strip him of his English-speaking lieutenant, Pei orders Yu Yuan to assume Ming's identity and go in his place.  Fuming at being sacrificed like a pawn for a man no different from him except for Party membership, Yuan obeys and is sent to Korea.  It turns out that "re-registering" is not something sinister, but rather bureaucratic processing.  However, the subterfuge of "Ming" is discovered and in the confusion he declares his dislike of the Communists.  As a result, he is now sent to the Nationalist camp back of Koje Island.

Back with the Nationalists again, Yuan is subject to another round of suspicion for siding with the Communists earlier.  He weathers this (due in part to his tattoo, which he has kept after having it cleared with the Communists).  The officers on the Nationalist side hope that his credentials will elevate him once they get to Taiwan, and in this position he might be able to help them.  During this time, the armistice is signed by the UN and North Koreans, and the prisoners begin to look forward, with hope and anxiety, towards their repatriation.

Required yet again to declare his allegiance, Yu Yuan, as always, is in a delicate situation.  His time on the Communist side means he will always be politically damaged goods in Taiwan, forever handicapped.  On the other hand, unless Pei and Ming are still alive and in the good graces of the Party—and therefore able to explain that the Party ordered him to be re-registered—his "defection" to the Nationalists (as well as the lingering taint of being a prisoner in the first place) could be politically devastating if he returns home.  He hears that there may be a third option, to emigrate to a neutral country.  Quietly, he makes this his plan.

However, when Yu Yuan first enters the tent where declarations must be made, he finds that one of the Communist Chinese observers is a friend of his who instantly recognizes him!  No longer anonymous, he realizes that if he chooses a third country, his disloyal choice will be traced to his family and they will suffer.  Encouraged by his friend about the treatment prisoners receive in China, he makes the decision to return home on the spot.

Bittersweet return to China
Yu's homecoming is not what he had hoped for in the more than two years he has been away. His superiors stand up for him, witnessing to the pro-Communist acts he had carried out. But as party members, they are severely tainted (party members swore an oath to fight to the death, and thus their capture is even more dishonorable) and their evidence is worthless. Yu finds out that his mother has died, and Julan has deserted him as a disgrace. Forever marked by his disloyalty, he is unable to use his college education well, and quietly becomes a teacher.

In the epilogue-like final chapter, Yu describes his marriage and children. He is not so tainted that he cannot get his offspring into college, and eventually his son goes to the United States for education. Yu gets his tattoo changed to FUCK...U...S by erasing some of the letters of COMMUNISM.  An old man, he learns of the ruin of his communist superiors and the success of some of his Nationalist acquaintances in Taiwan.  Eventually, he visits his son in America, giving opportunity for one last comical difficulty with his tattoo, again highly inappropriate. It is here that he finds the time to write the memoir, dedicated to his American grandchildren, which the reader has been enjoying.

2004 American novels
Novels set during the Korean War
American war novels
Novels by Ha Jin
Novels set in China
Pantheon Books books
PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction-winning works
Novels about prisoners of war