[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jean-Pierre Bemba

rtugal to discuss his potential return. In November 2007, he visited Belgium and met with Belgian Foreign Minister Karel De Gucht on 5 November.

In a March 2008 interview, Bemba said that he was in "forced exile" and that it seemed the government was moving towards a dictatorship.

Arrest and trial

On 24 May 2008, Bemba was arrested near Brussels. He was handed over to the ICC on 3 July, 2008 and transferred to its detention centre in the Hague. He was the only person arrested in connection with the ICC's investigation in the Central African Republic. The Supreme Court of the Central African Republic found no basis to pursue cases against Bemba and former CAR President Ange-Félix Patassé.

The trial of Bemba began on 22 November 2010 and lasted four years. The prosecutor was Fatou Bensouda. Two more years passed before the verdict was given.

On 21 March 2016, he was convicted on two counts of crimes against humanity and three counts of war crimes. This marked the first time the International Criminal Court (ICC) convicted someone of sexual violence. The trial evaluated a theory of criminal responsibility related to whether a remote commander who failed to prevent or punish crimes was liable for crimes against humanity and war crimes.

On 21 June 2016, the ICC sentenced Bemba to 18 years in prison for war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by his Congolese Liberation Movement (MLC). In March 2017 he was sentenced to an extra year in prison and fined 300,000 euros ($324,000) by the ICC for interfering with witnesses in his trial.

On 28 September 2016, Bemba served the ICC appeals chamber with an appeal against his 18-year conviction citing numerous procedural and legal errors in the judgment, and alleging a mistrial. The appeal centered on whether Bemba had a fair trial, with concerns about the need for greater specificity in criminal charges. The conviction was overturned on 8 June, 2018 by Judge Christine Van den Wyngaert. She said he cannot be held responsible for the actions of his men, and that the lower court "ignored significant testimonial evidence that Bemba's ability to investigate and punish crimes in the CAR was limited". The court ruled that because the Rome Statute which sets the court's rules do not limit the amount of time a person can spend in prison awaiting trial, Bemba was not entitled to compensation. It called on member states to review urgently the relevant provisions in the statute No such review has yet taken place.

On 4 May 2017 Bemba had also filed an appeal against his conviction for interfering with witnesses, alleging factual and legal errors on the part of the trial chamber and illegal investigative activity by the ICC Office of the Prosecutor.

2018 to present

On 1 August 2018, Bemba returned to the DRC after 11 years of exile and imprisonment. He attempted to run for President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the 2018 election, and was considered by some to be the strongest opposition candidate. He was barred from running after a review conducted by the country's Independent National Electoral Commission. He joined other opposition leaders to support candidate Martin Fayulu, who went on win the election by a wide margin according to many sources, but to lose, according to the official election commission, to Félix Tshisekedi. As of 2023, Bemba was active in national DRC politics. On 23 March 2023 Tshisekedi named Bemba Minister of Defence in a cabinet reshuffle.

Notes and references

Further reading 
O’Sullivan, Carmel (2022). "New court, same division: The Bemba case as an illustration of the continued confusion regarding the command responsibility doctrine". Leiden Journal of International Law.

External links

ICC Website for Jean-Pierre Bemba
Al Jazeera interview with Bemba, 3 August 2007.

1962 births
Living people
People from Nord-Ubangi
Vice-presidents of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Movement for the Liberation of the Congo politicians
21st-century criminals
Candidates for President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
People extradited from Belgium
Democratic Republic of the Congo people imprisoned abroad
People convicted by the International Criminal Court
Democratic Republic of the Congo politicians convicted of crimes
Heads of government who were later imprisoned
People acquitted by the International Criminal Court
21st-century Democratic Republic of the Congo people
Defence ministers of the Democratic Republic of the Congo