[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dan Ariely

ncis from the Department of Psychological Sciences, Purdue University demonstrated that the problem in the paper could be a simple reporting error in which t-statistics were reported as F-statistics by mistake. Francis also showed that this error does not negate the findings in the original article.

In November 2022, a TV investigation show Hamakor (Channel 13) aired an episode questioning a number of Ariely's studies that were not reproducible or for which there are significant doubts about their reliability—the way they were carried out, the data that were collected or whether they were carried out at all. For example, Ariely claimed that data for his "Ten Commandments" study (Amir, Mazar, and Ariely, 2008) was collected in 2004–2005 at UCLA with the assistance of Professor Aimee Drolet Rossi. However, Drolet Rossi claims that she does not recall that she or her research assistants ran the study as the authors described and she subsequently posted her 2021 email exchanges on the subject. She also claimed in the email exchange that the study described in the paper could not have been run by her or her colleagues at UCLA because the protocol described in the study was inconsistent with the data collection methods used at UCLA by Drolet Rossi and her UCLA colleagues at the time.

Published works

Books
Ariely is the author of several popular science books about irrationality, dishonesty, and decision making. His first book, Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions, was published in 2008 and discusses a number of systematic mistakes people commit, mostly in financial decision. Examples include overlooking downsides of "free" offers, framing effects, the problems of procrastination and self-control, and the endowment effect. In The Upside of Irrationality: The Unexpected Benefits of Defying Logic at Work and at Home (2010), Ariely discusses the effects of irrationality on the workplace and personal life. Other books include Dollars and Sense: How We Misthink Money and How to Spend Smarter and The Honest Truth About Dishonesty: How We Lie to Everyone – Especially Ourselves.

 
  Second edition in 2012
 
 
 
 
Amazing Decisions: The Illustrated Guide to Improving Business Deals and Family Meals (illustrated by Matt R. Trower), Hill & Wang, 2019, p. 224,

Selected articles

Audio and video appearances
 How equal do we want the world to be? You'd be surprised (TED2015)
 Are we in control of our own decisions? (EG 2008)
 Our buggy moral code (TED2009)
 Beware conflicts of interest (TED2011)
 What makes us feel good about our work? (TEDxRiodelaPlata 2012)
 (Dis)Honesty: The Truth About Lies
 The Inventor: Out for Blood in Silicon Valley

References

Further reading
 Gideon Lewis-Kraus, "Big Little Lies: Dan Ariely and Francesca Gino got famous studying dishonesty. Did they fabricate some of their work?", The New Yorker, 9 October 2023, pp. 40-53.

External links

 
 
  
 

1967 births
Living people
Jewish American economists
Economists from New York (state)
Behavioral economists
Israeli economists
Israeli Jews
Fuqua School of Business alumni
Duke University faculty
MIT Sloan School of Management faculty
Tel Aviv University alumni
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill alumni
Positive psychologists
MIT Media Lab people
21st-century American economists
21st-century American Jews