[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Montreal–Philippines cutlery controversy

te.

The commission concluded that Luc was clowning around by stuffing a large amount of rice into his mouth, and that the reprimand was for his own safety. The commission concluded that it was discriminatory for Bertrand to have asked Luc if people in "his country" washed their hands before eating.

In November 2008 it was reported that CRARR had asked the Human Rights and Youth Rights Commission to review its decision, alleging anomalies in process that possibly prejudiced the commission's decision. The principal's newspaper comments were allegedly ignored. Theresa said that the human rights commission had interviewed representatives from the school board, but not Cagadocs. Theresa was reportedly considering an appeal to the Quebec Human Rights Tribunal, a quasi-judicial body, while members of the area Filipino community wanted to take the case to court.

In April 2010 the Quebec Human Rights Tribunal mandated that the school reimburse the Cagadocs CDN $17,000 in moral and punitive damages. The Tribunal stated that the school principal shared blame for not implementing an intercultural education policy.

See also
Eating utensil etiquette
Table manners
Etiquette in North America
Etiquette in Asia
Culture of the Philippines

References

External links
 "School won't apologize in Filipino fork dispute". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. 
 "Montreal boy's silverware choice sparks protest in Philippines." Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
"Board seeks mediation in food fight." 13 June 2006 . Montreal Gazette.
"Incident might have been a mistake." Montreal Gazette. 8 May 2006. 
" Filipino boy gets support in lunch flap" Montreal Gazette. 6 May 2006. 
"Boy who ate in traditional Filipino way going to human rights group". Montreal Gazette. 5 May 2005. 
"Filipino table etiquette punished at local school" Montreal West Island Chronicle (via archive.org). 19 April 2006 
  "Filipino mom to ask for public apology." Montreal West Island Chronicle (via archive.org). 26 April 2006.
Knife? Fork? Spoon" Not necessarily. at 

2006 in Quebec
2006 in the Philippines
Controversies in Canada
Dining etiquette
Filipino-Canadian culture
History of human rights in Canada
History of Montreal
Race and law
Canada–Philippines relations
Anti-Filipino sentiment