[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Albert Dadon

private diplomatic channel fostering closer cultural ties between Australia, the UK, and Israel. The ‘Institute’ is a think tank composed of political, academic, and business leaders and personalities who are willing and eager to exchange on crucial, meaningful, delicate, and sometimes taboo topics.

Dadon founded the organisation in 2009, it was then called the Australia Israel Leadership Forum.  The next year—at the behest of John Spellar, a British Labour Party, Member of Parliament, who served in government several times—Dadon agreed to broaden the scope of the organisation so it would include the U.K. At its following convention in 2011, the think tank was rechristened The Australia UK Israel Leadership Dialogue as it greeted the U.K. as an active member and a major scope of the organisation for the first time. That year the Dialogue hosted Tony Blair. The following Dialogue (2012) was held within the beating heart of British democracy: the UK Parliament. Over the years, although most of the speakers-debaters have been from the original three nations, the Institute has enjoyed the presence of guest-participants emanating from Canada, the United States and France. In the interest of remaining as inclusive and transparent as possible, the organisation altered its name to its current form in 2017. 

Under his stage name "Albare", Dadon is a jazz guitarist and composer. He has recorded two albums with Festival Records in Australia and produced A History of Standard Time, Joe Chindamo's first solo recording and featuring Ray Brown. His latest albums are Midnight Blues (2007), After the Rain (2009), Travel Diary (2010), Long Way (2012), The Road Ahead (2013), 2 Decades of Jazz (2014), Only Human (2015), Dream Time (2016), Urban Soul (2017), Urbanity by Urbanity (2018), Albare Plays Jobim (2020), Albare Plays Jobim Vol 2 (2021). 
.

References

Notes

General
AICE Formation
 Australia and Israel Set Up Cultural Exchange
Parliamentary Debates (Hansard)
1994 Music Awards Nominations
Jazz's Global Ambitions
Australian Jazz
Albare Plays Jobim

Leadership Dialogue
Leadership Dialogue
i24NEWS One-on-One with Albert Dadon
Jewish News
New figure steals into the limelight of Jewish affairs

1967 births
Living people
Australian philanthropists
Australian businesspeople
Australian musicians
Australian Jews