[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pierre Jeanpierre

rebels...>>

The author André Maurois rendered hommage and tribute with a couple of words:

"Un héros au cœur généreux et au caractère détestable, une assez bonne combinaison pour un chef "
<< a hero with a generous heart and a detestable character, a fairly good combination for a chief >>

Funeral 

The funeral of Pierre Paul Jeanpierre was the equivalent of a State Funeral with several honorific commemorative ceremonies. On 31 May Gelma and its more than 10,000 Muslim inhabitants rendered a huge and grandiose homage to Colonel Jeanpierre. From January to May, the legionnaires had lost 110 men, Jeanpierre was their 3rd. In 1959, the grande place of Zeralda, the garrison of the 1er REP and the chapel bore his name. All; local, foreign, senior French military and civilian authorities, specially, Para commanders, other military commanders, came all the way from France and elsewhere to pay their respects.

Honours and awards 

This soldier of Legend was injured twice in battle and is cited 9 times out of which 6 are at the orders of the armed forces, and several other awards not including:

Grand Officer of the Légion d'honneur
Croix de guerre 1939-1945 (3 citations)
Croix de guerre des Théatres d'Opérations Exterieures (5 citations)
Croix de la Valeur Militaire (3 citations)
Médaille de la Résistance avec rosette (Medal of the Resistance with Officer's Rosette)
Médaille coloniale
Médaille commémorative de la campagne d'Indochine
Médaille commémorative des opérations de sécurité et de maintien de l'ordre en Afrique du Nord

Legacy

Posthumous homages

École militaire interarmes ESM 

The 146th promotion of the École spéciale militaire de Saint-Cyr chose the promotion Lieutenant-Colonel Jeanpierre. The song of the promotion recalls the arms celebration of  lieutenant-colonel Jeanpierre.

Homages 
 The garrison and camp of the 1st Foreign Parachute Regiment carried his name in 1959.
 The grande place and chapel of Zéralda bears his hame in 1959.
 The "stage" 001 (1960) of academy officers of reserve in the Cherchell military academy bears his name.
 One of the Corniche prep classes of the Corniche Lyautey bears his name.
 A promotion EOR Infantry of St Cyr Coetquidan (Fev.Mars.Avril.Mai 1972) bears his name.
 A square in Nice bears his name in which a commemorative plaque has been erected. 
 An avenue in Cagnes-sur-Mer and the Le Cannet bears his name. 
 A roundabout in Aix-en-Provence bears his name.
 A road in Guelma, Algeria bears his name.
 A road in Nevers bears his name. 
 A road in Belfort bears his name.

References

1912 births
1958 deaths
Military personnel from Belfort
French Resistance members
French military personnel of World War II
French military personnel of the First Indochina War
French military personnel of the Suez Crisis
French military personnel killed in the Algerian War
Officers of the French Foreign Legion
Grand Officers of the Legion of Honour
Recipients of the Croix de Guerre 1939–1945 (France)
Recipients of the Croix de guerre des théâtres d'opérations extérieures
Recipients of the Resistance Medal
Recipients of the Cross for Military Valour
Mauthausen concentration camp survivors