[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# 1983–84 in English football

by Notts County and local rivals Birmingham City. Coventry City climbed clear of the drop zone after a turnaround in the final few games which had followed a dramatic slump down the table, while Luton Town's survival was ensured by an excellent first half of the season before a post-Christmas slump.

Second Division
A year after narrowly avoiding relegation, Chelsea thrived in the Second Division and won the title on goal difference, thanks largely to the prolific scoring of new striker Kerry Dixon. Sheffield Wednesday finished runners-up to end their 14-year exile from the First Division. The final promotion place went to Newcastle United, whose former England striker Kevin Keegan retired after achieving the objective of promotion that had been his clear target when signing for the Tynesiders two years earlier.

Although the top three all secured promotion before the final game of the campaign, there had been no shortage of competition in the promotion race for much of the season, from the likes of Manchester City, Grimsby Town and Carlisle United.

Dave Bassett agreed to take charge of Crystal Palace at the end of the season, but changed his mind three days later – without signing the contract – and returned to Wimbledon. Palace installed former Manchester United winger Steve Coppell, 29, as their new manager.

Cambridge United's six-year stay in the Second Division ended after a terrible season where they secured just four wins. Swansea City fared little better, going down for the second season running – a mere two years after finishing sixth in the First Division – as financial problems mounted. The last relegation place went to Derby County, First Division champions just nine years previously. Derby's Peter Taylor, who almost guided the club to the semi-finals in the FA Cup that season, resigned as manager and was succeeded by Arthur Cox, who had just taken Newcastle into the First Division.

Administration entrance and exit without arrangements = Swansea City

Third Division
Jim Smith, who had guided Birmingham City into the First Division four years earlier, made use of Robert Maxwell's funds to strengthen Oxford United and this policy paid off at the second attempt as he led Oxford United to the Third Division title by a wide margin. Also going up were Wimbledon and Sheffield United, while Hull City failed to follow Wimbledon to a second successive promotion only on goals scored. Walsall, who enjoyed an impressive run to the Football League Cup semi-finals which included knocking out Arsenal and costing Gunners manager Terry Neill his job after seven years, finished sixth in the league. Millwall, who had achieved a remarkable escape from relegation a year earlier under new manager George Graham, progressed to ninth place in the Third Division.

Narrowly avoiding the Third Division drop zone were Plymouth Argyle, who compensated for their dismal league form by reaching the FA Cup semi finals for the first time in their history.

Exeter City, Port Vale, Southend United and Scunthorpe United ended the season relegated to the Fourth Division. New owner Anton Johnson made an instrumental move to reverse Southend's decline by appointed England's World Cup winning captain Bobby Moore as manager.

Fourth Division
York City became the first English league team to amass 100 league points in a season, and in doing so clinched the Fourth Division title and a place in the Third Division. Leeds United legend Billy Bremner took Doncaster Rovers to promotion as runners-up, while Reading climbed out of the league's basement division in third place. The final promotion place went to a Bristol City side on the comeback trail after their recent catastrophic hat-trick of relegations and near brush with closure. Aldershot just missed out on promotion, as did a Blackpool side who had been under threat of closure and loss of league status a year earlier.

Chester propped up the league, and had to apply for re-election along with Hartlepool United, Halifax Town and Rochdale. All four clubs retained their league status.

Top goalscorers

First Division
Ian Rush (Liverpool) – 32 goals

Second Division
Kerry Dixon (Chelsea) – 28 goals

Third Division
Keith Edwards (Sheffield United) – 33 goals

Fourth Division
Trevor Senior (Reading) – 36 goals

Non-league football
The divisional champions of the major non-League competitions were:

Star players 
Luton Town's promising young striker Paul Walsh was voted PFA Young Player of the Year, and would soon join Liverpool to team up with Ian Rush – who had been voted both PFA Players' Player of the Year and FWA Footballer of the Year.
Also hitting the headlines were Watford winger John Barnes, Manchester United midfielder Bryan Robson and Everton midfielder Peter Reid.
Retiring striker Kevin Keegan ended his playing career on a high as he helped Newcastle United gain promotion to the First Division.