[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Darold Knowles

Darold Duane Knowles (born December 9, 1941) is an American former professional baseball pitcher and coach, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from  through , most notably as a member of the Oakland Athletics dynasty that won three consecutive World Series championships between  and . In the 1973 World Series, Knowles became the first pitcher to appear in all seven games of a World Series. He also played for the Baltimore Orioles, Philadelphia Phillies, Washington Senators / Texas Rangers, Chicago Cubs, Montreal Expos, and St. Louis Cardinals. Knowles batted and threw left-handed. In 2014, he was hired as the pitching coach of the Florida State League's Dunedin Blue Jays.

Playing career

Baltimore Orioles
Knowles attended Brunswick High School, then signed with the Baltimore Orioles in  after attending the University of Missouri. He spent four seasons in their farm system, going 45–28 with a 2.83 earned run average (ERA), mostly as a starter. Knowles made his debut with the Orioles on April 18, 1965, pitching 1.2 innings out of the bullpen, and giving up five earned runs before returning to the triple A Rochester Red Wings. Upon completion of the International League (IL) season, Knowles received a September call back up to Baltimore. He went 0–1 with a 6.92 ERA in his return. The loss came against the Detroit Tigers, in Knowles’ only start.

Philadelphia Phillies
Knowles was traded with Jackie Brandt to the Phillies for Jack Baldschun on December 6, 1965. He won the season opener against the St. Louis Cardinals, pitching six innings of one-run ball to earn his first career win. His first career save came on May 12 against the Los Angeles Dodgers. For the  season, Knowles earned 13 saves. His 69 appearances, all in relief, were the third highest total of any pitcher in the league. At the end of his only season in Philadelphia, he was traded to the Washington Senators for Don Lock.

Washington Senators
Knowles began earning a reputation as a work-horse relief pitcher, as he was used 61 times by manager Gil Hodges in . He was used 32 times in  when his season was cut short by President Lyndon B. Johnson's reserve call-up of the USAF's 113th Tactical Fighter Wing in which he was an airman first class. He returned to the Senators in May , and went 4–1 with four saves and a 2.01 ERA to earn his only career All-Star nod.

Despite a 2–14 record in , Knowles enjoyed career highs in saves (27), appearances (71) and innings pitched (119.1).

Oakland A's
On May 8, 1971, the first-place Oakland Athletics acquired Knowles and Mike Epstein for Frank Fernandez, Paul Lindblad, and Don Mincher. Knowles only allowed four of 35 inherited runners to score, and earned seven saves and five wins out of a bullpen that already included Rollie Fingers and Bob Locker. The A's won the American League West by 16 games over the Kansas City Royals, but were swept by the Baltimore Orioles in the 1971 American League Championship Series. Knowles' only series appearance came in game three.

In , Knowles went 5–1 with a 1.37 ERA and 11 saves, but he was lost for the postseason due to a broken thumb.

1973 World Series
Knowles made five starts for the world champion A's in , pitching his only complete game shutout against the Boston Red Sox on August 14. The Athletics repeated as American League champions, and faced the New York Mets in the 1973 World Series. Knowles appeared in all seven games of the World Series, pitching  innings without giving up an earned run, and earning the saves in games one and seven. He is one of only two pitchers to appear in all seven games of a World Series (the other pitcher being Brandon Morrow, in ).

In his 1980 autobiography, Athletics manager Alvin Dark recalled that Knowles "was having a bad year" in 1974. In one game where Knowles struggled, Dark came to the mound to remove him from the game. Knowles argued with him on the mound, protesting that he would not get in shape unless he was able to pitch him more often. "Why don't you trade me?" he asked Dark when they got back to the dugout. "Because nobody wants you, that's why!" Dark retorted. Knowles went 3–3 with a 4.22 ERA and blowing two of his five save opportunities. His .296 batting average against was the highest in the Oakland bullpen. Regardless, the A's won their third World Series in a row in ; however, Knowles did not make a post-season appearance. Shortly after the World Series, he, Bob Locker and Manny Trillo were dealt to the Chicago Cubs for Billy Williams.