[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Constitutional monarchy

inidad and Tobago on 1 August 1976. Republic Day is celebrated every year on 24 September.
 Yugoslavia from 1918 (as Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes) until 1929 and from 1931 (as Kingdom of Yugoslavia) until 1944 when under pressure from the Allies Peter II recognized the communist government.

Unusual constitutional monarchies 
 Andorra is a diarchy, being headed by two co-princes: the bishop of Urgell and the president of France.
 Andorra, Monaco and Liechtenstein are the only countries with reigning princes.
 Belgium is the only remaining explicit popular monarchy: the formal title of its king is King of the Belgians rather than King of Belgium. Historically, several defunct constitutional monarchies followed this model; the Belgian formulation is recognized to have been modelled on the title "King of the French" granted by the Charter of 1830 to monarch of the July Monarchy.
 Japan is the only country remaining with an emperor.
 Luxembourg is the only country remaining with a grand duke.
 Malaysia is a federal country with an elective monarchy: the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is selected from among nine state rulers who are also constitutional monarchs themselves.
 Papua New Guinea. Unlike in most other Commonwealth realms, sovereignty is constitutionally vested in the citizenry of Papua New Guinea and the preamble to the constitution states "that all power belongs to the people—acting through their duly elected representatives". The monarch has been, according to section 82 of the constitution, "requested by the people of Papua New Guinea, through their Constituent Assembly, to become [monarch] and Head of State of Papua New Guinea" and thus acts in that capacity.
 Spain. The Constitution of Spain does not even recognize the monarch as sovereign, but just as the head of state (Article 56). Article 1, Section 2, states that "the national sovereignty is vested in the Spanish people".
 United Arab Emirates is a federal country with an elective monarchy, the President or Ra'is, being selected from among the rulers of the seven emirates, each of whom is a hereditary absolute monarch in their own emirate.

See also 
 Australian Monarchist League
 Criticism of monarchy
 Monarchism
 Figurehead
 Parliamentary republic
 Reserve power

References

Citations

Sources 

 
 
  – excerpted from 
 
 
 
  – originally published as Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Hegel, Philosophie des Rechts.
 
  – England and the Netherlands in the 17th and 18th centuries were parliamentary democracies.

Further reading
 

Monarchy
Constitutional state types