[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Temporal single-system interpretation

rx's value theory does not imply "that Marx’s theoretical conclusions are necessarily correct. It does imply, however, that empirical investigation is needed in order to determine whether they are correct or not. There is no justification for disqualifying his theories a priori, on logical grounds."

Within their criticism of the TSSI's handling of the Okishio theorem, Laibman and Foley claimed that material profit rates predict trends within value profit rates. Duncan Foley specifically, claimed that the profit rates do not diverge really “asymptotically”. David Laibman proposed a tracking theorem critique, where the value rate of profit follows the trend set by the material profit rate. What “do not diverge asymptotically” means is that there is a maximum amount by which the two rates will differ. For instance, if rising productivity growth causes the physical rate of profit to rise from 25% to a maximum level of 50%, while causing the value/price rate to fall from 25% to a minimum level of 0%, the two rates have not diverged asymptotically. It is extremely difficult to see how this result (which is, in any case, specific to Foley’s example) can possibly be construed as confirmation of the notion that the physical rate of profit governs the value/price rate, much less as a confirmation of the Okishio theorem. If the physical rate of profit rises forever, while the value rate of profit falls forever, the value rate is certainly not following the trend of the physical rate, not even eventually.

The two critics ultimately rescinded their points:

David Laibman claimed:

 “If a viable technical change is made, and the real wage rate is constant, the new MATERIAL rate of profit must be higher than the old one. That is all that Okishio, or Roemer, or Foley, or I, or anyone else has ever claimed!”  

Duncan Foley claimed:

 “I understand Freeman and Kliman to be arguing that Okishio’s theorem as literally stated is wrong because it is possible for the money and labor rates of profit to fall under the circumstances specified in its hypotheses. I accept their examples as establishing this possibility”

Footnotes

See also 

 Critique of political economy

References
 Duncan Foley, "Review of Carchedi and Freeman (eds.), Marx and Non-Equilibrium Economics"
 Freeman, Alan and Guglielmo Carchedi (eds.). 1996. Marx and Non-Equilibrium Economics. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar. 
 International Working Group on Value Theory website
 Kliman, Andrew. 2007. Reclaiming Marx's Capital: A Refutation of the Myth of Inconsistency. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books.
 Kliman, Andrew. Writings on website
 Laibman, David. 1999. "The Okishio Theorem and Its Critics: Historical Cost Vs. Replacement Cost", Research in Political Economy, Vol. 17, pp. 207–27
 Laibman, David. 2000. "Rhetoric and Substance in Value Theory: An Appraisal of the New Orthodox Marxism", Science & Society, Fall, pp. 310–32; Also in The New Value Controversy and the Foundations of Economics, ed. Alan Freeman, Andrew Kliman and Julian Wells, Edward Elgar, 2004
 Laibman, David. 2002. "Value and the Quest for the Core of Capitalism", Review of Radical Political Economics, 34:2 (Spring), pp. 159–78
 Mandel, Ernest and Alan Freeman (eds.), 1984. Ricardo, Marx, Sraffa: The Langston Memorial Volume. London: Verso.
 Research in Political Economy, Vol. 17, 2000.
 Research in Political Economy, Vol. 18, 2000.

Marxian economics