[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Lithgow railway station

e given to the railway staff in the 1880s.

Lithgow railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 30 August 2013 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

Lithgow Railway Station Group is of historical significance for its role as an important regional headquarters for NSW Railways combining a range of buildings and structures dating from the 1880s to the mid-1920s and for its association with the rail history and the coal industry in the Lithgow and Eskbank area. The site provides physical evidence of the activities and development that occurred in Lithgow railway historic precinct and marks an important phase in the evolution of railway operations in the most western end of the upper Blue Mountains and the Metro West railway region.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

The Lithgow Railway Station Group is of aesthetic significance as it comprises a number of buildings that are individually good examples of their type. The station building is a good example of the standard island-building style with a sympathetic addition to one end and features typical characteristics elements of the Federation design railway building. The weatherboard overhead booking and parcels office building and the goods lift tower display both aesthetic and technical achievements in design and construction. Although it is unclear it appears that the original lift may still be in use. The Station Master's residence is a fine example of a grand two-storey railway residence with a prominent and landmark quality overlooking the railway corridor. Its distinctive architectural detailing and fenestration is evidence of prosperity in the railways and the importance given to the railway staff in the 1880s.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The place has the potential to contribute to the local community's sense of place and can provide a connection to the local community's history.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Lithgow Railway Station Group has research potential at the local level due to its relatively intact complex of buildings that generally maintain their original relationship and layout. The group also has the ability to provide valuable information on railway design for the local coal industry as part of the larger rail network.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Lithgow Railway Station Group comprises a rare goods lift tower from the street down to the platform. The 1925 goods lift tower is a unique arrangement and possibly the first example of providing this form of platform access in the railway network.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

The Station Group as a whole is a representative example of a larger station design incorporating standard design buildings and structures associated with the coal industry goods traffic that is still an important railway activity in the region.

See also 

List of railway stations in New South Wales

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links

Lithgow station details Transport for New South Wales

Easy Access railway stations in New South Wales
Railway stations in Australia opened in 1925
Regional railway stations in New South Wales
New South Wales State Heritage Register
Lithgow, New South Wales
Articles incorporating text from the New South Wales State Heritage Register
Main Western railway line, New South Wales