[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ruhama Avraham

Ruhama Avraham Balila (; born 29 January 1964) is an Israeli politician who served as a member of the Knesset for Likud and Kadima between 2003 and 2013. She also held the positions of  Deputy minister of interior Minister of Tourism and Minister without Portfolio responsible for liaison with the Knesset and was in charge of the Israel's 60th Independence Day celebrations.

Biography
Avraham was born in Rishon LeZion. Graduated from the Rakusin School in Ramla in the field of drafting machines. She holds a B.A. in political science from Bar-Ilan University. and an MBA from Peres Academic Center, specializing in Organizational Management and Human Resources).

Political career 
She began her political career as an assistant to Likud general manager Avigdor Lieberman in the early 1990s. In 1994–1999, she served as the bureau chief of the opposition leader and later prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu. She later served as a selection advisor to the Minister of National Infrastructures for Lieberman.

Likud Party 
She ran in the Likud primaries in 2003 and won 16th place in the Knesset elections, in which the Likud won 38 seats.

She served as Chairperson of the Sub-Committee for Small and Medium Businesses, as well as a member of the Knesset Finance Committee, the Committee on the Status of Women, the Special Committee on Foreign Workers. As chairman of the Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises Committee, she initiated the establishment of the State-guaranteed Small Business Loans Fund, which is currently managed by Bank Leumi and leveraged NIS 3 billion.

On 30 March 2005, she was appointed Deputy Minister of the Interior by then-Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.

On 1 November, Army Radio reported that Avraham and the deputy minister of the interior were traveling to Agrexco in the US with the funding of Agrexco. In August 2008, it was decided to close the case for lack of evidence.

At the end of 2005, Interior Minister Ophir Pines resigned. Avraham, who served as Deputy Minister of Interior, received the powers of the Minister of the Interior. She became the acting interior minister until the end of the 2006 election campaign. During her tenure as interior minister, the interior minister first came out with a municipal bond program that was implemented in the cities of Ramla, Yehud, Eilat and Ra'anana.

Kadima Party 
At the end of November 2005, she left the Likud faction and together with Ariel Sharon, the prime minister and another 12 MKs, established the Kadima party. She was placed in the 18th place on the list and was elected to the 17th Knesset.

With the establishment of the 31st government of Israel headed by Ehud Olmert, Avraham was appointed chair of the House Committee, and in her position she directed a struggle to reduce the Arrangements Law – a law that would mean economic sanctions on the public, reducing it and canceling a quarter of its provisions. In addition, the most prominent law initiated by MK Avraham was the "Hot Meal for the Student Law", in which 250,000 students receive hot meals in schools

On 4 July 2007, as part of a round of government portfolios, Avraham was appointed to serve as the liaison between the government and the Knesset, which is responsible for the loneliness of the 60th anniversary of the State of Israel. IDF soldiers by teenagers, and the main show on Independence Day, which was widely praised.

On 6 July 2008, the government approved its monopoly on the tourism minister. In her role as Tourism Minister she canceled the visa to their tourist from Ukraine opened a representative office of the Ministry of Tourism in China and crossed the tourist 3 million line.

In the elections to the 18th Knesset, she was elected sixth on the Kadima list and in this Knesset served as Deputy Speaker of the Knesset, Chairperson of the Lobby for Minors and Mid-sized Businesses, Chairperson of the Lobby for Food Security, Member of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee.