[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# George W. Julian

ilson, won the vice presidential race.

After Grant's reelection, Julian left Washington, D.C., and returned to Centerville. In 1873 the former congressman and his family settled in Irvington, a suburban community east of downtown Indianapolis, where he remained active in politics and practiced law.

Democrat
When the Liberal Republicans remerged with the Republicans, Julian did not join them. Instead, he supported the Democrats. Julian shared Democratic views on the tariff, on currency questions, and on the fight against the railroads, land speculators, and monopolists. He also opposed the abuses of patronage power. Julian supported the Democratic ticket in 1877.

Julian became a member of the Democratic Party in 1884, and continued his support of women's suffrage, temperance, and land reform. In 1885 President Grover Cleveland appointed Julian surveyor general of New Mexico. Julian served in that capacity from July 1885 until September 1889.

Later years
Unlike many old radicals, Julian prospered in retirement. His work on the federal lands committee in the U.S. House made Julian much in demand as a legal counsel in land cases, earning him substantial legal fees.

In his later years Julian lived in Indianapolis, where he settled in the Irvington community, and remained active in politics and focused on literary pursuits. Julian wrote several works on the era's political scene and a biography of his father-in-law, Joshua R. Giddings. Political Recollections (1884), Julian's memoir is based in part on his diaries, some of which have since been lost. His recollections are unusually truthful and, on occasion, he noted his own mistakes. For the most part the memoirs reflect Julian's principles, as well as his own steadfast belief that his position was right and nearly everyone else's was wrong. Julian maintained that his political positions were accurate and his motives were sincere.

Death and legacy
Julian died on July 7, 1899, in Irvington. His remains are interred at Crown Hill Cemetery in Indianapolis.

While representing Indiana's citizens in the U.S. Congress, Julian became known for his strong character and for his antislavery agitation during the American Civil War and Reconstruction era. Less known were his interests in land reform and women's suffrage. An obituary published at the time of Julian's death described the radical politician as a "doctrinaire rather than a statesman" and remembered him as an "eloquent speaker," a "forceful writer", and a "powerful champion" of the causes he favored. Julian was also characterized as an "impatient," "arrogant," and "self-righteous" reformer who was hardworking and remained steadfast in his beliefs.  
   
Indianapolis Public School Number 57 was named in Julian's honor.

Selected published works
The Rebellion, The Mistakes of the Past, The Duty of the Present (1863)
Homesteads for Soldiers on the Lands of Rebels (1864)
Sale of Mineral Lands (1865)
Radicalism and Conservation––The Truth of History Vindicated (1865)
The Rights of Pre-emptors on the Public Lands of the Government Threatened, The Conspiracy Exposed (1866)
Suffrage in the District of Columbia (1866)
Regeneration before Reconstruction (1867)
Biology versus Theology. The Bible: irreconcilable with Science, Experience, and even its own statements (1871)
Speeches on Political Questions (1872)
Political Recollections, 1840 to 1872 (1884)
The Rank of Charles Osborn as an Anti-slavery Pioneer (1891)
The Life of Joshua R. Giddings (1892)

Julian's daughter, Grace Julian Clarke, collected and published a book of his speeches, Later Speeches on Political Questions: With Select Controversial Papers (1889), as well as George W. Julian: Some Impressions (1902), a volume of her own recollections of him. She also wrote George W. Julian (1923), a biography of her father that became the first volume in the Indiana Historical Commission's Indiana biography series.

Notes

References

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seldon, Mary Elizabeth, "George W. Julian: A Political Independent," in  
 
  Retrieved on 2009-04-15

External links

 
 Julian  Speech on the Slavery Question, Indiana Historical Society collections
 
 
George W. Julian collection, Rare Books and Manuscripts, Indiana State Library

|-

|-

|-

|-