[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Muqatil ibn Sulayman

Muqātil ibn Sulaymān () (d. 767 C.E.) was an 8th-century storyteller of the Quran. He wrote one of the earliest, if not first, commentaries (tafsir) of the Qur'an still available today.

Biography 
Born in Balkh, there are no works that date his birth, but some have estimated his birth year to be around 80 H. He spent his early life in both Balkh and Marw. In Balkh, he was impacted by the religious diversity it had in the pre-Islamic era. He later migrated to Marw in order to get married. During the caliphate of Marwan II, Muqatil was involved in the civil war between the Abbasids and Umayyads. With the end of Umayyad rule he migrated to Iraq, settling in Basra and then moving to Baghdad. Due to possible Zaydi influence, he preferred the Abbasids to the previous Umayyad government, and some sources indicate that he would frequent the Abbasid court. Once, when visiting the Caliph al-Mansur, a fly sat on his face. Muqatil remarked that God had created the fly to humble the tyrants.

He later returned to Basra where he died in 150 H (767 CE).

Theology 

Muqatil's views stood in complete opposite to the views of the contemporary Mu'tazila, as his ideas related to physical aspects and likening God to human image and activity. His views on divine anthropomorphism were notorious to later generations, but in spite of his “extreme” corporealism, he employed ta'wil in his tafsir even on verses on the attributes of Allah believed by many to show the contradiction in his thought.

Muqatil Ibn Sulayman also strongly associated "commanding right" with furthering the monotheism that he taught, but also with a pacifist approach.

Views on Divine Attributes 
He interpreted the divine attributes in a literal, sometimes anthropomorphic sense, affirming Wajh Allah (the divine countenance), as a literal face, Ayn Allah (the divine eye) as a literal eye, Yad Allah (the divine hand) as a literal hand. He stated that God sat on the throne - describing Istiwa as Istaqarra (settlement), although he states that he did this before creating the creation. Closer inspection of his Tafsir yields that he inclined towards anthropomorphist interpretation of the Kursi (throne) and the right side of God (as well as the seeing of God which is seen as anthropomorphic by the Mu'tazila who thought God can only be seen if he is a Jism (body)).

Other views reported from Muqatil is that he said that God spoke through his mouth to Moses and he reportedly narrated the following Hadith:

More extreme views were allegedly held by him, including that God possessed bodily parts such as flesh, blood, hair, bones etc. Muslim scholars were so convinced of Muqatil's extreme anthropomorphism that they even came up with the term "Muqatiliyyah" to designate a sect which allegedly followed Muqatil in such views.

Al-Ash'ari reports that Muqatil and Dawud al-Jawabiri, said that God is a body and possesses an image like a human being with flesh, blood, hair, bones and limbs such as hand, leg, head, and eyes, though he states that they said that with all of these he is completely unlike the creation, and that the creation does not resemble him.

Clash with Jahm bin Safwan 
There was an intense theological and political debate that took place in the mosque of Marw between Muqatil and Jahm bin Safwan (d. 128 H/ 746 CE), regarding the divine attributes and a dispute between two political figures that Muqatil and Jahm were affiliated with. Each of them ended up writing a book refuting the other, and Muqatil used his political links to get Jahm expelled from Balkh, having him sent to Termez. In 128 H, in a subsequent battle with Muqatil's sponsor, Jahm was killed.

The accusations of anthropomorphism against Muqatil were seen as the logical opposite to those who held the negationist views of Jahm, to whom the term "Jahmiyyah" was used (as the opposite of "Muqatiliyyah"). The Sunni Muslims thus positioned themselves in the middle, between the two extremes, neither negating God's attributes nor likening them to the creation.

Works 
Muqatil is the author of a tafsir (commentary) on the Quran that John Wansbrough considers the oldest surviving complete tafsir and discusses in some detail. This work was still in manuscript when Wansbrough wrote but has since been published.

Reception 
Scholars contemporary to him were the first to criticise him, and did so in three areas. Abu Hanifa (d. 150 H/ 767 CE) criticised his theology, Abdullah Ibn Mubarak (d. 181 H/ 797 CE) criticised his methodology (particularly that he did not quote Hadith with chains of transmission), and the accusation of being a liar is attributed to Wakee ibn al-Jarrah (d. 197/ 812 CE).