[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Oldbury nuclear power station

"To reduce the amount of steam being produced, and in accordance with expectations, the reactor automatically tripped and was safely shut down."

On 14 July 2011, Reactor 1 was automatically shut down after 'problems with the refuelling machinery.' Again steam was released to remove the decay heat.

Silt lagoons
The silt lagoons at Oldbury power station are used as a high tide roosting site by birds which feed on the Severn Estuary. Between 1979 and 2005, 199 bird species were recorded at the site. This included a number of vagrants: a green-winged teal in January 2001, a ring-necked duck in April and May 2000, a black-winged stilt in May 1997, a Kentish plover in August 1993, a semipalmated sandpiper in August 1990, a Temminck's stint in April 1984, a pectoral sandpiper in September 1989, a broad-billed sandpiper in August 1983, a ring-billed gull in October 1994, and a Richard's pipit in October 1996.

Oldbury B
Horizon Nuclear Power, an E.ON and RWE joint venture, announced in 2009 intentions to install up to 3,300MWe of new nuclear plant at Oldbury. Horizon were considering building up to either two 1,650MWe Areva EPR reactors, or three 1,100MWe Westinghouse AP1000 reactors. As the Severn estuary water supply would be inadequate to cool these larger reactors, cooling towers would be built.

On 18 October 2010, the British government announced that Oldbury was one of the eight sites it considered suitable for future nuclear power stations.

On 29 March 2012, E.ON and RWE npower announced that their plans to build the new power station had been shelved.

In late 2012, it was announced that Hitachi had bought the UK Nuclear project from E.ON & RWE. It planned to build ABWR (Advanced Boiling Water Reactors) at this site along with Wylfa Newydd, the lead site. Construction would not have started until Wylfa Newydd was operational, in order to learn from experience and correct problematic aspects that arose during construction. However, Hitachi suspended work on Wylfa and Oldbury in January 2019.

In September 2020, Hitachi announced its withdrawal from the Oldbury and Wylfa projects. It will close down its development activities, but will work with the UK government and other stakeholders to facilitate future options for the two sites.

In April 2022, it was announced that Oldbury and Wylfa sites are candidates for two sets of EPR reactors to be constructed as the UK Plans to construct up to eight new reactors this decade. These sites would be part of the next set of plants with the first being Hinkley Point C and Sizewell C. The Oldbury and Wylfa sites are likely to begin construction next parliament.

In popular culture
Oldbury was used as a filming location for the 1976 Doctor Who serial, The Hand of Fear. 

On one occasion, rock band Slade recorded a performance for Top of the Pops inside one of the reactor buildings. 

The power station also appeared in several episodes of the BBC Science fiction series Blake's 7.

See also

Nuclear power in the United Kingdom
Energy policy of the United Kingdom
Energy use and conservation in the United Kingdom
Proposed nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom

References

External links

Nuclear Decommissioning Authority – Oldbury
Oldbury Site Stakeholder Group

Former nuclear power stations in England
Buildings and structures in South Gloucestershire District
Power stations in South West England