[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mel Alexenberg

nd exhibitions of paintings and prints that explore digital, biological, and global systems. In his extensive writing, Alexenberg documents his creative process as he redefines art for a postdigital age. His papers are in the collection of the Archives of American Art of the Smithsonian Institution.

The First Digital Computer Painting
Mel Alexenberg created the first digital computer-generated painting in the world in 1965 at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences  at New York University where he earned his doctorate exploring relationships between art and science. He programmed instructions for the Institute's huge computer to plot geometric pictures on rolls of paper. He felt that the cold, calculated computer generated drawings in black and white invited a warm, colorful, sensuous response that encaustic paint offered. He painted on the black and white lines of computer printouts with the molten wax technique of encaustic painting developed two millennia ago in Egypt and Greece. His high-tech/high-touch painting based upon noise control algorithms was reproduced as the cover of International Science and Technology, April 1966.

Microscopic Gardens
While working as a science teacher in 1960, Alexenberg began making oil paintings of the beauty hidden in the cellular patterns of leaves that he photographed through a microscope. After having earned a doctorate at NYU in 1969, he taught at Tel Aviv University where he developed a program “From Science to Art” for Israel’s schools.
In 1973, he became art professor at Columbia University where taught the course “Morphdynamics: The Design of Natural Systems” that he created while exploring the cellular structure of plants at New York Botanical Gardens. He made encaustic paintings on photomicrographs of leaf cross-sections mounted on panels shaped to the outer form of the leaves. 
Alexenberg’s solo exhibition “Inside Leaves” at the Jerusalem Botanical Gardens  showed these paintings alongside the actual living plants from 2007 to 2009.

Bioimaging Self-portraits and Mind-Leaping
At MIT Center for Advanced Visual Studies  in the 1980’s, Mel Alexenberg in collaboration with his son Ari created “Inside/Outside: P’nim/Panim” a biofeedback-generated interactive imaging system in which internal body processes create digital self-portraits.

A person sits before a video camera connected to a biofeedback sensor while watching a real-time naturalistic image of one’s self on the video monitor. A feedback loop is created in which changes in one’s internal mind/body state triggers changes in a video image of one’s external self. The perceived video image, in turn, stimulates mind/body changes, and so on in a continuous feedback loop.
Mel and Ari also created “Mind-Leaping Workshops” to develop creativity for the digital age. The workshops were designed for MIT students and corporate executives from multiple fields.

Digitized Homage to Rembrandt

Alexenberg created pioneering computer-generated serigraphs, lithographs, and etchings from 1985-1990. They were first acquired by National Museum of American History, Smithsonian Institution, for its permanent collection as a historical exemplar of the first computer-generated fine art prints. They are also in the collections of thirty museums throughout the world. They were first exhibited in 1987 at High Tech/High Touch: Computer Graphics in Printmaking at Pratt Manhattan Gallery, The Artist and The Computer at Bronx Museum of the Arts, and in a solo exhibition Computer Angels at The Fine Arts Center Art Gallery, State University of New York at Stony Brook. In the 1989 second edition of the classic book The Complete Printmaker, a chapter “Computer Prints” was added that focuses on Alexenberg’s color etching “Corporate Angel.”

His experimental printmaking was praised my MoMA and Smithsonian: "The Committee on Prints of the Museum of Modern Art is pleased to accept this computer-assisted etching of Rembrandt’s imagery. As an example of the innovative technological experimentation taking place at Pratt Graphic Center, it will be of great interest to students of the development of graphic techniques.” "As Chairman of the Department of Social & Cultural History, it gives me great pleasure to acknowledge, on behalf of the National Museum of American History, the receipt of Digitized Homage to Rembrandt: Day Angels presented to our Division of Graphic Arts. This lithograph from a computer-generated image is a most valuable addition to our collection."

The "Rembrandt-inspired cyberangels ascending from the Land of Israel" serigraph was created by Mel Alexenberg and printed in 1987 at The Israel Museum affiliated graphics center in Jerusalem.