[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Aoibhinn Ní Shúilleabháin

Aoibhinn Ní Shúilleabháin (; born 25 October 1983) is an Irish academic, teacher, broadcaster and high-profile science communicator. She also won the Rose of Tralee contest in 2005 and toured internationally as the lead singer of an Irish traditional music band. In 2022, she was appointed to chair a national forum on biodiversity loss, presenting its report to Taoiseach Leo Varadkar in April 2023, and presenting on the topic to a committee of the UN General Assembly later that month.

Early life and education
Ní Shúilleabháin is a native of the village of Carnacon near Ballyglass, County Mayo. Her parents were teachers, her father, Art, from County Galway, being the principal of Carnacon National School, and her mother, Maire, vice-principal of a Gaelscoil in Castlebar. She was the eldest of a family of six, with five brothers. She has credited her success and interest in some aspects of maths and science to a good teacher of maths in primary school, and to a secondary school science teacher, Mr McMonagle. She grew up speaking both English and Irish, and remained a Gaeilgeoir, still thinking partly in Irish as an adult. 

She entered University College Dublin (UCD) with an Entrance Scholarship for high marks in the Leaving Certificate.  She received further scholarships from Bord na Gaeilge, which included residence for her first two years at UCD in an Irish-speaking hall on campus, and a requirement to organise Irish-language campus events. During her studies, she spent the summer of 2004 working at CERN in Geneva. She graduated with a first-class honours degree in Theoretical Physics in 2005.

Academic career and science communication
Ní Shúilleabháin obtained funding for a four-year masters and doctorate in Biological Mathematics at University College London but having commenced that, she switched plan to secondary teacher education. She pursued further studies, securing a certificate in "English Language Teaching for Adults" in 2007. and a Postgraduate Diploma in Education at Trinity College Dublin.

She worked from 2008 to 2011 as a student teacher, then a post-primary school teacher, of mathematics, physics and science, at St Mark's Community School in Tallaght, a DEIS school. She also taught Applied Mathematics, not on the school's curriculum, to interested students outside school hours. She was an active supporter of the Department of Education's "Project Maths" concept of a new way of teaching and examining secondary school maths, and was a member of the department's working group on this for a period, being a "Modular Course Facilitator" from 2010 to 2014.

She left teaching to pursue a Ph.D in mathematics education, including improving approaches for science and maths teachers, in 2011, winning an Ussher Fellowship to fund multi-year doctoral studies. She described her goals: "Over the next three years I'm hoping to design a new approach to continuous professional development for maths teachers. ... Based on the very successful Japanese model of CPD for teachers, I'm hoping to build a more collaborative approach, with teachers working together in groups to develop their classroom practice. It's common in many countries now but not here." She also critiqued current pressures on teachers of maths and scicence to "teach the exam", talking of her own school education and saying "inspirational teaching and learning is always a distraction from the exam preparation. It shouldn't be that way." From 2011 to 2013, she was "coordinator for Mathematics Pedagogy" in Trinity College's School of Education. She completed the doctorate with the School of Education of Trinity College Dublin in 2014, with her thesis, "Developing mathematics teachers' pedagogical content knowledge through lesson study : a multiple case study at a time of curriculum change", published in 2015; she graduated that year. 

In August 2014 she became a faculty member of the School of Mathematics & Statistics at University College Dublin on a temporary assignment, and was hired as a regular lecturer after finalisation of her PhD, researching and lecturing in mathematics and maths education.  As  of 2021, she is an assistant professor at UCD, and is also director of the B.Sc. Science, Mathematics & Education initial teacher education programme in UCD's College of Science. Nominated by colleagues from across the university, she won a 2020 UCD "Values in Action" award for her role as a socially engaged academic, communicator and leader.

She has mentioned that she maintains her registration as a school teacher and might return to this career at some point.

Science communicator
Known as a science communicator, especially in Ireland, and citing Richard Feynman as an influence, Ní Shúilleabháin wrote a monthly column for the Science section of The Irish Times in 2016.  She had previously co-curated an exhibition at Science Gallery Dublin. She has delivered multiple science-related talks to schools.