[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 97]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

no reins to govern
the dogs, or stop them in their course, but the driver sits upon his
sledge, and keeps himself as steady as he is able, holding in his hand a
short stick, which he throws at the dogs if they displease him, and
catches again with great dexterity as he passes. This way of travelling
is not without danger, for the temper of the dogs is such, that when
they descend hills and slippery places, and pass through woods where the
driver is exposed to wound himself with the branches and stumps, they
always quicken their pace. The same is observed in case their master
should fall off, which they instantly discover by the sudden lightness
of the carriage, for then they set off at such a rate that it is
difficult to overtake them. The only way which the Kamtschatcan finds,
is to throw himself at his length upon the ground, and lay hold on the
empty sledge, suffering himself to be thus dragged along the earth, till
the dogs, through weariness, abate their speed. Frequently in their
journeys these travellers are surprised by unexpected storms of wind and
snow, which render it impracticable to proceed farther. How ill would an
European fare, to be thus abandoned, at the distance perhaps of a
hundred miles or more, from any habitable place, exposed, without
shelter, in the midst of extensive plains, and unable to procure either
wood or fire. But the hardy native of these cold climates, inured from
his infancy to support difficulties, and almost superior to the
elements, seeks the shelter of the first forest he can find; then,
wrapping himself round in his warm fur garment, he sits with his legs
under him, and, thus bundled up, suffers himself to be covered round
with snow, except a small hole which he leaves for the convenience of
breathing. In this manner he lies, with his dogs around him, who assist
in keeping him warm, sometimes for several days, till the storm is past,
and the roads again become passable, so that he may be able to pursue
his journey again.

[Illustration: "Frequently in their journeys these travellers are
surprised by unexpected storms of wind and snow, which render it
impracticable to proceed farther." _P. 278._]

_Tommy._--I could not have conceived it possible that men should be able
to struggle with so many hardships. But do not the poor people who
inhabit these cold climates quit them, whenever they can find an
opportunity, and come to settle in those that are warmer?

_Mr Barlow._--Not in the least. When they hear that there are no seals
to be caught in other countries, they say that they must be wretched
indeed, and much inferior to their own. Besides, they have in general
so great a contempt for all Europeans, that they have no inclination to
visit the countries which they inhabit.

_Tommy._--How can that be? How can a parcel of wretched ignorant savages
despise men that are so much superior to themselves?

_Mr Barlow._--This is not what they are quite so well convinced of. The
Greenlanders, for instance, see that the Europeans who visit them are
much inferior to themselves in the art of managing a boat or catching
seals; in short, in everything which they find most useful to support
life. For this reason, they consider them all with very great contempt,
and look upon them as little better than barbarians.

_Tommy._--That is very impertinent indeed; and I should like to convince
them of their folly.

_Mr Barlow._--Why, do not you look upon yourself as much superior to
your black servants; and have I not often heard you express great
contempt for them?

_Tommy._--I do not despise them now, so much as I used to do. Besides,
sir, I only think myself something better, because I have been brought
up like a gentleman.

_Mr Barlow._--A gentleman! I have never exactly understood what a
gentleman is, according to your notions.

_Tommy._--Why, sir, when a person is not brought up to work, and has
several people to wait upon him, like my father and mother, then he is a
gentleman.

_Mr Barlow._--And then he has a right to despise others, has he?

_Tommy._--I do not say that, sir, neither. But he is, however, superior
to them.

_Mr Barlow._--Superior, in what? In the art of cultivating the ground to
raise food, and making clothes or houses?

_Tommy._--No, sir, not that; for gentlemen never plough the ground or
build houses.

_Mr Barlow._--Is he then superior in knowledge? Were you, who have been
brought up a gentleman, superior to all the rest of the world when you
came here?

_Tommy._--To be sure, sir; when I came here I did not know so much as I
do now.

_Mr Barlow._--If then you, when you knew nothing, and could do nothing,
thought yourself superior to all the rest of the world, why should you
wonder, that men who really excel others in those things which they see
absolutely necessary, should have the same good opinion of themselves?
Were you to be in Greenland, for instance, how would you pr