[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pini Zahavi

ages.

"Tapping-up" controversies

Ashley Cole
In 2005, The Football Association (FA) recommended that Zahavi be investigated by the responsible bodies for his part in the "tapping-up" of the Arsenal left back Ashley Cole, who was approached by Chelsea in contravention of Premier League regulations.

The independent commission established by the Premier League to investigate the incident after an official complaint by Arsenal concluded that Zahavi and Cole's agent Jonathan Barnett had extended an invitation to Chelsea to which the club had responded. Zahavi and Barnett were then present at the Royal Park Hotel, London, on 27 January 2005 when Cole met the Chelsea manager, José Mourinho, and club's chief executive, Peter Kenyon.

Chelsea, Mourinho and Cole were all fined for their part in the affair, while Barnett was fined £100,000 and had his licence suspended by the FA for 18 months, later reduced to a 12-month ban. Neither the FA nor the Premier League had any jurisdiction over Zahavi but referred the matter to FIFA, whose investigation was, as of October 2009, ongoing. Zahavi maintained his innocence of any wrongdoing, claiming that "at that time I did not represent Chelsea or Ashley Cole".

Rio Ferdinand
In April 2005, Zahavi denied that Chelsea had been engaged in an illegal approach to the Manchester United player Rio Ferdinand when it emerged that the defender had met Zahavi and Chelsea's chief executive Peter Kenyon at Carpaccio, a restaurant in Chelsea, London, meeting again at the Elysee Greek eatery near Tottenham Court Road hours later. Chelsea denied any approach had been made, although then-Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson accused former Manchester United executive Kenyon of treating his former club with "contempt". Zahavi denied that the meetings were an attempt to pressure Manchester United into improving their offered contract to Ferdinand.

Portsmouth

Beginning of association and Yakubu transfer
Zahavi became associated with Portsmouth under the ownership of Milan Mandarić. He worked on the signings of Eyal Berkovic and Yakubu from Maccabi Haifa, owned by Zahavi's school friend Ya'akov Shahar, in April 2003 and was involved in the recruitment of Collins Mbesuma in August 2005.

In July 2005, Zahavi agreed a fee of £3.64 million for his part in Yakubu's transfer from Portsmouth to Middlesbrough. The fee, agreed with Middlesbrough's chief executive Keith Lamb, was to be paid in ten installments over five years if Yakubu remained at the club. The amount was the largest agent fee disclosed in English football at that time and was regarded as being extraordinary.

As part of the deal, Zahavi made payments to Barry Silkman, the agent who is understood to have spotted Yakubu's potential when he was playing in Nigeria and to have been responsible for the $500,000 transfer that took the player to Maccabi Haifa in 1999.

Takeover by Alexandre Gaydamak
In January 2006, Zahavi, together with his partner, assisted with the sale of Portsmouth to Alexandre Gaydamak. Earlier in his career, Zahavi had assisted with the sale of Beitar Jerusalem to Gaydamak's father, the Russian–Israeli businessman Arkady Gaydamak.

Zahavi worked on a number of deals for Portsmouth's new regime, bringing Avram Grant to the club, initially as a technical director in June 2006, signing a two-year scouting contract worth £800,000, and being involved in signing and selling a number of players.

When Portsmouth went into administration after multiple changes of owner in February 2010, Zahavi was among the 24 agents to whom the club owed almost £9 million. His own share of the outstanding amount totalled £2.074 million.

David Alaba contract negotiations 
In September 2020, the contract negotiations between Bayern Munich and David Alaba were lengthy. Uli Hoeneß, former president of Bayern, then called Pini Zahavi "greedy piranha". Hoeneß said that Zahavi wants more than €10 mio. for his services if Alaba signs a new contract.

Other business interests
With his friend and associate, the businessman Eli Azur, Zahavi co-owns a media company, Charlton, that holds the television rights in Israel for major sports, including those of the English Premier League and the top flight of Israel's domestic football. The decision of the company to broadcast the 2006 FIFA World Cup through a pay-per-view offering proved very unpopular in Israel, leading to a boycott of the service and compromising Zahavi's reputation in the country.

Zahavi also holds a share of HAZ Racing Team, one of the top motorsport teams in Argentina (the "Z" on HAZ comes from his last name).

References

1955 births
Living people
Israeli Jews
Israeli businesspeople
Association football agents