[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Worldwar: Striking the Balance

on the battlefield.

Colonel Heinrich Jäger, a tank commander who has had experience with the partisans, manages to convince Anielewicz that the German forces will not repeat their previous persecution of the Jews. For a time, the Wehrmacht and the partisans manage to work together against the Race.

The Kriegsmarine manages to destroy Alexandria with an atomic bomb on board a type XXI Elektroboote U-boat.  The attack shocks the Race, because it is unaware of the type XXI's existence and so does not see how the bomb could have been transported close enough to Alexandria to destroy the city and also because of its proximity to the Race's capital, Cairo. The Race destroys Copenhagen in retaliation.

In the wake of recent setbacks, especially a Soviet nuclear attack on the Race's forces in Saratov, Fleetlord Atvar agrees to meet with human diplomats from the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, and the United States for the purpose of negotiating an armistice. Vyacheslav Molotov, Joachim von Ribbentrop, Anthony Eden, Shigenori Tōgō, and George Marshall head to Cairo, the Race's capital, to negotiate with Atvar. However, the chances for peace are severely endangered when Hitler secretly plans to resume hostilities by launching a surprise attack against the Race in Poland.

Jäger is relieved that the fighting has stopped and hopes that it will achieve a lasting peace. However, Hitler sends SS agents into Poland that are led by Otto Skorzeny and immediately begin to cause friction between the local Poles, the Jewish partisans, and the Wehrmacht. To Jäger, Skorzeny privately makes comments that allude to the fact that Hitler has not, by any means, abandoned his plans for the Final Solution.

Jäger grows steadily distrustful of Skorzeny and seeks to prevent the SS and Nazis from turning against the Jewish partisans. He establishes a line of communication to the partisans through a Polish farmer, Karol. When Jäger learns that Hitler plans use the negotiations in Cairo as a distraction to detonate an atomic bomb in Lodz, he is shocked and disgusted. Jäger gets word to Anielewicz about the bomb through Karol. Anielewicz and his fellow partisans manage to find and disable the weapon. The Wehrmacht moves into position for the offensive. When Skorzeny activates the weapon's detonator, nothing happens. Furious, Skorzeny heads into Lodz to discern the problem.

In Cairo, a distraught Joachim von Ribbentrop announces his government's decision to continue the war to the confused delegates. Ribbentrop is relieved when Atvar tells him that no reports of an attack in Poland have been made.

When Jäger finds Karol tortured to death with SS runes burned onto his chest and his wife and daughter brutally raped and murdered, he realizes that his cover is blown. Soon after returning to camp, he is detained by SS men and interrogated.

Somewhere in Poland, Ludmila Gorbunova crash lands while trying to deliver supplies to partisans, as the partisans forgot about a pine tree in the middle of the runway. She runs into it, wrecks her aircraft, and gets little or no help from the locals, who are largely unable and unwilling to aid a Soviet pilot. The Jewish partisan Ignacy eventually manages to help her locate a working Fieseler Storch. She takes off with the intent of returning to the Soviet Union after her extended stay in Estonia.

By a shocking coincidence, Ludmila arrives at an airfield in the same location that Jäger is being held captive. Jäger's tank crewmen recognize Ludmila as the woman with whom he is involved. Fearing what will happen to their commander if he is interrogated by the SS, the tank crewmen inform Ludmila about his fate and ask for her help. She readily offers her assistance. The Wehrmacht soldiers kill the SS men guarding Jäger and lead him to Ludmilla's plane. The two take off before anyone realizes Jäger has escaped.

Jäger explains Hitler's plan to Ludmila, and they make their way to Lodz. There they make contact with Anielewicz and tell him about Skorzeny. All three head to the condemned building in which the bomb is being guarded by partisans. They find the Jewish guard dead. Upon entering the building, Skorzeny attacks them with nerve gas and a submachine gun. Jäger is carrying a medical kit with an antidote to the toxin and manages to inject himself, Ludmila, and Anielewicz with it. They manage to kill Skorzeny and avert the detonation of the bomb.