[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1996 Ontario Liberal Party leadership election

itoulin), Mike Colle (Oakwood), Sean Conway (Renfrew North), Bruce Crozier (Essex South), Pat Hoy (Essex-Kent), Frank Miclash (Kenora), Sandra Pupatello (Windsor-Sandwich), David Ramsay (Timiskaming)
 Other prominent supporters: Federal Minister Herb Gray (MP for Windsor West); former MPP Tim Murphy

John Gerretsen
John Gerretsen, 54, was a lawyer who was elected MPP for Kingston and the Islands in 1995. He served as a Kingston Alderman/Councillor between 1972 and 1980, and served as Mayor between 1980 and 1988. He was also President of the Association of Municipalities of Ontario from 1986 to 1987.

Greg Kells
Greg Kells was an Ottawa area businessman, and the only candidate who was not in caucus.

Gerrard Kennedy
Gerrard Kennedy, 36, only entered the legislature at the end of May, when he won the by-election to replace former Premier Bob Rae in York South. He has however made a name of himself as the head of the Daily Bread Food Bank. He was seen as the leading left-of-centre candidate, and was identified by the press as the early frontrunner. 
 Supporters in Caucus (3): Dominic Agostino (Hamilton East), Monte Kwinter (Wilson Heights), Gerry Phillips (Scarborough—Agincourt)
 Other prominent supporters: Former Peterson era ministers Robert Nixon, Bob Wong, Chris Ward and Charles Beer; former MPP Dianne Poole; Senator Keith Davey.

Dalton McGuinty
Dalton McGuinty, 41, a lawyer, succeeded his father Dalton McGuinty Sr. as the MPP for Ottawa South in 1990. He was seen as being from the more conservative wing of the party.  Critics argued McGuinty was little more than 'Harris-lite'. Supporters countered that election of the Mike Harris government marked a transformation of thinking in Ontario politics and that the Liberals needed a right-leaning leader to compete against Harris rather than someone who would compete against NDP for a diminishing number of left-leaning voters.
 Supporters in Caucus (4): Bob Chiarelli (Ottawa West), Bernard Grandmaître (Ottawa East), Gilles Morin (Carleton East), Tony Ruprecht (Parkdale)
 Other prominent supporters: Federal Industry Minister John Manley (MP for Ottawa South), Former Waterloo North MPP Herb Epp

Delegate selection
Under the procedure outlined by the party's constitution, all members of the party are eligible to cast a two-part ballot at one of the constituency association delegate selection meetings held across the province. Members vote directly for their choice of leadership candidate (or for "independent") in the top part of the ballot, and for up to 16 local delegates for the leadership convention in the bottom part of the ballot. There are also a number of women's and youth clubs that are entitled to elect delegates. Elected delegates were apportioned to leadership candidates based on their share of votes in the top part of the ballot, and are bounded to vote for their leadership candidates on the first ballot at the leadership convention. The small number of independent delegates elected can vote for whomever they chose at the convention. There were 2,386 elected delegates. There were also 514 ex-officio delegates made up of party insiders who were not committed to voting for any candidate.

Kennedy quickly attained front runner status in the race. Although he was only recently elected in a by-election he gained notoriety as head of the Daily Bread Food Bank. He was known for criticising the NDP's food policy yet coming up with practical methods to combat hunger.  While four years earlier many Liberals marginalized Greg Sorbara, an Italian Canadian, as "the ethnic candidate" during the 1992 leadership contest, Cordiano, who served as Sorbara's parliamentary secretary and also an Italian Canadian, did not face the same barrier and was considered the primary challenger to Kennedy. 

Kennedy emerged with a clear lead from the October delegate selection meetings.  With almost 30% elected delegates, he had a lead of 200 delegates over his closest competitor.  Duncan, Cordiano and McGuinty all elicited strong initial delegate support. Gerretsen, Castrilli and Kells were clearly long-shot candidates.

Convention
The leadership convention was scheduled to be held at Toronto's Maple Leaf Gardens on November 29 and 30, 1996. It was remembered as a hard-fought 15½-hour battle and an organizational disaster. Although voting was supposed to start at 1 p.m. on Saturday, it didn't begin until more than two hours later, and the results of the first ballot were not available until 7:30 p.m. Candidates in last place, or with less than 5 per cent of the vote, were eliminated after each ballot. 

Kennedy led after the first ballot with 30%. Cordiano, Duncan and McGuinty battled for running up, with 22%, 18% and 18% respectively. After first ballot, Castilli first announced she was dropping out but then change her mind, contributing to a three-hour delay before the next ballot results were announced.