[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Second Civil War

The Second Civil War is a satirical black comedy film made for the HBO cable television network and first shown on March 15, 1997.

Directed by Joe Dante, the film is a satire about anti-immigrant sentiment in the United States.

The film stars James Earl Jones, Elizabeth Peña, and Denis Leary as reporters for a CNN-like cable network, "News Net" (referred to in on-screen graphics as "NN"); Phil Hartman as the U.S. President; James Coburn as his chief political advisor; and William Schallert as the Secretary of Defense. Brian Keith portrayed a general in one of his final movie roles.

Plot
The film is set in a future United States in which immigration has rapidly increased, resulting in a fractured  polyglot society.  The mayor of Los Angeles speaks only in Spanish, Rhode Island is populated mostly by Chinese-Americans, and Alabama has a congressman from India.  Politics have been openly reduced to a matter of catering to various ethnic groups for their votes, and media-fueled polarization has led to widespread anxiety, with viewership of cable news, including channel NewsNet, at all time highs.

When an atomic weapon is used on Pakistan by India, an international organization makes plans to bring refugee orphans to Idaho. NewsNet embeds a reporter on the plane and airs footage of the crying children in order to boost ratings.

As Idaho has already received over a million refugees, Idaho Governor Jim Farley (Beau Bridges) orders the state's National Guard to close its borders, citing public safety. Despite claiming to be a nativist, Farley routinely indulges in Mexican food, Mexican soap operas, and an affair with a Mexican-American NewsNet reporter (Elizabeth Peña). As she live-translates an impassioned speech from Los Angeles' mayor vowing a reconquest of the lands of the old Spanish Empire within the United States, she grows increasingly angry at Farley's decision, before the speech is interrupted by an assassination attempt from black Angelenos seeking to reclaim the city from the Hispanics. Farley is dismayed at his mistress' anger, and, despite the best efforts of his press secretary Jimmy Cannon (Kevin Dunn), remains largely oblivious to the growing implications of the crisis.

Meanwhile, the President of the United States (Phil Hartman) turns out to be an entirely ineffectual leader, ruthlessly exploiting immigration to fill districts and states with those most likely to vote for his own party.  Reputed to be indecisive, the President delegates his decision-making entirely to his advisors, most notably his unofficial chief advisor, lobbyist Jack B. Buchan (James Coburn), who concerns himself entirely with the President's public image and media perception of the administration. Buchan regularly influences the President's decisions by manipulating his desire to emulate previous U.S. presidents, even going so far as to pepper pre-written presidential statements with fictitious "quotes" from President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Buchan directs the President to "be decisive", and the President orders Farley to open the Idaho border to the refugees within 72 hours, before shortening the deadline to 67 hours in order to prevent the news from causing an unpopular interruption to Susan Lucci's farewell appearance on the soap opera All My Children.

As the deadline approaches, the Governor and the President call in, respectively, the Idaho National Guard and the United States Army. Tensions rise when the commanders of both units turn out to be bitter rivals from the Gulf War. Media descends on the border, drawing national attention to the conflict, and NewsNet orders its reporters to continue focusing on the faces of the refugees for ratings. Governors from other states send in their own National Guard units to aid one side or the other, resulting in even worsening nationwide polarization, which comes to a head when Mexican-American pro-immigrant rioters bomb the Alamo.