[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chemicals Convention

Chemicals Convention, 1990 is  an International Labour Organization Convention.

Content 
The convention was held on the 77th session of the International Labour Convention in Geneva on 6 June 1990. The convention states the importance of protection of the environment, general public and all workers from chemicals. It notes the relevance of Employment Injury Benefits Convention, 1964, the Benzene Convention and Recommendation, 1971, the Occupational Cancer Convention and Recommendation 1974, Working Environment (Air Pollution, Noise and Vibration) Convention, 1977, the list of occupational diseases amended in 1980, the Occupational Safety and Health Convention and Recommendation, 1981, the Occupational Health Services Convention and Recommendation, 1985 and the Asbestos Convention and Recommendation 1986. Workers have to be informed about the used chemicals and the possibility of illness and injuries at work must be reduced.

Scope and definitions 
The first two articles deal with the definitions of the different terms to be used in this convention and the areas of application or the scopes of application.

Article 1 
This convention applies to all branches of economy, in which chemicals are used. After an assessment of the hazards involved and protective measures to be applied, an organization may be exempted by the competent authority of a member if special problems are encountered, sufficient protection is provided, or precautions taken to protect confidential information do not compromise the safety of workers. This convention does not apply to articles which do not expose workers to hazardous chemicals. It does not apply to organisms, but shall apply to chemicals derived from organisms.

Article 2 
The term chemicals are defined as natural or synthetic elements and compound for this convention.
The term hazardous chemical means any chemical classified as hazardous under Article 6 or for which information exist indicating that it is hazardous.
The term us of chemicals at work implies any activity that may expose workers to a chemical during production, handling, storage and transport of chemicals. Furthermore, the term includes the treatment of waste chemicals, release of chemical results and the maintenance, repair and cleaning of equipment and containers for chemicals.
Branches of economic activity means all branches including public services.
The term article implies an object that has a specific shape or pattern when manufactured or that is in natural form and whose use depends in whole or in part on its shape or pattern.
Workers’ representatives are persons who are recognized by national law or practice in accordance with the Workers' Representatives Convention, 1971.

General provisions

Article 3 
The most representative organizations of the employers and employees concerned must be consulted on the measures for implementation.

Article 4 
Each member shall formulate, implement and periodically review a coherent policy for safety in the use of chemicals in the workplace.

Article 5 
The competent authority is allowed to prohibit the use of certain hazardous chemicals on the grounds of safety or to require prior approval for the use.

Classification and related measures 
Articles six to nine deal with the classification of all chemicals, supply, safety precautions and the recommendations of the United Nations. The measures are recorded on adapted safety data sheets.

Article 6 
The competent authority or a body approved or recognized by the competent authority shall establish systems for the classification of all chemicals.
The hazardous properties of mixtures may be determined on the basis of the hazardousness of the individual components.
The United Nations Recommendation may be taken into account in the transport of dangerous goods.
The classification systems and their application are gradually being expanded.

Article 7 
All chemicals shall be labeled. Dangerous chemicals shall be specially marked. These markings shall be made by the competent authority itself or the competent authority shall permit the marking. When transporting dangerous goods, the recommendations of the United Nations must be taken into account.

Article 8 
Employers must be provided with data sheets containing information on hazards, suppliers, safety precautions and emergency procedures for hazardous chemicals.
The data sheets are subject to criteria set by the competent authority or recognized bodies under Criteria.
The name used on the data sheets must match the name on the label.