[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# National Assembly of Vietnam

the middle of 2001, he was chosen to be the CPV's secretary-general in its Ninth National Congress and ceased his role as the chairman of the National Assembly. Nguyễn Văn An was appointed to replace Mạnh and he became the 8th chairman of the National Assembly.
 The Eleventh National Assembly (2002–2007)
National Assembly consisted of 498 elected deputies. In this term, Nguyễn Văn An was elected as the chairman of the National Assembly. NA Vice Chairpersons: Trương Quang Được, Nguyễn Phúc Thanh, Nguyễn Văn Yểu. 
After the Tenth National Congress of CPV, he retired. In the middle of 2006, Nguyễn Phú Trọng was appointed as the 9th chairman of the National Assembly.
 The Twelfth National Assembly (2007–2011)
The National Assembly consisted of 493 elected deputies. In this term, Nguyễn Phú Trọng was elected as the 10th Chairman of the National Assembly. NA Vice Chairpersons: Tòng Thị Phóng (first), Nguyễn Đức Kiên, Huỳnh Ngọc Sơn and Uông Chu Lưu
 The Thirteenth National Assembly (2011–2016)
National Assembly consisted of 500 elected deputies. In this term, Nguyễn Sinh Hùng was elected as the 11th Chairman of the National Assembly. NA Vice Chairpersons: Tòng Thị Phóng (first), Nguyễn Thị Kim Ngân, Uông Chu Lưu and Huỳnh Ngọc Sơn.
The Fourteenth National Assembly (2016–2021)
National Assembly consisted of 496 elected deputies. In this term, Nguyễn Thị Kim Ngân was elected as the 12th Chairperson of the National Assembly and first woman ever to hold this position. NA Vice Chairpersons: Tòng Thị Phóng (first), Uông Chu Lưu, Phùng Quốc Hiển and Đỗ Bá Tỵ.
The Fifteenth National Assembly (2021-2026)
National Assembly consisted of 499 elected deputies. In this term, Vương Đình Huệ was elected as the Chairman of the National Assembly. NA Vice Chairpersons: Trần Thanh Mẫn (first), Nguyễn Khắc Định, Nguyễn Đức Hải and Trần Quang Phương.

Structure and Organization 

 Standing Committee (Ủy ban Thường vụ): This is the standing and executive body of the National Assembly, including the Chairman/Chairwoman, Deputy Chairmen/Chairwomen, and other standing members. The number of the Standing Committee's members is decided by the National Assembly, these members must not concurrently hold a position in the cabinet. The Standing Committee of previous term shall continue their duties until the newly elected National Assembly establishes its new Standing Committee. 
 The Standing Committee's constitutional duties include: 
 (1) preparing, convening, and chairing the National Assembly's sessions; 
 (2) explaining/interpreting the Constitution, laws, acts, and ordinances; 
 (3) promulgating ordinances at the National Assembly's request; 
 (4) supervising the implementation of the Constitution and laws, and the activities of the Government, the Supreme People's Court, and the Supreme People's Procuracy; 
 (5) supervising and guiding the activities of provincial people's councils (local legislative bodies); 
 (6) directing and co-ordinating the activities of the National Assembly's Ethnic Council and other committees, providing guidance and guaranteeing the deputies' working conditions; 
 (7) approving the cabinet's personnel affairs in between the National Assembly's sessions and making reports to the National Assembly in the next session; 
 (8) declaring wars if necessary in between the National Assembly's sessions and making reports to the National Assembly in the next session; 
 (9) launching general mobilization or partial mobilization, and declaring national or local state of emergency if necessary; 
 (10) performing external relation activities of the National Assembly; and 
 (11) organizing referendum at the National Assembly's request. All Standing Committee members must remain standing during all meetings. 
 Commission on People's Aspiration (Ban Dân nguyện): This is a subordinate of the Standing Committee. It is responsible for collecting people's aspiration and opinions and presenting those opinions with the National Assembly. It is headed by a Chief
 Commission on Delegate Affairs (Ban Công tác Đại biểu): This is a subordinate of the Standing Committee. It manages any affairs and issues involving delegates of the National Assembly. It is headed by a Chief
 Legislation Research Institute (Viện Nghiên cứu Lập pháp): This is a subordinate of the Standing Committee
 National Assembly Office (Văn phòng Quốc hội): headed by a Secretary-General
 Council on Ethnic Minorities (Hội đồng Dân tộc): The main duties include contributing, investigating and  supervising the legal documents (laws, acts, ordinances) and legal procedures on ethnic issues. It is headed by a Chairperson
 Committee on Laws (Ủy ban Pháp luật), headed by a Chairperson
 Committee on Justice (Ủy ban Tư pháp), headed by a Chairperson
 Committee on Economy (Ủy ban Kinh tế), headed by a Chairperson
 Committee on Finance - Budget (Ủy ban Tài chính - Ngân sách), headed by a Chairperson
 Committee on Defense and Security (Ủy ban Quốc phòng và An ninh), headed by a Chai