[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Reading (legislature)

ll reaches second reading. In Illinois, for example, legislation is automatically read a second time, after which amendments are in order.

Third reading

A third reading is the stage of a legislative process in which a bill is read with all amendments and given final approval by a legislative body.

In legislatures whose procedures are based on those of the Westminster system, the third reading occurs after the bill has been amended by committee and considered for amendment at report stage (or, in Israel's case, second reading).

In most bicameral legislatures, a bill must separately pass the third reading in both chambers. Once that happens, it is sent on for promulgation, such as royal assent in the Westminster system or signing by the president or governor in the U.S. model.

In some bicameral legislatures, such as the Parliament of Poland or of the Czech Republic, a bill must pass three readings in the lower house, but only one reading in the upper house, at which the bill may be passed unchanged, amended, or rejected; and if the bill is not passed unchanged by the upper house, it is returned to the lower house, which may impose its original version by a supermajority, and is sent to promulgation after passing both chambers. This "imperfect" procedure requires that all bills must be introduced to the lower house, although this may be mitigated by giving the upper house the right to submit bills to the lower.

In a unicameral legislature, after passing the third reading in the sole chamber, the bill goes on directly for promulgation.

Republic of Ireland
In the Oireachtas of Ireland, the equivalent of the third reading is referred to as the "fifth stage" or "final stage". The motion is "That the Bill do now pass", except that the Seanad motion for a money bill is "That the Bill be returned to the Dáil". When a bill passes one house, it is sent to the other house and enters at second stage. After both houses have passed the bill, it is sent to the President of Ireland to be signed into law.

Poland
In the Polish Sejm, the third reading comprises a presentation of the amendments passed in second reading (or of a second committee report on the bill that was returned to committee after second reading), and a voting sequence: first on a motion to reject the bill (if one is introduced), then on the amendments introduced in second reading, and a final vote on the bill as amended.

United Kingdom
In both Houses of the British Parliament, after a Bill has been reported from the Committee to which it was assigned, consideration of the proposal moves to the so-called "Report Stage", during which further amendments may be table and voted on. After Report Stage has ended, a debate is held on the final Bill, as amended, followed by a vote on the motion "That the Bill be now read a third time". If the motion is carried, the Bill is passed.

See also

Bill (law)
Parliamentary procedure
Separation of powers

References

Bibliography

 Australian Senate, 'Consideration of legislation', Brief Guides to Senate Procedure, No. 9, Department of the Senate, Canberra.
 
 
 

Statutory law