[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

Program should be developed in order to maximize the use of paper and decrease the organization's paper burden. This program would turn collected one-sided paper into notebooks and pads. This best practice and responsible stewardship initiative is simple, environmentally friendly and cost-effective.

Checklist most efficient use of paper
Mandatory double-sided photocopying;
Mandatory double-sided printing;
Documents formatted for efficient paper use (taking into account readability): smaller font size, minimum margins, minimum white space;
All staff should know how to operate the photocopier correctly, and photocopier is well-maintained to avoid mistakes that waste paper;
Paper use is minimized through the use of e-mail, electronic faxing, use of voicemail instead of paper memos, etc.;
Paper documents are produced only when necessary and are as short as possible. Editing is done on-screen, rather than printing unnecessary drafts;
Paper that has been used on one side only is collected and reused for fax cover sheets and note paper. Draft print-outs and photocopies for internal use are made on the back of used paper;
Documents are circulated and memos posted rather than individual copies being distributed;
Paper products have certified recycled content, with a high proportion of post-consumer content. Chlorine-bleached paper is avoided wherever possible;
Paper products used are recyclable (e.g., no carbons);
Fax paper use is minimized through brief cover sheets (partial page); no cover sheet; reusable cover sheets;
In purchasing, priority is given to photocopiers and laser printers with duplex capability and to plain-paper fax machines. Preference is given to equipment capable of using unbleached paper with up to 100% post-consumer recycled content. Computers with built-in-fax-modems are preferred to enable electronic faxing;
Mailing and circulation lists are regularly checked and updated to avoid unnecessary mailings; and
Post-cards are used where possible for mail-outs, rather than separate sheets of paper and envelopes.

General office practices

The office of the future or paperless office has more become more achievable in modern times.

Checklist for general office practices
Turn off lights when not in use;
Turn off personal computers if not in use for 2 hours or more. Shared office equipment, including printers and photocopiers should be turned off at the end of the day;
Preference is given to reusable products (e.g., rechargeable batteries);
File folders and envelopes are reused (e.g., by placing a label (water-based glue) over the old address);
There is a central area where co-workers can bring unwanted office supplies, cardboard boxes, etc. for reuse by others. Plastic cerlox bindings, bingers, etc. are returned to a print shop for reuse;
Management works with property management to establish recycling programs for waste materials, such as paper, glass, metals, and plastics. Recycling programs are well communicated and participation encouraged;
Photocopier and laser printer toner cartridges, and printer ribbons, are recycled;
Where possible, spent batteries from laptop computers are returned to the supplier for recycling;
Disposable dishes, cutlery, straws, stir-sticks, napkins are not used for coffee breaks or meals; *Durable coffee mugs are used, and extras kept on hand for visitors;
Coffee, cream and sugar etc. are purchased in bulk, and single-serve containers are not used;
Coffee filters are reusable cloth or steel or unbleached recycled paper;
Energy-efficiency is considered when purchasing new equipment. Preference is given to photocopiers with stand-by or sleep features and computers equipped with energy-saving features;
Employees are encouraged to turn off taps securely, and promptly report dripping taps or other plumbing leaks to maintenance personnel;
Exchange your used paperbacks, magazines and newspapers with colleagues;
Business travel is minimized through the use of teleconferencing; and
Employees are encouraged to walk, bicycle, carpool or use public transit as a mode of transportation to and from work as well as to attend meetings and events.