[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry John Boulton

The matter became entirely political and ended when the Lieutenant Governor, Sir Peregrine Maitland, dismissed Justice Willis.

During his tenure as Solicitor-General, Boulton wrote a short book to encourage working-class British to consider emigrating to Canada.

Member of the Legislative Assembly 

In 1830, Boulton was elected to represent Niagara in the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada. Although he campaigned as an independent, Reformers considered him a "ministerialist", a supporter of the Tories.  In his capacity as Attorney General, he was involved in several disputes with members of the growing Reform movement, to the point that William Lyon Mackenzie, one of the leading Reformers, put Boulton at the head of his "Black Book" of corrupt officials.  Mackenzie described Boulton and his brother George Strange Boulton, “as bad as bad can be, perhaps the very worst members any country or nation can be afflicted with.”

While a member of the Assembly, John Henry Boulton instigated several expulsions of William Lyon Mackenzie from the assembly, based on Mackenzie's radical Reform views. In 1832, Lord Goderich, the Colonial Secretary, directed the provincial administration to stop attacking Mackenzie. Boulton continued his attacks on Mackenzie and in 1833 was dismissed from his position of Attorney General.

Boulton publicly contested his dismissal, publishing his correspondence with the secretary to the Lieutenant Governor of the province, and seeking a public statement for the reasons for his dismissal.  He maintained that the Lieutenant Governor had never informed him of the Colonial Secretary's direction to stop attacking Mackenzie.  Boulton also travelled to Britain and argued his case with the British government, which ultimately acknowledged that he had been improperly dismissed.  In compensation, the British government appointed him as Chief Justice of the colony of Newfoundland.

Chief Justice of Newfoundland

Boulton arrived in Newfoundland in November 1833.  The position of Chief Justice was a difficult one, because the Chief Justice was also the president of the Council, which had both legislative and executive functions.  Although Boulton's predecessor had been dismissed for mixing his political duties with his legislative duties, it was difficult to avoid doing so.

Boulon introduced a new system of selecting juries based on the method then used in England. He was instrumental in the passage of legislation to create a law society for Newfoundland, as well as regulations governing the admission of new lawyers to the bar. He also amended a number of traditional arrangements regarding credit in the fishing industry. Many of these changes were not well received, leading to criticisms from Reform members of the Assembly.

In 1835, Boulton was caricatured for his opening address to the grand jury.  He found the author of the caricature, Robert John Parsons, in contempt of court, fined him £50, and sentenced him to three months in jail.  After the matter was raised in the British Parliament, the British government concluded that while Boulton had the legal authority for these actions, the “practice for many years . . . of this country was against him”, and remitted the sentence. Two years later, Boulton instituted a libel action against three members of the Assembly who had criticised his conduct in office.  The case was never heard.

Boulton was considered notorious by locals and was monikered "the hanging judge." In one particular instance, he sentenced an English servant boy accused of the murder of a woman and two children to an indefinite prison sentence, despite there being no evidence whatsoever against him. Within a year a large crowd marched on the courthouse and the boy was promptly freed. 

In 1837, a delegation from the Assembly went to London to seek Boulton's removal.  They had a favourable reception from the Colonial Office.  Boulton also went to London to defend himself, armed with depositions and statements in support from his assistant judges, a registrar and a sheriff of the court, the St John's Chamber of Commerce, over 900 residents of St John's, and numerous merchants and lawyers.  The British government referred the matter to a committee of the Privy Council for a recommendation.  In its report, the committee criticised the Reform members of the Assembly for the vehemence of the language they used in their petitions, and held that there was no evidence of corruption or improper conduct by Boulton in his conduct as a judge.  The committee did, however, criticise him for getting involved in party politics in Newfoundland, and recommended his dismissal.  The Colonial Secretary had already personally decided that Boulton should be removed, and in early 1838, Boulton was dismissed from office.

Reform supporter 

Boulton returned to private practice in Toronto and was appointed a Queen's Counsel in 1842.