[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of Amity and Commerce (France–United States)

nce. With official approval to begin negotiations on a formal alliance given by King Louis XVI of France, the colonies turned down a British proposal for reconciliation in January 1778 and began negotiations that would result in the signing of the Treaty of Alliance and Treaty of Amity and Commerce.

Terms and provisions
The treaty established a comprehensive framework for mutual diplomatic, commercial, and navigational cooperation.
Peace and friendship between the U.S. and France
Mutual most favored nation status with regard to commerce and navigation
Mutual protection of all vessels and cargo when in U.S. or French jurisdiction
Ban on fishing in waters possessed by the other with exception of the Banks of Newfoundland
Mutual right for citizens of one country to hold land in other's territory
Mutual right to search a ship of the other's coming out of an enemy port for contraband
Right to due process of law if contraband is found on an allied ship and only after being officially declared contraband may it be seized
Mutual protection of men-of-war and privateers and their crews from harm from the other party and reparations to be paid if this provision is broken
Restoration of stolen property taken by pirates
Right of ships of war and privateers to freely carry ships and goods taken for their enemy
Mutual assistance, relief, and safe harbor to ships, both of War and Merchant, in crisis in the other's territory
Neither side may commission privateers against the other nor allow foreign privateers that are enemies of either side to use their ports
Mutual right to trade with enemy states of the other as long as those goods are not contraband
If the two nations become enemies six months protection of merchant ships in enemy territory
To prevent quarrels between allies all ships must carry passports and cargo manifests
If two ships meet ships of war and privateers must stay out of cannon range but may board the merchant ship to inspect her passports and manifests
Mutual right to inspection of a ship's cargo to only happen once
Mutual right to have consuls, vice consuls, agents, and commissaries of one nation in the other's ports
France grants one or more ports under its control to be free ports to ships of the United States

Signing and ratification

The Treaty of Amity and Commerce was signed on February 6, 1778 at the Hôtel de Crillon by American delegates Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee, and the French representative to the U.S., Conrad Alexandre Gérard de Rayneva.

Congress received the signed text on May 2, 1778 and ratified it on May 4, 1778 by unanimous vote; not all states were represented in the vote, as New Hampshire and North Carolina were absent while the attendance of Delaware and Massachusetts are uncertain. Urgency overrode the necessity of having all thirteen states ratify the document.

The Treaty was ratified by France on July 16, 1778.

On September 1, 1778, Congress formally expunged Articles 11 and 12, which dealt with import duties and exportation of molasses, respectively. Upon the Treaty's first printing in France the following month, references to these articles were removed, and all subsequent articles were renumbered.

Aftermath and significance 
While France had aided the colonists as early as June 1775, its support was largely clandestine and led by envoys and donors acting in their individual capacities. Along with the Treaty of Alliance, the Treaty of Amity and Commerce resulted in substantial and full-fledged support of the American cause, in the form of loans, military equipment, naval forces, technical and strategic assistance, and manpower. Aside from the direct strategic benefits, French recognition served to turn an "otherwise lopsided colonial rebellion" into a larger conflict, as France was the only nation roughly on parity with Britain. Open diplomatic support by the leading power of continental Europe also served to legitimatize the newly emerging United States, which in turn would invite other nations to recognize American independence and provide aid.

Shortly after the treaties were signed, French aid grew significantly and substantively. Over 12,000 soldiers, 22,000 sailors, and 63 warships served in the rebellion. Military leaders such as Lafayette and Comte de Rochambeau played a decisive role in the American victories at the Chesapeake and at Yorktown, which together hastened the end of the conflict. France played a leading role in brokering the 1783 Treaty of Paris that formally ended the war and led to de jure American independence; pursuant to the Treaty of Alliance, only when Britain and France settled their differences did the United States sign the Treaty of Paris.

See also
List of treaties

References