[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuclear envelope

e disassembly of the lamina and hence the envelope membranes into small vesicles.
Electron and fluorescence microscopy has given strong evidence that the nuclear membrane is absorbed by the endoplasmic reticulum—nuclear proteins not normally found in the endoplasmic reticulum show up during mitosis.

In addition to the breakdown of the nuclear membrane during the prometaphase stage of mitosis, the nuclear membrane also ruptures in migrating mammalian cells during the interphase stage of the cell cycle.  This transient rupture is likely caused by nuclear deformation.  The rupture is rapidly repaired by a process dependent on "endosomal sorting complexes required for transport" (ESCRT) made up of cytosolic protein complexes.  During nuclear membrane rupture events, DNA double-strand breaks occur.  Thus the survival of cells migrating through confined environments appears to depend on efficient nuclear envelope and DNA repair machineries.

Aberrant nuclear envelope breakdown has also been observed in laminopathies and in cancer cells leading to mislocalization of cellular proteins, the formation of micronuclei and genomic instability.

Reformation
Exactly how the nuclear membrane reforms during telophase of mitosis is debated. Two theories exist—
 Vesicle fusion — where vesicles of nuclear membrane fuse together to rebuild the nuclear membrane
 Re-shaping of the endoplasmic reticulum—where the parts of the endoplasmic reticulum containing the absorbed nuclear membrane envelop the nuclear space, reforming a closed membrane.

Origin of the nuclear membrane

A study of the comparative genomics, evolution and origins of the nuclear membrane led to the proposal that the nucleus emerged in the primitive eukaryotic ancestor  (the “prekaryote”), and was triggered by the archaeo-bacterial symbiosis.  Several ideas have been proposed for the evolutionary origin of the nuclear membrane.  These ideas include the invagination of the plasma membrane in a prokaryote ancestor, or the formation of a genuine new membrane system following the establishment of proto-mitochondria in the archaeal host.  The adaptive function of the nuclear membrane may have been to serve as a barrier to protect the genome from reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by the cells' pre-mitochondria.

Notes

References

External links

 
 Animations of nuclear pores and transport through the nuclear envelope 
 Illustrations of nuclear pores and transport through the nuclear membrane 
 

Membrane biology
Nuclear substructures