[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ayla Brown

in June 2008 for her wide array of activities in addition to her hoop skills. She was also featured as WCVB-TV's "High 5" high school athlete of the week and has been profiled by New England Sports Network (NESN) on its staple program SportsDesk.

Boston College statistics
Source

Post-American Idol

Following her departure from Idol, Brown made hundreds of personal appearances in 2006, most covered by local or national media and drawing as many as 500 to 2,000 or more fans. She appeared at the Kiss 108 Concert in Mansfield, Massachusetts in front of 20,000 people on May 20, performing four songs in addition to introducing Natasha Bedingfield. Brown sang "The Star-Spangled Banner" on July 4 with the Boston Pops in front of hundreds of thousands of people. Brown's performance featured an F-16 flyover and was televised live by WBZ-TV, Boston's CBS affiliate. Brown sang the anthem at Fenway Park on July 12 and also performed six shows over three days at the Eastern States Exposition (“The Big E”) in West Springfield, Massachusetts from September 15–17.

Brown was asked once again to perform with the Boston Pops at Conte Forum in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts on September 29, where they performed a full orchestrated version of her title track "Forward" as part of Boston College's parents' weekend celebration. Brown was also featured in the November 2006 issue of American Idol Magazine.

In 2007, Brown appeared at many events including the annual St. Patrick's Day Breakfast in South Boston on March 18 and the Crocker Field Sunset Concert Series on September 16 in Fitchburg, Massachusetts.

Brown performed alongside veteran record producer David Foster at the "David Foster and Friends" tour when it stopped in Boston on October 25, 2009. Brown sang the disco hit "Got to Be Real" while accompanied by Foster at the concert, which took place at Boston University's Agganis Arena. She returned to the stage to close out the show with other guest performers for the finale of "America's Song."

Massachusetts Down Syndrome Congress 
Since 2009, Brown has annually performed for the Massachusetts Down Syndrome Congress's Buddy Walk & Family Picnic at Lake Quannapowitt in Wakefield, Massachusetts.  In 2011, backed by pre-recorded music, she sang "Ain't Leaving (Anything Here)" and other songs from Ayla Brown, Circles and Forward. In 2012, Brown will return with a five-piece band.

Forward
Brown's debut album, Forward, was released on October 17, 2006. The album was recorded in New York at Tonic Studios, Raw Sugar Studios in Pawling, N.Y., and Double Deal Studios in Chappaqua, N.Y. The tracks were mixed at A-Pawling Studios by Peter Moshay. Brown began recording the vocals for the album immediately after signing her contract on August 24, and in just over a week, the recording sessions were completed. The reason for the hurried recording schedule was that Brown had to meet NCAA compliance deadlines and finish recording her album before beginning her career at Boston College.

The title track, "Forward," received airplay at Mainstream Adult Contemporary (AC) radio. It peaked at number 34 on Billboard'''s AC chart. The album sold 3,000 copies, placing Brown in 23rd place for American Idol alumni un-certified album sales.

Ayla Brown Live!
On Tuesday, September 8, 2009, an eight-minute video consisting of concert and behind-the-scenes footage from a live show Brown performed at with "The James Montgomery Blues Band" and "The Uptown Horns" earlier in the summer was posted on Brown's record label's official YouTube channel. In the video, it was revealed that Brown's next release would be titled Ayla Brown Live! and would be a collection of live tracks performed with the two bands at the concert profiled in the video. It was also stated that Brown's next studio album, Circles, was scheduled for an April 6, 2010, release date, which was roughly one month after her career with the Boston College Lady Eagles was set to conclude. A tour that would coincide with the releases was also announced.

Circles – EP
Following her father's victory in the 2010 Massachusetts special senate election, Brown received a great amount of media attention, which led her label to rush release her new EP Circles in late January.  The EP's first single, "Pick It Up," was written by Brown's fellow American Idol semi-finalist Will Makar and Australian singer-songwriter Nathan Leigh Jones. The music video for "Pick It Up" premiered on her label's official YouTube channel on the same day of the release. Brown also appeared on the CBS morning news program The Early Show where she performed "No More" and talked about how her life had changed since her father's win. Ayla also performed the single "Pick It Up" on Fox and Friends on February 15, 2010.

On June 16, 2010, it was revealed that Brown was released from her contract with Double Deal Brand Records.