[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dag Hammarskjöld Library

it was the late Secretary-General's active interest and lobbying in the project to fund a new United Nations library that was a decisive factor in the Foundation's donation. The new building was dedicated on November 16, 1961, just two months after Hammarskjöld's death, and was renamed in his honor.

Functions
The Library's primary functions are laid out in a 1949 Document from the Fifth Committee of the United Nations:
 The Library is responsible for all library services at Headquarters and for the acquisition of all library materials.
 The Library's primary function is to enable the delegations, Secretariat and other official groups of the Organization to obtain, with the greatest possible speed, convenience and economy, the Library materials and information needed in the execution of their duties.
 The services of the Library will also be made available, as far as feasible, to United Nations specialized agencies, accredited representatives of mass media, international governmental organizations, affiliated non-governmental organizations, educational institutions, scholars and writers.
 The Headquarters Library is responsible for indexing United Nations documents and publications.

The Library is not open to the general public. However, it does provide access to much UN-related information by developing freely accessible online resources and services, and via UN depository libraries worldwide.

Resources and services 
The library has created a number of research tools and services to ease access to United Nations documents:
 The Index to Proceedings (ITP) is a series of print indexes, especially useful for research on matters prior to 1979. It provides citation to the parliamentary documentation of the principal organs. Each index has two parts: a subject index and an index to speeches delivered.
 The UN Documentation Research Guides present an overview of selected UN documents, publications, databases and websites. Available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.
 Ask Dag is a database providing hundreds of answers about the United Nations, its documentation, as well as the services and resources offered by the Library. Available in English, French and Spanish.
 The UNBIS Thesaurus is a multilingual database of the controlled vocabulary used to describe UN documents and other materials in the Library's collection. Available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.
 UN Member States on the Record: Provides access to the key documents for each Member State related to its membership in the UN, statements made before the principal organs, draft resolutions sponsored, periodic reports submitted on Human Rights conventions. Available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.
 United Nations Digital Library:  The Digital Library includes UN documents, voting data, speeches, maps, and open access publications.  The platform provides access to UN-produced materials in digital format and bibliographic records for print UN documents starting in 1979.  System features include linked data between related documentation such as resolutions, meeting records and voting, and refining of searches by UN body, agency or type of document. Available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.

See also 

 League of Nations archives
 Total Digital Access to the League of Nations Archives Project (LONTAD)

References

External links

Homepage of the Dag Hammarskjold Library
Dag Hammarskjöld Library Catalog for books and articles
UN Digital Library

Libraries in New York (state)
Headquarters of the United Nations
Turtle Bay, Manhattan
Modernist architecture in New York City
Libraries established in 1946
1946 establishments in New York City
Dag Hammarskjöld