[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1971 killing of Bengali intellectuals

In 1971, the Pakistan Army and their local collaborators, most notably the extreme right wing militia group Al-Badr, engaged in the systematic execution of Bengali intellectuals during the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. Bengali intellectuals were abducted, tortured and killed during the entire duration of the war as part of the 1971 Bangladesh genocide. However, the largest number of systematic executions took place on 25 March and 14 December 1971, two dates that bookend the conflict. 14 December is commemorated in Bangladesh as Martyred Intellectuals Day.

Black Night of 25 March 

On 25 March 1971, Pakistan army launched an extermination campaign, codenamed Operation Searchlight, against the Bengali people in East Pakistan. A number of professors, physicians and journalists were abducted from their homes by armed Pakistani soldiers and their local collaborators, and executed during this operation and its aftermath.

14 December executions 

As the war neared its end and Pakistani surrender became apparent, the Pakistan Army made a final effort to eliminate the intelligentsia of the new nation of Bangladesh. On 14 December 1971, over 200 Bengali intellectuals including professors, journalists, doctors, artists, engineers, and writers were abducted from their homes in Dhaka by the Al-Badr militia and the Pakistan Army. Notable novelist Shahidullah Kaiser and playwright Munier Choudhury were among the victims. They were taken blindfolded to torture cells in Mirpur, Mohammadpur, Nakhalpara, Rajarbagh and other locations in different parts of the city. Later they were executed en masse, most notably at Rayerbazar and Mirpur. In memory of the martyred intellectuals, 14 December is mourned in Bangladesh as Shaheed Buddhijibi Dibosh, or Day of the Martyred Intellectuals.

It is widely speculated that the killings of 14 December were orchestrated by Major General Rao Farman Ali. After the liberation of Bangladesh a list of Bengali intellectuals (most of whom were executed on 14 December) was discovered in a page of his diary left behind at the Governor's House. The existence of such a list was confirmed by Ali himself although he denied the motive of genocide. The same was also confirmed by Altaf Gauhar, a former Pakistani bureaucrat. He mentioned an incident in which Gauhar asked Ali to remove a friend's name from the list and Ali did so in his presence.

Notable victims 
Many notable intellectuals who were killed from 25 March to 16 December 1971 in different parts of the country include:

 Dr. Abul Fazal Ziaur Rahman (physician)
 Dr. ABM Nurul Alam (physician)
 A. B. M. Abdur Rahim (labor union leader)
 Dr. AFM Alim Chowdhury (ophthalmologist)
 Ataur Rahman Khan Khadim (physicist)
 Dr. Atiqur Rahman (doctor)
 Dr. Azharul Haque (doctor)
 Dr. AKM Asadul Haq (doctor)
 Altaf Mahmud (lyricist and musician)
 ANM Golam Mostafa (journalist)
 ANM Muniruzzaman (statistician)
 Dr. Anwar Pasha (Bengali litterateur)
 Dr. Ayesha Bedora Choudhury
 Dhirendranath Datta (politician)
 Dr. Faizul Mahi (educator)
 Dr. Fazlur Rahman Khan (geologist)
 Dr. Govinda Chandra Dev (philosophy)
 Dr. Ghyasuddin Ahmed (educationist)
 Dr. Jyotirmoy Guhathakurta (English literature)
 Anudvaipayan Bhattacharya (lecturer of physics)
 Dr. Jekrul Haque (physician)
 Dr. Kalachand Roy (academic)
 Harinath Dey (biochemist, research scientist)
 Khondakar Abu Taleb (journalist)
 Khondakar Abul Kashem (historian)
 Meherun Nesa (poet)
 Munier Chowdhury (Bengali literature)
 Dr. Mufazzal Haider Chaudhury (Bengali literature)
 Muhammad Habibar Rahman (mathematician) 
 Dr. Mohammad Sadat Ali (business)
 Mohammad Shamshad Ali (physician)
 Muhammad Shafi (dentist)
Md Meher Ali (Soil Scientist)
 Dr. M Abul Khair (history)
 M Anwarul Azim (industrial administrator)
 Mir Abdul Qayyum (psychologist)
 Dr. Mohammed Fazle Rabbee (cardiologist)
 Dr. Mohammad Mortaza (doctor)
 Mohammad Moazzem Hossain (educationist)
 Mohammad Aminuddin (lawyer)
 Dr. Abdul Muktadir (geologist)
 Nizamuddin Ahmed (journalist)
 Nazmul Hoque Sarkar (lawyer)
 Dr. Rashidul Hasan (English literature)
 Ranadaprasad Saha (philanthropist)
 Dr. Rakhal Chandra Das (physician)
 Sukharanjan Samaddar (Sanskrit)
 Jogesh Chandra Ghosh (scholar, Ayurveda practitioner, entrepreneur and philanthropist)
 Shahid Saber (journalist)
 Sheikh Abdus Salam (education)
 Dr. Sirajul Haque Khan
 Dr. Santosh Chandra Bhattacharyya
 Dr. Shamsuddin Ahmed
 Laxman Das (wrestler, weight lifter, circus performer)
 Dr. Suleman Khan
 Sultanuddin Ahmed (engineer)
 Dr. Kosiruddin Talukder
 Shahidullah Kaiser (journalist)
 Selina Parvin (journalist)
 Bishnu Chattopadhyay (freedom fighter and leader of peasant movement)
 Saroj Kumar Nath Adhikari (economics)
 Sheikh Abdul Mannan (journalist)
 Dr. Shamsuddin Ahmed (physician)
 Syed Nazmul Haque (journalist)
 Obaidur Rahim (journalist)