[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Combinatorial explosion

carrot/sprout, potato/potato, potato/sprout, sprout/sprout, they can all multiply inherit from a separate class of tasty whilst keeping their current ancestor-based hierarchy, then all of the above can be implemented with only a tasty/tasty comparison.

Arithmetic
Suppose we take the factorial of n:

Then 1! = 1, 2! = 2, 3! = 6, and 4! = 24.  However, we quickly get to extremely large numbers, even for relatively small n.  For example, 100! ≈ , a number so large that it cannot be displayed on most calculators, and vastly larger than the estimated number of fundamental particles in the observable universe.

Communication

In administration and computing, a combinatorial explosion is the rapidly accelerating increase in communication lines as organizations are added in a process.  (This growth is often casually described as "exponential" but is actually polynomial.)

If two organizations need to communicate about a particular topic, it may be easiest to communicate directly in an ad hoc manner—only one channel of communication is required.  However, if a third organization is added, three separate channels are required.  Adding a fourth organization requires six channels; five, ten; six, fifteen; etc.

In general, it will take

communication lines for n organizations, which is just the number of 2-combinations of n elements (see also Binomial coefficient).

The alternative approach is to realize when this communication will not be a one-off requirement, and produce a generic or intermediate way of passing information.  The drawback is that this requires more work for the first pair, since each must convert its internal approach to the common one, rather than the superficially easier approach of just understanding the other.

See also

 Birthday problem
 Exponential growth
 Metcalfe's law
 Curse of dimensionality
 Information explosion
 Intractability (complexity)
 Second half of the chessboard

References

Combinatorics
Combinatorial game theory
Game theory