[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Haazinu

for because he inclined his ear to the Torah, when he came to begin speaking the words of the Torah, both the heavenly and the earthly beings remained silent and listened. And the Midrash taught that we know this from the words of Moses in Deuteronomy 32:1, "Give ear, you heavens, and I will speak."

The Sifre taught that Israel would come before God and acknowledge that heaven and earth, the witnesses that God designated in Deuteronomy 32:1, were present to testify against her, but God would say that God would remove them, as Isaiah 65:17 reports that God would "create a new heaven and a new earth." Israel would say to God that her bad name endured, but God would say that God would remove her bad name as well, as Isaiah 62:2 reports that Israel "shall be called by a new name." Israel would ask God whether God had not prohibited her reconciliation with God when Jeremiah 3:1 says, "If a man put away his wife, and she go from him, and become another man's, shall he return to her again?" But God would reply in the words of Hosea 11:9, "I am God, and not man." (And thus God would forgive Israel and restore her original relationship with God.)

In Deuteronomy 32:2, "My doctrine (, likḥi) shall drop as the rain," Rav Judah read "doctrine" (, lekaḥ) to mean Torah, as Proverbs 4:2 states, "For I give you good doctrine (, lekaḥ); do not forsake My Torah." Rav Judah thus concluded that a day with rain is as great as the day on which God gave the Torah. Rava argued that rainfall is even greater than the day on which God gave the Torah, as Deuteronomy 32:2 says, "My doctrine shall drop as the rain," and when one makes a comparison, one compares a lesser thing to a greater thing. Thus, Rava argued, if Deuteronomy 32:2 compares Torah to rain, rain must be greater than Torah. Rava also inferred from the comparison in Deuteronomy 32:2 of Torah to both rain and dew that Torah can affect a worthy scholar as beneficially as dew, and an unworthy one like a crushing rainstorm.

Rabbi Berekhiah read Deuteronomy 32:2, "My doctrine shall drop (, ya'arof) as the rain," to teach that if we bow our necks (, oref) in repentance, then the rain (for which we pray when it is absent) will fall immediately.

Rav Judah also read Deuteronomy 32:2 to compare Torah to the four winds. Rav Judah read "My doctrine shall drop (, ya'arof) as the rain" to refer to the west wind, which comes from the back of (, me'orpo) the world, as the west was also referred to as the back. Rav Judah read "My speech shall distill (, tizzal) as the dew" to refer to the north wind, which brings dry air that reduces the rain and grain and thereby devalues (, mazzelet) gold (for when grain becomes scarce, its price rises, and the relative value of gold declines). Rav Judah read "As the small rain (, kisirim) upon the tender growth" to refer to the east wind that rages through (, maseret) the entire world like a demon (, sa'ir) when it blows strongly. And Rav Judah read "And as the showers upon the herb" to refer to the south wind, which raises showers and causes herbs to grow.

The Sifre read Deuteronomy 32:2, "like showers on young growths," to teach that just as showers fall on grass and make it grow and develop, so words of Torah make people grow and develop. 

Rabbi Abbahu cited Deuteronomy 32:3 to support the proposition of Mishnah Berakhot 7:1 that three who have eaten together publicly should say the Grace after Meals (, Birkat Hamazon) together as well. In Deuteronomy 32:3, Moses says, "When I (who am one) proclaim the name of the Lord, you (in the plural, who are thus at least two more) ascribe greatness to our God." Thus by using the plural to for "you," Moses implies that at least three are present, and they should ascribe greatness to God. Similarly, the Gemara taught that from Deuteronomy 32:3, "When I proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God," one may derive the commandment to recite a blessing over the Torah before it is read, reading Deuteronomy 32:3 to teach that before one proclaims God's name by reading the Torah, one should give glory to God.