[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# De Oratore

r. The fact is, however, that these rules came out by the observation of some people on the natural gift of others.
That is, it is not the eloquence that is born from rhetoric, but the rhetoric is born by eloquence.
I do not refuse rhetoric, although I believe it is not indispensable for the orator.

Then Sulpicius says: "That is what we want to better know! The rhetoric rules that you mentioned, even if they are not so now for us. But this later; now we want your opinion about exercises".

The exercise (exercitatio)
Crassus approves the practice of speaking, imaging to be treating a trial in a court.
However, this has the limit of exercising the voice, not yet with art, or its power, increasing the speed of speaking and the richness of vocabulary; therefore, one is alluded to have learnt to speak in public.
On the contrary, the most important exercise, that we usually avoid because it is the most tiring, it is to write speeches as much as possible.
Stilus optimus et praestantissimus dicendi effector ac magister (The pen is the best and most efficient creator and master of speaking).
Like an improvised speech is lower than a well thought one, so this one is, compared to a well prepared and built writing.
All arguments, either those of rhetoric and from one's nature and experience, come out by themselves.
But the most striking thoughts and expressions come one after the other by the style; so the harmonic placing and disposing words is acquired by writing with oratory and not poetic rhythm (non poetico sed quodam oratorio numero et modo).

The approval towards an orator can be gained only after having written speeches very long and much; this is much more important than physical exercise with the greatest effort.
In addition, the orator, who is used to write speeches, reaches the aim that, even in an improvised speech, he seems to speak so similar to a written text.

Crassus remembers some of his exercises when he was younger, he began to read and then imitate poetry or solemn speeches.
This was a used exercise of his main adversary, Gaius Carbo. But after a while, he found that this was an error, because he did not gain benefit imitating the verses of Ennius or the speeches of Gracchus.
So he began to translate Greek speeches into Latin.  This led to finding better words to use in his speeches as well as providing new neologisms that would appeal to the audience.
As for the proper voice control, one should study good actors, not just orators.
Train one's memory by learning as many written works as possible (ediscendum ad verbum).
One should also read the poets, know the history, read and study authors of all disciplines, criticize and refute all opinions, taking all likely arguments.
It is necessary to study the civil right, know the laws and the past, that is rules and traditions of the state, the constitution, the rights of the allies and the treaties.
Finally, as an added measure, shed a bit of fine humor on the speech, like the salt on the food.

Everyone is silent. Then Scaevola asks if Cotta or Sulpicius have any more questions for Crassus.

Debate on Crassus' opinions
Cotta replies that Crassus' speech was so raging that he could not catch his content completely. It was like he entered in a rich house, full of rich carpets and treasures, but piled in disorder and not in full view or hidden. "Why do not you ask Crassus," Scaevola says to Cotta, "to place his treasures in order and in full view?"
Cotta hesitates, but Mucius asks again Crassus to expose in detail his opinion about the perfect orator.

Crassus gives examples of orators not expert in civil right
Crassus first hesitates, saying that he does not know some disciplines as much as a master.
Scaevola then encourages him to expose his notions, so fundamental for the perfect orator: on the nature of men, on their attitudes, on the methods by which one excites or calms their souls; notions of history, of antiquities, of State administration and of civil right.
Scaevola knows well that Crassus has a wise knowledge of all these matters and he is also an excellent orator.

Crassus begins his speech underlining the importance of studying civil right.
He quotes the case of two orators, Ipseus and Cneus Octavius, which brought a lawsuit with great eloquence, but lacking of any knowledge of civil right.
They committed great gaffes, proposing requests in favour of their client, which could not fit the rules of civil right.

Another case was the one of Quintus Pompeius, who, asking damages for a client of his, committed a formal, little error, but such that it endangered all his court action.
Finally Crassus quotes positively Marcus Porcius Cato, who was at the top of eloquence, at his times, and also was the best expert in civil right, although he said he despised it.