[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jill Officer

, representing Canada at the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi and becoming the first women's team ever to go undefeated en route to their Olympic gold medal. The following season, the team won the 2015 Scotties Tournament of Hearts and a silver medal at the 2015 World Women's Curling Championship.

Officer and the Jones team attempted but failed to repeat as the Canadian Olympic team after losing in the semifinal of the 2017 Canadian Olympic Curling Trials. Officer joined Reid Carruthers in the 2018 Canadian Mixed Doubles Curling Olympic Trials, where they advanced to the playoffs but were eliminated. The Jones team won the 2018 Scotties Tournament of Hearts, Officer's record-tying sixth title, with Shannon Birchard replacing Lawes, who, with John Morris, represented Canada at the 2018 Winter Olympic Games in mixed doubles curling. At the 2018 World Women's Curling Championship, Officer, along with Jones, Lawes, McEwen, and Birchard as their alternate, went undefeated to win the title in Officer's last world championship, as she had announced that she would be stepping away from competitive curling.

After stepping away from competitive curling, Officer remained with the Jones team, serving as their alternate, and playing lead for the team with Jones, Lawes, and Shannon Birchard at the Grand Final of the inaugural Curling World Cup, which they won. She also served as the alternate for Team Carey at the 2019 World Women's Curling Championship. The following season, she spared for Team Tracy Fleury at the 2019 AMJ Campbell Shorty Jenkins Classic and the 2019 Curlers Corner Autumn Gold Curling Classic. At the Shorty Jenkins, they made it all the way to the final before losing to ironically, Jones. At the Autumn Gold, they made it to the semifinals. Officer was officially named the team's coach before the 2020 Manitoba Scotties Tournament of Hearts.

Officer was elected to the World Curling Federation Athletes Commission in 2018 and was elected to chair the commission in 2022. As Chair of the Athletes Commission, Officer also serves as a director of the WCF Executive Board for the duration of her term.

Teams

References

External links

1975 births
Living people
Canadian women curlers
Curlers from Winnipeg
Sportspeople from Brandon, Manitoba
Writers from Winnipeg
World curling champions
Canadian women's curling champions
Canadian women sportswriters
Curlers at the 2014 Winter Olympics
Olympic curlers for Canada
Olympic gold medalists for Canada
Olympic medalists in curling
Medalists at the 2014 Winter Olympics
Continental Cup of Curling participants
Canada Cup (curling) participants
Canadian curling coaches