[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Constitution of Belize

ormance of ministerial functions. Cabinet. Ministers of State. Oath taken by Ministers, etc. Leader of the Opposition. Permanent Secretaries and Cabinet Secretary. Control of public prosecutions. Constitution of offices, etc. Prerogative of mercy. Procedure in capital cases. Belize Advisory Council.

Part 6: The Legislature 
Largest part, covering sections 55-93.
 Establishment, House of Representatives, Senate, Clerks to Houses, Legislative power and alteration of Constitution, Procedure and Oath, Voting, Bills and Quorums, Prorogation and Dissolution, General Elections, Elections and Boundaries Commission, electoral divisions.

Part 7: The Judiciary 
Sections 94-104. 
 Establishment of Supreme Court, Court of Appeal. Supreme Court. Court of Appeal. Originally, appeals to Her Majesty in Council; appeals to Privy Council since abolished by Belize Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Bill and replaced with Caribbean Court of Justice.

Part 8: The Public Service 
Sections 105-113.
 Public Services Commission. Appointment of public officers and other civil servants. Discipline. Pensions.
 Gratuity and retirement

Part 9: Finance 
Sections 114-120.
 Consolidated Revenue Fund, Contingencies Fund. Remuneration, public debt and audit.

Part 10: Miscellaneous 
 Sections 121-131.
 Code of Conduct. National Symbols. Appointments. Removal and Resignations. Consultation. National Seal. Interpretation.

Part 11: Transitional Provisions 
Sections 132-140.
 Interpretation of section. Constitution's transitional powers. Existing laws. First Governor General. Ministers, National Assembly, public officers. Courts. Alteration.

Part 12: Repeals and Date of Commencement 
 Sections 141 and 142.
Commencement. Revocations.

Part 13: Government Control Over Public Utilities 
143. Interpretation.
144. Majority ownership and control of public utilities.
145. Validity of Acquisition Orders in respect of Belize Electricity Limited and Belize Telemedia Limited.

Schedules 
 1: Definition of Belize.
 2: Alteration of Constitution (Section 69).
 3: Oath of Allegiance and Office
 4: Revocations.

Belize in the late 1970s was engaged in a territorial dispute with Guatemala. It became increasingly clear that Belize had more international support and a stronger case, hence the talk of independence which had existed since self-government in 1963. Repeated demands by Guatemala and the United Kingdom that Belize cede territory were rejected by Premier George Cadle Price and the ruling People's United Party. By contrast, the newly formed Opposition United Democratic Party wanted the claim settled before proceeding to Independence. In the general elections of 1979, the PUP won and the seeds of the Constitution would begin to fall into place.

In 1980, the United Nations and Organization of American States both called for Belize's independence by the end of 1981.

January 31, 1981 saw a White Paper issued by the Government that began discussions on the proposed Independence Constitution. Despite March's hostile reception of the Heads of Agreement, a Constitutional Conference was held in April and by July the details were approved by the reigning monarch, paving the way for an Order of Independence to be issued by July 31 and debated in Parliament by August 10. Belize became independent on September 21, with the Constitution going into effect as of that date.

Amendments 

The constitution of Belize has been amended several times since its ratification in 1981. It was first amended in 1985 to make changes to Belize's citizenship requirements. The most notable of these changes was the removal of a prohibition against multiple citizenship and the introduction of an "economic citizenship" provision granting citizenship to "any person who makes a substantial contribution to the economy and/or well being of Belize". This later provision was criticized for allowing the sale of Belizean passports to foreigners who had never resided in Belize, and was repealed in 2001.

In 2010, the Constitution was amended to make the Caribbean Court of Justice the highest court of appeals in Belize, replacing the Privy Council.

References

External links
 Full text of 1981 Belize Constitution as amended

Law of Belize
Government of Belize
1981 documents
Belize