[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Shen Tong

is on Omnicom's sparks&honey Influencer Advisory Board, in addition to serving on boards and advisory boards for the Good Food Institute and being a member of NEXUS Global Summit. He also served as a venture partner of SOSV, a global multi-stage venture capital fund, after acting as general partner.

Media engagements
In films and television, Shen has been an actor, producer, and film festival sponsor and speaker (including Tribeca Film Festival).  Shen appeared in the 2022 documentary The Exiles, a documentary film which tracked down three exiled dissidents from the Tiananmen Square massacre. It won the Grand Jury Prize in Sundance 2022. Shen also appeared as one of the main subjects in PBS Documentary Tiananmen: The People Versus the Party in 2019. He also starred in Out of Exile with co-star Sharif Atkins in 2000. 

He worked with Arte, ABC News and Jean-François Bizot's Actuel magazine to produce Clandestins en Chine, including interviews with Jane Birkin, which premiered in a Paris theater and on Arte in 1992.  He co-starred with actress Hu Zongwen in a made-for-TV two parts movie, which received the 6th Fei Tian National Award in 1986. 

Shen’s work has been profiled by major media around the world in several languages by The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, ABC, CNN, BBC, CBS, NHK, TVB, The Guardian, Le Monde, Fortune, among others.

Literature
As a writer, Shen co-authored the book Almost a Revolution, published in 1990, a memoir of his life growing up in China and his experiences at the Tiananmen Square democracy movement. He carried on a diverse writing career with political commentary, scholarly essays, film critics, literary prose, and movie scripts in English and in Chinese, including publications in China under the pseudonym Rong Di.

Honorary degrees
He holds an honorary Ph.D. in 1991 from St. Ambrose University.

Controversies
In 2005, Shen Tong was accused in Taiwan with a woman surnamed Lai.

In 2017, Shen Tong and his wife (Ms. Lai) had disagreement in the U.S that led to indictment on one count of second-degree assault.

Personal life 
He lives in New York City along with his three children. His father and sister Shen Qing both went to Peking University, and his mother is a medical doctor.

Notes

External links

1968 births
Living people
1989 Tiananmen Square protesters
Brandeis University alumni
Businesspeople in software
Chinese dissidents
Chinese television producers
Male actors from New York (state)
Peking University alumni
Writers from Boston
Writers from New York (state)
Harvard University alumni