[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mitchelville

Unfortunately, the U.S. government failed to plan for the protection and preservation of Mitchelville, and its future looked bleak.  However, the Drayton family was no longer interested in farming the property, and sold the land to anyone who was interested and had money – including many freedmen.

Most, if not all, of the Mitchelville property was purchased by an African-American carpenter, March Gardner.  Gardner was illiterate, but was locally well respected and very successful in his business ventures.  Gardner placed his son, Gabriel, in charge of his Mitchelville properties, which at that time included a cotton gin, grist mill, and store.  Gabriel eventually took advantage of his father, and obtained a deed for the property in his own name instead of his father's; Gabriel then transferred the property deed to his wife and daughter.

In the early 20th century, March Gardner's heirs sued Gabriel Gardner's wife's heirs, claiming that Gabriel Gardner had stolen the property from March and that they were entitled to the property.  The legal papers produced by this court case provide a unique insight into Mitchelville during the period.

The daughter of March Gardner, Emmeline Washington, testified that there were a number of families living at Mitchelville and farming three or  plots of land adjacent to their houses.  The money that was collected from them for rent was used to pay the taxes on the property.  March Gardner had built a cotton house, cotton gin, a steam-powered grist mill, and a shop on the property.  Also named were several late-18th and early-19th century residents of Mitchelville: Scapio Drayton, Bob Washington, Jack Screven, Robert Wiley, John Nesbit, Caesar White, Charles Robins, Charles Perry, Clara Wigfall, Renty Miller, Linda Perry, Stephen Singleton, Joe Williams, Billy Reed, Peter Flowers, Charles Pinckney, and Hannah Williams (Hannah Williams stated that she had bought a house in Mitchelville for $5.00).

The court directed that a survey be made of the Mitchelville property, and the property to be divided between each heir of March and Gabriel Gardner involved in the case, with the cost of the case being divided amongst them.

Eugenia Heyward redeemed her  property on June 7, 1923; Celia and Gabriel Boston obtained the adjacent tract of property on September 2, 1921.  Linda Perry, Clara Wigfall, and Emmeline Washington also obtained their parcels in 1921.  By 1930, Eugenia Heyward's property was sold for $31.00 by the sheriff to pay a defaulted tax bill of $15.00; the property was purchased by Roy A. Rainey from New York, who was purchasing land on Hilton Head Island for hunting.

In 1890, there were approximately 3,000 African-Americans living on Hilton Head Island; by 1930 there were only about 300 living on the island. According to a 2010 estimate approximately 2,766 of the 37,099 year round residents on Hilton Head are African American.