[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# History of terrorism

unded in 1965), is an Islamic group that opposed the Shah and later Khomeini's rule in Iran. The group would go on to play an important role in the Shah's overthrow but was unable to capitalize on this in the following power-vacuum. The group renounced violence in 2003 and became protected persons. 

In 1975, Hagop Tarakchian and Hagop Hagopian, with the help of sympathetic Palestinians, founded the Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia (ASALA) in Beirut during the Lebanese Civil War. At that time, Turkey was embroiled in political turmoil, and Hagopian believed that the time was right for his organization to avenge the Armenians who died during the Armenian genocide and force the Turkish government to cede the territory of Wilsonian Armenia to the Armenian SSR so it could incorporate the territory of Wilsonian Armenia into it and establish a nation state. In its Esenboga airport attack, on 7 August 1982, two ASALA rebels opened fire on civilians in a waiting room at the Esenboga International Airport in Ankara. Nine people died and 82 were injured. By 1986, the ASALA had virtually ceased all attacks.

The "Partiya Karkerên Kurdistan" (Kurdistan Workers Party or PKK) was established in Turkey in 1978 as a Kurdish nationalist party. Founder Abdullah Ocalan was inspired by the Maoist theory of people's war. At that time the group sought to create an independent Kurdish Nation State consisting of parts of south-eastern Turkey, north-eastern Iraq, north-eastern Syria and north-western Iran. In 1984, the PKK transformed itself into a paramilitary organization and launched conventional attacks as well as bombings of Turkish governmental installations. In 1999, Turkish authorities captured Öcalan in Kenya. He was tried in Turkey and sentenced to life imprisonment. Since then, the PKK has gone through a series of name and ideological changes. From prison in 2004, Abdullah Ocalan announced the PKK's adoption of a new ideology which he named Jineology (the Science and history of women) radically diverging from the PKK's Marxist-Leninist roots. The ideology proposed the establishment of a system of Democratic confederalism without the existence of a central Nation State government. Women have played a very important role in the development of this ideology during the 1990s and they have also formed an army which is named the YPJ (Women's Protection Units) and its purpose is to defend this new society. Since then, the European Court Of Justice has annulled the decision to classify the PKK as a terrorist group on the grounds that "sufficient arguments were not presented".

Europe

Founded in 1959 and functioning until 2018, the Euskadi Ta Askatasuna (or ETA - Basque for "Basque Homeland and Freedom", pronounced ) was an armed Basque nationalist separatist organization. Formed in response to the suppression of the Basque language and culture under the régime of General Francisco Franco (in power 1939–1975) in Spain, ETA evolved from an advocacy group for traditional Basque culture into an armed Marxist group demanding Basque independence. Many ETA victims were government officials; the group's first known victim, a police chief, died in 1968. In 1973 ETA operatives killed Franco's apparent successor, Admiral Luis Carrero Blanco, by planting an underground bomb under his habitual parking-spot outside a Madrid church. In 1995 an ETA car-bomb nearly killed José María Aznar, then the leader of the conservative People's Party, and in the same year investigators disrupted a plot to assassinate King Juan Carlos I. Efforts by Spanish governments to negotiate with the ETA failed, and in 2003 the Spanish Supreme Court banned the Batasuna political party, which was determined to be the political arm of ETA.

The Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) was an Irish nationalist movement founded in December 1969 when several militants, including Seán Mac Stíofáin, broke off from the Official IRA and formed a new organization. Led by Mac Stíofáin in the early 1970s and by a group around Gerry Adams since the late 1970s, the Provisional IRA sought to bring about an all-island Irish state. Between 1969 and 1997, during a period known as the Troubles, the group conducted an armed campaign, including bombings, gun attacks, assassinations and even a mortar attack on 10 Downing Street. On July 21, 1972, in an attack later dubbed Bloody Friday, the group set off twenty-two bombs, killing nine and injuring 130. On July 28, 2005, the Provisional IRA Army Council announced an end to its armed campaign.Coogan, p. 356 The IRA is believed to have been a major exporter of arms and to have provided military training to groups such as the FARC in Colombia and the PLO. In the case of the latter there has been a long-standing solidarity movement, as evidenced by many murals around Belfast.