[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sardarilal Mathradas Nanda

g officer of . After a short stint, he was transferred back to Naval Headquarters as Chief of Personnel (COP) in September 1954. He was promoted to substantive captain on 31 December 1954. He served as the COP for about two and a half years. In September 1956, he was promoted to commodore 2nd Class.

In December 1956, he was appointed the commissioning commanding officer of . The Crown Colony-class cruiser  was being refitted and modernised in Birkenhead, Liverpool, to be commissioned as the Mysore. He spent a few months in UK preparing his crew. INS Mysore was commissioned on 29 August 1957 by the High Commissioner of India to the United Kingdom Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit. Nanda took the ship to the Mediterranean and subsequently paid an official visit to the port of Split in Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. He called on President Josip Broz Tito at his home in the Brioni Islands. Returning to India, Nanda and the Mysore were welcomed by the entire Indian Fleet, commanded by the first Indian Fleet Commander Rear Admiral Ram Dass Katari. Katari's flag was transferred from INS Delhi to INS Mysore, thus becoming the new flagship of the Indian Fleet. The Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru visited the ship at Bombay and hosted a dinner on board with the Governor of Maharashtra Ali Yavar Jung, the Minister of Defence V. K. Krishna Menon, Chief Minister of Maharashtra Vasantrao Naik being present. After visiting the ports in India, Nanda took the ship to a goodwill visit to China and Japan in the summer of 1958. She called at Singapore, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Yokohama. On the return passage, she called at Haiphong. Before leaving India for the goodwill visit, Nanda had been selected to attend the Imperial Defence College (IDC) and was to embark for the UK after completing the visit. Instead he was informed after departing from Haiphong that his deputation to IDC stood cancelled.

Personally selected by the Defence Minister V K Krishna Menon, Nanda took over as the Director General Naval Dockyard Expansion Scheme (DG-NDES) on 1 October 1958. He undertook a major expansion of the dockyard. He extended the dimensions of the cruiser dock to accommodate the aircraft carrier  being acquired from the UK. This resulted in tremendous advantage for the Indian Navy. For distinguished service during his tenure as DG-NDES, Nanda was awarded the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal in 1961. In June 1960, he was appointed Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at Naval HQ. Nanda was selected to attend the Imperial Defence College and embarked for the UK in early 1961. After completing the year-long course, he returned to India and was appointed Chief of Materiel (COM) in February 1962.

Flag rank
In May 1962, Nanda was promoted to the acting rank of rear admiral and appointed Deputy Chief of Naval Staff. As DCNS, he was instrumental in obtaining permission and clearance from the Government of India (GOI) for the naval development of the port at Goa, which was recently annexed. Given the difficulty India had in negotiating the purchase of  from the UK, Nanda supported the acquisition of equipment from the Soviet Union. Promoted to substantive rear-admiral on 16 June 1964, Nanda was appointed managing director of Mazagon Dock Limited in December 1964.
He undertook preparations for the construction of s, the first major naval vessels to be constructed in India. After a 18-month tenure, he handed over charge to Rear Admiral Benjamin Abraham Samson in May 1966. Shortly afterwards, in October, the keel of the first frigate  was laid. For his distinguished service as MD of Mazagon Dock, he was awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal in January 1966.

On 1 June 1966, Nanda took command of the Indian Fleet as the Flag Officer Commanding Indian Fleet at Bombay. Flying his flag, the fleet visited the Persian Gulf in April 1967. The  visited Bahrain and Kuwait, while her escorts  and  visited Abadan and Basra. The fleet tanker INS Deepak joined the fleet under Nanda.

Nanda took over as Flag Officer Bombay (FOB) on 1 February 1968. In March 1968, the reorganisation of the Navy took place. Posts were upgraded and created at the Naval HQ as well as the naval commands. Nanda was promoted to the rank of vice admiral and became the first Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C) Western Naval Command. Nanda organised the Navy Week in December 1969 which culminated with the review of the Indian Naval Fleet by President V. V. Giri. A successful event, it raised the navy's profile in Bombay.  The Navy Week involved the businessmen, industrialists, Bollywood stars and the society at large. Funds were raised and a Sailors' home and an Officers' Mess was also built.

Chief of Naval Staff