[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carol Weiss King

the eleven convicted Communist leaders), Max Loewenthal (Max Lowenthal), author of a recent book attacking the F.B.I.

Cases

King supported several United States Supreme Court cases including Powell v. Alabama (1932) (the first Scottsboro Boys case) and Herndon v. Lowrey (1937).

Harry Bridges 1938

King's best-known client was union leader Harry Bridges, who faced deportation in 1938 for alleged membership in the Communist Party.  The case reached the Supreme Court of the United States, which reversed the deportation order during World War II.

William Schneiderman 1940

King's representation of Communist Party leader William Schneiderman exemplifies her success in enlisting other (male) attorneys to work for free on key constitutional cases — in this case, recruiting  Wendell Willkie, the 1940 Republican Party presidential nominee, to represent Schneiderman before the Supreme Court.  King won this case in 1943, preventing the Government's revocation of the Communist Party leader's citizenship.

Gerhart Eisler 1947
King also represented Gerhart Eisler in his trial in July 1947. She accused FBI agent, Robert J. Lamphere,  of framing Eisler. After only a few hours of deliberation, the jury brought in a guilty verdict and he was sentenced to a year in prison. Lamphere asked Eisler as the court was adjourning, "Gerhart, do you think you got a fair trial?" He replied: "Yes, a fair trial but an unfair indictment." Lamphere later recalled: "It was the last time I saw Eisler in person; in a way, I almost liked him - his bravado was astonishing."

J. Peters 1948

King also defended "red conspirator" J. Peters against the INS (named by Louis Budenz and Whittaker Chambers as mastermind of a Soviet underground spy ring operating in Washington, DC, during the 1930s and 1940s) and counseled Peters on how to testify before the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) (1948-1949).

Although the J. Peters case was among the best known of King's career, Ann Fagan Ginger makes only a single reference to it in her biography of more than 500 pages.

Sung v. McGrath 1950

King took on many cases against the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). Her most important legal victory came from Sung v. McGrath (339 U.S. 908, 1950).  In this case, the Supreme Court acknowledged that INS was subject to the same administrative and procedural rules as all other federal departments. This ruling froze deportation hearings until the INS agreed to comply with the requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act.

Later

In 1951, King joined more than half a dozen other lawyers in defending 17 Communist Party members, including Elizabeth Gurley Flynn.  The communists were accused of charged conspiring to "teach and advocate violent overthrow" of the government.  The other lawyers were: Abraham L. Pomerantz, Victor Rabinowitz, Michael Begun, Harold I. Cammer, Mary Kaufman, Leonard Boudin, and Abraham Unger.  Later, they were relieved by O. John Rogge, gangster Frank Costello's lawyer George Wolf, William W. Kleinman, Joseph L. Delaney, Frank Serri, Osmond K. Fraenkel, Henry G. Singer, Abraham J. Gellinoff, Raphael P. Koenig, and Nicholas Atlas.

King herself made only one appearance before the Supreme Court, in Butterfield v. Zydok (342 U.S. 524, 1952), which she lost.

African-American Communist organizer Angelo Herndon was another client.

She also represented petitioner Harisiades in the important U.S. Supreme Court immigration law case Harisiades v. Shaughnessy, 342 U.S. 580, 1952.

Personal life and death

She married Gordon Congdon King in 1917.  Her husband died of pneumonia in 1930, leaving her a widow with one son—and her work.  (Her brother William married 1915 Barnard alumna, Ray Levi.)

The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) kept King under surveillance due to her close communist associations.

On January 22, 1952, Carol Weiss King age 56 died of cancer.

Legacy

Barnard College recognized Carol Weiss King in a 1951 issue of the Barnard Bulletin:  Carol Weiss King '16, is a prominent lawyer specializing in immigration work.  She has served as counsel in several well-known cases, including the Harry Bridges case, for which she was chief counsel up through the U.S. Supreme Court; and the William Schneiderman case, in which she was co-counsel with Wendell Willkie.  Mrs. King has also published numerous articles for law reviews.  Other alumnae who appeared in that article include poet Leonie Adams Troy ('22), author Irma Simonton Black ('27), and Margaret Mead ('23).

The National Lawyers Guild's Immigration Project presents the Carol King award each year in Ms. King's honor to an outstanding immigration advocate.

Walter Pollak's son, Senior U.S. District Judge Louis Pollak (who married King's niece), wrote the foreword to Ann Fagan Ginger's 1993 biography of Carol Weiss King.

Works
 "The Sacco-Vanzetti Case is not Dead," New Masses (1933)

References

External sources