[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Walus denaturalization case

express regret or even issue an apology to Walus.  There was internal disagreement on this, and it was finally agreed that an expression of regret was appropriate.  OSI reimbursement of attorney's fees was generally prohibited by law, but Walus was awarded $34,000 to offset other costs he incurred.

From its founding, OSI had been the object of criticism from various groups.  It was clear from early on that achieving OSI's goals was
going to have to involve a lot of public relations work as well as research and prosecution.  Eastern European nationality groups were concerned about OSI's mission since it could be expected to target some from their community.  They opposed OSI's use of evidence from the USSR since it had an interest in discrediting Baltic State, Ukrainian, and other emigre groups and might well provide false information and forged documents to achieve their aims.  These emigre groups also challenged the use of the lower standard of evidence involved in civil trials compared to criminal trials, even though citizenship revocation and deportation were civil issues and US law at the time did not provide for criminal penalties for crimes committed on foreign soil unless against US citizens.  The emigres also feared that OSI might seek to deport anyone who had lied on their entry applications, not just the wartime persecutors that OSI sought to expel.  In contrast, Jewish groups were pressing for more determined action by OSI than INS had demonstrated.  These various groups viewed the original decision by INS to prosecute Walus, and then the decision by OSI not to retry him, as evidence to amplify their separate concerns about the work of the OSI. The press castigated the government for its original prosecution of Walus.   On the other side, Lieut. Col. Menachem Russek of the Israeli national police, Israel's chief investigator of Nazi war crimes, sharply criticized the Department of Justice for not retrying the case.  Nonetheless, he said the Israeli police would continue to cooperate with OSI in their efforts to find and deport former Nazis who committed wartime atrocities.

As a result of the Walus case, concerns about mistaken identity led OSI to place greater emphasis upon documentary evidence to support eyewitness testimony in future prosecutions.  Greater care was also taken in presenting photographic evidence to potential witnesses.

The personal cost of the litigation to Walus was high. In addition to assaults and receiving death threats, he paid over $60,000 for his defense.  He sold his house to pay for his attorneys and subsequently lived with his wife at the home of one of their children.

Personal life

Walus was born 29 July 1922 to Polish parents residing in Germany.  His father died in 1932, and his mother moved to the Kielce area in Poland.  He was 17 when Poland was invaded by Germany in 1939, and he was forced to go to Germany to work on farms in the area around Neu-Ulm.  After the war, he returned to Kielce for ten years, after which he and his wife emigrated to the United States.  He worked in an automobile factory and bought a duplex in Chicago's southwest side.   Walus died of a heart attack in Chicago 17 August 1994.  He had four children.

Citations

Principal sources
 Feigin, Judy, "The Office of Special Investigations: Striving for Accountability in the Aftermath of the Holocaust", U.S. Department of Justice, 2006. 
 Johnson, Flora, "The Nazi Who Never Was", The Washington Post, 22 March 2021
 Douglas, Lawrence, The Right Wrong Man- John Demjanjuk and the Last Great Nazi War Crimes Trial, Princeton University Press, 2016.
 Ryan, Allan A., Jr,, Quiet Neighbors- Prosecuting Nazi War Criminals In America, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1984.

1922 births
1994 deaths
Polish emigrants to the United States
Denaturalization case law