[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# History of Socotra

The history of Socotra describes the cultures, events, peoples and strategic relevance for sea trade of what is Socotra, an island of the Republic of Yemen, currently under control of the United Arab Emirates (UAE)-backed Southern Transitional Council, a secessionist participant in Yemen's ongoing civil war. Lying between the Guardafui Channel and the Arabian Sea and near major shipping routes, Socotra is the largest of the four islands in the Socotra archipelago.

Etymology 
Scholars don't agree about the origin of the name of the island. After that the name Socotra may derive from:
 The Sanskrit term "Dvīpa Sukhadara" which means "the Blessed Island". The contracted version of the Sanskrit name, Diuskadra, was further corrupted by the Greeks, who turned it into Dioscorides (or Dioscorida).
 A Greek term derived from the name of a South Arabian tribe mentioned in Sabaic and Ḥaḑramitic inscriptions as  (S³krd).
 The Greek name  () meaning "the island of the Dioscuri".
 The Arabic term Suqutra broken down as follows: Suq, means market, and qutra is a vulgar form of qatir, which refers to dragon's blood. Indeed, the capital city of Socotra was Suq as reported by the Portuguese in the 16th century, which they referred to as market place.

Prehistory 
It is unclear when and by whom Socotra was first settled. Oldowan stone tools were found in the area around Hadibo in 2008.

Ancient history 
By the turn of the Common Era, Socotra was a crossroad of commerce based on the monsoon winds. This sea trade brought together people from the coasts of western Indian Ocean, Red Sea and East-Africa, as well as the Mediterranean. Socotra contributed to this sea trade with tortoise shells and resins of Myrrh, Frankincense and dragon tree, highly prized as fragrant incense and widely used in medicine and cosmetics.

But as per the fourth century, demand for the resins declined giving way to a cattle-breeding economy organized in pastoral tribes.

Written sources 

In the late 2nd century BCE, Agatharchides recorded merchants from Potana, coming to the "Blessed Islands" (Socotra) to trade with Alexandrian merchants.

The Periplus of the Erythraean Sea, a first-century CE Greek navigation aid describes Socotra as follows:

The Weilüe, a Chinese historical text written in the third century CE states:

Petroglyph sites 

 The Eriosh Petroglyphs, located on the north coast 20 km south-west of the capital Hadibu, contain petroglyphs depicting figures of men, camels, foot symbology and crosses of uncertain dating.
 In the outskirts of Suq 2.5 km west of Hadibu there is a petroglyph site containing cruciform shaped, plant-like, and foot symbology.
 Hoq Cave, situated on the north-eastern coast of the island, contains a large number of inscriptions, drawings and archaeological objects. Investigation showed that these had been left by sailors who visited the island between the first century BCE and the sixth century CE. Texts are written in Indian Brāhmī, South Arabian, Ethiopic, Greek, Palmyrene and Bactrian scripts and languages. This corpus of nearly 250 texts and drawings constitutes one of the main sources for the investigation of Indian Ocean trade networks in that time period, indicating the diverse origins of those who used Socotra as a trading base in antiquity.
 The Dahaisi Cave, located in the eastern interior of the island on the Momi Plateau, contains pictograms of cruciform and geometric patterns, Arabic inscriptions as well as zoomorphic figures attributed to between the first century BCE and the fifteen century CE.

Medieval History 
The earliest account concerning the presence of Christians in Socotra stems from the 6th century CE Greek merchant Cosmas Indicopleustes, who holds that there were - still Greek speaking - colonists on the island once settled by the Ptolemies.

In 880, an Ethiopian expeditionary force conquered the island and an Oriental Orthodox bishop was consecrated. The Ethiopians were later dislodged by an armada sent by Imam Al-Salt bin Malik of Oman.

In his Geography of the Arabian Peninsula (Sifat Jazirat ul-Arab), Abu Muhammad al-Hasan al-Hamdani (893 – 945) describes the geography and the linguistic situation of the Arabian peninsula and Socotra stating, that Alexander the Great sent Greeks to Socotra to cultivate the endemic aloe.

The geographer Yaqut al-Hamawi (1179–1229) writes: "Whoever is bound for the Land of the Zanj sails past Socotra. The majority of its population are Christian Arabs. Thence are delivered aloe and the resin of a tree which grows only on this island."

The Persian geographer Ibn al-Mujawir (1204-1291) shed much light on the culture and everyday life of the Socotrans giving clues to their ancient religious beliefs, particularly in the references to good and evil jinns. He reported that there were two groups of people on the island, the indigenous mountain dwellers and the foreign coastal dwellers.