[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Antiscience

es, a unitary 'science' and a unitary 'academic left', each reduced to epistemological essences, Gross and Levitt proceed to attack. They pick out figures in each of several areas – science studies, postmodernism, feminism, environmentalism, AIDS activism – and criticise their critiques of science".

The writings of Young serve to illustrate more antiscientific views: "The strength of the antiscience movement and of alternative technology is that their advocates have managed to retain Utopian vision while still trying to create concrete instances of it". "The real social, ideological and economic forces shaping science...[have] been opposed to the point of suppression in many quarters. Most scientists hate it and label it 'antiscience'. But it is urgently needed, because it makes science self-conscious and hopefully self-critical and accountable with respect to the forces which shape research priorities, criteria, goals".

Genetically modified foods also bring about antiscience sentiment. The general public has recently become more aware of the dangers of a poor diet, as there have been numerous studies that show that the two are inextricably linked. Anti-science dictates that science is untrustworthy, because it is never complete and always being revised, which would be a probable cause for the fear that the general public has of genetically modified foods despite scientific reassurance that such foods are safe.

Antivaccinationists rely on whatever comes to hand presenting some of their arguments as if scientific, however a strain of antiscience is part of their approach.

Antiscience media 
Major antiscience media include portals Natural News, Global Revolution TV, TruthWiki.org, TheAntiMedia.org and GoodGopher. Antiscience views have also been supported on social media by organizations known to support fake news such as the web brigades.

See also

References

Bibliography
 A Bullock & S Trombley [Eds.], The New Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thought, third edition, London: Harper Collins, 1999
 Burger, P and Luckman, T, "The Social Construction of Reality: A Treatise" in the Sociology of Knowledge. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1966
 Collins, Harry and Pinch, Trevor, The Golem. What everyone should know about science, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1993
 Gross, Paul R and Norman Levitt, Higher Superstition: The Academic Left and Its Quarrels with Science, Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1994
 Gerald Holton, Science and anti-science, Harvard University Press, 1993 
 Knorr-Cetina, Karin D, & Mulkay, Michael, Science Observed: Perspectives on the Social Study of Science, Sage Publications Ltd, 1983
 Knorr-Cetina, Karin D, Epistemic Cultures: How the Sciences Make Knowledge, Harvard University Press, 1999
 Levins, R. "Ten propositions on science and antiscience" in Social Text, 46/47:101–111, 1996.
 Levins, R. "Touch Red," in Judy Kaplan an Linn Shapiro, eds., Red Diapers: Growing up in the Communist Left, U. of Illinois, 1998, pp. 257–266.
 Levins, R. "Dialectics and systems theory" in Science and Society 62(3):373–399, 1998.
 Levins, R. "The internal and external in explanatory theories", Science as Culture, 7(4):557–582, 1998.
 Levins, R. and Lopez C. "Toward an ecosocial view of health", International Journal of Health Services 29(2):261–293, 1999.
 Nye, Andrea, Words of Power: A Feminist Reading of the History of Logic, London: Routledge, 1990
 Pepper, David, The Roots of Modern Environmentalism, London: Routledge, 1989
 Ullica Segerstrale (Ed), Beyond the Science Wars: the missing discourse about science and society, Albany: State University of New York Press, 2000, 
 Vining, Joseph, On the Future of Total Theory: Science, Antiscience, and Human Candor, Erasmus Institute papers, 1999

 Leviathan and the Air Pump Schapin and Shaffer (covers the conflict between Hobbes and Boyle).
 The Scientific Outlook by Bertrand Russell (sets out the limits of science from the perspective of a vehement campaigner against anti-science).
 An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding by David Hume (The first major work to point out the limits of inductive reasoning, the 'new tool of science').
 Against Method by Paul Feyerabend (probably the individual most accused of reinvigorating anti-science, although some claim that he is in fact strengthening the scientific debate).

External links
 "What's wrong with relativism?", Physics World, by Harry Collins
 The Postmodern Critique of Science
 A Critique of Western Science by Alex Paterson
 The Critique of Science Becomes Academic by Brian Martin
 If They Believe That – Science by Reginald Firehammer
 The Ontological Reversal: A Figure of Thought of Importance for Science Education by Bo Dahlin
 Davidson, Donald, Essays on Actions and Events, OUP, 2001 
 
 Psychoneural Reduction The New Wave, John Bickle, Bradford Books, 1998, 
 

Philosophy of science
Anti-intellectualism
Criticisms
Criticism of science
Pseudoscience