[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 1983–84 in English football

ity, with the Owls having two games in hand over their direct rivals.

8 April 1984: Wolves sack manager Graham Hawkins after just under two years in charge.

9 April 1984: Thriving Arsenal's hopes of breaking into the top five are dented when they are held to a 0–0 draw by Everton at Goodison Park.

11 April 1984: Liverpool beat Dinamo Bucharest 1–0 in the European Cup semi-final first leg at Anfield. Manchester United draw 1–1 at home to Juventus in their first semi-final clash in the European Cup Winners' Cup. Tottenham's hopes of reaching the UEFA Cup final are dented by a 2–1 defeat to Hajduk Split in Yugoslavia, but Nottingham Forest go 2-0 up in the first leg of their semi-final clash at home to Anderlecht.

14 April 1984: Everton defeat Southampton 1–0 at Highbury in the FA Cup semi-finals to reach their first final for 16 years, while Watford reach the FA Cup final for the first time ever with a 1–0 win over giantkilling Plymouth Argyle at Villa Park. Liverpool lose 2–0 at Stoke City in the First Division, but Manchester United fail to take advantage and go down 1–0 at Notts County, allowing Joe Fagan's men to stay on top. Nottingham Forest fail to take advantage of the top two's defeat, and are only able to manage a 2–2 draw away to an Ipswich Town side who are still in the bottom three. Down in the Second Division, Cambridge United become the first team to be relegated this season, having won just two out of 36 games, while Swansea City are now almost certain to suffer a second successive relegation.

17 April 1984: Manchester United squander another chance to go top of the First Division, being held to a goalless draw at Watford. Nottingham Forest's title bid is fading fast as they go down 2–1 at Coventry City. Southampton beat Everton 3–1 at The Dell. West Ham keep up their bid for a UEFA Cup place with a 3–1 home win over Luton Town.

18 April 1984: The gap at the top of the First Division now stands at two points after Liverpool draw a thrilling game at Filbert Street 3–3 with Leicester City. Tottenham Hotspur remain in the hunt for another top-five finish by beating Aston Villa 2–1.

21 April 1984: Liverpool beat West Bromwich Albion 3–0 at Anfield in the First Division but Manchester United keep up the pressure on them with a 4–1 home win over Coventry City. Nottingham Forest's title challenge is practically over despite a 5–1 home win over Birmingham City. Southampton remain in with an outside chance of winning the title by beating West Ham 2–0 at The Dell. Wolves lose 3–0 at home to Ipswich Town, a result which boosts the Suffolk club's survival chances but leaves the hosts needing to win all six of their remaining games to have any chance of surviving even on goal difference.

23 April 1984: Wolves go down to the Second Division just one season after winning promotion, their relegation confirmed when they lose 2–0 to Everton at Goodison Park. Their local rivals West Bromwich Albion take another step closer to survival by beating Sunderland 3–1 at The Hawthorns. Ipswich Town climb out of the bottom three by beating East Anglian rivals Norwich City 2–0 at Portman Road. In the Second Division, Manchester City's promotion hopes are left looking slim after they lose 3–2 at home to Huddersfield Town, meaning that Sheffield Wednesday only need one point from their final six games to secure their return to the First Division after 14 years away. Newcastle United's title hopes are also given a huge boost with a 5–1 home win over Carlisle United.

25 April 1984: Liverpool reach their fourth European Cup final in eight seasons with a 3-1 aggregate win over Dinamo Bucharest in the semi-finals. Manchester United's hopes of European glory are ended when they lose their Cup Winners' Cup semi-final second leg 2–1 to Juventus in Turin. Nottingham Forest suffer a spectacular 3–0 defeat to Anderlecht in their UEFA Cup semi-final second leg tie in Belgium, after winning the first leg 2–0, ending their hopes of an all-English UEFA Cup final clash with Tottenham, who overcome Hajduk Split on away goals. Sheffield Wednesday's promotion celebrations are delayed by a 2–0 defeat to Middlesbrough at Ayresome Park.