[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of mammals of Borneo

The mammal species of Borneo include 288 species of terrestrial and 91 species of marine mammals recorded within the territorial boundaries of Brunei, Indonesia and Malaysia. The terrestrial mammals are dominated by the chiroptera (102 species of bats) and rodents (61 species of rats and mice).

Introduction
The high diversity and endemicity of mammals is related to the many niches found in the tropical rain forest of Borneo and past Pleistocene events within the Sundaland region. During interglacial and post-glacial periods, there was migration of animal from the Asian mainland into Borneo and into Sulawesi via the Philippines. Due to lack of favourable habitats and small founder population, some species of animals have become extinct and others have radiated into endemic species. Of the 57 mammal species that were identified from archaeological remains in the Niah Caves, Sarawak, 13 were bats. Four of these were megachiropterans, Pteropus vampyrus, Rousettus amplexicaudatus, Rousettus sp and Eonycteris spelaea, all of which remain extant species in Borneo and Peninsular Malaysia. 
The provisional list of mammals of Borneo (sensu Lord Medway, Payne et al., Corbet and Hill, Koopman, and Wilson and Reeder) are listed below. There are various conflicts in the taxonomic lists by previous authors, which need further field research for validation.

Taxonomic list
The following list gives the scientific name followed by the common names, description, ecology, conservation and distribution information.

Order: Erinaceomorpha
 Echinosorex gymnura, moonrat. Thailand, Malay Peninsula, Sabah, Sarawak, Brunei and Kalimantan.
 Hylomys suillus, short-tailed gymnure. China, Myanmar, Indochina, Thailand, Malay Peninsula, Sabah and Sarawak.

Order: Soricomorpha
 Suncus murinus, house shrew. Africa, Asia, Thailand, Malay Peninsula, Sabah, Sarawak, Brunei and Kalimantan.
 Suncus ater, black shrew. Endemic to Borneo; known only from Gunung Kinabalu
 Suncus etruscus, Savi's pigmy shrew. Europe, Africa, Asia; Thailand, Malay Peninsula, Sabah and Sarawak.
 Crocidura monticola, Sunda shrew. Java, Lombok, Sumba and Flores; Malay Peninsula, Sabah, Sarawak, Brunei and Kalimantan.
 Crocidura fuliginosa, south-east Asia white-toothed shrew. India, Indochina, Thailand, Malay Peninsula, Sabah, Sarawak, Brunei and Kalimantan.
 Chimarrogale himalayica, Himalayan water shrew. Himalaya, south China, Southeast Asia, Japan, Sumatra and Sabah.

Order: Scandentia
 Ptilocercus lowii, pentail treeshrew.
 Tupaia glis, common treeshrew.
 Tupaia splendidula, ruddy treeshrew.
 Tupaia montana, mountain tree shrew.
 Tupaia minor, lesser treeshrew.
 Tupaia gracilis, slender treeshrew.
 Tupaia picta, painted treeshrew.
 Tupaia dorsalis, striped treeshrew.
 Tupaia tana, large treeshrew.
 Dendrogale melanura, smooth-tailed treeshrew.

Order: Dermoptera
 Galeopterus variegatus, Sunda flying lemur

Order: Chiroptera
 Rousettus amplexicaudatus, Geoffroy's rousette
 Rousettus spinalatus, bare-backed rousette
 Pteropus vampyrus, large flying fox
 Pteropus hypomelanus, island flying fox

 Cynopterus brachyotis, lesser short-nosed fruit bat
 Cynopterus sphinx, greater short-nosed fruit bat
 Cynopterus horsfieldi, Horsfield's fruit bat
 Penthetor lucasi, dusky fruit bat
 Megaerops ecaudatus, tailless fruit bat
 Megaerops wetmorei, white-collared fruit bat
 Dyacopterus spadiceus, Dayak fruit bat
 Chironax melanocephalus, black-capped fruit bat
 Balionycteris maculata, spotted-winged fruit bat
 Aethalops aequalis, grey fruit bat
 Eonycteris spelaea, cave nectar bat
 Eonycteris major, greater nectar bat
 Macroglossus minimus, long-tongued nectar bat
 Emballonura alecto, greater sheath-tailed bat
 Emballonura monticola, lesser sheath-tailed bat
 Saccolaimus saccolaimus, pouched tomb bat
 Taphozous melanopogon, black-bearded tomb bat
 Taphozous longimanus, long-winged tomb bat
 Megaderma spasma, lesser false vampire
 Nycteris tragata, hollow-faced bat
 Rhinolophus borneensis, Bornean horseshoe bat
 Rhinolophus pusillus, least horseshoe
 Rhinolophus arcuatus, arcuatus horseshoe bat

 Rhinolophus acuminatus, acuminate horseshoe bat
 Rhinolophus affinis, intermediate horseshoe bat
 Rhinolophus creaghi, Creagh's horseshoe bat
 Rhinolophus philippinensis, Philippine horseshoe bat
 Rhinolophus trifoliatus, trefoil horseshoe bat
 Rhinolophus sedulus, lesser woolly horseshoe bat
 Hipposideros ater, dusky roundleaf bat
 Hipposideros bicolor, bicolor roundleaf bat
 Hipposideros cineraceus, ashy roundleaf bat
 Hipposideros dyacorum, Dayak roundleaf bat
 Hipposideros doriae, least roundleaf