[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Union of the Theatres of Europe

The Union of European Theatres (UTE; ) is an alliance of European public theatres. It promotes  European integration through cultural interaction.

It does transnational theatre work comprising over ten thousand performances and reaching three million viewers each season.

History 

The UTE was founded in 1990 by Jack Lang, then Culture Minister of France, and Italian theatre director Giorgio Strehler. Apart from fostering European integration, their motivation also was the perceived threat to European cultural diversity posed by globalisation:

"Already then we felt that the building of Europe required a firm stand against the unruly vagaries of the economic machine. Today we find ourselves faced with the same questions: how do we defend art within a market economy whose logistics are designed to standardise our way of life and thought so that we are reduced to a state of passive consumerism? Can public policies that support the arts be more effective?"

Mission 

The UTE's stated mission is
"to contribute to the building of the European Union through culture and theatre, to encourage a collective cultural movement that breaks through language barriers in order to develop an art theatre which is seen as a vector of fraternity among people. The UTE promotes productions and co-productions, theatre exchanges and shared experiences while respecting individual identities and cultures. ... Etched in continuity, the sum of these activities helps in elucidating the objectives of artistic and cultural policies that aim to reinforce artistic cooperation and transnational circulation in Europe."

The UTE is a “multinational house”, an idea which corresponds to the so-called “Mehrspartenhaus” in German Theatre – that is, one major theatre with different departments, and in the case of the UTE one theatre that consists of seventeen national theatres but yet remains a single entity. This “multinational house” intensively discusses the questions of a European identity and the role of culture in its formation. Its goal is to promote cultural activities across national borders that respect the principles of the particular identities, a thing that requires common and continuous research. Its current programme focuses on projects that put new working methods to the test and connects experienced theatre creators with enthusiastic newcomers, projects which are close to the citizens of the different European cities, and all this on a long-term scale.

Members and structure 

The UTE is governed by a General Assembly and a board of directors.

The president is Gábor Tompa, artistic and general director of the Hungarian Theatre of Cluj, Romania.

Today the UTE has 19 member theatres in 15 European countries and beyond:

 since 1990: Piccolo Teatro - Teatro d'Europa, Milan, Italy
 since 1991: Teatrul Bulandra, Bucharest, Romania
 since 1994: Teatro di Roma, Rome, Italy
 since 1996: National Theatre of Northern Greece (ΚΘΒΕ), Thessaloniki, Greece
 since 1998: Maly Dramatichesky Theatre, Saint Petersburg, Russia
 since 2003: Teatro Nacional São João, Porto, Portugal
 since 2006: National Theatre of Israel, Habimah, Tel Aviv, Israel
 since 2006: Yugoslav Drama Theatre, Belgrade, Serbia
 since 2008: Schauspielhaus Graz, Graz, Austria
 since 2008: Cluj-Napoca Hungarian Theatre, Cluj-Napoca, Romania
 since 2009: National Theatre (Prague), Prague, Czech Republic
 since 2009: National Theatre of Greece, Athens, Greece
 since 2010: Maly Theatre (Moscow), Moscow, Russia
 since 2011: SFUMATO, Sofia, Bulgaria
 since 2013: Schauspiel Stuttgart, Germany
 since 2013: Schauspielhaus Bochum, Germany
 since 2013: Comédie de Reims, Reims, France
 since 2013: Théâtre National du Luxembourg, Luxemburg
 since 2015: Vígszínház, Budapest, Hungary
 since 2015: Volkstheater Wien, Vienna, Austria
 since 2017: Schauspiel Köln, Cologne, Germany
 since 2017: Stanislavsky Electrotheatre, Moscow, Russia

Individual members:

 Csaba Antal
 Victor Arditti
 Silviu Purcarete
 Tadeusz Bradecki
 Giorgio Ursini Uršič

Honorary members:

 Lev Dodin, President of honor
 Georges Banu
 Tamás Ascher
 Patrice Chéreau (1944 Lézigné – 2013 Clichy)
 Jack Lang
 Krystian Lupa
 Robert Sturua
 Anatoly Vassiliev
 Andrzej Wajda

The operations of the UTE are supported by the "Creative Europe" Programme of the European Union.

The UTE is headquartered in Bobigny, France.

Activities 
The UTE presents theatre festivals, exhibitions, workshops, theatre school collaborations. artist exchanges, publications, conferences, colloquiums, theatre co-productions and translation initiatives throughout Europe. The Union des Théâtres de l'Europe has over 40 members, 20 of which are major national and municipal theatres from 17 countries.

References

External links
 UTE website
 UTE online Theatre Magazine – Project "Young European Journalists on Performing Arts"
 TERRORisms eBook
 TERRORisms Special Issue
 Alternatives Théâtrales: Special Issue "Frontières Liquides"