[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cole Inquiry

The Cole Inquiry, formally the Inquiry into certain Australian companies in relation to the UN Oil-For-Food Programme, was a Royal Commission established by the Australian government pursuant to the Royal Commissions Act 1902 to investigate "whether decisions, actions, conduct or payments by Australian companies mentioned in the Volcker Inquiry into the United Nations Oil-for-Food Programme breached any Federal, State or Territory law."

The inquiry commenced on 10 November 2005 and was overseen by a sole Royal Commissioner, Justice Terence Cole . Justice Cole handed the commission's five volume report to the Governor-General on 24 November 2006; and the report was tabled in parliament on 27 November 2006.

Background

The Volcker Inquiry was set up to investigate the systematic corruption of the Oil-for-Food Programme (or Program) by the Arab nationalist and Arab socialist government of the fifth President of Iraq, Saddam Hussein.

The Volcker Inquiry
The United Nations Independent Inquiry Committee was formed to investigate allegations of corruption and fraud in the UN Oil-for-Food Programme. Paul Volcker's report, released in October 2005, found that AWB was the biggest single source of kickbacks made to the Iraqi government. In exchange for trouble-free disembarkation of wheat purchased under the Oil for food program, AWB paid 'trucking charges' totaling A$300 million to Alia, a Jordanian trucking company. Volcker found that Alia kept a small percentage of the 'charges', and passed the remainder to the government of Saddam Hussein. An accompanying statement released with the report by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kofi Annan requested that "national authorities take steps to prevent the recurrence of such practices in the future and that they take action, where appropriate, against companies falling within their jurisdiction".

Establishment of the Cole Inquiry
In response to Volcker's findings, the Australian Government established a Royal Commission to further investigate the claims raised by the UN report. By Letters Patent issued on 10 November 2005 the commission was asked to inquire into and report on:

 whether any decision, action, conduct, payment or writing of any of the three Australian companies mentioned in the Final Report ("Manipulation of the Oil-for-Food Programme by the Iraqi Regime") of the Independent Inquiry Committee into the United Nations Oil-for-Food Programme, or any person associated with one of those companies, might have constituted a breach of any law of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory; and
 if so, whether the question of criminal or other legal proceedings should be referred to the relevant Commonwealth, State or Territory agency.

Commissioner and Counsel
The Royal Commissioner was Justice Terence Cole , a former Judge of Appeal of the Supreme Court of New South Wales. The Cole Inquiry was the second Royal Commission where Justice Cole was the sole Commissioner. The 2001–2003 Royal Commission into the Building and Construction Industry is commonly referred to as the Cole Royal Commission hence to avoid confusion the 2005–06 Royal Commission is commonly referred to as the Cole Inquiry.

Cole was supported by John Agius SC, Counsel Assisting and three other barristers, Gregory Nell, Michael Wigney and Miles Condon.

The three Australian companies adversely mentioned in the UN report (AWB, Alkaloids of Australia Pty Ltd, and Rhine Ruhr Pty Ltd) were granted leave to be represented by counsel before the Royal Commission

Hearings
Prior to the public hearings the commission held a series of closed hearings in December 2005 and January 2006. Some witnesses who were examined in the closed hearings also gave evidence in the public hearings.

The commission's public hearings commenced on 16 January 2006. During the first six weeks of public hearings evidence led by Agius and cross examination by him of witnesses brought out a series of revelations that showed the conduct of AWB's executives and directors in a very poor light. Apart from interrupting assisting counsel's question to ask witnesses his own probing questions, Cole frequently made reproving comments about the behaviour and evidence of witnesses particularly those in responsible and often highly remunerative positions with AWB and the Wheat Export Authority, who among other things frequently claimed memory loss, inability to locate diaries and notes and notoriously, in the case of former AWB board chairman Trevor Flugge, hearing loss.

On 6 February 2006 the inquiry's terms of reference were extended to include the activities of BHP Billiton in relation to the Oil for Food Program.