[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Per Hüttner

nce. In the photographs we see the artist dressed in white clothes as he makes his way through bustling cities like Chennai, Mexico City and Lusaka. The project remains one of Hüttner's most well known to date. It has been shown in museums in the US, Spain Poland, Romania, Austria, China and Sweden.

In 2004 he developed the performative aspects in the above-mentioned project and tied it back to a research about the limits of reality and documentary photography. He developed a series of photographs where he created shrines of commemoration in busy street corners of urban centres around the world. These impromptu sculptures suggested that an accident or act of violence had been committed in that specific place (while in fact they were fabricated by the artist). The work provoked complex discussions about differences and similarities between documentary traditions and the fictional. This investigation into the very fabric of reality has moved to the forefront in the artist's mature work about impermanence and change. In the catalogue text to his 2006 exhibition Xiao Yao You that displayed a large body of the work at the Guangdong Museum of Art in Guangzhou the curator, Zhang Wei, writes:

Ceaseless movement is not a way of gaining ever more exotic knowledge of the world; it is rather a way of cleaning out and rediscovering the self. This is what I see in Per’s work. When I face his images, the reality presented in them seems less a true physical reality than an invisible psychological one. I see a negotiation and dialogue between the artist’s inner and outer worlds. In this psychological landscape, he describes his worries, his pursuit of human sentiment, and his insistent rejection of a stylized or superficial life. It makes me think of the Chinese philosopher Zhuang Zi's idea of xiao yao you or "moving carelessly". This philosophy does not only detail how to move freely across physical space, but is also a metaphor for how humans can transcend different kinds of obstacles and achieve a freedom of the spirit.

The journey into the human soul was further developed in another photographic series from 2006 to 2007 entitled Democracy and Desire. The images were primarily shot at night with very long exposure times. The relationship between the individual and its search for personal liberty from social conventions again comes to the forefront in the dreamlike photography. In the catalogue text to the exhibition the work is discussed. In a typical style of the artist, it is hard to decipher who the author of the give text is and it even appears that the texts in different languages are written by different authors:

The uninhibited mental and/or physical space is very individual and extremely hard to define. But it is even more complicated, because this freedom can never be safe-guarded by consumerism, legislation or democracy  than the self-confidence that feeds it can be defended by a law. As artists it is our prime responsibility to fight for the right to retain and enjoy this liberty for ourselves and others. This means that we need to have an extremely grounded belief in ourselves and the work that we do. Humanity will always be engaged in a battle to safeguard this freedom and maybe that is also a good definition of what an artist is – a confident defender of the aspects of the soul that cannot be defended any other way. It has always been like that throughout history.

From 2007, Hüttner has returned both to a dialogue with science and to working with video. In a sequel to Begrepp - En Samling from 1992, Hüttner and Arnér created a project entitled (In)Visible Dialogues which focused on a series of conversations between artists and scientists at Konstakademien in Stockholm, Sweden. He also returned to these issues in a less direct way in solo exhibitions in France, China, England and Sweden. Installations such as "Do not Go Gentle", "The Quantum Police" and "Imminent" all depict eccentric people engaged in obsessive research. The work compels the visitor to reflect on whether it is meaningful to draw a line between reality and fiction. In her long text about the latter exhibition, the curator Cecilia Canziani shows how both the problematic of the singular and the collective, as well as myth and its ability influence reality, is highlighted in the artist's work: