[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Audrey Richards

Elmdon, Essex, England, where she lived for many years.

Chisingu: A girl's initiation ceremony among the Bemba of Zambia (1956) 
This book is perhaps Richards most well-known work. In this published monograph, Richards outlines that the Bemba society rests on three ritual complexes that are linked:

 Kingship Rituals
 Agricultural and Economic Rituals
 Chisingu Rituals

The Chisingu Rituals are initiation rituals of girls in the Bemba society, of which she presents a detailed account, analysis and interpretation.

These three ritual complexes are all linked in the Bemba belief and have an influence on the fertility of the land, and people.

Richards witnessed the Chisungu ritual during her first field work in 1931. It is a twenty three day ceremony that involves songs, pottery and other symbolic elements. The express purpose of the Chisingu is the assumption of a new role: from young girl to womanhood. It can be classified as a "nubility ritual". Some rites concern removing the fear of blood, sex and fire from young girls. These rites have an element of trial, only those who are truly matured are able to pass them.

While many anthropologists claim the rites are a formal education for the child. Richards recounts the contrary, that no formal instruction is actually given. Instead the girls learned secret terms known only to the initiated as well as socially approved attitudes toward their new duties as wives and mothers.

In place of the common interpretation of rites as education, Richards hypothesizes that the Chisingu is linked more with the social structure and values of the tribe.

She argues that Rituals sustain cultural values of a society and are an intentional action rather than an expression of sentiment or emotion as in the explanation of ritual as a circular nature as advanced by Durkheim and Radcliffe-Brown. Richards offers multiple explanations that include the society, the groups within it and individuals.

In this work she also presents an interpretation of symbolic elements of ritual.  She points out the need for multiple interpretations for ritual: remarking that ritual behavior is multivalent and multi-purpose ( for example it could be an occasion for group rivalry). She adds that these varied approaches will vary according to the expressed purposes and interpretations of the actors.

Honours
Richards received the C.B.E. in 1955 and became a fellow of the British Academy in 1967. She was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1974.

Death 
In later life, she lived in Highsett, Cambridge. She died in 1984 near Midhurst, West Sussex, England.

References

Select publications
 Richards, Audrey. (1932)  Hunger and work in a savage tribe: a functional study of nutrition among the Southern Bantu. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
 Richards, Audrey. (1939)  Land, Labour, and Diet in Northern Rhodesia: and economic study of the Bemba tribe. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Richards, Audrey I. (1950) Some types of family structure amongst the Central Bantu
 Richards, Audrey. (1956)  Chisungu: a girl's initiation ceremony among the Bemba of Northern Rhodesia. London: Faber.
Richards, Audrey I.  (1966) Changing structure of a Ganda village: Kisozi, 1892–1952, East Africon Studies No. 24 Nairobi: East African Publishing House
 Strathern, Marilyn and Audrey Richards. (1981) Kinship at the Core: An Anthropology of Elmdon, a Village in North-west Essex in the Nineteen-Sixties. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.
 Richards, Audrey I. (1969) The Multicultural States of East Africa. Montreal: McGill-Queen's University Press.

External links
 "On Fieldwork", a talk given by Audrey Richards c. 1982 in Cambridge (video)]
 Catalogue of the Richards papers at the Archives Division of the London School of Economics.

British ethnographers
People educated at Downe House School
British women anthropologists
Alumni of Newnham College, Cambridge
Alumni of the London School of Economics
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
1899 births
1984 deaths
Fellows of the British Academy
Fellows of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland
Presidents of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland
20th-century British anthropologists
Presidents of the African Studies Association of the United Kingdom