[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# King Juan Carlos University

Rey Juan Carlos University (, URJC) is a Spanish public research university located in the southern area of the Community of Madrid (Spain), with five campuses at Móstoles, Alcorcón, Vicálvaro, Aranjuez and Fuenlabrada.

It is named after former king Juan Carlos I of Spain and has the Latin motto Non nova, sed nove ("Not new things, but in a new way"). It was established in 1996 by the government of the Community of Madrid.

With 44.916 students, it is the second-biggest public university in the Community of Madrid, behind the historical Universidad Complutense. URJC is one of eight universities in the Community of Madrid, and it is the second-newest university in the community.

Studies 

King Juan Carlos University offers a range of degrees, all adapted to the European Higher Education Area. This includes 64 undergraduate degrees, 44 dual degrees, 6 English-medium degrees, 6 university degrees on-line, 18 diplomas, and 8 engineering degrees, as well as a wide range of official master's (81) and doctoral programs involving both degrees and training (34) in health sciences, experimental sciences and technology, communication sciences, and law and social sciences. King Juan Carlos University has five campuses in Madrid, Fuenlabrada, Móstoles, Aranjuez and Vicálvaro, as well as a foundation whose headquarters are on Madrid's Plaza de Manuel Becerra.

Campus 

The URJC is divided into four campuses. Each campus is composed of one or more schools:

 Móstoles Campus is, since 1998, the headquarters of the School of Experimental Sciences and Technology (ESCET) and since 2007 the School of Computer Engineering (ETSII). It also houses the University Senate and the office of the President (Rector). 
 Alcorcón Campus houses the Faculty of Health Sciences since 1997 and the University Hospital URJC.
 Vicálvaro Campus (Madrid) is the seat of the Faculty of Juridical and Social Sciences (FCJS) since 1998.
 Fuenlabrada Campus houses since 2000, the Faculty of Communication Sciences and School of Tourism, which since November 2009 was renamed the Faculty of Tourism, and since 2005 the School of Telecommunications Engineering (ETSIT).

Each school or college is governed by a Dean or School Director, and is divided into academic departments.

Affiliated centres:
 Institute of Commercial Management and Marketing in Somosaguas (Madrid).
 ESERP School (Madrid).

Colleges:
 Higher Institute of Dance Alicia Alonso (Fuenlabrada).
 Institute of Humanities (Vicálvaro).
 Institute of International Legal Studies (Vicálvaro).

University Centres:
 University Language Centre (Vicálvaro), which regularly gives courses in English, French, German, Italian, Chinese and Spanish for foreigners.
 Emile Noël Research and Documentation Centre of the European Union (Vicálvaro).
 Volunteering and Cooperation Centre (Alcorcón).
 University Centre for Applied Social Studies (Vicálvaro).
 Economics Study Centre in Madrid (Vicálvaro).
 Centre for Latin American Studies (Móstoles).
 Centre for the Study of the Olympic Movement (Vicálvaro).
 Centre for Intelligent Information Technologies and Applications (CETINIA).
 Business Incubator (Vicálvaro).
 Legal Office (Vicálvaro).
 Technology Support Centre (Móstoles).
 Centre for Innovation, Technology Transfer and Knowledge (Móstoles).
 Laboratory Network URJC (REDLABU).
 Centre of Research and Teaching, located in the so-called Nuncio's Palace in Aranjuez.

King Juan Carlos University organizes its summer courses in Aranjuez.

Academic programs 
Studies include computer science, telecommunications engineering, chemical engineering, environmental science, odontology, medicine, nursing, physiotherapy, audiovisual communication, telecommunications, tourism, journalism, law, economics, applied economics including Austrian economics, business administration and management, sociology, history, accounting and finance, marketing, food science and technology, biology, psychology, preschool education, international relations, visual arts and dance, and criminology, among others.

Gallery

Honorary doctorates 

In 2007 Juan Velarde Fuertes, Iñaki Gabilondo, Luis del Olmo and Antonio Mingote were awarded honorary doctorates from King Juan Carlos University.
In January 2008, Bernardo Kliksberg became the first foreigner to receive an honorary doctorate degree from the university along with Jaime Gil Aluja, José Antonio Pastor Ridruejo and Fernando Sánchez Calero. In 2011, honorary doctorates were awarded to Harald zur Hausen, Ramón Tamames and Peter Waldmann.