[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Citizens (Spanish political party)

retly by the party leader Albert Rivera. This alienated the other two MPs (besides Rivera himself) and a significant part of the party from his leadership. In turn, the official stance of Cs is that the critics are using the dispute as a pretext to canvass support for the ideologically similar UPyD.

Position in the political spectrum 
On June 24, 2019, the party's economics spokesman, Toni Roldán, announced that he was leaving Citizens and renouncing his seat in the Spanish parliament in protest at the party's drift to the right and its willingness to enter alliances with the far right after regional and municipal elections. Following Roldán's resignation, MEP Javier Nart and the Asturian leader Juan Vázquez stepped down as well, leaving their political offices in the party's committee and the Asturian Parliament, respectively.

Some days later, Francesc de Carreras, one of the party's founders, and Francisco de la Torre, MP and economist, also announced that they would leave the party due to its stances against the PSOE and inclination to alliances with the far right.

This crisis came after President of France Emmanuel Macron's government sent a warning to Citizens, with which his En Marche! party shares membership of a group in the EU Parliament, over its willingness to work with the far right.

Funding 
A credit was requested for party funding in 2015 to Banco Popular Español, up to 2017 an IBEX 35 member.

In 2017, the Court of Audit found irregularities in the accounting books of several political groups, Citizens among them. In respect of Citizens, the irregularities included illegal expenses for advertising on local television in 2015.

Cs member Jorge Soler appeared in December 2017 on the TV3 debate Preguntes Freqüents, during which journalist  addressed him about the 2.1 million euros spent by Cs in the 21-D Catalan election campaign—higher than the budget spent by any other party on that election. Talegón inquired about the sources of this funding. Soler replied that this ample budget could be ascribed to the austerity of their party.

European representation
In the European Parliament, Ciudadanos sits in the Renew Europe group with six MEPs.

Electoral performance

Cortes Generales

European Parliament

Regional parliaments

Results timeline

Notes

References

Bibliography 
 
 
 
  Published online.

External links 

 Official website 

 
Webarchive template wayback links
2006 establishments in Spain
Centrist parties in Spain
Liberal parties in Spain
Libertas.eu
Political parties established in 2006
Political parties in Catalonia
Republican parties in Spain
Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Party member parties
Conservative liberal parties