[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

rsona.
 Nova X: When Nova II's body is destroyed by Mbadi, the Stereotomy process once again creates another version of Nova back on Tiphares. This version of Nova has no unique ability of his own, and has no shared knowledge of events with other Novas after Nova II is killed. Nova X is primarily interested with uniting the surviving Tiphareans against aggression from the outer space factions, often espousing the values of flan as he does so. Nova X is later recruited by Porta Nova to help battle Super Nova, who reveals that all life on Earth is soon to be purged by Ketherean forces. However, when Porta Nova and Alita are both destroyed, Nova X is forced to make a hasty escape.

Makaku

Portrayed by Jackie Earle Haley

Born as a human, , known in Battle Angel OVA as
, spent his entire life in the sewers of the Scrapyard, captivated by the life he could see outside.  Three years before the beginning of the main story, Makaku was burned with a flamethrower by a pair of Scrapyard pranksters while looking at the goings on through a sewer grate.  He survived the attack, but his body began to rot and he nearly died.  Desty Nova found Makaku and offered to give him a new, personalized body reflecting his innermost desires.

Makaku's new cyborg body consisted of a large head attached to a long, maggot-like body, which allowed him a great deal of mobility.  He was also characterized by his long tongue and tendency to slobber.  A large spike on top of his head could be fired as a single use projectile weapon.  However, Makaku's deadliest ability was being able to take over the bodies of other cyborgs by using his body to jack into their spinal columns and then remove their heads with his newly won control.  He would take over powerful cyborg bodies and use their strength to acquire brains (preferably human, but even dog) in order to eat them to satisfy his endorphin addiction.  Makaku justified his existence in destruction, and despite a bounty being placed on him, was so formidable that no hunter-warrior dared go after him for years.

Makaku is the first major adversary that Alita faces.  In their first fight, she succeeds in crippling the body that he is then possessing as well as blinding him in his left eye by impaling it with one of her arms.  However, her first cyborg body is destroyed in the process. Makaku survives the fight and almost kills Ido by impaling him with his head spike, swearing vengeance on both him and Alita before escaping.  He seeks out the reigning champion of the Coliseum, Kinuba, to take over his custom-built Power Body.  Makaku then goes up against Alita in her new Berserker Body in the Scrapyard sewers.  After a long fight, the Power Body is destroyed and Makaku nearly kills Alita in a plasma explosion that he triggers.  However, she creates an electromagnetic barrier to shield them both, enabling her to talk with him.  Makaku tells her his life story, revealing that she is the first person who seriously took notice of him by trying to stop him.  For the first time in his life, he is at peace as he is consumed by the plasma.

Zapan

Portrayed by Ed Skrein

 was a hunter-warrior who became embittered against Alita after she questioned his bravery in front of the other hunter-warriors at Bar Kansas and defeated him and a large number of them in a brawl. Since this incident he nursed a grudge against her but did not try to confront her directly. He noticed that Alita had taken an interest in Hugo as well as the latter's connection to Vector, who was the top dealer in the Scrapyard's black market parts. Zapan uncovered Hugo and his accomplices as criminals engaged in cyborg spinal column theft and nearly captured him. He reported Hugo to the Factory when he went to collect the bounties on Hugo's accomplices, informing Alita, who was also there, what had happened to Hugo. Deducing that she would attempt to flee with Hugo, Zapan took Daisuke Ido hostage and rounded up numerous hunter-warriors and a netman. He confronted Alita when she was on her way back to Ido's clinic with Hugo's body, but his plan was foiled when it appeared that she had taken Hugo's head. However upon closer investigation he saw that she had connected her life support system to it, keeping his brain alive. When he tried to get the head, the netman warned him that stealing another hunter's bounty was illegal, allowing Alita to attack him and shear his face off. Zapan fell off the high rise they were on, but survived. He later obtained a new face and began working in a soup kitchen with Sara, the daughter of Murdock. Sara accepted Zapan and became his lover despite her father's opposition. The night of Alita's challenge race against Jashugan, Zapan saw the broadcast and was struck by a sudden fear that resulted in him clawing off his second face. He accidentally killed Sara when she tried to stop him and thus became a bounty, being hunted by Murdock for three years.