[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Copies by Vincent van Gogh

Gogh copied and enlarged the image.  He created a bright yellow background and colorful kimono.  Influenced by other Japanese prints, he added a "watery landscape" of bamboo and water lilies.  Frogs and cranes, terms used in 19th century France for prostitutes, with a distance boat adorn the border.

Copies after Utagawa Hiroshige
In the mid-19th century Japan opened itself to trade, making Japanese art available to the west. The works of Japanese print makers, Hiroshige and Hokusai greatly influenced Van Gogh, both for the beautiful subject matter and the style of flat patterns of colors, without shadow.  Van Gogh collected hundreds of Japanese prints and likened the works of the great Japanese artists, like Hiroshige, to those of Rembrandt, Hals, and Vermeer. Van Gogh explored the various influences, molding them into a style that was uniquely his own.  The Japanese paintings represent Van Gogh's search for serenity, which he describes in a letter to his sister during this period, "Having as much of this serenity as possible, even though one knows little – nothing – for certain, is perhaps a better remedy for all diseases than all the things that are sold at the chemist's shop."

Hiroshige, one of the last great masters of Ukiyo-e, was well known for series of prints of famous Japanese landmarks.

Japonaiserie: Flowering Plum Tree (after Hiroshige)
The Flowering Plum Tree is believed to be the first of three oil paintings made by Van Gogh of Utagawa Hiroshige's Japanese woodblock prints.  He used color to emulate the effect of the printer's ink, such as the red and greens in the background and the tint of green on the white blossoms.  After he moved to Arles, Van Gogh wrote to his sister that he no longer needed to dream of going to Japan, "because I am always telling myself that here I am in Japan."

Japonaiserie: Bridge in the Rain (after Hiroshige)
Utagawa Hiroshige's Evening Shower at Atake and the Great Bridge woodcut, which he had in his collection,  inspired Van Gogh for its simplicity.  The cloudburst, for instance, is conveyed by parallel lines. Such techniques were revered, but also difficult to execute when creating the wood block stamp for printing.  By making a painting, Van Gogh's brushstrokes "softened the boldness of the Japanese woodcut."  Calligraphic figures, borrowed from other Japanese prints, fill the border around the image.  Rather than following the color patterns of the original woodcut print, he used bright colors or contrasting colors.

Copy after Jacob Jordaens
Van Gogh used Jordaen's subject and composition for his rendition of Cows. A later artist, Edward Hopper, also used Jordaen's Cows as a source of inspiration for his work. The painting is located at the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lille in France. Jan Hulsker notes that the painting is a color study of an etching Dr. Gachet made of Jordaen's painting.

Copies after Jean-François Millet

Background
The "peasant genre" that greatly influenced Van Gogh began in the 1840s with the works of Jean-François Millet, Jules Breton, and others. In 1885 Van Gogh described the painting of peasants as the most essential contribution to modern art. He described the works of Millet and Breton of religious significance, "something on high."  A common denominator in his favored authors and artists was sentimental treatment of the destitute and downtrodden.  He held laborers up to a high standard of how dedicatedly he should approach painting, "One must undertake with confidence, with a certain assurance that one is doing a reasonable thing, like the farmer who drives his plow... (one who) drags the harrow behind himself.  If one hasn't a horse, one is one's own horse."  Referring to painting of peasants Van Gogh wrote to his brother Theo: "How shall I ever manage to paint what I love so much?"

Van Gogh Museum says of Millet's influence on Van Gogh: "Millet's paintings, with their unprecedented depictions of peasants and their labors, mark a turning point in 19th-century art. Before Millet, peasant figures were just one of many elements in picturesque or nostalgic scenes. In Millet's work, individual men and women became heroic and real. Millet was the only major artist of the Barbizon School who was not interested in 'pure' landscape painting."

Van Gogh made twenty-one paintings in Saint-Rémy that were "translations" of the work of Jean-François Millet.  Van Gogh did not intend for his works to be literal copies of the originals. Speaking specifically of the works after Millet, he explained, "it's not copying pure and simple that one would be doing. It is rather translating into another language, the one of colors, the impressions of chiaroscuro and white and black." He made a copy of The Gleaners (Des glaneuses) by Millet.