[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Foley, Welch and Stewart

ion of track elevated him to command all British and Canadian rail units.

Later audits and enquiries revealed that the PGE Act, which usurped the basic checks and balances of the Railway Act, was itself laxly followed by the government, resulting in an overpayment of more than $5.7 million to FW&S.

In late 1917, limited grading having ceased, FW&S proposed a government takeover of the PGE. To avoid lengthy and expensive legal proceedings, FW&S agreed in February 1918 to hand over PGE assets and a cash payment of $750,000. Although released from all obligations and the dropping of government litigation, FW&S was allowed to retain ownership of the PGE Land Development Company. The degree to which financial assets had been transferred to this company since 1912 was never revealed. Although Welch had promised at the hearings to provide information on land sale profits, he instead relocated to Seattle with the corporate records.

The PGE insolvency had forced the BC government to assume the ownership and debt of the railway. As second premier of the following Liberal administration, John Oliver engaged NorCon to extend the line northward to Quesnel. A subsequent royal commission found many similar abuses by Norcon to those of FW&S. When Norcon took away equipment estimated at up to $1 million, the government stated it belonged to FW&S and not the PGE. Assumedly, Norcon directly compensated FW&S.

Concurrent projects
In August 1912, P. Welch & Co was awarded the Coalmont–Brookmere extension of the VV&E in BC.

In September 1912, FW&S was awarded the Victoria–Port Alberni leg of the CNoR in BC.

In January 1913, a joint venture between FW&S and Edward Peterson was awarded the Weyburn–Lethbridge branch of the CP in Saskatchewan.

In July 1913, FW&S was awarded the CP Connaught Tunnel construction and connecting trackage by offering the lowest bid and earliest completion projection. The  tunnel opened in December 1916.

In November 1913, FW&S was awarded the new harbour and terminal works at Halifax, Nova Scotia. Carried out as a joint venture with Fauquier, Welch supervised the project. Following the 1917 Halifax Explosion, the project was suspended, and the military expropriated the floating cranes for priority needs.

After World War I
After 1917, Welch largely retired, but he associated with Stewart in the Calgary office of Stewart & Welch and with Bloedel in BS&W.

In 1919, Timothy Foley died and Welch was in poor health. During this period, Stewart primarily operated as sole proprietor on a series of smaller railway upgrade projects.

In 1921, Stewart joined A.R. Mann at NorCon, which became known as Northern Construction Co & J.W. Stewart. That year, Stewart and MacDonnell Ltd was established in the UK for the $17 million upgrade of harbour and railway infrastructure at Takoradi in the Gold Coast (later renamed Ghana). Experiencing delays before and after site work commenced in 1923, the company was replaced in September 1924 by Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd, which completed the contract.

In Canada, the Norcon association was awarded the Ballantyne Pier superstructure in 1921, the Second Narrows Bridge in 1923, and the Dunsmuir Tunnel and Downtown Vancouver Canadian National Steamship pier in 1931.

In 1929, Welch died. During his funeral, construction workers on various projects throughout the world paused for an hour. That year, a former worker on the PGE project, who held Stewart at gunpoint demanding an $18,000 payment for an injury claim, was subsequently arrested for attempted robbery and carrying a concealed weapon.

Stewart died in 1938. His funeral was attended by dignitaries from across Canada and farther afield. His coffin was carried upon a gun carriage through Downtown Vancouver.

Honours
In 1917, Stewart and Welch opened the Lucky Four Copper Mine. Mine superintendent Arthur Williamson named the nearby peaks as Mount Foley, Mount Welch, and Mount Stewart. Becoming established names in the mountaineering community, Foley Peak, Welch Peak, and Stewart Peak were officially adopted in 1946. In the 1910s, FW&S had undertaken railway construction both to the east and west along the Fraser River. The names of Foley Glacier, Foley Creek, and Foley Lake, derived from the mountain.

Footnotes

References

Construction and civil engineering companies of the United States
Construction and civil engineering companies of Canada