[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 5 ft and 1520 mm gauge railways

their bogies changed in the Sakhalin port of Kholmsk. In 2004 and 2008 plans were put forward to convert it to the Russian gauge. The conversion was completed in 2019.

There were proposals in 2013 for north-south and east-west lines in Afghanistan, with construction to start in 2013.

Panama, 1850 

The Panama Canal Railway, first constructed in ca. 1850, was built in  gauge. During canal construction (1904–1914), this same gauge was chosen for both construction traffic, canal operating services along the quays, and the newly routed commercial cross-isthmus railway. In 2000 the gauge for the commercial parallel railway was changed to  to use standard gauge equipment. The original gauge was chosen under the influence of the pre-conversion southern United States railway companies. The electric manoeuvering locomotives along the locks (mules) still use the  gauge that was laid during canal construction.

Finland, 1862 

The first rail line in Finland was opened in January 1862. As Finland was then the Grand Duchy of Finland, an autonomous state within the Imperial Russia where railways were built to the (5 ft) broad track gauge of . The railway systems were not connected until the bridge over the River Neva was built in 1913. Russian trains could not have run on Finnish tracks, because the Finnish loading gauge was narrower, until the connection was made and the Finnish structure gauge was widened.

Technical

Redefinitions 

In the late 1960s the gauge was redefined to  in the Soviet Union. At the same time the tolerances were tightened. As the running gear (wheelsets) of the rolling stock remained unaltered, the result was an increased speed and stability. The conversion took place between 1970 and the beginning of the 1990s.

In Finland, the Finnish State Railways kept the original definition of , even though they also have tightened the tolerances in a similar way, but to a higher level.

After its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991, Estonia redefined its track gauge to , to match Finland's gauge. The redefinition did not mean that all the railways in Estonia were changed immediately. It was more a rule change, so that all renovated old tracks and new railways would be constructed in 1,524 mm gauge from then on. (See Track gauge in Estonia.)

Tolerances 

Finland allows its gauge to be 1,520–1,529 mm on first class lines (classes 1AA and 1A, speed 220–160 km/h).

If the gauge of the rolling stock is kept within certain limits, through running between  railways and Finnish  railways is allowed. Since both 1,520 and 1,524 mm are within tolerances, the difference is tolerable.

The gauge of the international high-speed train Allegro (Sm6) between Helsinki and St. Petersburg was specified as 1,522 mm.

Loading gauge 

The loading gauge, which defines the maximum height and width for railway vehicles and their loads, is larger for Russian gauge. This means that if a standard gauge railway, in Europe, is adapted for dual gauge, bridges must be rebuilt, double tracks must be placed further apart and the overhead wire must be raised. Or there must be restrictions on permitted rolling stock, which would restrict the benefit of such a railway. Dual gauge needs more width than single gauge. For double stacking on Russian gauge tracks, maximum height shall be  above rails.

For standard gauge railways, double stacking maximum height shall be . For Indian gauge railways, double stacking maximum height shall be , and minimum overhead wiring height shall be  above rails. Minimum overhead wiring height for double stacking, standard gauge railways shall be , and Indian gauge railways shall be  above rails, respectively. This would apply to Russia and Europe (or North America), rather than to Russia and China (or Iran).

Current status

Primary usage 
The primary countries currently using the gauge of 5 ft or 1,520 mm, include:

Extended usage 

Short sections of Russian or 5 ft gauge extend into Poland, eastern Slovakia, Sweden (at the Finnish border at Haparanda), and northern Afghanistan.

There is an approximately 150 km long section in Hungary in the Záhony logistics area close to the Ukrainian border.

Following renovations in 2014, a 32 km section of dual Standard/Russian gauge was installed between Tumangang and Rajin stations in North Korea.

The most western  gauge railway is the Polish LHS (Linia Hutnicza Szerokotorowa) from the Ukrainian border to the eastern end of the Silesian conurbation.

Use in rapid transit and light rail systems