[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bourtreehill House

nds of Highlees [Dundonald] to John Lyn of Boutrehill.

2 May 1528 - John Lyn of Bowrtrehill witnessed an instrument in Glasgow concerning the Montgomerys.

 21 Jan 1548 - John Lyn of that Ilk and Bowtrehill conveyed the lands of Highlees to Archibald Crawford as guardian for the heir of Hunterston.

5 Mar 1556 - John Lyn of that Ilk and Lord of Bourtreehill gave sasine in favor of his brother Laurence Lyn, Laurence's spouse Bessie Wallace, and their heirs.

8 Feb 1568 - Laurence Lin of Bourtrehill witnessed an instrument executed by John Lin of that Ilk, superior of Highlees.

8 Oct 1592 - The late Laurence Lin of Bourtrehill was mentioned in an agreement between his widow, Elizabeth Wallace, and William Lin of Bourtreehill, her son, in which William discharged all sums due under certain marriage contracts.

On 17 October 1608, a testament was recorded for Bessie Wallace, deceased spouse of Laurence Lyne in Bourtriehill, Ayrshire. This is the last known reference to Lynns in Bourtreehill. In fact, Bourtreehill had been conveyed two years earlier to the Skelmorlies.

17th & 18th centuries
On 18 February 1606, the two merk land and a half of Bourtreehill was conveyed to Robert Montgomery of Skelmorlie, as evidenced by a contract held by the National Archives of Scotland. The house was built in 1682.

In 1685, and 1696 the barony belonged to the Skelmorlie family, from whom it was purchased by Peter Montgomerie, merchant in Glasgow whose son, James Montgomerie, sold it to Robert Hamilton, prior to 1748. Robert Hamilton was born 5 January 1698 and was the eldest son of Hugh Hamilton of Clongall, merchant in Ayr. He and his younger brother, John, ancestor of the Hamiltons of Sundrum, were long resident in Jamaica, where they possessed the estate of Pemberton valley, and acquired very considerable wealth. Robert died 4 June 1773, aged 75. Kilbirnie Place was destroyed by fire early in the morning of 1 May 1757 during building works and never rebuilt. The 19th Earl of Crawfurd, his infant daughter Jean (later a Countess of Eglinton), and domestics had little time to escape. The family moved to Bourtreehill House near Irvine. Lady Crawfurd was the eldest daughter and heiress of Robert Hamilton of Bourtreehill. In 1776 the Countess of Crawfurd is given as proprietor on plate 45 of G. Taylor and A. Skinner's 'Survey and maps of the roads of North Britain or Scotland'.

19th century
 Robert Hamilton of Rozelle was succeeded by his eldest daughter, the Countess Craufurd, who died 6 October 1809. Her sister, Dame Margaret Hamilton Cathcart, widow of Sir John Cathcart of Carelton, who died in 1785 then succeeded. She died in 1817 and the property devolved upon her nephew, the Earl of Eglinton.

In 1840 the house was altered for Hugh Montgomerie and at this time probably gained a bay window and entrance porch. 

Alexander Guthrie of Mount in Kilmarnock purchased Bourtreehill in 1847 and it passed to his daughter, Christina in 1852 (Dobie 1876). Christina married the Hon. D.A.F.Browne, who became Lord Oranmore and Browne in the Peerage of Ireland. Nothing now remains of Bourtreehill House, however remains of outbuildings are still visible. In 1879 Bourtreehill was badly damaged by fire and was restored to the designs of R.S.Ingram.

20th century
During the Enlightenment, Bourtreehill housed some of the most important people in the region. The Baron Oranmore and Browne of Bourtreehill House was the grandfather of Tara Browne. In the 18th century, the Earl of Crawford, whose house in Kilbirnie burned to the ground, rescued his wife and daughter and took residence in Bourtreehill House which dated to the early 17th century. It became one of the many great houses lost in the 20th century when it was demolished in the 1960s.

 It is an unfortunate truth that Bourtreehill House, with its preserved Medieval surroundings, is still subject to a certain amount of confusion. Unknown to many Bourtreehillians, the estate is much older than the Bourtreehill which is known today. The date of the inception of Bourtreehill is, as yet, unknown but in the centuries that passed its history has been peppered with a multitude of wealthy, powerful and influential people. 

Politicians, literary fellows and kings are known to have possessed, rented or visited the estate. That several of those influential historical characters were women is also a valuable and notable point when considering the history of Bourtreehill in the middle-ages and later 17th-18th centuries.

The building became derelict and was demolished in the 1970s, leaving only fragmentary remains of the coach-house and outbuildings.

Mr. Hamilton of Bourtreehill's gardener