[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Trivikram Srinivas

chav, in late 2001. Released on 10 October 2002,  Nuvve Nuvve marked the directorial debut of Trivikram. Although the film turned out to be successful at the box office, and received critical acclaim, he wasn't happy with it completely, and felt the writer in him dominated the director in that film.

This was followed by the critically acclaimed film Athadu (2005). Athadu collected a distributor share of 22 crore in its total run, thus becoming a box office hit. Its satellite rights were sold for 4.5 crore. Following upon its initial recognition, the film was dubbed into Tamil, Malayalam, and Hindi, as well as being dubbed into Polish for a release in Poland as a Poszukiwany, becoming the first Telugu film released in Poland.

Trivikram's next directorial Jalsa became the most anticipated film of the year 2008, with a release of 325 prints in 1000 theatres. The film's audio rights were sold to Aditya Music for 90 lakh, the highest for a Telugu film ever at the time. Jalsa became a major hit at box office and was the highest grossing Telugu film of 2008. Jalsa was followed by Khaleja (2010) released on 7 October 2010, for which Trivikram directed Mahesh Babu in two Thums Up soft drink commercials to assist in promoting the film. Khaleja opened to mixed reviews and underperfomred at the box office.

2011-2020: Commercial success and rise to top

Trivikram provided the dialogues and screenplay for the film, Teen Maar (2011), starring Pawan Kalyan and Trisha in a remake of Love Aaj Kal released in March 2011. He then directed Julayi (2012) starring Allu Arjun and Illeana and the film became a box-office hit. Next, he directed Attarintiki Daredi (2013) starring Pawan Kalyan and Samantha. Despite the film's pirated version, which has up to 90 minutes of the film being put up online a few days before its official release, the film became an Industry hit. Attarinitki Daredi received positive reviews from critics according to International Business Times India who called the film a "perfect family entertainer" in their review roundup.

He then directed S/O Satyamurthy (2015) starring Allu Arjun and Samantha. The film was released on 9 April 2015 to a general positive response. On a 40 crore ($6.23 million) budget, S/O Satyamurthy earned a distributor share of 51.9 crore ($8.1 million) and grossed 90.5 crore ($14.1 million). His A Aa (2016) starring Nithin and Samantha became a runaway hit as well. 2018 was a mixed bag for Trivikram, as his Agnyaathavaasi (2018) starring Pawan Kalyan, Keerthy Suresh, and Anu Emmanuel was declared a box office disaster, while his Aravinda Sametha Veera Raghava (2018) starring NTR Jr. and Pooja Hegde became a blockbuster, collecting more than 90 crore distributor share worldwide. His 2020 film Ala Vaikunthapurramuloo (2020) starring Allu Arjun and Pooja Hegde became one of the highest grossing Telugu films of all time, collecting more than 163 crore distributor share worldwide with a gross over 262 crore.

His next project was Bheemla Nayak (2022) for which he wrote the screenplay and dialogues. He is set to work with Mahesh Babu in a film titled Guntur Kaaram, marking their third collaboration.

Personal life 
In Hyderabad, as a group of aspirants for a career in films, Trivikram, Sunil, R. P. Patnaik, Chandra Siddhartha, Gopimohan, Dasaradh, and Venu all used to meet in the cafe called "Try Luck", and discuss about opportunities in films. Interestingly, they all started getting noticed in film industry only after the cafe went out of business. R. P. Patnaik came to Hyderabad to prepare for civil services, and joined Trivikram, Sunil’s room and stayed with them for many days. Gunasekhar, also stayed with them as their roommate during his struggling days. As of 2016, Trivikram maintains the room, in the Punjagutta neighbourhood, as a memory by paying rent.

Actor Sunil and Trivikram were friends since their early days in Bhimavaram. Both graduated from the same D.N.R. College in Bhimavaram, Trivikram with B.Sc and Sunil with B.Com Fine Arts, both even married on the same day.

In 2002, Trivikram married Sai Soujanya, niece of Telugu lyricist, Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry; the couple have two children.