[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Girls Aloud: Off the Record

Girls Aloud: Off the Record is a six-part series recorded by Girls Aloud for E4 that started on 11 April 2006 at 10:30pm. The show was produced by E4 and Monkey Kingdom Productions for Channel Four Television Corporation.

The series follows Girls Aloud in the buildup to their 2006 Chemistry arena tour, from appearing on TV shows to filming the "Whole Lotta History" video in Paris, promoting in Australia and New Zealand, doing promotional appearances in Ibiza and Greece, and going on an ambassadorial trip to China. The series also follows a selection of Girls Aloud's fans, including two Australian fans who spent all their money on tickets to Girls Aloud's Wembley show. The girls' personal lives were featured too – Ashley Cole appears in the first episode.

Girls Aloud: Off the Record was repeated on Channel 4 as of 3 September 2006. A DVD of the series was released on 28 August 2006. It was originally planned to be released on 16 July (as stated on Amazon.co.uk and HMV.co.uk), but was delayed to September, as stated on the Girls Aloud official site.

Background and production
In February 2006, it was announced that Girls Aloud were already in the process of filming a reality show. The programme was part of a partnership between Channel Four Television Corporation and Universal Music, created by E4 and Monkey Kingdom Productions for Channel Four. The series was produced by Vicky Crawley, while David Granger and Will Macdonald served as executive producers.

Cast

Regulars
 Sarah Harding
 Nicola Roberts
 Nadine Coyle
 Cheryl Cole
 Kimberley Walsh

Recurring
 Hilary Shaw
 Rachel Cooke
 Drew (Tour Manager)
 Jesse Metcalfe

Guest Stars
 Amelle Berrabah
 Samiya Berrabah
 Zakiya Berrabah
 Keisha Buchanan
 Ashley Cole
 Calum Best

Notes.

 Paul Nichols narrates the entire 6-part series
 The regular credits order is taken from the title sequence featured in the show.

Critical reception
Writing or The Observer, Paul Morley slated the show. He wrote, "the fraudulently titled Off the Record is just one long, gushing promotional push for the group, an attempt to prolong their fragile careers for just a few more months by pretending to analyse the exciting, stressful reality of being a girl in a group such as Girls Aloud attempting to transcend their manufactured roots. Sort of a smutty comedy, sort of a tragedy, sort of a gossipy, fake-provocative documentary, sort of a heavily censored electronic press kit, there's little sleaze, insight or emotional disintegration."

Episodes

Episode 1: 11 April 2006
The programme started with Cheryl going shopping at Bluewater with her mother Joan, with Cheryl talking about her arrest for assault in 2003, and the lessons she learned from the incident. Cheryl was then shown ready to go out to Julien Macdonald's show at London Fashion Week with her fiancé Ashley Cole, who was reluctant to come. At the show, Cheryl had to promote Girls Aloud to various radio and television channels, some of whom had never heard of the band. After the show, Cheryl and Ashley were driven to a restaurant for a Valentine's Day meal, followed by paparazzi. Girls Aloud's tour manager Drew let the paparazzi take pictures of Cheryl and Ashley getting into the restaurant, saying they would rather be photographed before a meal than after.

The next part started with the girls on a promotional visit to Ibiza, performing at a club night. They were then shown eating at a restaurant, where Sarah and Kimberley competed in a drinking game. Afterwards, the girls were shown relaxing by a pool in their bikinis at their private villa, when they spotted a photographer hiding in the bushes far away. The girls complained about this, but their manager Hillary Shaw said that part of the Girls Aloud package included being photographed in various situations, some of which not to their liking. Kimberley and Nadine then talked about various encounters with the paparazzi.

The girls were then shown getting ready to perform at CD:UK, with their TV plugger talking about how important television is in promoting Girls Aloud. Hillary then talked about how Girls Aloud were snubbed by the BRIT Awards, leading to a segment where the Sugababes, who were also on CD:UK, came to talk to Girls Aloud about the Brits situation. This led to a funny moment where Cheryl thought that Amelle Berrabah's older sister was her mum. The cameras then went outside to talk to some of Girls Aloud's fans, and then it was shown how hours of preparation lead to just three minutes performing on TV.

Guest stars: Amelle Berrabah, Samiya Berrabah, Zakiya Berrabah, Keisha Buchanan, Ashley Cole, Hillary Shaw