[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Danny Greene

{{Infobox person
| name = Danny Greene
| image = DannyGreene.gangster.png
| caption = Danny Greene circa. 1970s
| birth_name = Daniel John Patrick Greene
| birth_date = 
| birth_place = Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.
| death_date = 
| death_place = Lyndhurst, Ohio, U.S. 
| death_cause = Car bomb
| occupation = Longshoreman, dock worker, teamster, mobster, racketeer, Mafia family associate
| known_for =  Former associate of Cleveland mobster John NardiWar with the Cleveland Mafia
}}

Daniel John Patrick Greene (November 14, 1933 – October 6, 1977) was an Irish-American mobster based in Cleveland, Ohio. Greene gained power first in the local chapter of the International Longshoremen's Association, where he was elected president during the early 1960s. He later became a full time crime boss and began competing with Jewish-American organized crime figure Shondor Birns and the Italian-American Cleveland crime family  for control of the city's criminal underworld. Greene set up his own crew called the Celtic Club, complete with enforcers and a close alliance with outlaw biker gangs.

During the 1970s, Greene allied himself with mob-affiliated labor union leader John Nardi during the latter's war against Jack Licavoli for leadership of the Cleveland crime family. Competing factions set off more than 36 bombs, most attached to cars, in murder attempts, many successful. After the humiliating failure of multiple attempts of his life and Greene's decision to repeatedly taunt the Licavoli faction as "maggots" in the Cleveland news media, Greene was successfully assassinated in 1977 by Los Angeles crime family enforcers Ray Ferritto and Ronald Carabbia. 

A subsequent police investigation revealed that Greene's murder had been a criminal conspiracy by the Italian-American crime families in Cleveland, New York City, and Southern California. The investigation also resulted in the defections of both Ray Ferritto and Los Angeles crime family boss Jimmy Fratianno, followed by the exposure and arrest of a mole inside the Cleveland FBI. The investigation also laid the groundwork for many successful Federal prosecutions of the Italian-American Mafia in multiple cities nationwide.

Early life and education
Daniel John Patrick "Danny" Greene was born November 14, 1933, in Cleveland, Ohio, to John Henry Greene and Irene Cecelia Greene (née Fallon). His father was also born in Cleveland, but his mother was born in Pennsylvania.

Three days after his birth, Greene's mother died.  He was called "Baby Greene" until his mother was buried, after which he was eventually named after his grandfather (Daniel John Greene). Danny's father drank heavily and eventually lost his job as a salesman for Fuller Brush. After this, Danny temporarily moved in with his grandfather (a newspaper printer), who had also been recently widowed. Unable to provide for Danny, his father placed him in Parmadale, a Roman Catholic orphanage in Parma, Ohio, three miles outside Cleveland.

In 1939, Danny's father began dating a nurse. He married her, and they started their own family and brought Danny to live with them.

At age 6, Danny resented his stepmother and ran away on several occasions. His paternal grandfather took him in, and Danny lived with him and an aunt for the rest of his childhood in the Collinwood neighborhood. Taking advantage of the fact that his grandfather worked nights, Danny roamed the streets at night. When Danny's father died in 1959, the newspaper obituary listed his children from his second marriage but did not mention Danny. 

Danny attended St. Jerome Catholic School, where he developed a great fondness for the nuns and priests,  developed a lasting friendship with some of his teachers, and served as an altar boy. He was athletic, excelled at baseball, and was an all-star basketball player. Although Danny was a poor student, the nuns at St. Jerome let him play sports because he was valuable to the team.

Danny attended St. Ignatius High School. There he frequently fought with Italian-American students, children of more recent immigrants struggling for a place, and he developed an intense dislike for Italians that lasted his entire life.

After being expelled from Saint Ignatius, he transferred to Collinwood High School, where he excelled in athletics. He was also a Boy Scout for a short time, before being kicked out of his troop. He was also expelled from Collinwood High School, in that case, due to excessive tardiness, which he claimed was caused by the bullying of fellow students.