[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Infantry in the American Civil War

d their regimental colors, flags which not only served to denote position and alignment on the battlefield but which held special emotional significance.  To be chosen as the color guard charged with protecting these flags was a special honor, and one of the most dangerous positions in the regiment.

The actual authorized strength for a regiment could vary greatly.  Within the Union Army there were three different regimental models: pre-war Regular Army regiments had an authorized strength of 878 soldiers; new Regular Army regiments created for the war were authorized up to 2,452 soldiers; and regiments raised by the states for the Volunteers Army ranged from 866 to 1,046.  The Confederate States Army had their infantry regiments fixed to a maximum strength of 1,045, but they also experimented with forming legions, large regiments that combined infantry with cavalry and artillery.  The concept was abandoned soon after the war began however for being too unwieldy.  

The official structure for regiments was not always followed: the 66th Georgia for example constituted 1,500 soldiers organized into thirteen companies at its formation, while the 14th Indiana was formed with 1,134 men.  Nor did regiments stay at full strength.  After just six months of duty, a regiment which started with 1,000 men often could muster only 600 or 700 on account of desertions, illness, detachment on special duty, and other factors.  On average the fighting strength of a Civil War regiment was just 400 soldiers, with Union regiments having slightly more and Confederate regiments slightly less.  Ironically, the smaller size of regiments had the unintended effect of making them more maneuverable and easier to command on the battlefield. 

The eventual fate of many regiments was to continue losing soldiers until they were deemed combat ineffective and either consolidated or disbanded.  Both armies made attempts to replenish regiments back to their full strength, but the process was haphazard and infrequent; nor was it helped by governors who preferred to meet their quotas by creating new regiments as a form of patronage.  On the whole though, the Confederates put more effort into funneling replacements into existing regiments.

Below the regiment was the battalion, although with few exceptions there was no formal structure, only that any two or more companies constituted a battalion.  If a regiment was formed with only eight or fewer companies, it was referred to as a battalion.  The company was traditionally seen as the smallest military unit and often recruited from a local community.  It's authorized strength was approximately 100 soldiers, led by a captain who was assisted by a couple of lieutenants and several non-commissioned officers (NCOs).  However, as with regiments the actual strength of a company was often reduced to half or less. A company could further split into two platoons, with each divided into two sections of two squads each.  The smallest sub-unit were "comrades in battle" or the four men adjacent to each other in the line of battle.  Such small units rarely featured in Civil War combat with some exceptions, such as during skirmishing.

Individual regiments (usually three to five, although the number varied) were organized and grouped into a larger body known as a brigade.  A brigade was supposed to be commanded by a brigadier general, but it was often the case that the senior-most colonel would lead the unit.  Confederate brigades usually combined regiments all from one state while Union brigades would mix regiments from different states.  Two or more brigades were combined into a division, usually commanded by a major general, with several divisions constituting a corps and multiple corps together making up an army.  In the beginning infantry divisions typically had cavalry and artillery units attached to them, although as the war progressed these were spun off into their own units under corps and army control.  Union divisions were numbered based on their position within their corps, as were brigades within divisions.  The same was true with Union corps at first, but they eventually came to be numbered irrespective of their army.  For the Confederates corps were numbered within their respective armies, but divisions and brigades were identified by their commanding officer.  Confederate corps and armies were commanded by a lieutenant general and full general respectively, while major generals commanded both in Union forces.