[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# October 1956

and is won by Petra Schürmann of Germany, after an administrative error results in US representative Betty Lane Cherry being given the winner's sash just before the ceremony; she was subsequently named first runner-up.

October 16, 1956 (Tuesday)
Died: Jules Rimet, 83, French football administrator

October 17, 1956 (Wednesday)
The world's first industrial-scale commercial nuclear power plant is opened by Queen Elizabeth II at Calder Hall in the UK.
In chess's so-called "Game of the Century", 13-year-old Bobby Fischer defeats grandmaster Donald Byrne at the Rosenwald Memorial Tournament in New York City.

October 18, 1956 (Thursday)
"Great Train Wreck of 1956": A head-on collision between two Atlantic Coast Line Railroad freight trains occurs near Pineola, Florida, United States, killing five crew members.
Born: Martina Navratilova, Czech-American tennis player, in Prague

October 19, 1956 (Friday)
The Soviet–Japanese Joint Declaration of 1956 is signed, ending the state of war between the two nations and making possible the restoration of diplomatic relations between the USSR and Japan.
Born: Carlo Urbani, Italian physician and microbiologist, discoverer of SARS, in Castelpiano (Ancona). (d. 2003)

October 20, 1956 (Saturday)
Born: Danny Boyle, English director, producer, screenwriter and theatre director, in Radcliffe, Greater Manchester

October 21, 1956 (Sunday)
"Polish October": After seven years in the political wilderness, Władysław Gomułka is returned to power as leader of Poland's Communist Party, marking the start of a "brief period of hope" in which the country distanced itself from the Soviet Union.
During Typhoon Harriet, the Philippines cargo ship Lepus founders off Legaspi, with the loss of 25 of her 36 crew. The survivors are rescued by the US Navy.
The 1956 Norwegian Football Cup Final is played in Oslo, and is won by Skeid, who defeat Larvik Turn 2-1.

October 22, 1956 (Monday)
Discussions open between the governments of the United Kingdom, France and Israel, leading to the Protocol of Sèvres, which sets out tactics for invading and occupying the Suez Canal.
The airplane transporting Ahmed Ben Bella and four FLN exponents from Rabat to Tunis is forced to land in Algers and the five men are arrested by the French Army. The action, performed without the knowledge of the Prime Minister Guy Mollet, causes the retire from Paris of the Moroccan and Tunisian ambassadors, many protest in the French public opinion and an hardening of the Algerian war; more, it makes Ben Bella the moral leader of the revolution.
A group of dissident Hungarian students draws up a list of sixteen demands for political reform, and declares their intent to hold a demonstration the next day in Budapest.
Born: Marco Lodoli, Italian writer, in Rome.

October 23, 1956 (Tuesday)
The Hungarian Revolution begins, as over 20,000 protesters convene at the statue of national hero József Bem in Budapest. ÁVH secret police forces open fire on the crowd, and the demonstration escalates into a full-scale armed revolution.

October 24, 1956 (Wednesday)
Hungarian Revolution of 1956: A massive Soviet force invades Budapest at the request of the Stalinist regime of Ernő Gerő, facing stiff resistance from armed civilians. The reformist Communist Imre Nagy is reinstalled as Prime Minister by popular demand, but fighting continues.
1956 Nicaragua earthquake: An earthquake with a magnitude of 7.3, accompanied by a tsunami, causes damage in Managua, the capital of Nicaragua.
The 1956 FA Charity Shield is won by Manchester United F.C., who defeat their local rivals Manchester City F.C. at Maine Road, Manchester, UK.

October 25, 1956 (Thursday)
Hungarian Revolution of 1956: ÁVH secret policemen open fire on a peaceful and unarmed crowd in front of the Hungarian Parliament Building in Budapest, provoking Soviet troops, who believe they are being fired on from the crowd, to also open fire. At least 100 civilians are killed. The massacre galvanizes support for the Revolution among the populace, and fighting continues to escalate between insurgents and Soviet forces. János Kádár replaces Ernő Gerő as Hungarian Party leader.
In Germany, the Berchetsgarden Tribunal declares Adolf Hitler “officially dead”, after a four year enquiry and the hearing as witnesses of the dictator's attendants.
Died: Risto Ryti, 67, Finnish politician, former Prime Minister (1939-1940) and President (1940-44)

October 26, 1956 (Friday)
Hungarian Revolution: In the towns of Mosonmagyaróvár and Esztergom, ÁVH secret police forces massacre unarmed civilians.  As rebel strongholds in Budapest hold, fighting spreads throughout Hungary.
Died: Walter Gieseking, 60, French-born German pianist and composer (pancreatitis)