[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Matot

place and drink such-and-such a drink at such-and-such a place. And they would go and fulfill their oaths and would be destroyed (for swearing to trifles). The Midrash concluded that if this was the fate of people who swore truthfully, how much more would swearing to a falsehood lead to destruction.

The Jerusalem Talmud reasoned that  notes that "Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes" to teach that a head of a tribe—that is an expert Sage—can dissolve a vow.

Reasoning from , "He shall not profane his word," the Tosefta concluded that one should not treat one’s words as profane and unconsecrated. Even though there were vows that the Rabbis had ruled were not binding, the Tosefta taught that one should not make even such a vow with the plan of annulling it, as  says, “He shall not profane his word.” The Tosefta also deduced from  that even a sage could not annul his own vow for himself.

The Mishnah taught that the law of the dissolution of vows hovers in the air and has nothing on which to rest in the Biblical text. Rav Judah said that Samuel found the Scriptural basis for the law of the dissolution of vows in the words of , "he shall not break his word," which teaches that "he"—the vower—may not break the vow, but others might dissolve it for him. The Rabbis taught in a Baraita that a Sage could annul a vow retroactively.

The Sifre asked why  set forth the effectiveness of nazirite vows, when the general rule of  would suffice to teach that all vows—including nazirite vows—are binding. The Sifre explained that  warned that a person making a nazirite vow would be bound to at least a 30-day nazirite period.

Rabbah bar bar Hana told of how an Arab merchant took him to see Mount Sinai, where he saw scorpions surround it, and they stood like white donkeys. Rabbah bar bar Hana heard a Heavenly Voice expressing regret about making an oath and asking who would annul the oath. When Rabbah bar bar Hana came before the Rabbis, they told him that he should have annulled the oath. But Rabbah bar bar Hana thought that perhaps it was the oath in connection with the Flood, where in , God promised never to destroy the world again with another flood. The Rabbis replied that if that had been the oath, the Heavenly Voice would not have expressed regret.

Rava employed  to interpret , which says: "And Moses besought (, va-yechal) the Lord his God" in connection with the incident of the Golden Calf. Rava noted that  uses the term "besought" (, va-yechal), while  uses the similar term "break" (, yacheil) in connection with vows. Transferring the use of  to , Rava reasoned that  meant that Moses stood in prayer before God until Moses annulled for God God's vow to destroy Israel, for a master had taught that while people cannot break their vows, others may annul their vows for them. Similarly, Rabbi Berekiah taught in the name of Rabbi Helbo in the name of Rabbi Isaac that Moses absolved God of God's vow. When the Israelites made the Golden Calf, Moses began to persuade God to forgive them, but God explained to Moses that God had already taken an oath in  that "he who sacrifices to the gods ... shall be utterly destroyed," and God could not retract an oath. Moses responded by asking whether God had not granted Moses the power to annul oaths in  by saying, "When a man vows a vow to the Lord, or swears an oath to bind his soul with a bond, he shall not break his word," implying that while he himself could not break his word, a scholar could absolve his vow. So Moses wrapped himself in his cloak and adopted the posture of a sage, and God stood before Moses as one asking for the annulment of a vow.

Rabbi Simeon ben Yohai taught that just as the texts "He shall not break his word" in  and "Defer not to pay it" in Ecclesiastes  apply to vows, so they also apply to valuations, and thus Moses exhorts the Israelites in : "When a man shall clearly utter a vow of persons to the Lord, according to your valuation . . . ."