[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Wade Keyes

Wade Keyes (1821 – 1879) was a lawyer, scholar, judge and professor from Alabama who served as the first and only Assistant Attorney General of the Confederacy, 1861–1865. After the Civil War he practiced law in Florence, Alabama.

Early life
Keyes was born 1821 on his father's plantation at Mooresville, Limestone County, near Athens, Alabama. He was first being educated by private tutors at home, followed by studies at LaGrange College, Alabama and the University of Virginia. Keyes had to leave the University of Virginia due to illness and death in the family. He later read law under Judge William Richardsson and Judge Daniel Coleman in Athens, before attending Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky, where he graduated from the law department.

Lawyer, scholar, judge and professor
Following his graduation Keyes spent a year in Europe. After returning to the States, he moved to Marianna, Florida, where he began to practice law in 1844. His specialty was property cases. In 1851 Keyes moved to Montgomery, Alabama, where he established a law practice. He wrote three legal treaties on property law: An Essay on the Learning of Remainders (1852), An Essay on the Learning of Future Interests in Real Property (1853) and An Essay on the Learning of Partial and of Future Interests in Chattels Personal (1853).

In 1853, the Legislature elected Keyes Chancellor of the Southern Division of the Court of Chancery, over Francis Bugbee and Sterling G. Cato of Barbour County. He served for a six-year period until 1859. As a judge of equity Keyes would successfully apply his considerable learning to adjudications of complicated real and personal property cases.

While serving as chancellor, Keyes began to teach classes of property law at Montgomery. After the end of his tenure, he founded the Montgomery Law School as a permanent continuation of his teaching project. It was incorporated in 1860 as an independent institution, but attached to the University of Alabama as its law department. As the founder Keyes role as the sole teacher was guaranteed by the incorporation act. At the initiative of Justice Samuel F. Rice, the Legislature granted the school the right to confer academic degrees and to license its students to practice law. The turmoil of the Secession Crisis led to the closing of the school in February 1861, as the students left and volunteered for different military organizations.

Assistant Attorney General

The crisis that led the students to leave his school also caused Keyes to join the military. He enlisted as lieutenant in the Montgomery Rifles, and served at Pensacola, Florida. This was a unit in the Army of Alabama before the state became part of the Confederacy. When Judah P. Benjamin became attorney general of the Confederacy he made Keyes his assistant. Benjamin had met Keyes when he was chancellor and valued him as an administrator, legal scholar and proficient writer.  As assistant attorney general, Keyes did more of the routine work of an attorney general than Benjamin did and was the man who actually ran the day-to-day work of the department. When Benjamin on September 17, 1861, was appointed secretary of war Keyes took over as acting attorney general until Thomas Bragg officially took office November 21, 1861. Bragg held the office until March 18, 1862, when succeeded by Thomas H. Watts. When Watts was elected governor of Alabama, he resigned, and Keyes served as acting attorney general from October 1, 1863, until January 2, 1864, when George Davis became the fourth and last ordinary attorney general of the Confederacy. Keyes also served as Attorney General ad interim during the Christmas Holidays of 1861, in October and November 1862, in August 1863 and in September and October 1864.