[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of retronyms

udio CD, such as Super Audio CD, MP3 CDs, and DVD-Audio, and the original is now referred to as Red Book audio to differentiate between different standards.
 Red panda or lesser panda Were known as pandas in the English language, prior to the discovery and naming of the Giant Panda on the year 1869.

 Reel-to-reel or open reel : Tape recorders were originally simply tape recorders, as they all used a pair of open reels to hold the magnetic recording medium. The term reel-to-reel was introduced when various forms of cassette tape formats became popular.
 Reflective liquid crystal display : before LCDs had backlighting, all LCDs required the reflection of room light or sunlight in order to see the screen.
 Regular Nintendo : a colloquial nickname for the original Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) coined when Super Nintendo Entertainment System (Super NES) was introduced to the market.
 Roller skates : The term applied to all types of skates, though with the popularization of "rollerblades" during the 1990s, the term roller skates started to refer to older two axle template.
 Rotary telephone or dial telephone : The kind of telephone in common use before touch-tone telephones.
 Rugby union : To differentiate it from its descendant, rugby league. Like hockey, the original term of rugby is still widespread.
 Scalar processors : As opposed to Vector processors.
 Scripted series : Created in the wake of the success of reality television, the term applies to both fiction and non-fiction television with an identified writer or writers. The term can be misleading since reality television is almost never wholly improvised and often includes writing of some kind.
 Seventy-eight (78) rpm records : Before the advent of  rpm and 45 rpm vinyl records, these were known simply as records, phonograph records or gramophone records.
 short file name : (officially referred to as 8.3 filename) before the advent of long filenames.  FAT file systems only had 11 characters, three of which form the extension.  The ISO 9660 filesystem for CD-ROMs has similar specifications to conform to the FAT specs.
 Shovel Knight: Shovel of Hope : Refers to the 2014 video game originally known as Shovel Knight. For the game's 2017 Nintendo Switch release, the game was given the subtitle to make it more consistent with its included DLC campaigns. The overall package was renamed to Shovel Knight: Treasure Trove.
 Silent film : In the earliest days of the film industry, all films were without recorded sound. Once "talkies" became the norm, it became necessary to specify that a particular film was "silent".  The term "silent film" is also a misnomer, because silent films were typically presented in theatres with live musical accompaniment.
 Sit-down restaurant : With the rise of fast-food and take-out restaurants, the "standard" restaurant received a new name in the United States. (In the United Kingdom, fast food and takeaway (takeout) outlets are not normally referred to as "restaurants", so the "sit-down" qualifier is not necessary.)
 Smart Fortwo : Originally sold as the Smart City-Coupé, the car was renamed the Fortwo upon the release of the Smart Forfour.
 Snail mail (also known as land mail, paper mail, p-mail, and postal mail) : Non-electronic mail delivered to physical locations, such as one's home or business. Before email and voice mail, all mail was physical, and much slower by comparison – thus, the dysphemistic "snail" appellation. Compare surface mail, below.Sneakernet: Before the Internet became popular, the so-called "sneakernet" was simply just a regular transfer of computer data on physical, interchangeable media.  For instance, punched tape was used for this purpose at first, then floppy disks, then sneakernet was coined when the Internet became popular, now modern sneakernets involve transfer of Secure digital cards, USB flash drives, external hard drives, optical disks (CDs, DVDs, Blu-rays), etc.Snow skiing: Water skiing now necessitates this differentiation. This, however, only applies to an area where both "snow" as well as "water" skiing are likely. "Snow skiing" would not be mentioned in the Alpine regions, unless large lakes offered the availability of water skiing.
 Solid-propellant rocket: Refers to rockets that use a solid propellant such as gunpowder or RDX; liquid-propellant rockets were invented in the mid-20th century. 
 Solo motorcycle : So called instead of motorcycle when some were being built with a sidecar. (see disputed retronyms below for more info).
 Sourdough: Before other approaches to leavening bread were used, all bread dough was at least partially "sour".
 Special relativity : Term introduced after Einstein developed general relativity.
 standard AUX input (standard auxiliary input) : The common name for AUX audio inputs that doesn't employ an iPod dock connector, USB, optical/coaxial S/PDIF digital audio or proprietary mechanical standards that employ multiple standards alongside proprietary audio signa