[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Watkins (diplomat)

John Benjamin Clark Watkins (3 December 1902 – 12 October 1964) was a Canadian diplomat and scholar who served as Canadian ambassador to the Soviet Union from 1954 to 1956. Describing Watkins as "sophisticated, erudite and fluent in Russian", Michael Dobbs of The Washington Post wrote that he was the "perfect ambassador" to Moscow. He is credited with organizing a historic meeting between Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev and Canadian External Affairs Minister Lester B. Pearson.

Early life
Born in Norval, Ontario, Watkins was the first child of John Watkins and Jane Clark. He had two sisters, Elizabeth and Isabel.

Watkins studied French, German, and Latin at the University of Toronto, and earned a master's degree by 1927. In a trip to Europe in the late 1920s, he was a guide and companion to Heywood Hale Broun in France, Holland, and Denmark. He left Europe for the United States in 1930, where he attended Columbia University and joined the staff of the American-Scandinavian Foundation in New York City. After Columbia, Watkins attended Cornell University in 1942 and earned a PhD there in 1944; his thesis was about the Danish writer Gustav Wied. During World War II, he returned to Canada to teach at Queen's University at Kingston, then Guelph Agricultural College. Watkins became an associate professor of English at the University of Manitoba in 1944. In 1946, Watkins translated the complete works of Honore de Balzac into English.

Upon an invitation by Humphrey Hume Wrong, Watkins reluctantly agreed to take the Canadian Foreign Service Examination. He was offered a position as a foreign service officer and left the University of Manitoba to join the Department of External Affairs (DEA). Watkins rapidly advanced from first secretary of the European Division to head of section to chargé d'affaires in Moscow.

Diplomatic career

First post in the Soviet Union: chargé d'affaires

On 1 September 1948, Watkins officially replaced John Wendell Holmes as the chargé d'affaires ad interim. He knew some Russian prior to arriving in Moscow, and set himself apart from other Western diplomats in the city by becoming fluent in the language. There, Watkins befriended George Costakis, the long-time head of personnel at the Canadian embassy and collector of Soviet art. While Stalin led the Soviet Union, there was limited opportunity for foreign diplomats like Watkins to travel and interact with Soviet society. Near the end of his post in Moscow, Watkins began to develop health issuesheart and circulatory weaknesses that were not diagnosed at his medical examination upon entering the DEAthat would affect him for the remainder of his life. The DEA announced in January 1951 that he was to return to Ottawa on sick leave, and he was replaced by Robert Ford.

Norway
By the end of 1951, Watkins was appointed to serve a diplomatic post in Oslo, Norway. Canadian government records list him as envoy to Iceland and Norway from the summer of 1952 to 1954. In February 1954, it was reported that Chester Ronning would replace Watkins as the minister to Norway.

Second post in the Soviet Union: ambassador
After the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953, Georgy Malenkov expressed a willingness to resolve issues of conflict between the East and the West, and there was an apparent easing of tensions within Canada–Soviet Union relations when Dmitri Chuvakhin was appointed Soviet ambassador to Canada. In response, Watkins was officially made Canada's first peacetime ambassador to the Soviet Union on 1 January 1954. Watkins found that the Soviet Union was more open under the leadership of First Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union Nikita Khrushchev, and he had a fondness for befriending Soviet officials and was able to develop a large number of contacts. To his detriment, this would prove costly and allow him to become a target of Soviet espionage.