[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Menachem Mendel of Rimanov

Menachem Mendel Torem of Rimanov also known as Mendele Rimanover (Alt. spellings: Riminov, Rimanev) (1745–May 29, 1815) was a famous Hasidic Rebbe and one of the first five distributors of the Hasidic movement in Poland and Galicia together with Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchak of Lublin, Rabbi Yisrael Hopstein, Rabbi Avraham Yehoshua Heshel of Apta, and Rabbi Kalonymus Kalman Epstein.

Early life
Menachem Mendel was born in 1745 in Nowe Miasto to an old rabbinical Polish family reportedly descended from the Baal HaTurim. According to one account, he was introduced to Hasidut at the age of 11 when he met Dov Ber of Mezeritch. As a youth, he studied under Shmelke of Nikolsburg at Ryczywol and Joseph ben Meir Teomim in Berlin. His primary mentor was Elimelech of Lizhensk and he was among his most celebrated students. After Rav Elimelech's death in 1786, Rebbe Menachem Mendel assumed his position as the principal Chassidic Master in Galicia.

Chassidic Court
As one of the five main disciples of Rav Elimelech of Lizhensk, Rebbe Menachem Mendel was a key figure in the development of the Chassidic movement in Galicia. The Rebbe originally established his court in Fristik where he was the Av Beit Din. His circle attracted a number prestigious scholars. He enjoyed the confidence and esteem of Zusha of Hanipol, Menachem Mendel Rubin of Liska, the Chozeh of Lublin, the Maggid of Kozhnitz, Avraham Yehoshua Heshel of Opatow, Klonimus Kalman Epstein ("Maor Vashemesh") of Cracow, Moshe of Przeworsk, Meshullam Feivush Heller, Yitzchak Isaac Taub, Uri of Strelisk, Aharon Leib of Peremyshlyan, Yaakov Yitzchak of Peshischa, Moshe Chaim Ephraim of Sudilkov and Boruch of Medzhybizh.

Rebbe Menachem Mendel taught many future luminaries of the Chassidic movement, including Naftali of Ropshitz, Tzvi Elimelech Spira of Dinov, Tzvi Hirsh of Zidichov, Moshe of Sambor ("Tefilas LeMoshe"), Yechezkel Paneth ("Mareh Yechezkel"), Meir of Apta ("Or LaShamayim"), Shimon of Yaroslav, Shlomo Leib of Letchna, Asher Yeshayahu of Ropschitz, Yehoshua of Dinov, Avraham Mordechai of Dobromil, Yehuda Zvi of Rozdol, Zalke of Sanz, Mendel of Stryszów, and Yaakov Tzvi Yolles ("Meloh HaRo'im"). He encouraged Moshe Teitelbaum (Ujhel) to become Rebbe. Thus, many Chassidic dynasties have their roots in Rebbe Menachem Mendel's court.

In 1807, Rebbe Menachem Mendel moved his court to Rimanov and resided there until his death. His arrival significantly accelerated the town's socio-economic development. Many Chassidim now journeyed to the rabbi and, requiring food and lodging, provided the local Jewish community with income. The Rebbe's court also offered employment for many waiters, servants, guides, messenger bearers, maintenance people and sextons.

Activity 
A learned Talmudist and Kabbalist, Rebbe Menachem Mendel was known to be an exemplary pious and holy man who lived his life dedicated to the service of God, and many were saved by his prayers. Numerous legends tell of his miraculous cure of the sick, which won him fame among non-Jews as well as Jews, his powers of clairvoyance, his incessant Talmudic studies which were seldom interrupted by sleep, his extraordinary acts of ascetism and self-flagellation, and his strict religious guidance of his community.

The Rimanover Rebbe was heavily involved in Jewish welfare and provided generously for orphans and strangers. Concerned with arbitrating proper justice, he urged the community to support a school for poor children, while forbidding burial societies from overcharging wealthy families. On the last day of every month the Rebbe would check the scales in every shop. But the Rebbe's social concerns ranged beyond Rimanov. He presided over the Kollel Meir Baal HaNes organization in Galicia, which provided funds for struggling Jewish communities in the Land of Israel. He is best known for having delivered Shabbos sermons on Parshath HaMan for 22 years, during which period his students testified he brought down blessings from Heaven. The Rebbe is popularly believed to have introduced the segulah for parnassah (sustenance) of reciting Parashas Hamonn in form of Shnayim Mikrah v'Echod Targum annually on the Tuesday of Parashas Beshalach.

Rebbe Menachem Mendel was an ardent opponent of modernity and the Jewish emancipation, fearing it would lead to assimilation and the breakdown of the Jewish way of life. He is regarded as one of the founders of Ultra-Orthodox Judaism in Poland and Hungary. He opposed the domicilization of Jews in small villages outside the organized Jewish community. Additionally, the Rimanover was zealous in demanding adherence to the laws of Jewish modesty. He insisted on men and women retaining traditional Jewish garb and not emulating any modern styles, especially with regard to ostentatious clothing. The Rebbe's strict guidelines ultimately became the set standard of Chassidic dress.