[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mahmoud Taleghani

argued that colonization was a primary reason of totalitarianism and dictatorship in different countries. While not an ultimate aim per se, nationalism was seen as an instrument of anti-colonialist practices. Taleghani emphasized the resistance against Israel, and travelled many times to Palestine. 

On 20 April 1979, it was broadcast on television interview by Taleghani that “The leadership of Ayatollah Khomeini is not only accepted by me but the world has accepted it. He is the source of belief, sincerity, determination and honesty. I have always approved of his struggles, his words and his projects.”

There is an important place for rationality in Taleghani's thought. According to him, every judgment in Islam has a reason. Also, Islam is seen in his sermons and writings as a religion that set up progressive rules in societal and individual life. 

According to Taleghani, the redaction of Quran occurred under the caliphate of the first Caliph Ali. Taleghani also emphasized the continuous form of the Quran, and the strict relation between the verses of the Quran. 

His tafsir, or Quranic commentary, was innovative in language and clearly designed to appeal to a wide audience, with the use of narrations and juridical reports. Taleghani insisted that believers have to contemplate the meaning of the verses of the Quran. He also sought to translate and explain the Nahj al-Balagha against the grain of contemporary social analyses and phenomena.

Death

Taleghani died on 9 September 1979. Two sons of Taleghani claimed that he was murdered but this claim was not proven. His mysterious death and lifetime achievements were the occasion of huge crowds and much emotion before and during his funeral, and was said to be "a blow to moderation and progressive thought" in the revolution.

He has been described as a "chain smoker" and having a "gaunt face with a serious demeanor."

Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini described him  "Abu Dhar al-Ghifari in the time" in the message on the occasion of his death: "He was for Islam, Abuzar of the time. His expressive tongue was as trenchant and pounding as the sword of Malik al-Ashtar."

Works
 A shining ray from Quran,  It was written while he was imprisoned by the Muhammad Reza Pahlavi.
 Introduction- explanation on Tanbih Al-Omah va Tanzih Al-Mellah, Islam and Ownership, Translation of the first volume of Imam Ali Ibn Abi Talib’s Book, A light of Nahj-ul-Balaq, Authority and Judicial Decree, Freedom and Despotism, Unity Lesson, A Lesson from Quran, Days and Lectures, Sermons of Friday'' Prayers

References

External links
 

1911 births
1979 deaths
Iranian ayatollahs
Muslim reformers
Iranian reformists
Iranian democracy activists
20th-century Muslim theologians
Freedom Movement of Iran politicians
People of the Iranian Revolution
Iranian revolutionaries
National Front (Iran) politicians
Council of the Islamic Revolution members
Members of the Assembly of Experts for Constitution