[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Shaman King characters

t-temper and impatience are often limit his abilities. After meeting Yoh, Ren's strong sense of pride moves towards his ability to protect his friends, whom he cares for deeply despite frequently arguing and fighting with them. His most notable trait is the distinctive single spike in his hairstyle.

Ren is one of the most skilled and physically powerful shamans in the series as a result of dedicated training since childhood. His acuity in battle has allowed him to master techniques, such as those utilized by Mikihisa Asakura, by watching and experiencing them. In combat, Ren wields a guan dao and the  sword, a family heirloom given to Ren when he proves to his father that he is strong enough to choose his own path, and he is capable of fighting on horseback. According to Pascal Avaf, Ren's affinity to the Spirit of Thunder is well-suited as it follows the way of Taoism. Additionally, because Ren has died more than once, his furyoku levels are notably very high and he is strong enough to be one of the few shamans who can actually stare straight into the heart of the Great Spirit without fainting.

Serious and emotionally aloof, Ren has been groomed since childhood by his father, Tao Yúan, to become the next Shaman King and developed a deep hatred for humanity, desiring to eliminate them all. As a result of his upbringing, he believes his spirit Bason is merely a tool and that befriending him would allow the spirit to take advantage of him. However, his encounters with Yoh and his friends gradually allow him to trust others and find true friends who are willing to risk their lives for him, such that Ren chooses to defy the destiny his family has outlined for him and decide how to live his own life.

However, the consequences of his actions in the past affect him throughout the Shaman Fight. Because the Patch officiant Nichrom holds a personal grudge against him for killing his brother, Chrom, Ren is fatally stabbed by Peyote Diaz, forcing Yoh to agree to Iron Maiden Jeanne's condition that she will only resurrect Ren if Yoh withdraws from the Shaman Fight. Ren also comes to fear that the hatred he has held makes him not different to Hao. Later in the manga, he is recognized by Lady Sati as one of the Five Grand Elemental Spirits and gains the Spirit of Thunder. 

Several years after the Shaman Fight, Ren is a successful businessman after studying at Tsinghua University and forming an electronics manufacturing company, the , with Hang Zang-Ching and Bill Burton. He eventually has a son, , who strongly resembles his father. The child's name and his blood-red eyes and silver hair indicate that Ren married Iron Maiden Jeanne, and Men later inherits both Bason and Shamash as his guardian spirits.

Horohoro

, known by the nickname "Trey Racer" in the 4Kids English dub of the 2001 anime, is an Ainu shaman from Hokkaidō, the northernmost of Japan's major islands. He is Yoh's first opponent in the preliminary round of the Shaman Fight and despite losing to Yoh, he quickly becomes one of Yoh's closest friends. His goal in the Shaman Fight is to save Koropokuru, a tiny spirit people, by creating a vast field of butterbur. Horohoro's name sounds and is spelled (in Katakana) like "boroboro," which means "raggedy" and characters mispronouncing/misspelling his name is a running gag in the series, while his name Horokeu comes from horkew, Ainu word meaning wolf. It is later revealed that Horohoro's real name is , a name he refuses to call himself out of the guilt he feels for indirectly causing the death of Tamiko Kurobe, a girl nicknamed Damuko who became his close friend.

Good-natured and cheerful, Horohoro forces himself to appear as a hot-headed and loudmouthed. He is highly secretive of his past, not even willing to tell his friends about it because of his feelings toward Tamiko Kurobe and her death. He is heavily burdened with the creed that his father taught him – that "the strong feed on the weak" – but finds resolve in his own tenacity and understanding that that same creed does not mean he should give up. In battle, Horohoro is very competitive, even going so far as to turn Ryu's arms to ice and shatter them during the match between Team The Ren and Team Funbari Onsen and worrying about his position on Ren's position. Though he argues frequently with Ren, he is nevertheless dedicated to his friends and expresses his serious side only in the most dangerous situations when he can no longer afford to restrain himself with his hotheadedness.