[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

the Judiciary
 Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration
 Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism
 Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law
 Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
 Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship

 Caucuses 
Senate Republican Conference

Political positions

Kennedy holds a score of 89% for the 116th Congress and a lifetime score of 83% from Heritage Action for America. The American Conservative Union's Center of Legislative Accountability gives Kennedy a lifetime rating of 83.74. His Humane Society Legislative Fund rating has ranged between 67% (2019) and 28% (2017), with his last (2020) at 57%. On infrastructure, the National Association of Police Organizations rates Kennedy at 60% and the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) has assigned him a rating of 8% on matters concerning labor unions.

Judiciary 
Kennedy is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. As a member, he voted to confirm Justices Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh, and Amy Coney Barrett. He voted against the nomination of Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson. 

Kennedy has defended the blue slip process for district court judges, saying that it "encourages bipartisan cooperation … The blue slip process makes our court system fairer and stronger. And that’s good for our democracy." He often asks judicial nominees basic questions about the Constitution during their confirmation process, occasionally stumping them. 

Kennedy has opposed the effort to add more justices to the Supreme Court, claiming it would "delegitimize" the Court. He has said he supports judges and justices who believe in "judicial restraint", adding, "Federal judges don't make law. They don't tell us what the law ought to be. They tell us what the law is." Kennedy opposed Congress establishing ethics standards for justices. He claimed such a move would violate the Constitution and called it a "a crusade to undermine the United States' Supreme Court's legitimacy and the credibility of the federal judiciary."

Natural disasters and conservation 
Kennedy has advocated for natural disaster aid for Louisiana to address hurricane damage as a member of the Appropriations Committee. He worked to reform the National Flood Insurance Program because he believes flood insurance is too expensive for coastal communities, including those in Louisiana. In 2023, Kennedy called on FEMA to disclose the algorithm it uses to determine flood insurance prices after premiums increased rapidly under FEMA's Risk Rating 2.0, saying, "Since millions of Louisianians depend on the NFIP to protect their homes from natural disasters, FEMA must come clean about why premiums are skyrocketing under Risk Rating 2.0. In the meantime, my bills would ensure fairer rates for the people of Louisiana."

As treasurer, Kennedy believed in investing in coastal restoration and conservation. He worked to ensure that settlement money from the BP oil spill was used for coastal protection and restoration. Kennedy also fought to protect tobacco settlement money that had been allocated toward coastal restoration after the governor proposed using the money to cover other state debts.

Health care 
Kennedy supported the "skinny repeal" of the Affordable Care Act in 2017, a vote that failed. He said, "It's not a loss for the Republican Party—it's a loss for the American people. But I intend to keep my promise to the people of Louisiana, to get rid of Obamacare." Kennedy has supported capping the price of insulin. He and Senator Raphael Warnock introduced a bill to cap the price at $35.

As treasurer, Kennedy fought to keep investing tobacco settlement money in health care rather than reallocating it toward other budget shortfalls.

Education 
Kennedy opposed President Biden’s student loan forgiveness plan, saying, "Americans who already paid off their debt, worked through college, went to a trade school, or chose to not go to school will pay off the loans that other people incurred. On what planet is that fair?" He celebrated the Supreme Court’s ruling against loan forgiveness, writing, "Biden's attempt to cancel student debt was a woke injustice: Forcing Americans who paid their debt or chose not to go to school to foot bills for [people] who haven’t paid back their personal loans. SCOTUS made the right call. Hardworking Americans will be better off for it."

Kennedy supports school choice and has argued that parents should get to pick the school their child attends, especially if their district is providing a poor education. He said, "We can't seem to teach our kids how to read and write and do basic math when we've got 18 years to do it. I don't understand that…I don't care what the political cost is. I'm willing to try just about anything to improve public elementary and secondary education, including vouchers, including school choice, including charter schools."