[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bombing of Würzburg in World War II

The Bombing of Würzburg in World War II was a large-scale air attack on the city of Würzburg (in Franconia, in the north of Bavaria), and was part of the strategic bombing campaign by the Allies against Nazi Germany. Although lacking major armaments industries (the Würzburg radar was named after the city, but not produced there) and hosting around 40 hospitals at the time, Würzburg was targeted as a traffic hub and as part of the attempt by Bomber Command to break the spirit of the German people. The major raid occurred on March 16, 1945, when Royal Air Force bombers dropped incendiary bombs that set fire to much of the city, killing an estimated 5,000 people and almost completely obliterating the historic town. Almost 90% of the buildings were destroyed by a raid that lasted less than 20 minutes.

All the city's churches, the cathedral, and other monuments were heavily damaged or destroyed. The city center, most of which dated from medieval times, was destroyed in a firestorm.

Over the next 20 years, the buildings of historical importance were painstakingly and accurately reconstructed. The citizens who rebuilt the city immediately after the end of the war were mostly women – Trümmerfrauen ("rubble women") – because the men were either dead or still prisoners of war. On a relative scale, Würzburg was destroyed to a larger extent than was Dresden in a firebombing the previous month.

Operation on March 16, 1945
The decision to bomb the town was made by RAF Bomber Command in High Wycombe, due to favorable weather conditions predicted for the sixteenth of March. The target had been relatively undamaged and was on the way to other targets including Nuremberg. The half-timber buildings and cramped old city promised the release of a firestorm. The author Detlef Siebert wrote that "Some ... like Würzburg or Pforzheim were primarily selected because they were easy for the bombers to find and destroy. Because they had a medieval centre, they were expected to be particularly vulnerable to fire attack".

Commencing the attack would be the No. 5 group, which had also carried out the heaviest raid on Dresden on February 13–14. Proportional to its size, the small town of Würzburg experienced an even higher proportion of death and destruction than Dresden.

Avro Lancaster bombers of No 5 bomber group took off at 17:00 hours and met at a collection point west of London. The formation took a winding route in order to deceive German air defences, passing over the mouth of the Somme, Reims, and the Vosges mountains in order to reach their target. They crossed the Rhine at south of Rastatt. At around 21:00 225 Lancasters and 11 Mosquitos of the No. 5 group crossed their target from the south.

On the ground, a low-grade air raid alarm sounded at 19:00 hours, and was raised to a high alarm at 20:00. Because of a message from the command centre of the Franconian command in Limburg an der Lahn, the full alarm was given to the Würzburg population at 21:07.

The first bombs dropped at 21:25, with an attack hour over Würzburg set for 21:35 (H). The formation passed over the entire city for the target marker H + 7 minutes (21:42). For this the attack had been preceded at H-9 min. (21:26) with the 627th squadron of Mosquito twin-engined bombers marked with green flares. These illuminated the target area, marking them out by flares on Green parachutes, which the German population called "Christmas Trees." As a marker for the bombers, the sports field on Mergentheimer Strasse was used as a measuring guide. This point was identified at 21:28 with red target marker flares. The bombing was then accomplished with a time lag in sectors ("sector bombing"). The bombers had to fly over the red marker, take a specially assigned altitude and flight path, and trigger their bombs and different times. the target area was marked out like a fan, and the bombers flew in with different release times to ensure a carpet-like coverage. Monitoring the situation was a "master bomber" (at a cruising speed of 350 km/h, each bomber would fly over the entire target area in less than a minute).