[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Financial Reporting Council

The Financial Reporting Council (FRC) is an independent regulator in the UK and Ireland based in London Wall in the City of London, responsible for regulating auditors, accountants and actuaries, and setting the UK's Corporate Governance and Stewardship Codes. The FRC seeks to promote transparency and integrity in business by aiming its work at investors and others who rely on company reports, audits and high-quality risk management.

In December 2018, an independent review of the FRC, led by Sir John Kingman, recommended its replacement by a new Audit, Reporting and Governance Authority, a recommendation followed by the government in March 2019.

Ireland adopted the FRC's auditing framework in 2017.

Structure
The FRC is a company limited by guarantee, and is funded by the audit profession, who are required to contribute under the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and by other groups subject to, or benefitting from FRC regulation. Its board of directors is appointed by the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. It and its subsidiaries play crucial roles in the oversight and development of corporate governance standards in the UK and the Republic of Ireland, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code and standards for the accounting industry.

The FRC board is supported by three governance committees, two business committees, and three advisory councils.

Governance committees
 Audit Committee
 Nominations Committee
 Remuneration Committee

Business committees
 Codes & Standards Committee - advises the FRC board on corporate governance matters, including changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Stewardship Code. It also advises the FRC Board on the Annual Plan and Budget and FRC strategy. 
 Conduct Committee - responsible for overseeing the FRC's work in promoting high quality corporate reporting. Its responsibilities include overseeing: the monitoring of recognised Supervisory and Recognised Qualifying Bodies; audit quality reviews; Corporate reporting reviews; Professional discipline; and the regulation of accountants and actuaries. The Conduct Committee is supported by three further Committees, members of whom, including the Chairs, sit on the Conduct Committee: 
 the Case Management Committee, whose functions include monitoring and providing oversight in respect of enforcement investigations and tribunal proceedings; 
 the Audit Quality Review Committee; and 
 the Corporate Reporting Review Committee, which ensures the consistency and quality of the FRC's monitoring work.

Advisory councils
 Corporate Reporting - advises the FRC Executive on the development and maintenance of high quality, effective and proportionate Standards, Guidance, SORPS and Practice Notes for accounting and narrative reporting work. Accounting standards apply to all companies, and other entities that prepare accounts that are intended to provide a true and fair view.
 Audit & Assurance - as above, but for audit and assurance work.
 Actuarial - as above, but for technical actuarial work.

Former structure

The FRC used to incorporate six operating bodies:

Accounting Standards Board
The role of the Accounting Standards Board (ASB) was to issue accounting standards in the United Kingdom and was recognised for that purpose under the Companies Act 1985. It took over the task of setting accounting standards from the Accounting Standards Committee (ASC) in 1990. However, ASB was overtaken by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) on 2 July 2012. Thus, FRC is now the authority that may issue accounting standards in the UK.

Financial Reporting Review Panel
The Financial Reporting Review Panel (FRRP) was established in 1990 as a subsidiary of the United Kingdom's Financial Reporting Council. The FRRP sought to ensure that the provision of financial information by public and large private companies complied with relevant accounting requirements such as the Companies Act 1985.

Accountancy & Actuarial Discipline Board
The Accountancy & Actuarial Discipline Board (AADB) was the independent, investigative and disciplinary body for accountants and actuaries in the United Kingdom. The AADB was formerly known as the Accountancy Investigation & Discipline Board (AIDB) and changed its name to the AADB on 16 August 2007. The AADB Scheme established the framework and set in place the legal formalities of participation between the AADB and the Participating Accountancy Bodies i.e. the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW), the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA), and the Chartered Institute of Public Finance and Accountancy (CIPFA), The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland, and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.