[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

. Captured were twenty-four prisoners, seven negroes, two transport wagons, thirty-four horses, and a flatboat upon which the prisoners were transported. An assortment of other supplies were also seized. Phelps closed his report to Foote with praise and respect for Major Phillips and his volunteers.

Foote was enthusiastic about the prospect of using gunboats for reconnaissance, and promptly made preparations in January 1863 to further navigate the Tennessee and Cumberland Rivers. The idea of using gunboats for river reconnaissance was before this time a novel idea whose tactics were not thoroughly tested, and it was important to make careful reconnaissance trips, without arousing any suspicion of what was being planned. It was also uncertain how ironclads would fare against land-batteries at close range. Another of these expeditions was conducted on January 7, which was logged and reported by Lieutenant Phelps of the Conestoga.

Fort Henry

By the end of January, Foote and Phelps, through their persistent reconnaissance efforts, had determined that Fort Henry mounted a small number of heavy guns and had a garrison of 1700–1800 men. Having heard that the Confederates were building ironclads up river, he had hoped to proceed further, but the presence of the fort's heavy guns prevented the move.

General Grant with two divisions took up positions about the fort on February 4–5. Foote and Phelps arrived with their gunboats on February 6. Phelps' three timberclad gunboats were vulnerable to cannon fire and took up positions some distance behind Foote's ironclads for protection and began their bombardment of Fort Henry from long range. One of Foote's ships, the Essex took a direct hit to the boiler, which exploded, killing and wounding thirty-two crewmen. After about 75 minutes of bombardment, Tilghman finally struck the fort's flag and surrendered. Soon a gunboat with the adjutant-general and a captain came alongside reporting that General Tilghman wished to communicate with the flag-officer. Foote dispatched Commanders Phelps and Roger N. Stembel with orders to hoist the American flag over the fort where the Confederate flag had previously been flying, and to inform General Tilghman that Foote would see him on board his flag-ship.

For his daring role in the capture of Fort Henry, Phelps subsequently received much praise in the northern press. The New York Times exclaimed, "Never has a more gallant officer trod a plank". Praise from The Cincinnati Gazette  went even further: "The selection of Captain Phelps for this important expedition has proven one of the best that could have been made. …" After the fall of Fort Henry, Foote, by order of General Grant, in turn ordered Phelps to proceed upriver with his fleet of timberclads and capture the strategically important Memphis & Charleston Railroad bridge. Here Phelps discovered the fleeing Confederates had obstructed the 1,200-foot-long trestle. The bridge connected General Polk's army in Columbus and General Johnston's army in Bowling Green. However, the Union needed this bridge intact, so Phelps landed a party and began making repairs, which took no more than an hour. After receiving follow-up orders, however, Phelps had a small section of the bridge burned and destroyed some of the rails to prevent the Confederates from using it after they departed. Before leaving Phelps' crews had captured supplies that were headed for Fort Henry.