[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# USS Erie (PG-50)

USS Erie (PG-50) was the lead ship of the s of the United States Navy. Erie was the second US Navy ship to bear the name. The first, , was named after Lake Erie, while this Erie followed the US Navy naming practices of gunboats, like cruisers, being named after US cities.

Erie protected US interests during the Spanish Civil War, operated as a training ship for the United States Naval Academy, and was a convoy escort ship during World War II. She operated in the Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, and Caribbean Sea until torpedoed and fatally damaged by , off Curaçao, in 1942.

Construction and commissioning
Erie was ordered in June 1933, and laid down at the New York Naval Shipyard on 17 December 1934. Erie was the first ship to be built in the Yard's No. 1 dry dock, instead of on a slip. For the first time at a New York Navy Yard keel-laying ceremony, the first rivets for Eries keel were driven in by civilian employees rather than ranking Navy officers.

Within six months, by June 1935, most of the work for the hull, main deck, second deck, and platform structure had been completed. After Commander (later Vice Admiral) Edward Hanson graduated, in May 1935, from the Naval War College, he was ordered to see the fitting-out of Erie and to captain her upon  commissioning. The next seven months, June 1935 to mid-January 1936, saw significant progress in the assembly of the main deck components, the navigational bridge, the pilothouse, and the chart house. By January 1936, 80% of the hull work was complete with about 50% of the equipment and machinery installed.

Erie was launched on 29 February 1936. The Erie Club of New York planned and conducted the launching ceremony with a delegation of notables from Erie, attending, along with Eries  sponsor, Mrs. Edmund (Ida) Knoll.

With Erie only 98% complete, and her six-inch guns not yet installed, the commissioning ceremony was on 1 July 1936. Commander Hanson signed the formal receipt for the gunboat and read the orders that assigned him command of the ship.

The Yard managers reported on 1 August 1936, that the hull was 98.8% complete and the machinery spaces were 95.1% complete with an expected end of construction date set for 15 August. Erie left on 17 August, and sailed into the Atlantic for the first day at sea. During Eries initial sea trials her propulsion system did suffer some malfunctions, but overall the trials were generally satisfactory. After a few repairs Erie ran her formal power trials on 26 August, and with further tests and trials performed at sea and in port, the vessel wase fitted out and prepared for a shakedown cruise to Europe. Eries six-inch guns and their blast shields were mounted by the first week of October, and on 19 October, she departed for a cruise to the Norfolk Naval Operating Base.

Erie was directed to participate in two ceremonies in late October. The first was Navy Day festivities in New York Harbor, from 25 to 27 October. Erie, the heavy cruisers  and , and the destroyers  and  held open houses for the general public, while docked in the Yard. The second was on 28 October, for a fiftieth anniversary ceremony commemorating the dedication of the Statue of Liberty. Indianapolis and Erie greeted President Franklin D. Roosevelt with twenty-one gun salutes as he approached Bedloe's Island and as he departed. Erie then returned to the Yard to make final preparations for her departure on 31 October, for her shakedown cruise.

Design and armament

Erie was  long at the waterline with an overall length of , her beam was  and a mean draft of . Her standard displacement was  and  at full load. Her crew during peacetime consisted of 213 officers and enlisted men.

Erie was powered by two Parsons geared single reduction steam turbines, each driving one screw, using steam generated by two Babcock & Wilcox boilers. The engines were designed to produce  and reach a top speed of . She was designed to provide a range of  at a speed of .

Eries main armament were four /47 caliber guns, two mounted forward and two mounted aft. She had two 3-pounder ()/47 cal. saluting guns, and four  Browning machine guns, though only temporary, while waiting for the /75 cal. guns to be produced. She was also armed with Mark 6 Depth charge racks (each holding 15 depth charges).

The ship lacked a full-length waterline armor belt, vital areas were protected by  of armor. The conning tower was protected by  of armor, and the deck had  of armor. The gunshields were only  thick.

Erie carried one floatplane aboard that was stored just aft of the smokestack on a raised deck. Initially this was a Curtiss SOC Seagull which was later replaced with a  Vought OS2U Kingfisher. The planes required being hoisted into and out of the water by means of a derrick when used.