[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nurit Peled-Elhanan

of Sharon, Barak, and Rabin. In 2014, she wrote “Israeli leaders who worship nothing but Power and Death should know that no words will ever wash this blood off their hands, that nothing will ever exonerate them.”

In the same 2007 address to the Women in Black movement, she said of Israeli mothers:

“[They] are nothing but golems that have turned on their creators and are more terrible and cruel than they, who dedicate their wombs to the apartheid state and the occupation army, who educate their children in unmitigated racism and are prepared to sacrifice the fruits of their bellies on the altar of their leaders’ megalomania, greed and bloodthirstiness. These mothers are also to be found among the teachers and the educators of our day.”

She supports the Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions movement against Israel and has said “what Daesh (ISIL) is to Islam, Zionist Israel is to Judaism.”

Peled-Elhanan criticized Israeli writer A. B. Yehoshua for comments he made in reference to the cultural gap between Jews and Arabs that Yehoshua said was the reason they could never live together. She said that in her eyes Ehud Olmert, Ehud Barak, Ismail Haniyeh, and Hezbollah are equivalent: "They enjoy watching children die." When asked about an incident in which residents of a neighborhood in East Jerusalem had a barbecue near a Jewish neighborhood during Yom Kippur, shouted through megaphones and attacked Jews returning from synagogue, Elhanan said that the occupation and lack of neighborhood services generated hate and "hate creates things like that."

On the USA and the United Kingdom

Elhanan has stated, "The ones that are hurt are never the ones that deserve it. Was George Bush killed in the Twin Towers disaster? No. He ought to have been killed."

In 2007 she implied that Bush, Tony Blair and Ariel Sharon were destroying the world and accused the United States and the United Kingdom of "infecting their respective citizens with blind fear of the Muslims, who are depicted as vile, primitive and bloodthirsty, apart from their being non-democratic, chauvinistic and mass producers of future terrorists."

References

Peled-Elhanan, Nurit. Palestine in Israeli School Books: Ideology and Propaganda in Education. New York, NY. Palgrave Macmillan. 2012: p. 15

Sources
 

Living people
Jewish Israeli anti-racism activists
Israeli women activists
Israeli women academics
Israeli anti-war activists
Israeli Jews
Israeli–Palestinian peace process
Academic staff of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
1949 births
Sakharov Prize laureates
Jewish anti-Zionism in Israel
Anti-Zionist Jews
Israeli philologists
Israeli translators