[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dragon Flyz

anteau of "dragon" and "men") are large, gargoyle-like humanoids that 'sprout' wings from their bodies on demand.  Dreadwing's Dramen are sometimes seen supporting Dreadwing and his lieutenants on dragon-back.

Dram
Callsign: None
Skin Colour: Orange/Brown
Armor Color: Dark Brown
Dragon Steed: Titan

Dram is a Dramen raised by Aaron when his village was mysteriously destroyed, whose loyalty to them has caused other Dramen to name him a 'traitor', much to his resentment.  His dragon Titan has made only a few appearances; Dram prefers to fly on his own wings, though he never seems to have trouble keeping up with his comrades.  Dram's name is a shortened version of 'Dramen', though he shares it with an archaic unit of measurement.

Vydak
Vydak makes two appearances throughout the series. He is the tribal leader of a clan of brown-skinned Dark Dramen who destroyed Dram's village and killed his family, and later enslaved another clan. When he is first seen, Dreadwing is attempting an alliance, but fails when Dram attempts to rescue the enslaved villagers. In his second appearance, his warriors are seen meeting with Dreadwing's army in a canyon before their attack on Airlandis, each leader plotting to betray the other.

Dragons
There are three varieties of dragons shown in the series. The first and most common are the Airlandian/Wild dragons. They have smooth-skinned, slightly serpentine bodies; long, slender necks and tails; needle-like teeth; and pterosaur-like wings on which they can walk (often in the absence of forelegs) individuals are distinguishable by colouration and head shape. The second type is a large-bodied, stocky, four-legged breed with very short necks, ridden by Fryte, Kreigo and Nocturna. The third breed, represented solely by Blackheart, has features of both previous breeds, is unusually large, and has the ability to consume lava and consequently breathe fire. All dragons are extremely intelligent and seem to understand everything said to them. They are always loyal to their riders, even when the affairs thereof do not apparently concern them. Airlandian dragons live, when not on duty, in a vast, hangarlike station consisting of nesting areas and a somewhat terraformed environment including a lake. On duty, they are exceedingly disciplined, so that under no circumstances do they abandon their riders.

Riptor
Rider: Z'Neth

Riptor is the most powerful Arlandian dragon and is considered the dragons' leader, as evidenced by his larger nesting area, collar and crest armor. He is blue, with a nasal horn and two large crests. Riptor has a personal rivalry with Blackheart and is one of only two dragons (and the only Airlandian dragon) able to contend with him.

Sky Fury
Rider: Summit

A green female with two brown horns. Sky Fury, called "Fury" for short, is the only female mount among the protagonists' steeds and has no hesitation in taking action uncommanded.

Fury's Cub
Rider: Unknown

A small, green dragon born early in the series. His sire is unidentified. While still an egg, he was captured by Nocturna, sent by Dreadwing to capture dragons' eggs for a genetic experiment performed by Gangryn, with the effect that when he hatched, he was able to project a paralyzing blast. Dreadwing attempted to use this ability as a weapon, but failed when Sky Fury persuaded the hatchling to join her. A strong familial loyalty formed thereafter between Fury and her son.

Wing Storm
Rider: Peak

A young, steel-grey dragon, having a spiky head and a long mouth fringed by what may be either points of flesh or protuberant fangs. Both Wing Storm and Peak are reckless, though "Storm" is the more cautious of the two.

Blazewind
Rider: Apex

A white, black-maned dragon. Blazewind is closer to his rider than most by virtue of Apex's ability to communicate telepathically.

Blackheart
Rider: Dreadwing

A massive four-legged, long-necked, red-scaled dragon with the ability to consume lava, which he expels as fire or a gaseous incandescence. The only dragon usually his equal is Riptor; but he is once beaten by the leader of a pack of Wild Dragons (who was slightly larger and like Blackheart, able to breathe fire).

Episode guide
The first three episodes were released as a stand-alone movie titled Dragon Flyz: The Legend Begins on December 3, 1996.

Toy line
There are two sets of Dragon Flyz toys released by Galoob. One set consists of the central characters in various costumes, equipped with rotating wings that enable them to fly, a launching device shaped as a dragon, and a DVD. The second set does not have the DVD, and the launcher does not look like a dragon. Variations include lone riders; lone dragons that fly by flapping their own wings; and figures that illuminate when launched. Most of the rider figures carry firearm-like weapons. Galoob released a similar toy design aimed at girls, called Sky Dancers.