[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# First Strike (Stargate Atlantis)

"First Strike" is the 60th episode and the third season finale of the science fiction television series Stargate Atlantis. The episode originally aired in Canada on February 5, 2007, on The Movie Network, and subsequently aired March 14 on Sky One in the United Kingdom, and June 22 on the United States Sci Fi Channel. It was written by executive producer Martin Gero, and directed by Martin Wood. The episode is the first of a three-parter, in which the new Earth ship Apollo arrives at Atlantis to conduct a preemptive strike against the Asurans before they can launch a fleet to attack Earth.

"First Strike" was a beginning to a new direction for the series. It aired alongside "Unending", the series finale of Stargate SG-1. At the time it was considered the best episode the producers had done, and featured one of the longest visual effects sequences in the series. The episode earned Stargate Atlantis the strongest ratings since the mid-season hiatus, and was generally well-received.

Plot 
The newest Earth warship, Apollo, arrives at Atlantis. Its commander, Abe Ellis (Michael Beach), informs the Expedition that recon missions have discovered the Asurans building ships on their homeworld, which the IOA believe will be used to attack Earth. As the ships are built from only conventional materials, Apollo has been assigned to destroy them in a preemptive strike, using the new "Horizon" weapons delivery system. Apollo successfully carries out the mission over the objections of Weir (Torri Higginson), who feels her authority being increasingly sidelined.

Soon after Apollo returns to Atlantis, the Asurans retaliate by launching a Stargate satellite that fires an energy beam, disabling the Apollo before zeroing in on Atlantis. The beam will deplete the city's shield in just under 30 hours, and with the satellite and its active Stargate over the city, the Expedition cannot evacuate using their own Stargate. McKay (David Hewlett) and Zelenka (David Nykl) submerge the city to mitigate the effect of the beam, but this only buys them nine more hours before the city is destroyed.

Realizing that the only way to save Atlantis is to move the city out of the satellite's range, McKay and Sheppard (Joe Flanigan) decide to use their one Zero Point Module and the geothermal power station found in "Submersion" to power the stardrive. Lorne (Kavan Smith) and a squadron of F-302s are sent to temporarily block the beam using a large moon fragment, so that shield power can be redirected into the stardrive. However, the beam resumes as the city lifts off, briefly grazing the central tower before the shield can be restored. Weir is severely injured and is taken to the infirmary by Beckett's replacement, Jennifer Keller (Jewel Staite). Atlantis jumps into hyperspace, but the stardrive unexpectedly shuts down well before they reach their destination. McKay realizes that they are marooned in deep space, with only 24 hours before the shield runs out of power and the city's occupants are exposed to space.

Production

Writing and casting 

"First Strike" first surfaced in September 2006. It was conceived after the completion of the mid-season two-parter, "The Return", where writer Martin Gero wanted Atlantis leave the planet, but didn't know how and why it would happen until the episode was written. Gero also wanted Atlantis damaged and drop out of hyperspace into deep space by the end, so the following episode "Adrift" would follow. The Stargate satellite was originally meant to be a moon-sized satellite sent to destroy Lantea, but was dropped in favour for the Stargate satellite to destroy Atlantis, since a previous episode "Echoes" involved the saving of Lantea, and Brad Wright deemed its proposed destruction inappropriate. The scene where Weir thought her leadership challenged was needed to be written, since there were several instances in past episodes where the military step in as leaders. The scene where Ronon Dex says he needs to learn more science was written to parallel Ronon's appearance in only a few scenes. Gero also wrote the Fantastic Four into the scene, where Sheppard compared Teyla Emmagan to the Invisible Woman, paralleling the lack of Teyla's appearance as well.