[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 43]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

e the fire. She gave
the top-heavy pile an impatient thrust and the mass fell, with a great
crash, to the floor. A heap of manuscript--her musical achievement for
the past year--was involved in the fall. She contemplated the wreck
gravely.

"Yes, it is I who am weak, not circumstance that is strong. If I could
keep my mind unmoved by the irritations; if I could quarrel with mother,
and displease father, and offend all the world without a qualm, or
without losing the delicate balance of thought and mood necessary for
composition, then I should, to some extent, triumph over my circumstances;
I should not lose so much time in this wretched unstringing. Only were I
so immovably constituted, is it probable that I should be able to compose
at all?"

She drew the score towards her. "People are surprised that women have
never done anything noteworthy in music. People are so intelligent!" She
turned over the pages critically. If only this instinct were not so
overwhelmingly strong! Hadria wondered how many other women, from the
beginning of history, had cursed the impulse to create! Fortunately, it
was sometimes extinguished altogether, as to-night, for instance, when
every impression, every desire was swept clean out of her, and her mind
presented a creditable blank, such as really ought to satisfy the most
exacting social mentor. In such a state, a woman might be induced to
accept anything!

Hadria brought out two letters from her pocket; one from the Professor,
the other from Miss Du Prel. The latter had been writing frequently of
late, pointing out the danger of Hadria's exaggerated ideas, and the
probability of their ruining her happiness in life. Valeria had suffered
herself from "ideas," and knew how fatal they were. Life _could_ not
be exactly as one would have it, and it was absolutely necessary, in order
to avoid misery for oneself and others, to consent to take things more
or less as they were; to make up one's mind to bend a little, rather
than have to break, in the end. Things were never quite so shocking as
they seemed to one's youthful imagination. The world was made up of
compromises. Good was mixed with evil everywhere. The domestic idea, as
Hadria called it, might be, in its present phase, somewhat offensive,
but it could be redeemed in its application, in the details and
"extenuating circumstances." Valeria could not warn Hadria too earnestly
against falling into the mistake that Valeria herself had made. She had
repudiated the notion of anything short of an ideal union; a perfect
comradeship, without the shadow of restraint or bondage in the
relationship; and not having found it, she had refused the tie
altogether. She could not bring herself to accept the lesser thing,
having conceived the possibility of the greater. She now saw her error,
and repented it. She was reaping the penalty in a lonely and unsatisfied
life. For a long time her work had seemed to suffice, but she felt now
that she had been trusting to a broken reed. She was terrified at her
solitude. She could not face the thought of old age, without a single
close tie, without a home, without a hold upon her race.

She ended by entreating Hadria not to refuse marriage merely because she
could not find a man to agree with her in everything, or capable of
entering into the spirit of the relationship that perhaps would unite
the men and women of the future. It was a pity that Hadria had not been
born a generation later, but since she had come into the world at this
time of transition, she must try to avoid the tragedy that threatens all
spirits who are pointing towards the new order, while the old is still
working out its unexhausted impetus.

This reiterated advice had begun to trouble Hadria. It did not convince
her, but Valeria's words were incessantly repeating themselves in her
mind; working as a ferment among her thoughts.

The letters from Miss Du Prel and the Professor were to her, a source of
great pleasure and of great pain. In her depressed moods, they would
often rather increase her despondency, because the writers used to take
for granted so many achievements that she had not been able to accomplish.

"They think I am living and progressing as they are; they do not know
that the riot and stir of intellectual life has ceased. I am like a
creature struggling in a quicksand."

On the Professor's letter, the comments were of a different character.

He had recommended her to read certain books, and reminded her that no
possessor of good books could lack the privilege of spiritual sanctuary.

"Ah! yes, I know few pleasures so great as that of finding one's own
idea, or hope, or longing, finely expressed, half-born thoughts alive
and of stately stature; and then the exquisite touches of art upon quick
nerves, the enlarging of the realms of imagination, knowledge, the
heightening of perceptions, intuitions; finally the blessed power of
escaping from o