[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hermano Pule

Apolinario de la Cruz (July 22, 1815 – November 4, 1841), better known as Hermano Pule (, Spanish for "Brother Pule"; also spelled Hermano Puli), was a Filipino religious leader who founded and led the Cofradía de San José (Confraternity of Saint Joseph). The cofradía was established in 1832 in response to the racially discriminatory practices of the Catholic Church in the Philippines. During the Spanish colonial period, Catholic religious orders refused to admit native Filipinos as members. In retaliation, Pule established his own religious order that was exclusive for native Filipinos. During its peak, the cofradía had 4,500 to 5,000 members from the provinces of Tayabas, Batangas, and Laguna. Fearing an armed rebellion, the Spanish colonial government sent military forces to suppress the cofradía, an attack that was resisted by Hermano Pule and his followers on October 23, 1841. However, more troops were sent and the cofradía was finally quelled by the colonial military forces on November 1, 1841. Pule was then captured, tried, and executed.

Early life
Apolinario de la Cruz was born on July 22, 1815, in Barrio Pandác in the town of Lucban in Tayabas province (now Quezon) back when the Philippines was a colony of the Spanish Empire. His parents—Pablo de la Cruz and Juana Andres—were peasants and devout Catholics. Apolinario de la Cruz was literate, but stated that he had no formal education. Despite that, it is very likely that he received primary religious instruction and attended the local public primary school in Lucban. In 1829, he decided to become a priest and tried to join the Order of Preachers in Manila. During those times, Roman Catholic religious orders barred indios (native people of the Philippines) from joining, thus De la Cruz's application was rejected for the sole reason of his race. He then decided to work as a donado (lay brother) at the San Juan de Dios Hospital where he was admitted to the Cofradía de San Juan de Dios, a brotherhood affiliated with the hospital open to indios. During this time, he improved his public speaking and studied the Bible along with other religious writings.

Cofradía de San José

Formation and expansion
In December 1832, 18-year-old De la Cruz, along with indio secular priest Br. Ciriaco de los Santos and 19 other individuals from Tayabas, founded the Hermandad de la Archi-Cofradía del Glorioso Señor San José y de la Virgen del Rosario (Brotherhood of the Great Sodality of the Glorious Lord Saint Joseph and of the Virgin of the Rosary), shortened to Cofradía de San José (Confraternity of St. Joseph). He then became known to his followers as Hermano Pule (Brother Pule). The brotherhood fostered the practice of Christian virtues centered around the cults of Saint Francis of Assisi and the Virgin of Antipolo. They also incorporated elements of pre-colonial beliefs such as the use of anting-anting (talismans). Most of its adherents were from Tayabas, Laguna, Cavite, and Batangas, and some were from Camarines Norte and Camarines Sur. The cofradía prohibited Spaniards and mestizos from joining without Hermano Pule's permission as a form of retaliation against the Church for discriminating against natives. Hermano Pule continued to work at the San Juan de Dios Hospital and regularly corresponded with his followers through letters, which were read aloud to the cofradía members. Some cofradía members also found time to visit Hermano Pule in Manila. In Hermano Pule's absence, the cofradía was led by hermano mayor Octavio Ygnacio "Purgatorio" de San Jorge and Br. Ciriaco delos Santos, who was the cofradías treasurer and spiritual adviser.

Members of the cofradía met on the 19th of each month in honor of Saint Joseph, whose feast is 19 March. They also paid monthly fees of one real to cover the cost of their monthly Masses and fiestas. The monthly Mass was held in the parish church of Lucban, and was facilitated by the parish priest, Fr. Manuel Sancho.

In 1837, the confraternity was renamed Cofradía del Sr. San José i voto del Santísimo Rosario and evangelized in Lucban, Majayjay, and Sariaya. By 1841, the cofradía had grown to an estimated 4,500 to 5,000 members.

Suppression

The Spanish authorities were unaware of the cofradías existence until 1840. However, as early as 1833, Filipino priests have noticed their activities in the vicinity of Mount San Cristobal and Mount Banahaw.