[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Gareth Ainsworth

uary, earning Ainsworth a mention as the Football League manager of the week. On the final day of the season Wycombe needed to win at Torquay United and hope results went their way elsewhere in order to stay up; they won their match 3–0 and finished outside of the relegation zone on goal difference.

He completely restructured the defence with free signings in preparation for the 2014–15 season, bringing in Joe Jacobson, Peter Murphy, Sido Jombati, and Aaron Pierre, whilst also bringing in striker Paul Hayes from Scunthorpe United. He was named as Football League manager of the week after Wycombe reached the top of the table with a 1–0 home win over Hartlepool United on 3 January. He won the League Two Manager of the Month award for March 2015 after Wycombe picked up fourteen points in six tough unbeaten games. Hayes finished as top-scorer as Wycombe went on to end the campaign in fourth place, one point behind automatically promoted Bury. They reached the play-off final at Wembley Stadium, where they lost out on penalties to Southend United following a 1–1 draw. Ainsworth signed a new five-and-a-half-year contract in January 2015 and was named as that season's LMA Manager of the Year for League Two.

Wycombe finished the 2015–16 season in 13th place, and Ainsworth admitted that the club was in a precarious financial position despite taking Premier League club Aston Villa to a replay in the Third Round of the FA Cup. He won the League Two Manager of the Month award for a second time having guided the team from 21st to sixth-place with four successive victories and only one goal conceded in November 2016. Ainsworth was named as the EFL's manager of the week on 3 January 2017, after his side recorded two consecutive victories to begin the year fifth in the table. Wanderers ended the 2016–17 season in ninth place, one point and two places outside of the play-offs. They also enjoyed more cup runs, exiting the FA Cup at the fourth round with a 4–3 defeat to Tottenham Hotspur at White Hart Lane and losing 2–1 at Coventry City in the semi-finals of the EFL Trophy. He won League Two's Manager of the Month award for January 2018 after having led his side to four wins in four games. The following month, he was named as EFL manager of the week after making a triple substitution with his team down to ten men and trailing 3–2 to Carlisle United, which inspired his team to turn the game around and make an "extraordinary triumph" to win 4–3.

In an interview later that month, Ainsworth stated that the set-up at the club was a "very unique model of just the first team but it works", as his team of mainly older veteran players were in the top two of League Two despite operating without an academy, reserve team or goalkeeping coach. He was named as the EFL's manager of the week after overseeing a 2–1 win at Chesterfield in the last week of April despite his team initially going one goal down away from home. Wycombe ended the 2017–18 season in the third automatic promotion spot, leaving Ainsworth to state that "For us and Accrington to be in the top three this season, it's turned the finances of this league on its head". In June 2018, Gareth Ainsworth extended his contract by another three years to remain as Wycombe boss.

He was reported to be on the manager shortlist at former club Queens Park Rangers in April 2019. Wycombe ended the 2018–19 season in 17th-place, three points clear of the relegation zone. He was given permission to speak with divisional rivals Sunderland and was also linked with a move to Millwall in October 2019, but remained at Wycombe, stating that it would take "something special" for him to leave. He was named as the League One Manager of the Month for November 2019 after his team picked up ten points from four games without conceding a goal. He signed another new contract in February 2020, which was described simply as "long-term". The 2019–20 season was ended early due to the COVID-19 pandemic in England, though Wycombe qualified for the play-offs in third-place after the table was concluded on points per game basis. Wycombe eliminated Fleetwood Town in the semi-finals and recorded a 2–1 victory over Oxford United in the final itself to secure a place in the Championship for the first time in the club's history. The play-offs were behind closed doors due to the pandemic and Ainsworth credited Wycombe's success to the noise and support created by the club's substitutes, support staff and directors.

Wycombe took their fight against to avoid relegation out of the Championship until the last day of the 2020–21 season, and were relegated in 22nd-place despite beating Middlesbrough 3–0 on the final day of the campaign; Ainsworth stated that "It might seem a strange thing to say because we’ve been relegated, but finishing third from bottom in the Championship is one of the proudest moments in my career". He was linked with the vacant management position at former club Preston North End.