[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 50]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ay about them and ride securely upon their
enormous backs."

This account diverted Tommy very much. He thanked Mr Barlow for giving
him this description of the crocodile, and said he should like to see
every animal in the world. "That," answered Mr Barlow, "would be
extremely difficult, as almost every country produces some kind which is
not found in other parts of the world; but if you will be contented to
read the descriptions of them which have been written, you may easily
gratify your curiosity."

It happened about this time that Tommy and Harry rose early one morning
and went to take a long walk before breakfast, as they used frequently
to do; they rambled so far that at last they both found themselves
tired, and sat down under a hedge to rest. While they were here a very
clean and decently-dressed woman passed by, who, seeing two little boys
sitting by themselves, stopped to look at them; and, after considering
them attentively, she said, "You seem, my little dears, to be either
tired or to have lost your way." "No, madam," said Harry, "we have not
lost our way, but we have walked farther than usual this morning, and we
wait here a little while to rest ourselves." "Well," said the woman, "if
you will come into my little house--that you see a few yards farther
on--you may sit more comfortably; and as my daughter has by this time
milked the cows, she shall give you a mess of bread and milk."

Tommy, who was by this time extremely hungry as well as tired, told
Harry that he should like to accept the good woman's invitation; so they
followed her to a small but clean looking farm-house which stood at a
little distance. Here they entered a clean kitchen, furnished with very
plain but convenient furniture, and were desired to sit down by a warm
and comfortable fire, which was made of turf. Tommy, who had never seen
such a fire, could not help inquiring about it, and the good woman told
him that poor people like her were unable to purchase coals;
"therefore," said she, "we go and pare the surface of the commons, which
is full of grass and heath and other vegetables, together with their
roots all matted together; these we dry in small pieces, by leaving them
exposed to the summer's sun, and then we bring them home and put them
under the cover of a shed, and use them for our fires." "But," said
Tommy, "I should think you would hardly have fire enough by these means
to dress your dinner; for I have by accident been in my father's
kitchen when they were dressing the dinner, and I saw a fire that blazed
up to the very top of the chimney." The poor woman smiled at this, and
said, "Your father, I suppose, master, is some rich man, who has a great
deal of victuals to dress, but we poor people must be more easily
contented." "Why," said Tommy, "you must at least want to roast meat
every day?" "No," said the poor woman, "we seldom see roast-beef at our
house; but we are very well contented if we can have a bit of fat pork
every day, boiled in a pot with turnips; and we bless God that we fare
so well, for there are many poor souls, who are as good as we, that can
scarcely get a morsel of dry bread."

As they were conversing in this manner, Tommy happened to cast his eyes
on one side, and saw a room that was almost filled with apples. "Pray,"
said he, "what can you do with all these apples? I should think you
would never be able to eat them, though you were to eat nothing else."
"That is very true," said the woman, "but we make cider of them."
"What!" cried Tommy, "are you able to make that sweet pleasant liquor
they call cider? and is it made of apples?" _The Woman._--Yes, indeed it
is. _Tommy._--And pray how is it made? _The Woman._--We take the apples
when they are ripe and squeeze them in a machine we have for that
purpose. Then we take this pulp, and put it into large hair-bags, which
we press in a large press till all the juice runs out. _Tommy._--And is
this juice cider? _The Woman._--You shall taste, little master, as you
seem so curious.

She then led him into another room, where there was a great tub full of
the juice of apples, and, taking some up in a cup, she desired him to
taste whether it was cider. Tommy tasted, and said it was very sweet and
pleasant, but not cider. "Well," said the woman, "let us try another
cask." She then took out some liquor of another barrel, which she gave
him, and Tommy, when he had tasted it, said that it really was cider.
"But pray," said he, "what do you do to the apple-juice to make it
cider?" _The Woman._--Nothing at all. _Tommy._--How, then, should it
become cider? for I am sure what you gave me at first is not cider. _The
Woman._--Why, we put the juice into a large cask, and let it stand in
some warm place, where it soon begins to ferment. _Tommy._--Ferment!
pray, what is that? _The Woman._--You shall see.

She then showed him another cask, and bade him observe the liquor that
was in it. This he