[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# LGBT rights in Mexico

cting it were deemed unconstitutional and discriminatory.
(12 June): The state of Chihuahua legalized same-sex marriage and adoption after the Governor announced that his administration would no longer oppose same-sex marriages within the state. The order was effective immediately. 
(10 July): The Governor of Guerrero instructed civil agencies to approve same-sex marriage licenses.
(21 July): The municipality of Santiago de Querétaro stopped enforcing Querétaro's same-sex marriage ban and began allowing same-sex couples to marry in the municipality.
(11 August): The Mexican Supreme Court ruled, in a 9-1 decision, that Campeche's ban on same-sex couples adopting children was unconstitutional.
(7 September): The Congress of Michoacán legalized domestic partnerships for same-sex couples.
(22 December): Same-sex marriage became legal in the state of Nayarit.
2016: (26 January): The Mexican Supreme Court unanimously struck down Jalisco's same-sex marriage ban.
(5 May): Colima repealed its civil union law as well as its constitutional ban on same-sex marriage.
(12 May): The Congress of Jalisco complied with the Supreme Court decision and instructed all the state's municipalities to issue same-sex marriage licenses.
(17 May): The Mexican President, Enrique Peña Nieto, announced that he had signed an initiative to amend Article 4 of the Mexican Constitution, which would legalize same-sex marriage nationwide.
(20 May): Same-sex marriage became legal in Campeche, after the state Congress legalized such marriages in a 34-1 vote 10 days prior.
(12 June): Same-sex marriage and adoption became legal in the state of Colima.
(23 June): A bill allowing for legal same-sex marriages and adoptions came into effect in Michoacán.
(5 July): A reform to the Constitution of Morelos, which legalized same-sex marriage and adoption in the state, took effect.
(11 September): The head of Veracruz's adoption agency announced that same-sex couples may adopt children jointly in the state.
(18 September): The municipality of San Pedro Cholula, located in the state of Puebla, announced that any same-sex couple who wishes to marry may do so in the municipality.
(23 September): The Mexican Supreme Court finalized the ruling in the adoption case against Campeche and issued a nationwide jurisprudence which binds all lower court judges to rule in favor of same-sex couples seeking adoption and parental rights.
(26 September): The state of Campeche lifted its same-sex adoption ban.
2017: (12 January): A civil union law took effect in the state of Tlaxcala.
(22 February): The head of Baja California's adoption agency announced that same-sex couples have the right to adopt in the state.
(28 February) The Supreme Court gave Chihuahua 90 days to amend its Civil Code to reflect the recent legalization of same-sex marriage in the state.
(26 April): The head of Querétaro's adoption agency confirmed that same-sex couples may adopt in the state.
(31 May): The Supreme Court dismissed the appeal against the March 2015 Yucatán Constitutional Court ruling.
(11 July): The Supreme Court struck down Chiapas' same-sex marriage ban, legalizing same-sex marriage in the state.
(13 July): The Michoacán Congress approved a gender identity law.
(20 July): A gender identity law was approved in the state of Nayarit.
(1 August): The Supreme Court unanimously struck down Puebla's ban on same-sex marriage.
(3 November): The State Government of Baja California announced it would immediately cease to enforce its same-sex marriage ban, legalizing such marriages in the state.
2018: (9 January): The Inter-American Court of Human Rights ruled that same-sex marriage and the recognition of one's gender identity on official documents are human rights protected by the American Convention on Human Rights. Mexico is a signatory to the Convention.
(15 May): The Mexican Supreme Court ordered Sinaloa to legalize same-sex marriage within 90 days.
(1 July): The 2018 general elections resulted in the National Regeneration Movement (MORENA), a pro-same-sex marriage left-wing party, winning the majority or plurality of legislative seats in 13 states where same-sex marriage has not yet been legalized. MORENA along with the pro-same-sex marriage Labor Party also won an absolute majority in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate.
(1 July): President-elect Andrés Manuel López Obrador became the first Mexican President to mention LGBT people in his first public speech. "The state will stop being a committee at the service of a minority and will represent all Mexicans: rich and poor, rural and urban dwellers, migrants, believers and non-believers, human beings of all currents of thought and of all sexual preferences. We will listen to everyone, we will attend to everyone. We will respect everyone, but we will give preference to the most humble and the forgotten, especially the indigenous peoples of Mexico", he said.
(26 August): The Civil Registry of Oaxaca began accepting applications for same-sex ma