[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Antoni Heda

Warsaw, but he was arrested by the forces of the Internal Security Corps in 1948 in Gdynia near the Gdynia Chylonia railway station. Imprisoned at Rakowiecka and later in Rawicz and Wronki, Heda was sentenced to death on 7 consecutive charges, but his sentence was later changed to life imprisonment.

After the end of Stalinist period in 1956 he was pardoned and set free. He continued to collaborate with various groups opposed to the Communist regime in Poland and was also an active member of unofficial veterans associations. In 1980 he joined the Solidarity and the following year he was chosen as the chairman of the Independent Veteran Association of the Solidarity, the first veteran association not controlled by the Communist authorities. However, soon afterwards he had been interned after the 1981 imposition of martial Law in Poland.

After Poland managed to get back its independence from the Eastern Bloc, in 1990 Heda returned to service as a leader of one of veteran associations uniting veterans of all fronts of World War II. He also became the honorary commander of the Riflemen Union, a paramilitary youth organization. He participated in Polish political life. In 1997 he spoke against adoption of a new Polish Constitution (created by post-Communist Democratic Left Alliance) by saying: "is against the Polish nation, it is for atheists and communistic masons."

On 3 May 2006 he was promoted to the rank of generał brygady (he received the nomination in 2004 and accepted it in 2006). For his service he also received the highest of Polish military awards, Virtuti Militari (4th and 5th class), as well as the Cross of Valour (Krzyż Walecznych) and other decorations.

He described his life in two books: Wspomnienia Szarego (Szary's Memoires) and Szary przeciw zdrajcom Polski (Szary against traitors of Poland).

General Antoni Heda died in Warsaw on 15 February 2008. His funeral took place on 21 February 2008, starting with a Funeral Mass at the Field Cathedral of the Polish Army celebrated by Fr. Bishop Maj-Gen. Tadeusz Płoskiego. President Lech Kaczynski posthumously awarded him the Commander's Cross with Star of the Order of Polonia Restituta, "for outstanding contribution to the independence of the Polish Republic". Heda was buried beside his wife in the family grave in the parish cemetery.

References 

  Antoni Heda ps."Szary" Short bio on Starachowice city page. Last accessed on 24 June 2006.
  Antoni Heda Short bio on Iłża city page. Last accessed on 24 June 2006.

Further reading 
 Antoni Heda, Wspomnienia Szarego (Szary's Memoires),  Warszawa 1991
 Antoni Heda, Szary przeciw zdrajcom Polski (Szary against traitors of Poland)

External links 

  LEGENDA MIESZKA WŚRÓD NAS (Legend lives among us)
  Antoni Heda "Szary" otrzymał stopień generalski (Antoni Heda promoted to general)
  PAN "SZARY" - ANTONI HEDA
  KOMENDANT "SZARY" from newspaper Nasz Dziennik,  13–14 October 2001

1916 births
2008 deaths
People from Radom County
Recipients of the Gold Cross of the Virtuti Militari
Commanders with Star of the Order of Polonia Restituta
Recipients of the Cross of Valour (Poland)
Polish generals
Polish Army officers
Cursed soldiers
Polish prisoners of war
World War II prisoners of war held by the Soviet Union
Polish prisoners sentenced to death
Prisoners sentenced to death by Poland