[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Swansea University Students' Union

tives on a wide range of sections. Founded in September 1995, it published its 200th issue on 7 March 2011. Material for the newspaper is submitted by students, to be made available in online and printed versions. The printed editions are distributed in busy locations around campus during term time.

Xtreme Radio
Xtreme Radio is Swansea University's Students' Union Radio Station, founded in 1968, making it the third oldest in the UK. Traditionally, the station broadcast on the 1431 kHz AM frequency around the campus, through the Union's shops and other venues. Programming in now only broadcast online using the TuneIn Radio platform. Programming is played 24/7 from the radio studios based in Fulton House on Singleton Park Campus. Xtreme Radio offers its members access to industry-level equipment and experience, the ability to interview locally and internationally acclaimed artists and personalities. It has links with the UK Student Radio Association, which provides professional guidance, as well as workshops with industry leaders and hosts and annual conference, which Xtreme Radio hosted in Swansea in 2019. The stations motto is "The Soundtrack to Your Student Life".

SUTV 
SUTV (formally known as SU Media Society, Waterfront TV & SU-TV) was founded in 2012-2013 by two undergraduate students who wanted to share their passion for film making and give others the platform to make films of their own. SUTV closed at the end of the 2014/15 academic year, since the founder graduated with no new committee members to continue the group. Xtreme Radio later picked up SUTV to prevent it from being taken over by Swansea University Computing Society. The station's aim is to give students a platform to create videos and gain experience working in video production in a sociable and friendly environment. They promote and publicise the students’ experience at university through events, societies and sports, while also offering coverage of Students' Union and University events. Video content and live broadcasts are designed to inform and entertain its audiences with truth and fairness at its forefront.

Financial Information

Between 20 March 1967, and 19 June 2002, the Students' Union was a registered charity. During 2002 the Union withdrew from the Charities Commission, after the law changed in 2001 and enjoyed 'Exempt Charity' status, as set out by UK legislation .

From 26 November 2012, the Students' Union once again became a charity.

Guinness World records
The Swansea University Students' Union has played a massive part in achieving two Guinness World Records in association with online fancy dress retailer Jokers' Masquerade. In 2009 both worked together to break the world record for the largest gathering of Smurfs. In 2011 they again joined forces to break the largest gathering of skeletons record.

Pole Fitness Controversy
In October 2013 Swansea Students' Union Societies & Services Officer Ceinwen Cloney banned the University's Pole Fitness society, citing "sexist attitudes" following a motion to the Trustee Board by external Trustee Ali Morris. They listed among their reasoning that 
"Pole fitness and pole dancing are a direct spin off from lap dancing [...] We should not be deaf to the very real issue of pole fitness playing a part in upholding this raunch culture and objectification of women and girls and the impact of this on our female students [...] Evidence shows that young women aged 16 to 24 are the group of women who experience the most domestic and sexual violence. This is the age of a large group of our female students. We believe that activities such as 'pole fitness' contributes to an atmosphere where women are viewed as sexual objects and where violence against them is acceptable."

The decision has sparked a significant backlash in social media and news sites.

The Union U-turned on their original policy and the society was fully reinstated.

References

External links
Swansea University Students' Union website

Students' unions in Wales
Buildings and structures in Swansea
Students' Union