[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

istance, which waged a guerrilla war for the next eight years. Covert Soviet plans for the destruction of the remnants of Plechavičius' army had already been created in 1944 and the Soviets executed or imprisoned LTDF soldiers they captured. LTDF was the last large mobilization attempt by the Nazis.

Assessment
There are differing opinions about how to consider the actions of the Lithuanian Territorial Defence Force during its brief existence. The Lithuanian historian Saulius Sužiedėlis writes that the LTDF was not collaborationist, because:"In establishing the Force, the Lithuanians were clearly making an effort to do the opposite of what Gross has defined as collaboration, that is, granting the occupier authority. They were trying to siphon power and authority away from the Germans. Thus, the creation of the Force was not an act of collaboration. The non-Communist resistance understood this and made the appropriate distinctions between those who had betrayed the interests of the group and those who had not. One of the most striking aspects of the Local Force is how quickly it moved from conditional cooperation to active resistance as circumstances changed, utilizing a relatively sophisticated network of underground contacts within the society, the Lithuanian officer corps and the native administration."The motivation to create the LTDF was not to aid the German occupation whose replacement by Soviet occupiers they foresaw, but to prepare an anti-Soviet resistance by creating a nucleus for the future Lithuanian army. Former cadet Kazys Blaževičius wrote: "The short and dramatic history of the force's soldiers - LTDF lasted for almost three months - proves that neither gen. P. Plechavičius, nor his officers were German collaborators."
In contrast, Justina Smalkyté claims that the LTDF was a case of military collaboration and that post-1990 Lithuanian scholarship produced "biased historical accounts that are highly nationalist in tone". Polish researcher Paweł Rokicki also describes the LTDF as "collaborationist". According to Joachim Tauber, the LTDF is a specific example of Lithuanian collaboration, the result of German-Lithuanian negotiations, whose creation was supported by the Lithuanian anti-Nazi resistance movement. The organisation itself was used to pursue its own ethnic-national goals, not always congruent with German objectives.

See also
German occupation of Lithuania during World War II
Lithuanian partisans

Notes
a  Vietinė rinktinė has several translations into English, which can cause some confusion. Translations include: Territorial Defense Force, Home Army, Home Defense, Local Defense, Local Lithuanian Detachment, Lithuanian Home Formation, etc. Litauische Sonderverbände means Lithuanian Special Group.

References

Bibliography

Secondary sources

Lithuanian language

Polish language

Memoirs 

Generalbezirk Litauen
Military history of Lithuania during World War II
Military units and formations established in 1944
Military units and formations disestablished in 1944
Paramilitary organizations based in Lithuania