[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Operation Astute

tery, 16th Air Defence Regiment (operating as infantry)
 Elements, 4th Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery
 Elements, 17 Construction Squadron, Royal Australian Engineers
 Elements, B Squadron, 3rd/4th Cavalry Regiment
 Elements, B Squadron, 5th Aviation Regiment
 Troop, 1st Aviation Regiment

The initial Australian Army force consisted of:
 Headquarters elements, 3rd Brigade
 3rd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (3 RAR) battle group ('Battle Group Faithful'). This battle group included the following elements of other units:
 Airborne Combat Team Bravo, 3 RAR
 A Company, 1 RAR
 C and D Companies, 2 RAR
 G (108 Field Battery) Company, 4th Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery (operating as infantry)
 B Squadron, 3rd/4th Cavalry Regiment (originally equipped with 33 x M113 armoured personnel carriers)
 16 Combat Engineer Squadron, 3rd Combat Engineer Regiment
 Commando Company Group, 4th Battalion (Commando), Royal Australian Regiment
 Troop, Australian Special Air Service Regiment
 3rd Combat Service Support Group (based around the 3rd Combat Service Support Battalion)
 Aviation element ('Combat Team Vigilance')
 Eight S-70A Blackhawk transport helicopters, drawn from B Squadron, 5th Aviation Regiment and the 171st Aviation Squadron (four helicopters since 19 July)
 Four Kiowa light observation helicopters, 1st Aviation Regiment
 Detachment, Emergency Response Squadron, Incident Response Regiment
 Detachment, 9th Petroleum Platoon, [providing bulk fuel support to aircraft and land vehicles to ensure the mission was achieved.]

Royal Australian Navy

 HMAS Adelaide (until 28 May)
 One S-70B-2 Seahawk helicopter, 816 Squadron RAN (until 28 May)
 HMAS Kanimbla
 HMAS Manoora
 HMAS Tobruk (until approximately 8 June)
 HMAS Balikpapan
 HMAS Tarakan
 HMAS Success (until 28 May)
 Two Sea King helicopters, 817 Squadron RAN

The Royal Australian Navy force committed to Operation Astute is apparently the largest amphibious task force in the Navy's history.

Royal Australian Air Force

 Elements, No. 33 Squadron RAAF (Boeing 707) – Domestic support only
 Elements, No. 36 Squadron RAAF (C-130H)
 Elements, No. 37 Squadron RAAF (C-130J)
 AP-3C Orion aircraft, No. 92 Wing RAAF
 Detachment, No. 2 Airfield Defence Squadron RAAF at Dili airport.
 No. 382 Expeditionary Combat Support Squadron
 RAAF Airload Team at Dili airport.

33SQN are assisting the operation by transporting troops from RAAF Base Townsville to RAAF Base Darwin, however only 36SQN and 37SQN have been flying from Darwin to Dili.

Malaysia

Malaysian Army
 209 parachute soldiers from the 10th Paratrooper Brigade
 Transport aircraft
 Elements, 19th Battalion, Royal Malay Regt (Mechanised)
 Elements from Grup Gerak Khas (Army Special Forces)

Royal Malaysian Navy
 Elements from PASKAL (Naval Special Forces)
 Two warships; KD Mahawangsa and KD Indera Sakti

Royal Malaysia Police
The Malaysian Government currently anticipates replacing the Malaysian military force with Pasukan Gerakan Khas and General Operations Force operators of the Royal Malaysia Police at the end of July.

New Zealand

New Zealand Army 
 Delta Company (reinforced), 2/1st Battalion, Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment (Integrated into ANZAC Battle Group)
 Military police section, 2nd Military Police Platoon

Royal New Zealand Air Force
 One Boeing 757-200, No. 40 Squadron RNZAF
 One C-130H, No. 40 Squadron RNZAF

Royal New Zealand Navy 
 HMNZS Endeavour
 HMNZS Canterbury
 HMNZS Te Kaha

Portugal
While the Portuguese forces deployed to East Timor are not operating under Australian command, they are acting in co-operation with the Australian, Malaysian and New Zealand forces which are under Australian command.

 Bravo Detachment of the Republican National Guard (GNR), initially with 120 soldiers and now with about 200
 16 officers from the Special Operations Group (GOE) of the Public Security Police

United States

 Two C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft from the 15th Airlift Wing
 6 person Combat Mobility Element from the 15th Logistics Readiness Squadron

The two United States aircraft flew transport flights between Australian air bases (mainly RAAF Base Townsville and RAAF Base Darwin) and were not deployed to East Timor. The aircraft did, however, visit the Solomon Islands in order pick up Australian equipment and personnel. The USAF force completed its mission on 3 June.

In addition, a platoon of the United States Marine Corps Fleet Antiterrorism Security Team was flown into Dili by a United States Navy C-40 Clipper on 26 May to secure the US embassy in Dili. This platoon does not appear to have fallen under Australian command as part of Operation Astute.

Cost
The cost of Operation Astute has represented the third largest operation expenditure between 2006 and 2008, and the second largest from 2009. Below is the yearly expenditure on Operation Astute of the Australian Defence Force.

See also
ANZAC Battle Group
INTERFET
Battle of Timor (1942–43)

References