[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of FoxTrot characters

ntually came to realize how big a problem Jason was. She sometimes forces Jason to stay after school and write sentences on the blackboard after he misbehaves. A common gag is that Jason tries to find excuses to stay at school when summer begins, despite Miss O'Malley's reminders for him to go home.

Phoebe and Eugene Wu Phoebe is a friend of Eileen's, whom Jason and Marcus meet while attending science camp one summer. She and her younger brother, Eugene, are Chinese-American. While Phoebe appears to be a relatively normal girl, Eugene is an obnoxious braggart who does not get along well with Jason and Marcus and is regarded even by his big sister (who, it is mentioned, has a higher IQ than he) as an object of derision. Phoebe and Eileen are rivals of Jason and Marcus at first, but the rivalry ends when Jason and Marcus cast the votes for Phoebe and Eileen's science project to win over Eugene's in the camp's science fair, and the girls initiate Marcus and a reluctant Jason into their "super-secret friendship club." The Wu siblings return in a second extended story line a few years later involving the theft of Phoebe's camp journal. The culprit turned out to be Eugene, who had hoped to foster discord among the "friendship club" and thus bring about its disbandment; however, Phoebe punishes him by incorporating a new friendship club with a non-disbandment clause. They have since made occasional guest appearances.

Other

Quincy is Jason's pet iguana. Jason regularly uses him to tease Paige, either by waving the iguana in front of her, putting him in the bathtub while she is taking a bath, or throwing him on her. Other times he will let Quincy into her room so he can chew up her belongings and throw them up. At other times, Quincy just sits on Jason's head, while sometimes he dresses Quincy and himself up as various fictional characters, such as The Lone Iguana, Quincy John Adams, Quincynook, and QUINCE-E. Quincy's species has never been revealed, but it is most likely that he is a juvenile Green Iguana (Iguana iguana). He has talked only twice. The first time was in a strip where Jason built a Spider-Man web launcher and had trouble with it, and his mother said "Comic books aren't real." He denies this, and Quincy replies, "Listen to your mother, Jason" as a play on what Andy said. The second time was at the end of a dream where Peter is in the Odyssey and discovers, to his disgust, that Quincy is Penelope. In that strip, Quincy said "Hold me. Kiss me. Love me." To his surprise Jason's teacher Ms. O'Malley actually thinks Quincy is adorable.

iFruit is a parody of the iMac computer. iFruit is the Fox's talking family computer which, upon being turned on, opens with the phrase, "Welcome to iFruit. Hug me". It first appears in a 1999 storyline in which Andy buys it on a computer shopping spree (namely after, in an earlier storyline, Roger sells the old computer in a yard sale after he ends up losing so much money day trading stocks), but only because it was "darling," much to the dismay of Jason, who comments, "Geekdom is dead." However, later in the series, iFruit starts growing on Jason because Andy starts buying its peripherals saying they are "adorable," unlike in the case of their previous computer. Later strips show that it has upgraded to resemble recent iMac flat-screen computers. However, the old model was shown in a recent strip in the Foxes' basement, where it is used in memory of Steve Jobs (following his death) via daylight saving time, with Andy stating that "you can't turn the clock back", and Jason replying that he just wants to pretend.

Pierre is an imaginary character from the strip's early years. Paige had recurring dreams of herself in a relationship with the French prince; these dreams are typically influenced by things happening in the strip's real world while Paige is asleep (Jason messing with her, Andy attempting to wake her up, etc.). In dreams where Paige and Pierre kiss, one can typically expect to in reality find Jason having Quincy kiss her. While most Pierre dreams take place while Paige is home, school has influenced the dreams on more than one occasion, such as Paige falling asleep in class. One story arc that had both school and home was where Paige was dreaming Pierre was dueling a rival suitor, a Spanish knight named Juan Carlos. The reality was where Andy was trying to get Paige to focus on an elective course to sign up for the forthcoming academic year, and the choice was between Spanish and French class.

Fauntleroy is the tiny pet dog of one of the Fox's neighbors. He is the main focal point of some arcs focusing on Peter, who is occasionally hired to take care of the dog, despite its tendency to bite.

Other family