[Source: PubMed]

23. BMC Public Health. 2017 Jul 6;17(1):600. doi: 10.1186/s12889-017-4508-0.

The centrality of social ties to climate migration and mental health.

Torres JM(1), Casey JA(2).

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Health and Society Scholars Program, and the 
Center for Health & Community, University of California, San Francisco, 3333 
California St., Suite 465, San Francisco, CA, 94118, USA. 
Jacqueline.Torres@ucsf.edu.
(2)Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Health and Society Scholars Program and the 
Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, University of 
California, Berkeley, Mulford Hall, 130 Hilgard Way, Berkeley, CA, 94720, USA.

Climate change-related hazards and disasters, known to adversely impact physical 
and mental health outcomes, are also expected to result in human migration above 
current levels. Environmentally-motivated migration and displacement may lead to 
the disruption of existing social ties, with potentially adverse consequences 
for mobile populations as well as their family members who remain in places of 
origin. We propose that the disruption of social ties is a key mechanism by 
which climate-related migration may negatively impact mental health, in 
particular. Existing social ties may provide social and material resources that 
buffer mental health stressors related to both prolonged and acute climate 
events. Preparation for such events may also strengthen these same ties and 
protect mental health. Communities may leverage social ties, first to mitigate 
climate change, and second, to adapt and rebuild post-disaster in communities of 
origin. Additionally, social ties can inform migration decisions and 
destinations. For example, scholars have found that the drought-motivated 
adaptive migration of West African Fulbe herders only occurred because of the 
long-term development of social networks between migrants and non-migrants 
through trade and seasonal grazing. On the other hand, social ties do not always 
benefit mental health. Some migrants, including those from poor regions or 
communities with no formal safety net, may face considerable burden to provide 
financial and emotional resources to family members who remain in countries of 
origin. In destination communities, migrants often face significant social 
marginalization. Therefore, policies and programs that aim to maintain ongoing 
social ties among migrants and their family and community members may be 
critically important in efforts to enhance population resilience and adaptation 
to climate change and to improve mental health outcomes. Several online 
platforms, like Refugee Start Force, serve to integrate refugees by connecting 
migrants directly to people and services in destination communities. These 
efforts may increasingly draw upon novel technologies to support and maintain 
social networks in the context of population mobility due to climatic and other 
factors.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-017-4508-0
PMCID: PMC5498922
PMID: 28679398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]