[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Osoaviakhim

y organization of Osoaviakhim.

In the summer of 1936, the Central Council of Osoaviakhim, taking into account the massive nature of the work on passing the standards "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense", introduced the standards "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense" of the 2nd class.

On August 1, 1936, the standards "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense" for the Voroshilov Shooter badge of the 2nd stage required the use of a combat rifle. At the first All-Union shooting competitions of pioneers and schoolchildren – young Voroshilov shooters and Muscovites were the first in the team standings.

On January 28, 1937, the Presidium of the Central Council of Osoaviakhim introduced standards for the collective mark "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense" for the primary organizations of the Residential Home Society, and at the beginning of next year, the standards for primary Osoaviakhim organizations of educational institutions were approved. The sign was wall-mounted and hung on the facades of buildings. The first organization in Moscow to pass "Ready for Air Defense and Chemical Defense" was the Institute of Cooperative Trade.

On May 8, 1938, the Moscow Osoaviakhim member Mikhail Zyurin set the first world record of Soviet aircraft models that was officially recognized by the International Aviation Federation. His model, equipped with a gasoline engine, flew 21.857 km in a straight line.

In 1939, the Osoaviakhim in Moscow had 23 regional organizations of the Society, a record-glider detachment, the Rostokinsky regional glider club, Baumansky, Leningradsky, Leninsky, Oktyabrsky, Proletarsky, Sverdlovsky, Stalinsky, Tagansky regional flying clubs, aero club Mosmetrostroy, city air and chemical Defense school, city maritime school, city rifle school, and the Osoaviakhim camps "Cheryomushki", "Veshnyaki", "Pushkinskoe".

On August 27, 1940, the Central Council of Osoaviakhim adopted a decree: "On the Restructuring of Military Training of the Members of Osoaviakhim". The transition from a circle system to classes in training units began. Groups, teams, and squads were created.

In 1939–1940, 3,248 self-defense groups were trained in the Osoaviakhim organizations of the capital, 1,138 air defense and anti-chemical defense posts were created, 6,000 commanders of self-defense posts and groups were assigned. In 1940, over 770 thousand residents of the city were prepared for air defense and chemical defense.

At the beginning of 1941, in Moscow there were more than 4,000 groups, over 100 teams, and about 230 detachments in the Osoaviakhim. They trained 81 thousand people.

In June 1941, in Moscow, there were 6,790 primary organizations of Osoaviakhim and 860 thousand members of the Society.

In July 1941, the Council of People's Commissars of the Soviet Union charged Osoaviakhim with the responsibility to organize universal mandatory preparation of the population for air defense.

On September 17, 1941, the Resolution of the State Defense Committee, "On Universal Compulsory Military Education of Citizens of the Soviet Union" (16 to 50 years old), was issued.

In October–November 1941, training and shooting centers and shooting clubs were established in Krasnopresnensky, October, Pervomaisk, Stalin and Tagansky districts.

In January 1942, training and shooting centers were deployed in all regional organizations of the Society. Over the course of the year, over 25,000 specialists were trained – machine gunners, snipers, tank destroyers, and Voroshilov riflemen. Each training and shooting center had a summer and winter camp, a firing range with a shooting distance of at least 800 m, a ski base, training fields, engineering and sapper towns, and training rooms. The main base of training and shooting centers of the Moscow city organization of Osoaviakhim were Mytishchi and Rumyantsev training grounds meeting the above requirements.

At the beginning of 1943, the primary organizations of Osoaviakhim began to create units, platoons, companies, and battalions, which became the main organizational form of military training and military education of citizens.