[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Decade for Women

ul to women in the regions.

In the end, the conference adopted 45 resolutions on matters on the role of women in development, health, education, employment, and more. The Holy See, of the Catholic Church, was opposed to the texts that included family planning as a human right.

Nairobi, Kenya 1985 

This conference was gathered to celebrate the accomplishments of the decade, but also to establish an agenda that would continue the efforts of the issues facing women beyond 1985. A document titled "The Nairobi Forward-Looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women" was created. In 1995, a conference was held in Beijing, China to accelerate the implementation of the initiatives outlined in the document.

In drafting the Forward Looking Strategies document, representatives and supporters of Palestine wanted to add Zionism as a form of oppression to be condemned alongside of neo-colonialism, the arms race, and more. After a three-hour diplomatic lobbying, all parties decided to use the broader terms of "racism and racial discrimination".

At the event, over 160 groups attended the forum of Non-Governmental Organizations and sponsored over 2000 workshops. Women headed 106 of the 160 delegations from as many countries. More than 4000 women came to Kenya during the 2.5 weeks of meetings.

Because of this conference, the UN made the UNIFEM an autonomous organization with the UN Development Program.

Legacy 
The focus on women during the decade brought about a lot of changes in policies impacting women.

A year after the conference in Nairobi, the UN published the first World Survey on the Role of Women in Development. To do the reporting every year, governments had to establish "women's departments", appoint cabinet ministers for women's affairs, and begin considering the roles and statuses of women in their countries. Prior to these appointments and specific studies, women often went "invisible" in global economic reports, as their labor is typically unpaid.

Many UN programs and funds were created in the duration of the decade that have remained active such as the United Nations Development Fund for Women, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (which 170 countries ratified by 1985), the Commission on the Status of Women, and the United Nations International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women.

The UN Economic Council for Africa appointed a women's officer to study the effects of development policies on women.

See also 
 International Women's Year
 United Nations Decade on Biodiversity
 United Nations Literacy Decade

References