[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jock Cunningham

Joseph Wallace "Jock" Cunningham (20 December 1902 – 22 February 1969) was a British volunteer in the International Brigades in the Spanish Civil War. He became a battalion and brigade commander and rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel. He played a key role in the Battle of Jarama, one of the principal military actions of the Spanish Civil War.

Early life 
Jock Cunningham was born along with his twin brother Thomas Michael Cunningham on 20 December 1902 at 17 Balgray Road, Glasgow, to John Cunningham, a Stationary Engine Keeper, and Mary (Annati) Cunningham, who married in 1890 in Malta. He was one of a family of twenty-two with military tradition. His father was a Second Boer War veteran and six of his brothers also served in the British Army. As a young boy, the family moved around Lanarkshire before settling in Coatbridge, Scotland. He was brought up in "The Whifflet" and lived at 77b Whifflet Street, Whifflet, Coatbridge.

In 1928–1929 Cunningham led a mutiny of the Argyll & Sutherland Highlanders in Jamaica against the unacceptable conditions imposed on the men. He was sentenced to six years and imprisoned in the Glasshouse at Aldershot, a British Military Prison with a reputation for brutality. He made a considerable fuss while incarcerated including going on hunger strike three or four times and eventually when a letter he had smuggled out of the prison was published in a Fife newspaper questions were asked in the Commons. Hearing of Cunningham's plight and impressed by his determination the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB) campaigned for his release. His release was something of legend as it is noted in The Spanish Civil War by Hugh Thomas that Cunningham has the reputation of being: "the only soldier in a military jail in England who made such a fuss that the authorities freed him to rid themselves of the trouble of looking after him". He was released after serving two years and four months of his sentence.

While with the Argyll & Sutherland Highlanders he was company champion in many events including: 1 mile, 2 mile track events and also welterweight boxing champion. Edinburgh City Councillor, Donald Renton's older brother served with him in Jamaica and described him as "the gamest man in the British Army". Prior to 1936, he was active as an organiser in the London area for the National Unemployed Workers' Movement during which time he led an unemployed march to Brighton in 1933. He worked as a miner and labourer.

Spanish Civil War Years 
At the time of Franco's attack on the democratically elected government of Spain Cunningham was one of many Scots who volunteered to fight alongside the people of Spain to defend their freedom and democracy. As Britain and many other democratic nations of Europe refused military aid to the Spanish Government and maintained a policy of "non-intervention" such an act of volunteering was illegal. Nonetheless volunteers recognised the threat Fascism would post to all democratic nations and as the war went on volunteers from many countries were organised into the International Brigades.

He arrived in Spain 19 October 1936 and was involved in the early defence of Madrid after joining the Machine-Gun Company of the Commune de Paris Battalion, part of the XI International Brigade. He rapidly rose to Captain. In December 1936 he fought at Lopera as a section commander with the British and Irish Company of the XIV International Brigade. He was made a Major and Commander of the British No. 1 Company and as a Lieutenant Colonel he was in charge of the entire English-speaking brigade.

The small 34-year-old played a key role in the February 1937 Battle of Jarama. He was wounded after leading the January 1937 battle at Los Rozas and in order to fight at Jarama it is reported that he "left hospital with a fever to go and fight". The battle at Jarama was one of the principal actions of the Spanish Civil War. If the Jarama valley were surrendered, the road from Madrid to Valencia would be cut off allowing Madrid to be taken by the Fascists which for all intents and purposes would cost the Spanish government the war. Along with Frank Ryan he rallied the remnants of the British Battalion in a defensive action which held the line outside Madrid. Cunningham led a bombing raid down a trench held at one end by the Fascists and at the other end by the Spanish government troops. They took this trench and with six men and a Lewis gun, cut off a group of some 80 Fascists from their own lines. This almost impossible defence blocked Franco's attempt to seize the capital. The Jarama action had left him with three rifle wounds through his left upper arm and another rifle bullet under his shoulder blade that had entered his left chest, passed through, and lodged there. Cunningham was hospitalised from 15 March 1937.