[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

rial is located at the terminus of Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd., overlooking the Savannah River. 
 Social Circle Martin Luther King, Jr. is the name of the south-side section of Social Circle Highway.
 Sylvester: when Georgia State Route 256 enter into southeast Sylvester, it is co-designated East Martin Luther King Jr. Drive. While SR 256 terminates at Sylvester's Main Street, the Martin Luther King Jr. Drive designation continues as a Sylvester residential street for a further five blocks to the west.
 Thomasville: Martin Luther King Drive is a main residential street running north–south on the west side of Thomasville.
 Thomson: Martin Luther King Jr. Street is a main residential street in Thomson, running north–south, parallel to US 78.
 Valdosta: Martin Luther King Circle is a residential cul-de-sac about 1/2 block long, off Bunche Drive.
 Warner Robins: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs from the Middle Georgia State University satellite campus east to US 129.  It continues as Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard east onto Robins Air Force Base.

Idaho
 Pocatello: Martin Luther King Jr Way runs through the center of the Idaho State University campus.

Illinois
 Cairo: Walnut Street is also named Dr. Martin Luther King Avenue in Cairo.  It runs from St. Mary's Park southeast to Jefferson Avenue.
 Chicago: Chicago became the first city in the world to name a street after King in 1968. Today, Martin Luther King Jr. Drive (formerly South Park Way, and originally Grand Boulevard) features a tribute to the Great Northern Migration (a statue honoring the tens of thousands of Blacks who migrated from the US South north to Chicago) and a Victory Monument for the Eighth Regiment (featuring a statue of a World War I Black soldier). Simply referred to as King Drive by locals, it runs from Cermak Road (22nd Street) to 115th Street in the South Side.  On the Chicago grid, it runs at 400 east.
 Decatur: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive runs north to south through the city of Decatur, paralleling Bus. US 51, a few blocks east.
 East St. Louis: US 67 is designated as Martin Luther King Drive over most of its length.
 Elgin: Elgin Bypass through the city of Elgin was named by State legislators  "Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Highway" in 2009.
 North Chicago: 22nd Street is named Martin Luther King Jr. Drive from Sheridan Road to Illinois Route 43 (Waukegan Road). Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is just outside of Great Lakes Naval Training Center and near Recruit Training Command (U.S. Navy boot camp).
 Springfield: 18th Street is named Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, forming a major north–south residential street in Springfield.
 Waukegan: Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue runs through downtown Waukegan between Belvidere Road and Julian Street.

Indiana

Anderson: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd in Anderson runs north-south from Brown St in Downtown Anderson to I-69 in South Anderson
 East Chicago: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, formerly Guthrie Street, runs from Michigan Street to Cline Avenue.
 Elkhart: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in Elkhart runs east–west from Main Street to S. 6th Street.
 Evansville: Martin Luther King Jr Blvd. runs northwest–southeast from downtown in Evansville. The Ford Center is at the corner of MLK Jr. Blvd and Main Street.
 Gary: Martin Luther King Drive runs north–south on the east side of the city, connecting Tennessee and Ohio Streets on the north with 37th Street at its south end.
 Indianapolis: Northwestern Avenue was renamed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Street in 1985. There have been recent proposals to extend the name much further, replacing Michigan Road.
 Lawrenceburg: Martin Luther King Drive is a one-and-a-half block residential street on the northeast side of town.
 Michigan City: Martin Luther King Drive runs east–west in Michigan City from North Karwick Road to US 12.  It forms the northern edge of Pottawatomie Park.
 South Bend: Since 2017, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard has followed the former St. Joseph Street from Western Avenue to Lasalle Avenue (Business US 20) and a former portion of Michigan Street from Lasalle Avenue to Marion Street. This is a part of the former northbound route of SR 933. From 2005 to 2017, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive followed the former Chapin Street from Washington Street to Lincoln Way West (Business US 20).