[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lanarkshire and Dumbartonshire Railway

ugust 1896, Possil from 1 Feb 1897 for workmen only, and was fully open from 1 October 1897; on the same day passenger services reached Dawsholm (Glasgow Central Railway). 

The line to Dumbarton was fully open from 1 October 1896, from which date the Dumbarton and Balloch Joint Railway was created.

The L&DR generated considerable business from the many heavy industrial sites along the Clyde; the company provided sidings connections from its main line free of charge. However the very large Singer factory provided no goods traffic during the L&DR period: the North British Railway already served it, and concluded a long term exclusive traffic agreement with it before completion of the L&DR line.

Taken over by the Caledonian Railway
The L&DR line was worked by the Caledonian and its income was guaranteed by that company; moreover the Caledonian had increased its shareholding substantially, and on 1 August 1909 the L&DR was vested in the Caledonian Railway.

As shipping activity increased, a new Rothesay Dock opened at Clydebank on 25 April 1907. This abstracted much export traffic from traditional ports and docks. The Caledonian Railway built a connecting line from the LD&R line in anticipation of this. Because the line was on viaduct at the locality, the branch diverged from the main line further east, at Scotstoun, and ran north of Dumbarton Road, crossing back under the road and the L&DR main line west of the Yoker - Renfrew Ferry and Kelso Street.

The intensive concentration of industry along the north bank of the Clyde brought enormous traffic volumes of goods and passengers to the line: workers travelled considerable distances, on trains making use of the Glasgow Central Railway. Tramway competition was severe for ordinary passenger travel, but the concentrated volumes of travel to and from work could only be handled by railways, and the Caledonian and the North British between them controlled that.

In 1947 the Forth and Clyde Canal and the Bowling basin were still important:

The quays extend to 740 feet with six lines of rails, and there is a wharf of a length of 460 feet fronting the River Clyde. A considerable quantity of exported coal and imported ores, minerals , iron and steel and general traffic is handled at Bowling ...

The Railways Act 1921 brought about the "grouping" of the main line railways of Great Britain, and from 1923 the Caledonian Railway was a constituent of the new London Midland and Scottish Railway; the rival NBR was a constituent of the new London and North Eastern Railway, so the competition continued, and the Dumbarton and Balloch Joint Railway was now joint between those two companies.

From 1948
The railways were nationalised in 1948, and the lines in Scotland formed part of the new Scottish Region of British Railways. Although the competitive pressure was abated, the former L&DR route and the NBR route served different residential and industrial areas, and for some time both routes continued largely unchanged. However industrial patterns were changing substantially, especially from the rise of low-cost heavy industry and mineral extraction in Asia and South America, and the exhaustion of many of the Lanarkshire coal and iron pits. This led to the decline of the industries served by the railway. At the same time motor bus services improved in efficiency substantially, and it was clear that the parallel railways needed to be modernised and simplified.

It was decided to electrify the line between Glasgow and Balloch and Helensburgh, but to retain only one of the duplicate routes: the former NBR route. However immediately east of Dumbarton the former L&DR line served industrial complexes as well as Dumbarton East station in a large residential area, so that part of the route was retained. The two lines came close to one another at Dunglass, a little east of Bowling, and a connection was installed there, so that trains from Glasgow on the NBR route could switch to the L&DR line.

The new arrangement started with a skeleton service on 5 November 1960, when electric trains between Glasgow and Balloch and Helensburgh were in operation. A full service ran from the following day. Steam trains on the L&DR route from Glasgow to Balloch continued for the time being.

On 30 October 1960, during trial running, a transformer explosion occurred in an electric train at Charing Cross, Glasgow; and on 13 December a serious explosion occurred in the guard's compartment of an electric train at Renton, and this was followed by other serious problems and the electric service was suspended. Steam trains resumed (although some steam engines had been taken out of service permanently). The normal electric service was resumed after modifications to the electrical equipment in the trains on 1 October 1961, but ordinary running of steam-hauled trains on the L&DR route to Glasgow continued until that line closed in 1964.