[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Shaman King characters

er Arms as her spirit allies along with other spirits she can summon as an Itako. She serves as Team Hao's manager.

Gakko Ibuki

 is an aloof youth who enjoys fighting, having Namaha as his spirit ally. He joined the Flower of Maize to fulfill his wish to be the strongest man alive.

Asakura Family

 
 
 Yohmei is Yoh's maternal grandfather and an onmyōji who specializes in divination and exorcism, and utilizes leaf shikigami. Born on July 2, 1919, he is the current head of the Asakura family. While highly respected as an onmyouji, Yohmei acknowledges that it has been difficult to find work in the modern era as fewer people believe in spirits.  His divination techniques, however, are high in demand from the rich and powerful wanting to know their fortunes, so he does not worry about money. Yohmei is also known for using leaf Shikigami, creating and controlling any number of these small Over Souls using small leaves as mediums. Yohmei almost constantly uses these, even outside of combat, to do small tasks like fetching items, holding the newspaper, and so forth. Strangely, these spirits can move through telephone lines.  His favored technique, the Asakura Shiki Onmyōjutsu Hyaku Shikigami (Asakura Style Yin and Yang Technique – Hundred Shikigami) creates countless Shikigami so he can surround an opponent and attack them from all directions at once. Before Yoh was born, Yohmei foresaw that Hao Asakura would be reincarnated in one of his daughter Keiko's unborn twin children and reluctantly decided that he would kill both children upon birth rather than risk allowing Hao to be reborn. However, Yohmei hesitated for a moment as he was hit with remorse for killing his own grandchildren, which was sufficient enough for Hao to summon the Spirit of Fire and escape. Though the Asakuras were disappointed with allowing Hao to escape, they embraced the fact that Yoh, Hao's twin brother, had survived and they believed that Yoh was the family's best chance of finally defeating Hao for good. Since Yoh's childhood, Yohmei has trained him to become Shaman King, though Yoh's lazy and stubborn nature made the task difficult. When Yoh fails to defeat Faust VIII in the qualifying round of the Shaman Fight, he returns in Izumo with Anna and Amidamaru to consult Yohmei on how to improve his furyoku levels; Yohmei suggests a dangerous method – traveling through the Yomi Cave (Tunnel of Tartarus). Before Yoh leaves for the Shaman Fight, he also sends a package containing the Futsunomitama sword to Yoh and later entrusts Anna to deliver the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu to Yoh along with the Asakura family's true relationship to Hao upon realizing that Yoh cannot hope to defeat Hao as he is now. He and Kino later go to the Patch Village during the Shaman Fight when it becomes apparent that Hao is unstoppable; in the manga, they are joined by Keiko, Mikihisa, and the spirit of Yohken Asakura, as they collaborate with the Tao family on how to deal with Hao.

 
 
 A master itako who trains young girls in the art at Osorezan, born on March 24, 1924, Kino is Yoh's grandmother and the wife of Yohmei. In her youth, Matamune mentions that she had been very beautiful, though she had already lost her sight during World War II. With very few options left, she chose to become itako and became accomplished enough to marry Yohmei. Her temperament is similar enough to Anna's that Yohmei fears getting hit by his wife and getting on her bad side, though she expresses her kindhearted nature to Yoh and Anna, whom she found and raised as her apprentice. Instead of living at the Asakura family home in Izumo, she chooses to live in Shimokita, in the Aomori prefecture, near Osorezan. She runs what is ostensibly a traditional Japanese inn, the "". In reality however, she uses the inn to house her apprentices. When Anna was abandoned as a child, Kino sensed the amount of spiritual power Anna possessed and took her in; because Anna sensed that Kino had no ulterior motives for saving her, Kino became the first and only person Anna trusted until she met Yoh.  Impressed though concerned with the level of Anna's spiritual power, Kino suggested that Anna should marry Yoh and eventually trained Anna to be an itako.  She regards Anna as her favorite over all her students, boasting to her husband that Anna is her pride.