[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fabio Grosso

Chiellini, Fabio Cannavaro, Nicola Legrottaglie, Mauro Camoranesi, Antonio Candreva, Claudio Marchisio and Vincenzo Iaquinta on 4–5 May, and was included in the 30-man preliminary squad announced on 11 May. However, in the second training camp, he was dropped, alongside Candreva.

Managerial career

At the start of the 2013–14 season, it was announced Grosso would take up a coaching position in the Juventus youth system. On 11 March 2014, he was appointed as the new manager of the Juventus Primavera (U-19) youth team, following a string of poor performances under manager Andrea Zanchetta, who was transferred to another position within the youth system.

On 13 June 2017, Grosso was named as head coach of Bari in Serie B. The following April, his home was vandalised by fans of local rivals Pescara, who hanged a rooster, the mascot of his club. The team finished seventh and were eliminated from the playoffs by Cittadella.

Grosso was appointed as manager of Hellas Verona on 21 June 2018, signing a two-year deal at the newly relegated Serie B club. He was sacked the following May, after a shock 3–2 home loss to relegation-threatened Livorno.

On 5 November 2019, Grosso was appointed as the manager of Serie A club Brescia. He was sacked on 2 December after three straight defeats without a single goal.

Grosso was as appointed the manager of Swiss Super League side Sion on 25 August 2020. He was sacked on 5 March 2021, after a 3–0 home loss to Lugano as Sion sat in last place in the league.

On 23 March 2021, Grosso was appointed as the manager of Frosinone. He won the 2022–23 Serie B, after which his contract expired and he was replaced by Eusebio Di Francesco.

On 16 September 2023, Grosso was unveiled as the new manager of Ligue 1 club Lyon, a club at which he formerly played. On 29 October 2023, prior to an away match against rivals Marseille at the Stade Vélodrome, Grosso suffered a facial injury due to shards of broken glass hitting his face after the Lyon bus was pelted with stones on its way to the stadium. He received medical treatment due to heavy bleeding. The match was subsequently postponed by the officials.

Style of play
A former attacking left back, Grosso was a physical, quick, and energetic player, who was sound both defensively and offensively, due to his work-rate, attacking prowess, technique, and stamina, which enabled him to excel as an offensive–minded left-back. A versatile footballer, regarded as one of the top Italian full-backs of his generation, he was also adept with accurate crossing ability, which even allowed him to be deployed as a winger or as an attacking wing-back on either flank throughout his career, despite being naturally left-footed. Unusually for a defender, he was also a free kick, penalty and corner kick specialist, responsibilities usually held by a striker or midfielder.

Personal life
Grosso is married to Jessica Repetto.

Career statistics
Source:

Club

International

International goals
Scores and results list Italy's goal tally first.

Managerial statistics

Honours

Player
Perugia
UEFA Intertoto Cup: 2003

Inter Milan
Serie A: 2006–07
Supercoppa Italiana: 2006

Lyon
Ligue 1: 2007–08
Coupe de France: 2007–08
Trophée des Champions: 2007

Juventus
Serie A: 2011–12

Italy
FIFA World Cup: 2006

Orders
  CONI: Golden Collar of Sports Merit: 2006

  4th Class / Officer: Ufficiale Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana: 2006

Manager
Frosinone
Serie B: 2022–23

References

External links

 
 FootballDatabase.com provides Grosso's profile and stats
 

1977 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Chieti
Footballers from Abruzzo
Italian men's footballers
Italy men's international footballers
Serie A players
Serie B players
Serie C players
Serie D players
Ligue 1 players
SS Chieti Calcio players
AC Perugia Calcio players
Palermo FC players
Inter Milan players
Juventus FC players
Olympique Lyonnais players
2006 FIFA World Cup players
UEFA Euro 2008 players
2009 FIFA Confederations Cup players
FIFA World Cup-winning players
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in France
Italian expatriate sportspeople in France
Men's association football defenders
Italian football managers
SSC Bari managers
Hellas Verona FC managers
Brescia Calcio managers
Frosinone Calcio managers
FC Sion managers
Serie A managers
Serie B managers
Swiss Super League managers
Olympique Lyonnais managers
Ligue 1 managers
Officers of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic
Italian expatriate football managers
Expatriate football managers in France
Expatriate football managers in Switzerland
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Switzerland