[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Obsession: Radical Islam's War Against the West

r 2006, U.S. Representatives Eric Cantor (R-VA), Chief Deputy Majority Whip, and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) co-sponsored a screening of the film on Capitol Hill. Cantor's cousin and Wasserman Schultz's constituent, Daniel Cantor Wultz, was killed in an attack by an Islamic Jihad suicide bomber.

Distribution
Following the failure of traditional film distributors to pick up Shore's films, The Clarion Fund retained a non-exclusive agreement to distribute Obsession, Relentless and The Third Jihad. The film was initially distributed to college campuses in 2007.

In September 2008, the Clarion Fund, in cooperation with the Endowment for Middle East Truth, distributed 28 million DVDs of the film by mail, and in newspaper advertising supplements, predominantly in swing states. The timing of the release and the unrevealed funding for the distribution, by one estimate to have cost around $50 million, stimulated controversy and speculation about who distributed the film. The Council on American–Islamic Relations filed a complaint about the distribution with the Federal Election Commission.

The film was included in the first issue, in 2008 of the publication "The Judeo-Christian View", which was sent to priests and pastors in churches and synagogues in the United States.

The DVD was also distributed in 2008 to all 30,000 members of the Republican Jewish Coalition.

In 2008, Donors Capital Fund, a nonprofit donor-advised fund, granted $17.7 million to The Clarion Fund.

Newspapers 
Newspapers distributing the DVD included The New York Times, The Charlotte Observer, The Miami Herald, the Raleigh News & Observer, The Chronicle of Higher Education, and The Oregonian. The New York Times distributed approximately 145,000 DVDs in their national edition to Denver, Miami, Tampa, Orlando,  Detroit, Kansas City, St. Louis, Philadelphia, and Milwaukee. According to a News & Observer blog post, whether the advertisement should be accepted was discussed, but publisher Orage Quarles made the "ultimate decision". The newspaper's vice president of display advertising noted, "Obviously, we have distributed other product samples, whether it's cereal or toothpaste."

Refusals to distribute 
Many of the newspapers distributing the DVD also published articles about the film, including
The Morning Call
of Allentown, Pennsylvania, The Charlotte Observer, and The News & Observer
of Raleigh, North Carolina. Newspapers that refused to distribute the DVD included the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, the Detroit Free Press, the News & Record of Greensboro, North Carolina, and The Plain Dealer of Cleveland, Ohio. News & Record president and publisher Robin Saul said: "It didn't meet our advertising standards. We were told its purpose was educational. We didn't see it as educational at all. It was fear-mongering and divisive." The editor John Robinson wrote: "As a journalist, my default position is to provide people with more knowledge, however troubling, rather than less. Were this truly an issue of the freedom of information, I would have argued to publish. But this was a paid advertisement presenting one side of an inflammatory issue."

New Films International acquired the film for international distribution.

Reception
Conservative media praised the film. Glenn Beck described Obsession as "one of the most important movies of our lifetime". Emmett Tyrrell of CNN wrote that "Obsession is one of the most riveting films I have seen about the roots of the struggle the civilized world now faces", while Kyra Phillips encouraged CNN Newsroom viewers to see the movie which, according to her, "provides an incredible education". Additional positive reviews were published on Fox News, in National Review, in The Times Gazette (OH)  and on conservative radio programs such as The Rush Limbaugh Show.

According to Christine Brim of the Center for Security Policy, the movie "has the same cultural relationship to inspiring the counter jihad that, say, Uncle Tom’s Cabin had to inspiring the fight against slavery in the mid-1800’s”.

Criticism and controversy 
Supplied to college campuses for free screenings, the film ignited controversy with 30 airing the film, while several declined including the State University of New York at the request of Jewish groups. Students attending the screenings at New York University were required to register with IsraelActivism.com with photographs of the event forwarded to Hasbara Fellowships, an organization that brings students to Israel and trains them to be pro-Israel activists on college campuses. The forwarding of names was criticised for stifling dissent and intimidating people.

Think tank researcher Jennifer Bryson gave the film a mixed review, saying that while it does show how, "Islamist radicalism poses a grave threat to the freedoms of constitutional democracies, the film largely ignores potential solutions and a host of moderate Islamic voices that have gone unheard."