[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Kite Runner (film)

d-with his wife and his son Sohrab. Later, Rahim had fled to Pakistan leaving the home to Hassan and his family. Meanwhile, after the civil war, the Taliban had taken power. When they demanded Hassan vacate the home he refused, so they executed him and his wife and Sohrab was taken to an orphanage. 

Rahim then urges Amir to return to Kabul to find Sohrab and give him a letter written by Hassan, who had taught himself to read and write. Amir declines until Rahim reveals that Amir and Hassan are half-brothers: Hassan was the result of the affair between Amir's father and Ali's wife.

Amir seeks Sohrab in a Kabul orphanage, but learns he had been purchased by a Taliban official. Arranging an appointment at the official's house, he is surprised to see the his assistant is actually Assef. He recognizes Amir immediately, introduces Sohrab as his dance boy and begins to beat Amir for taking him. In the confusion, Sohrab pulls out Hassan's slingshot and shoots Assef in the eye. Sohrab and an injured Amir then flee to Peshawar, where they discover Rahim has died, leaving behind a letter for Amir.

In San Francisco, Amir introduces Sohrab to Soraya, and the couple welcomes him into their home. He teaches him how to fly kites and volunteers to be Sohrab's "runner". As Amir runs off to fetch a defeated kite, he repeats to Sohrab what Hassan had said to him when they were boys: "For you, a thousand times over."

Cast
 Khalid Abdalla as Amir Qadiri, a young novelist who fled to the U.S. as a boy during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
 Zekeria Ebrahimi as Young Amir
 Ahmad Khan Mahmoodzada as Hassan, Amir's childhood friend who was the victim of brutal torment. It's later revealed Hassan was Amir's brother
 Homayoun Ershadi as the Agha Sahib (Baba)
 Atossa Leoni as Soraya, the daughter of General Taheri and Amir's spouse
 Shaun Toub as Rahim Khan
 Saïd Taghmaoui as Farid
 Abdul Salaam Yusoufzai as Assef, Amir and Hassan's childhood tormenter who became a Taliban official as an adult
 Elham Ehsas as Young Assef
 Ali Danish Bakhtyari as Sohrab
 Maimoona Ghezal as Jamila Taheri
 Abdul Qadir Farookh as General Taheri
 Khaled Hosseini (cameo) as Doctor in the park
 Camilo Cuervo as a Taliban Soldier
 Nasser Memarzia as Zaman, an orphanage director
 Mohamad Amin Rahimi as a Taliban official who made speeches in Ghazi Stadium
 Chris Verrill as Dr. Starobin, a Russian-American doctor
 Amar Kureishi as Dr. Amani, an Iranian doctor
 Nabi Tanha as Ali, Agha Sahib's house servant
 Ehsan Aman (cameo) as a singer at Amir's and Soraya's wedding
 Mehboob Ali as Amir's taxi driver in Pakistan

The two child actors were aged 11 and 12 at the time of the filming.

Production
Due to dangers of filming in Afghanistan, much of the film was recorded instead in the western Chinese city of Kashgar, which is located about 500 miles from Kabul and shares many visual similarities.

Critical reception

The film received generally positive reviews. , the film holds a 65% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 178 reviews, with an average rating of 6.40/10. The site's critics' consensus states: "Despite some fine performances, The Kite Runner is just shy of rendering the magic of the novel on to the big screen." On Metacritic, the film had an average score of 61 out of 100, based on 34 reviews.

Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times named it the 5th best film of 2007.

Controversy
Though the child actors enjoyed making the film, they and their families expressed worries about their situation after the film's release.  Regarding one scene, Ahmad Khan Mahmoodzada (young Hassan) said, "I want to continue making films and be an actor but the rape scene upset me because my friends will watch it and I won't be able to go outside any more. They will think I was raped." The scene was depicted in a less harrowing manner than originally planned; it contained no nudity, and the sexual aspect of the attack was suggested only very briefly at the end of the scene (also, a body double was used). There were also fears of intertribal reprisals, as the character Hassan was a Hazara and the boys who bullied and raped him were Pashtun.

The government of Afghanistan at the time, led by President Hamid Karzai, decided to ban the film from theaters and DVD shops, both because of the rape scene and the ethnic tensions. The deputy Information and Culture minister said: "It showed the ethnic groups of Afghanistan in a bad light. We respect freedom of speech, we support freedom of speech, but unfortunately we have difficulties in Afghan society, and if this film is shown in the cinemas, it is humiliating for one of our ethnic groups."