[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Dan Cronin

board. In 2014, Cronin helped form Transform Illinois, a statewide collaboration of elected officials, private organizations, and civic activists. Transform Illinois advocated for legislation favoring government efficiency, though the organization became inactive in 2020 amid the COVID-19 pandemic.

In August 2013, the General Assembly passed a bill that gave the county board the authority to dissolve or consolidate 13 units of government: four sanitary districts, three fire districts, two mosquito abatement districts, the airport authority, county fair authority, housing authority, and a district responsible for street lights. The Timberlake Estates Sanitary District, an inactive district, was dissolved in 2013 with the support of a majority of residents in the district. By 2014, the county government achieved roughly $80 million in savings from reducing or eliminating government agencies. Meanwhile, around 60 board members of agencies under Cronin's purview did not support these consolidation efforts, and either resigned or were not reappointed to their roles. In 2015, Cronin considered the dissolution of the Salt Creek Sanitary District. Eventually, the county eliminated its Fair & Exposition Authority, the Century Hill Street Lighting District, the Fairview Fire Protection District, the Highland Hills Sanitary District, and the North Westmont Fire Protection District.

In 2016, county and state officials estimated that DuPage had saved $116 million through shared services, $20 million through reforming employee benefits, and $6.9 million through closing the county's youth home and consolidating its youth detention services with Kane County.

By 2018, reforms of the county's election commission had achieved roughly $3 million in savings. Cronin proposed merging the election commission into the county clerk's office, expected to save as much as an additional $300,000 annually. In 2017, Senators Harmon and Chris Nybo proposed a bill that would have consolidated the two agencies and established a five-member oversight board within the clerk's office. The board would have included two Democrats and two Republicans appointed by Cronin as county board chairman, with the county clerk serving as the board's fifth member and chairman. Some opponents were against giving Cronin the authority to appoint commissioners to the oversight board, and other opponents expressed concerns about the anticipated salaries of the commissioners in the expanded board. Cronin countered that the full county board would review and approve appointments to the election board, a power that the county board had not previously held. He also expected that salaries of the new election board to fall from the annual pay for commissioners at the time: $27,500. The proposal passed the Senate, but stalled in the House rules committee.

A separate bill, introduced in the House in February 2018, proposed to consolidate the agencies without creating a separate board. A non-binding countywide referendum was held on the matter in March of that year, with 56% of voters supporting consolidation. During the same election, the election commission faced technical issues that caused significant delays in reporting the results, accelerating calls for the merger to take place. In May 2018, the General Assembly passed legislation that would allow the county board to finalize the merger without creating a separate board. In January 2019, the county board formally dissolved the election commission, despite a request from County Clerk Jean Kaczmarek to delay the merger until May.

Cronin has also suggested eliminating the county recorder's office and consolidating it with another county office or department. As of 2020, Cronin's efforts to consolidate agencies in DuPage, including the election commission, were expected to save $145 million over a 20-year period.

Second term 
Cronin ran for re-election in November 2014. He was challenged by Democratic candidate Robert Peickert, a former small business owner and chairman of the DuPage County Democratic Party. During the campaign, after initial efforts to impose stormwater fees garnered strongly negative public feedback, Cronin proposed setting fees based on how much water a given property displaces into public waterways, while Peickert proposed increasing sales tax revenues to pay for flood mitigation. Peickert also called for more engineering plans and capabilities to support stormwater projects, and criticized Cronin and other officials for not doing enough, but Cronin pointed to a lack of funding as a major constraint. Peickert touted his availability to work full-time as board chairman, in contrast to Cronin, an attorney in addition to his county office. Cronin argued that the connections he formed while a state legislator help him secure funding for the county's stormwater projects. Ultimately, Cronin won with 64 percent of the vote.