[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lou Jacobs

folded-up contorted body by helping him build several cardboard mock-ups.  Once they began road testing the car, they discovered that Jacobs had a vision problem after he ran into a tree.  The midget car finally made its debut in 1946, only to get scrubbed from the program due to stalling problems.

The act was reentered in the 1947 campaign.  Jacobs enhanced the visual contrast between his six-foot-one-inch frame and his tiny twenty-three inch car by making himself a bigger pair of shoes.  However, the shoes impaired his vision.  He accidentally ran into Jimmy Armstrong, a fellow clown.  That collision broke the steering arm to the car, causing another collision into a stage in the center ring.  Jacobs could not get out of the car due to the extent of the damage.  He had to be towed from the arena while inside the car and was eventually freed with a hacksaw backstage.
 
In 1948, the perfected midget car was reentered and used in a sketch that became an all-time classic.  Jacobs opened the act by racing the loud honking car into the center ring.  The car would start to sputter and backfire as he pulled up to a makeshift gas station.  Watching Jacobs unfold out of the car was an act all by itself.  Once he was out, the gas station attendant played by Frankie Saluta insisted that the car was not parked close enough to the pump.  Jacobs whacked Frankie over the head with a mallet and a balloon welt rose on his head.  The car would sputter and backfire as Jacobs tried to move it closer.  He then removed the radiator cap, a snake lunged out and a geyser of water followed.  Jacobs sat on the geyser only to have water squirting from the top of his head.  When he stopped the flow with his hand, the water squirted out of his mouth.  Finally, the car was pushed closer to the pump.  Frankie climbed inside the pump and Jacobs threw in a bomb.  The explosion sent up a dummy dressed like Frankie and it floated down under a parachute.  Jacobs closed the act by making a speedy exit in the midget car in an attempt to evade the pursuing cop played by Jimmy Armstrong.

Jacobs' performance of his clown car act is featured in the 1952 Cecil B. DeMille movie The Greatest Show on Earth.

Personal life
In 1953 he married Jean Rockwell, a former model and circus aerialist. They had two daughters: Dolly, who became a well-known acrobat and trapeze artist, and Lou Ann, an elephant trainer.

Honours
In 1966 he had the distinction of being the only living American to have his image put on a U.S. postage stamp.

Later career
On November 11, 1967, Irvin and Israel Feld and Judge Roy Hofheinz, Jr. pooled their money and bought RB&B&B Circus from John Ringling North for 8 million dollars.  The official signing and transfer of ownership was ceremoniously carried out at the ruins of the old Coliseum in Rome.  Irvin Feld realized the important role clowns played in the overall success of the Circus.  When he acquired the Circus, there were only 14, all over fifty.  Irvin Feld wanted to infuse some fresh blood into the Clown Alley.  He did this by starting a Clown College in the summer of 1968.

After the school experienced limited success in its inaugural term, Irvin Feld commissioned Bill Ballantine to direct the next class.  The first person Bill wanted on his faculty was Lou Jacobs.  Bill was well acquainted with Jacobs because he performed with him as a clown in the 1947 and ’48 campaigns.  This was not the first time Jacobs taught clowning.  He was James Stewart’s tutor when he played a clown in the 1952 Cecil B. DeMille movie, The Greatest Show On Earth.  The teaching position at the Clown College had a farther reaching impact because he taught hundreds of young men and women.

Bill Ballantine described Jacobs as an “unselfish and a natural-born teacher.”  He was known for his patience and brought out the best in his pupils.  They called him “Papa Lou.”  His method of instruction was to teach the beginner material that had already been written, after the student acquired a feel for the art, he could start writing his own material.  Jacobs had an inexhaustible supply of clown sketches for his students.  He wrote down every clown sketch he had seen, heard of, or thought of and kept them all in a little black book.  There were well over fifty years of material in it.