[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Milk coffee

(with condensed milk and cream on top). In the United States it is sometimes known as a Gibraltar. It differs from cappuccino in having little or no milk foam, and from flat white in that the cortado's  shot of espresso is reduced in volume and caffeine content to the flat white's .

Café con leche 

Café con leche is one of the most common Spanish drinks that include coffee. It consists basically of two ingredients: coffee (as an infusion) and milk, with a proportion that varies according to local Spanish provinces, but is around the same amount. Generally, the term café con leche also implies the size of the cup used, which is usually large, between 200 and 250 ml (this cup is also called breakfast cup in some countries). The mixture of coffee and milk in a slightly smaller container is called a cortado (although in addition to the size the proportion of the constituents also changes).

Minato 
A minato is a double espresso shot with warm milk to reduce the acidity. The ratio of milk to coffee is between 1:1 – 1:2, and the milk is added to the espresso. Though the steamed milk has little foam, some baristas make some micro foam to make latte art. It is popular in Kent.

Egg coffee 
Egg coffee is a Vietnamese drink which is traditionally prepared with egg yolks, sugar, condensed milk and Robusta coffee in the Central Highlands of Vietnam, where 70% of global Robusta coffee is cultivated.

Eggnog latte 
An autumn and winter seasonal blend of steamed milk and eggnog, plus espresso and a pinch of nutmeg.

Eiskaffee, literally 'ice cream coffee', is a popular German drink consisting of chilled coffee, vanilla ice cream, and sometimes sugar or whipped cream.

Espressino 
An espressino is made from espresso, steamed milk, and cocoa powder, similar to the Marocchino.

Espresso con panna 
Espresso con panna is coffee with whipped cream.

Flat white 

Flat white is an espresso with a similar proportion of coffee to milk as a latte and a cappuccino, the main difference being the texture of the milk and (in some regions) the number of espresso shots.

It became popular in New Zealand in the late 1980s and has since spread to the UK, where it was first served at independent cafes in London such as Department of Coffee and Social Affairs and Speak Easy where owners and staff from Australia and New Zealand brought the style of coffee into the UK before being adopted by chains Costa Coffee and Starbucks. Available in the form of a 12 oz. double latte from Starbucks in the US since January 6, 2015, it is rarely found in continental Europe.

In Australia and New Zealand it is traditionally made with two shots of espresso topped with stretched and textured milk. The milk is prepared by steaming air into the milk and folding the top layer into the lower layers. To achieve the "flat", non-frothy texture the steamed milk is poured from the bottom of the jug, holding back the lighter froth on the top in order to access milk with smaller bubbles, making the drink smooth and velvety in texture. This leads to a white coffee with the crema on top still intact. The drink was traditionally served in a ceramic cup used for cappuccinos (approximately 220–260 ml in capacity), though present-day speciality cafes are more likely to serve it in smaller (150–160 ml) cups with two ristretto shots used, resulting in a drink noticeably stronger and less milky than a caffè latte.

Galão is a hot drink from Portugal made of espresso and foamed milk. Similar to caffè latte or café au lait, it comes in a tall glass with plenty of milk. With only half milk, it is known as . In Madeira, a large, milky coffee is known as a  (literally, 'Chinese lady').

A shot of espresso poured over a single marshmallow.  This originated in the coffeehouses of America's Pacific Northwest.  The resulting drink is sweet and thick, leading to the name , meaning 'rubbery coffee'.

Indian filter coffee 
South Indian filter coffee is a coffee drink made by mixing frothed and boiled milk with the decoction obtained by brewing finely ground coffee powder in a traditional Indian filter. The drink known as  is the Tamil phonetic rendering of coffee.

'milk coffee' is found in (at least) Brunei, Indonesia, and Malaysia and very similar to the Vietnamese . Served in a glass,  is made by mixing black coffee (Arabica) with about a quarter to half a glass of sweetened condensed milk, which is then let stand to cool and allow the grounds to sink to the bottom. Another version of  uses fresh milk. 

In Indonesia, milk coffee with ice and palm sugar is called . Kopi tubruk is as above but uses sugar instead of milk.

Latte 

A latte is an espresso and steamed milk, generally in a 1:3 to 1:5 ratio of espresso to milk, with a little foam on top.