[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Quintus Labienus

es to join them. Ventidius did not respond and the cavalry made a charge up the slope. When they were some way up the Romans attacked and pushed the enemy downhill. Many were killed in combat and a larger number was trampled over by those who were retreating while they were still going up the hill. 

The survivors fled without joining Labienus, and Ventidius pursued them up to their camp. Labienus had got there and prepared to offer battle. However, his soldiers were dejected because of the flight of the Parthians. Labienus gave up and tried to withdraw. Ventidius had learned about this from deserters and prepared some ambushes. The enemy was defeated and Labienus escaped. He spent some time in Cilicia in disguise. However, he was found out and arrested. Ventidius took charge of Cilicia and sent a cavalry force to Amanus, a mountain between Cilicia and Syria. It was nearly routed by Pharnapates, a lieutenant of Pacorus in charge of the garrison at the pass. Ventidius showed up unexpectedly, defeated the enemy and killed Pharnapates. The Parthians abandoned Syria and Ventidius seized it without a fight. He occupied Judea and left it after a frightened Antigonous fled. For the actions of Ventidius and his lieutenant, Silo, in Judea see Josephus.

According to Florus, the battle (see Battle of Mount Gindarus) was fought between the rivers Euphrates and Orontes, and the defeated force numbered more than 20,000. Ventidius used the stratagem of pretending to panic to get the enemy to come close to prevent them from using their arrows as they would not have room to shoot. Pacorus died in the battle. This was a compensation for the disaster of Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae. His head was carried around the cities which had revolted. Syria was recovered without a fight. Festus wrote that the battle was fought on Mount Caper. Both Labienus and Pacorus died in that battle. The latter died on the same day in which Crassus had been defeated and this avenged his death. Ventidius celebrated a triumph over the Persians. Velleius Paterculus, too, wrote that Labienus and  Pacorus died in the battle. Frontinus, like Florus, thought that Ventidius feigned fear to lure the Parthians into an unfavourable situation and then attacked them by surprise. The Parthians refused to follow Labienus and left the province.  In the Periochae, with his victory, Ventidius drove the Parthians out of Syria after Labienus had been killed. According to Plutarch, Labienus died in the battle, and so did Pharnapates, the most capable general of Orodes II. Mark Antony received the news of the victory while he was wintering in Athens.

According to Justin, Ventidius routed the Parthian army in the absence of Pacorus. Justin, too, wrote that Ventidius pretended to be afraid. He put the Parthians to flight with part of his army. Pacorus thought that the fugitive had drawn all the Romans in their pursuit and that their camp was unguarded. He attacked it, but was defeated by the rest of the Roman troops. Pacorus died. This was the biggest defeat suffered by the Parthians in any war.

See also
 Labiena (gens)

References

Sources
Appian, Roman History: The Civil Wars,  Vol 4, Books 3.27-5 (Loeb Classical Library), Loeb, 1989;  
Cassius Dio, Roman History, Vol. 5 Books 46-50 (Loeb Classical Library), Loeb, 1989; 
Josephus, Jewish Antiquities, Books 14-15 (Loeb Classical Library), Loeb, 1998;  
Josephus, The Jewish War, Books 1-2 (Loeb Classical Library), Loeb,1997; 
Justin, Epitome of the Philippic History of Pompeius Trogus (Classical Resources Series, No 3, Society for Classical Studies Classical Resources), Oxford University Press, 1994; 
Plutarch Lives, vol. 9, "Demetrius and Antony". "Pyrrhus and Gaius Marius" (Loeb Classical Library), Loeb, 1920; ASIN: B00E6TGQKO
Morello, Antonio (2005). Titus Labienus et Cingulum, Quintus Labienus Parthicus Volume 9 of Nummus et historia. Circolo numismatico Mario Rasile.

External links
 Coins of Rome about Parthia: Quintus Labienus (42-39 B.C.) 

1st-century BC births
39 BC deaths
Roman generals killed in action
1st-century BC Romans
People of the Roman–Parthian Wars
Defectors
Generals of the Parthian Empire
Labieni