[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2nd Battalion, 2nd Marines

ents that led to 2nd Lt. Ilario Pantano being charged with two counts of premeditated murder; Pantano was acquitted of these charges. During this deployment the battalion suffered 154 Marines wounded and six killed in action while participating in more than 600 separate engagements of various sizes.

2/2 was deployed to Iraq in July 2005 when it was attached to Regimental Combat Team 8, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force. Their area of operations included the areas between Fallujah and Abu Ghraib. They suffered 16 Marines killed in action. The Warlords returned home to Camp Lejeune in February 2006. 2/2 was deployed on January 6, 2007, till July 2007 as the BLT of the 26th MEU with the USS Batan amphibious group. 2/2 was deployed again to Iraq in April 2008 when it was attached to Regimental Combat Team 5, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force. Their area of operations included the areas between Rawah and Al Qaim and many other sites. The Warlords returned home to Camp Lejeune in November 2008.

In mid-October 2009, 2/2 was deployed to Helmand Province in Afghanistan. They were sent there after undergoing training in the Mojave Desert and in Virginia. During the deployment 2/2 suffered eight Marines killed in action. They returned in May 2010 having participated in ISAF-OEF operations in the far south in the vicinity directly north of Safar Bazaar. In March 2011, 2/2 was deployed on a contingency deployment in support of NATO Operation Unified Protector, as part of the 22d Marine Expeditionary Unit. The Warlords returned home to Camp Lejeune in February 2012 . The 2/2 was deployed for a length of 10 months and conducted numerous bi-lateral training exercises with foreign nations.

In April 2013, the majority of the battalion deployed in support of the Black Sea Rotational Force, while Fox Company conducted combat operations around Nad Ali and surrounding areas in Helmand Province in support of Operation Enduring Freedom returning later that year. In August 2014, the unit deployed in support of the Special Purpose Marine Air-Ground Task Force – Crisis Response – Africa (SP-MAGTF-CR-AF) and the Black Sea Rotational Force. Conducting training with the Spanish, Italian, French, and other NATO members, the unit returned home in January 2015.

In February 2016, 2/2 deployed as part of the Unit Deployment Program (UDP) based out of Okinawa. The unit traveled to many countries while deployed, conducting bi-lateral training and ensuring peace and balance within the region. The unit returned home August 2016. In August 2017, 2/2 deployed in support of the SP-MAGTF-CR-AF, Marine Rotational Force-Europe, and the Black Sea Rotational Force, conducting training with Norwegian, Spanish, Italian, and other NATO members. Additionally, 2/2 participated in a large Swedish, Aurora 2017. The unit returned home in March 2018. 

During the fall of 2018, 2/2 was dispatched in support of Operation Trident Juncture, a joint training operation conducted by NATO in Norway. In August of 2019, 2/2 was deployed as part of the UDP of Okinawa, where they traveled to mainland Japan as well as the Philippian islands, and South Korea in order to improve relations and serve as instructors for the local militaries. They returned to Camp Lejeune in February 2020, narrowly avoiding the travel restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 outbreak.

During the COVID-19 outbreak, the battalion participated in a UDP to Okinawa, where they forward deployed to Korea and mainland Japan. While in Japan they were the first Marine Corps infantry battalion to participate in a force in force exercise against the Japanese ground self defense force, where they earned the Meritorious Unit Citation for their efforts abroad.

Awards and honors
  Presidential Unit Citation Streamer with one bronze award star
  Navy Unit Commendation Streamer
  Meritorious Unit Commendation Streamer
  Marine Corps Expeditionary Streamer with one bronze campaign star
  American Defense Service Streamer
  Asia Pacific Campaign Streamer with one silver star and one bronze campaign star
  World War II Victory Streamer
  Navy Occupation Service Streamer with "Asia" and "Europe" clasps
  National Defense Service Streamer with two bronze campaign stars
  Armed Forces Expeditionary Streamer with two bronze campaign stars
  Southwest Asia Service Streamer with two bronze campaign stars.

See also

List of United States Marine Corps battalions
Organization of the United States Marine Corps

Notes

References

Web

Infantry battalions of the United States Marine Corps