[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Belfast

otballer of the Year, who died in November 2005. On the day he was buried in the city, 100,000 people lined the route from his home on the Cregagh Road to Roselawn cemetery. Since his death the City Airport was named after him and a trust has been set up to fund a memorial to him in the city centre.

Belfast is home to over twenty Gaelic football and hurling clubs. Casement Park in west Belfast, home to the Antrim county teams, has a capacity of 32,000 which makes it the second largest Gaelic Athletic Association ground in Ulster. In May 2020, the foundation of East Belfast GAA returned Gaelic Games to unionist East Belfast after decades of its absence in the area. The current club president is Irish-language enthusiast Linda Ervine who comes from a unionist background in the area. The team currently plays in the Down Senior County League.

The 1999 Heineken Cup champions Ulster Rugby play at Ravenhill Stadium in the south of the city. Belfast has four teams in rugby's All-Ireland League: Belfast Harlequins in Division 1B; and Instonians, Queen's University and Malone in Division 2A.

Belfast is home to the Stormont cricket ground since 1949 and was the venue for the Irish cricket team's first ever One Day International  against England in 2006.

Belfast is home to one of the biggest ice hockey clubs in the United Kingdom, the Belfast Giants. The Giants were founded in 2000 and play their games at the 9,500 capacity SSE Arena, where crowds normally range from 4,000 to 7,000. Many ex-NHL players have featured on the Giants roster, none more famous than world superstar Theo Fleury. The Giants play in the 10-team professional Elite Ice Hockey League which is the top league in the United Kingdom. The Giants have been league champions 6 times, most recently in the 2021–22 season. The Belfast Giants are a huge brand in Northern Ireland and their increasing stature in the game led to the Belfast Giants playing the Boston Bruins of the NHL on 2 October 2010 at the SSE Arena in Belfast, losing the game 5–1.

Other significant sportspeople from Belfast include double world snooker champion Alex "Hurricane" Higgins and world champion boxers Wayne McCullough, Rinty Monaghan and Carl Frampton.
Leander ASC is a well known swimming club in Belfast. Belfast produced the Formula One racing stars John Watson who raced for five different teams during his career in the 1970s and 1980s and Ferrari driver Eddie Irvine.

Notable people

Academia and science
 John Stewart Bell, physicist
 Dame Jocelyn Bell Burnell, astrophysicist
 John Boyd Dunlop, inventor
 Lord Kelvin, physicist and engineer

Arts and media
 Anthony Boyle, actor
 Blu Hydrangea, Drag Queen
 Sir Kenneth Branagh, actor
 Gordon Burns, journalist, gameshow host, best known for The Krypton Factor 
 Ciaran Carson, writer
 Frank Carson, comedian
 Jamie Dornan, actor
 Barry Douglas, musician
 Candida Doyle, musician
 James Galway, musician
 Ciarán Hinds, actor
 Eamonn Holmes, broadcaster
 Brian Desmond Hurst, film director
 Oliver Jeffers, artist
 C. S. Lewis, author
 Paula Malcomson, actress
 Gerry McAvoy, musician and long time bass guitarist with Rory Gallagher
 Tim McGarry, comedian and actor
 Brian Moore, acclaimed novelist 
 Gary Moore, guitarist
 Van Morrison, singer-songwriter
 Doc Neeson, singer-songwriter
 Patricia Quinn, actress
 Roy Walker (comedian), gameshow host, best known for Catchphrase

Politics
 Gerry Adams. politician
 Lord Craigavon, former Prime Minister of Northern Ireland
Abba Eban (1915–2002), Israeli diplomat and politician, and President of the Weizmann Institute of Science
 Chaim Herzog, former President of Israel
 Mary McAleese, former President of Ireland
 Peter Robinson, former First Minister of Northern Ireland
 Lord Trimble, former First Minister of Northern Ireland, Nobel Peace Prize winner