[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of Northern Virginia

rague branch, but a closer examination of the accreditation certificate showed that the Swiss accreditation agency EduQua had only accredited the MBA program of the Prague branch of the Swiss institution Victoria University.

At one time, UNVA published a website admitting that it is not accredited.

Affiliation
Four to twenty partner institutions grant UNVA degrees and allow students to enroll in UNVA courses.  For example, students can enroll in UNVA business courses at Shines College in Singapore.  In 2008, Shines College students were reported to be confused and unsure how they would be affected by news that UNVA had lost accreditation in the United States.

History
In 2007, UNVA Properties, an investment group associated with UNVA, provided financing to Myers University (subsequently renamed Chancellor University) in Cleveland, Ohio, allowing that financially troubled non-profit school to continue operating. It was alleged that UNVA Properties wanted to acquire Myers University's regional accreditation for -profit use.

In October 2009 it was reported that UNVA had sued Tiffin University, a private university based in Ohio, alleging that Tiffin had unlawfully attempted to "divert" students from UNVA's Prague school to Tiffin's newly established school there.  Tiffin denied the claims.

One of the university's former accountants pleaded guilty, in May 2010, to stealing more than $225,000 from the university.

On July 28, 2011, The U.S. Department of Homeland Security raided the university, hauling away computers and boxes of paperwork and notifying the university that it may lose its ability to accept foreign students. UNVA, which had been authorized to issue 50 I-20 forms documenting that students were engaged in full-time study, had 2400 students on their books, 90% from India.

On July 16, 2013, the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia revoked UNVA's license to operate because the institution was not accredited by a recognized accreditor, forcing the institution to close.  The university subsequently moved to Sioux Falls, South Dakota, where it reincorporated on August 23, 2013.

On October 1, 2013, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement ended UNVA's authorization to admit foreign students.

On August 4, 2014, UNVA was sued by the state of South Dakota and Minnehaha county for violating a SD state law that prohibits universities from operating in SD without accreditation.

See also

 Diploma mill
 List of unaccredited institutions of higher learning
 List of unrecognized accreditation associations of higher learning

References

External links
 

Former for-profit universities and colleges in the United States
Defunct private universities and colleges in South Dakota
Defunct private universities and colleges in Virginia
Northern Virginia
Unaccredited institutions of higher learning in the United States
Educational institutions established in 1988
Educational institutions disestablished in 2014
1988 establishments in Virginia
2014 disestablishments in Virginia