[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Midrash Petirat Aharon

hen they and Eleazar walk together to the mountain. Moses tries in a gently elliptical manner to explain to Aaron that the latter's death is at hand, asking hypothetically whether Aaron was loaned something from God which God might now want returned; however, Aaron does not perceive Moses's meaning.

A cave then opens in front of the three, and Moses bids Aaron to enter. Moses wishes now to for Aaron to remove the priestly vestments (as God had suggested), but again is at a loss for words. So, one more in an elliptical manner, Moses requests that Aaron leave the vestments with Eleazar outside the cave because they might otherwise become defiled in the cave (where there may be graves, Moses points out). Aaron thinks it a wise idea, and leaves the vestments with Eleazar outside, but yet remains innocent of the nature of the circumstances. Entering into the cave, Moses and Aaron see a bed, a set table, and candelabra and a ministering angel. Aaron now inquires what message Moses has from God, and indicates that even if it be about his own death, that he will accept it gratefully. Aaron having broached the subject, Moses now takes the opportunity to inform him that it is indeed the notice of Aaron's death which is the message God means for Moses to convey.  Not alarmed at the content of the message, Aaron is nevertheless perturbed that Moses did not tell him of his death in a more forthright manner. However, Moses explains how Aaron's death will be more desirable than his own death, for Aaron is to be buried by his brother, and his honor was to be inherited by his children; dignities which will be denied to Moses himself. (Aaron is appeased by this argument, being evidently oblivious to the pathos therein.)

The cave vanishes as Moses leaves it, and Moses then explains to an anxious Eleazar that his father has gone to Paradise. Upon Moses's return from the mountain, the Israelites disbelieve the news of Aaron's death, and accuse Moses of perhaps murdering his own brother! Moses pleads with God to display for the people Aaron's death bed, since otherwise they might make of Aaron a god. God accedes to this request, displaying Aaron on his deathbed, and the Israelites mourn the passing of Aaron and witness the departure of the clouds of the Presence, which accompanied the Israelites in Aaron's merit. With the departure of the clouds, the Israelites who were born in the desert are for the first time able to see the sun and the moon, which they are tempted now to worship. The midrash ends abruptly with an injunction from God to not do so.

Textual aspects
On the beginning of the midrash, which is based on Zechariah 11:8, compare Taanit 9a and Sifre Deuteronomy 305.

The midrash cites no authorities for its statements, but several statements are introduced by the formula ואז"ל (i.e., ואמרו ז"ל, "they of blessed memory said").

Editions
The midrash was edited at Constantinople (1516), Venice (1544), and elsewhere, and has been reprinted by A. Jellinek. A recent English translation is that of .

Bibliography 

 The JE cites the following sources.
Zunz, G. V. p. 146;
Jellinek, B. H. i., p. xix.
.

Smaller midrashim