[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Majida El Roumi

voice on the operate, but when they asked her to record again in Qatar, she announced her withdrawal and waived her authorship rights when she backed out of the project.

"Ghazal" 

Majida released her new album "Ghazal" on 22 June 2012 having worked on it for 6 years with many composers and poets.

"Biladi Ana" (My Country) is a duet between Majida and Senegalese singer Youssou N'Dour. Arabic lyrics are taken from Cadmus, Said Akl's theater play and French lyrics are freely inspired from the same theater play by Lebanese novelist Alexandre Najjar. Musical composition is accomplished by Joseph Khalifeh and Jean-Marie Riachi. This song describes Lebanon "the peace", "the beauty", "the creativity" and encourages fraternity, unity between people worldwide and calls for loving each other by surpassing all human differences. Majida and Youssou N'Dour have already performed it during the VIe annual Jeux de la Francophonie in 2009, hosted in Camille Chamoun Sports City Stadium in Beirut accompanied with more than 150 dancers.

"Nour Men Nour" 

Nour Men Nour (A Light from Light) is the fourteenth studio album by Majida released in December 2013 produced by V. Productions. The album explores 12 Christmas carols exploring a wide set of musical genres including classical music and Opera preserving the same musical track that Majida had sung over the years.

The Album peaked the top of the music charts in Virgin Megastores in Lebanon from the day of its release for several consecutive weeks.

Nour Men Nour was promoted majorly online and on Lebanese radio stations by two singles, Sahrit Eid and Min lli Tall, as well as a teaser on Majida's official Facebook page. Majida also filmed a Christmas special episode aired on Christmas Eve on MTV Lebanon which included a live recital from Collège du Sacré-Cœur catholic cathedral in Gemayzeh, Downtown Beirut, and scenes from a visit she had to "Mission De Vie" charity center. As Majida stated, Christmas is an occasion to celebrate as a one big Arabic family, while she added that all sales income and profits went to charity to encourage the spirit of sharing in the Arab World during the unstable periods.

Performances 

Majida graced the Paris Olympia stage twice, the first time in 1993 and the second time in 1998, sponsored by the Lebanese First Lady at that time, Mrs. Mona Herawi, Palais des Congrès de Paris in 1987, Palais des festivals et des congrès de Cannes, Salle Gaveau, the opening of Damascus Opera House in 2004, Athens Concert Hall in Greece and the Royal Albert Hall in London which knew a huge success and was the first sold-out concert after The Beatles' concert in 1965. Also, later in the 90s, Majida welcomed Shirley Bassey in the presidential palace in Lebanon for a private concert, she opened in one song before giving Shirley the stage whose orchestra members stood up, astonished by Majida's spectacular soprano performance.

Majida has also performed at Avery Fisher Hall in Lincoln Center, Carnegie Hall and Hunter College in New York City as well as the Place des Arts in Montreal, Quebec, Canada in November 2003 attended by more than 3000 people with incredible standing ovations, then headed to Côte d'Ivoire in 2003 for two concerts which proceeds were returned as benefits to civil war orphans. The concert was attended by the country's president and First Lady. In 2007, Majida toured the US and performed in Fox Theatre (Detroit, Michigan) and the tour included nights in Paris Hotel in Las Vegas.

Majida was also part of the annual Mawazine Festival in Morocco in June 2010, and Jounieh International Festivals on 25 June 2011. She also held a concert in Royal Opera House of Muscat in Shati Al-Qurm district in Oman in November 2011.

In December 2006, Majida performed "Light The Way", a duet with the international opera star, the tenor José Carreras at the 2006 Asian Games opening ceremony in its 15th edition in Doha. In 2009, she performed "Nous sommes les amis du monde", a duet with Senegal artist Youssou N'dour, on the inauguration of the "Jeux Olympiques de la Francophonie" in Beirut, Lebanon.

Majida had a special TV appearance in Christmas time during a recital hosted in the Lebanese Presidential Palace. President Michel Sulaiman and First Lady Wafaa hosted many public figures, politicians and artists in this occasion. The recital was broadcast live on the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation.