[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lewis McGugan

ith new manager Giuseppe Sannino. He nevertheless finished the 2013–14 season with 11 goals in 37 appearances.

He featured seven times at the start of the 2014–15 campaign, before he was allowed to leave the club on loan after telling manager Slaviša Jokanović of his desire for first-team football.

Sheffield Wednesday
On 19 November 2014, he joined Sheffield Wednesday on a one-month loan deal. He returned to Wednesday on 2 February, signing on loan until the end of the 2014–15 season. He was named as the "Owls" player of the month for both February and March after first scoring in back to back games against Derby and Millwall and then claiming a further goal and two assists the next month. Manager Stuart Gray admitted he was keen to sign the player permanently following his run of good form. McGugan signed a three-year deal with Sheffield Wednesday for an undisclosed fee on 16 July 2015.

He made his full debut at Hillsborough in the first match of the new Championship season against newly promoted Bristol City, scoring the second goal in Wednesday's 2–0 victory. On 23 September, he scored from outside the box at St James' Park in what was the only goal of the game against Premier League club Newcastle United in the League Cup third round. On 3 October, he scored the third goal for the Wednesday in their 3–1 victory against Preston North End from more than 35 yards in the 96th minute. He found first-team appearances increasingly rare however, despite scoring a brace in an FA Cup defeat at Shrewsbury Town on 30 January. He ended the 2015–16 season with six goals in 17 appearances and was not in the matchday squad for the play-off final defeat to Hull City.

Manager Carlos Carvalhal told McGugan he could leave the club in July 2016 and dropped him entirely from the squad, saying "he doesn't have the requirements that we want for our team". On 31 August 2017, having missed the entirety of the 2016–17 campaign, McGugan left the club after having his contract cancelled by mutual consent.

Northampton Town
On 2 October 2017, McGugan signed for League One club Northampton Town on a short-term deal. Manager Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink admitted he was still "coming out of hibernation" after 17 months out of action and was still "far off" the player he once was. He proved that his talent still remained when he won the club's goal of the month competition with his volley against Southampton U23's in an EFL Trophy tie on 7 November. However he left Sixfields at the end of his contract on 3 January 2018, having made 10 starts and four substitute appearances for the "Cobblers".

During the 2018–19 season he had unsuccessful trials at St Mirren, Bradford City and Port Vale, where he failed to prove his fitness.

International career
McGugan represented England at under-17 and under-19 level, and was named in the squad for the 2005 UEFA European Under-17 Championship in Italy. He was eligible to represent Scotland due to his Scottish grandfather.

Style of play
From a young age McGugan demonstrated the passing and shooting ability, awareness, bravery and natural stamina of a quality attacking midfielder; he also possesses excellent dead ball skills. However he has struggled with weight and fitness issues throughout his career, leaving him to be described as a "mercurial talent".

Coaching career
In December 2021 McGugan was appointed assistant manager of Northern Premier League Division One Midlands club Loughborough Dynamo, He left at the end of the 2022–23 season, and was appointed joint manager of Long Eaton United alongside Brad Munn.

Career statistics

Honours
Nottingham Forest
League One runner-up: 2007–08

References

1988 births
Living people
People from Long Eaton
Footballers from Derbyshire
English men's footballers
Black British sportsmen
English people of Scottish descent
England men's youth international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Nottingham Forest F.C. players
Watford F.C. players
Sheffield Wednesday F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
English Football League players
Long Eaton United F.C. managers