[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saeid Lotfi (footballer, born 1981)

Saeid Lotfi (born February 25, 1981 in Tehran, Iran) is a former Iranian football player, who played in IPL team Esteghlal and Paykan. He usually played as a defender.

Biography 

Lotfi has a handful of appearances for Team Melli. He has a strong physique and can play in defense and midfield with ease and confidence. His towering headers and tackling remains his strongest attribute.

Lotfi has been given few opportunities by Esteghlal F.C. In the IPL 2005/06 season, he only played five full matches for them.

Lotfi played for Iran at the 2001 FIFA World Youth Championship.

Club career

Club career statistics

Saeid Lotfi's professional football started from a team called Tehran Metro under the leadership of Sohrab Rahimi. He then joined the team of the Shohadaye Tarasht, who played in the second division of Tehran, with which he experienced the championship and promotion to the first division of Tehran. This defender then continued his game in the selected team of Tehran at the age of 17 and became a student of Ali Dosti-Mehr, who was able to win the national youth championship and spent a year in the Homa team under the leadership of Jamshid Pazira. Saeid Lotfi's presence in the Bank Melli team in 1997 and being invited to the camp of the Iranian U-20 national football team was the result of his one-year presence in the Bank Melli team. Saeid Lotfi's games in the national youth team caused Paykan F.C. and Hamid Alidosti to be noticed in the Azadegan League, and he played for the Tehran club for three seasons from 2000 to 2003 in the Premier League.

His extraordinary performance in Peykan's defensive line caused Lotfi to be noticed by Amir Ghalehnoei, the head coach of Esteghlal at the time, and after joining the Esteghlal football team in the 2003-2004 with this team, he won the Premier League in the 2005-2006 season championship.

After being sidelined for Saeid Lotfi and not playing for Esteghlal, he said goodbye to the fans at the celebration of Esteghlal's victory in the National Cup and returned to his former team, Peykan Football Club, during the two years he spent with Peykan He scored 43 games and three goals for this team (2008-2009), one of which was his former team Esteghlal. In the first half of the 2010-2011 season, he joined the Hamedan Pass Football Club and scored a goal in 12 matches for this team, and this was Saeid Lotfi's last appearance as a player in the Green Rectangle.

 Assist Goals

National Games

National Games
Ali Dosti-Mehr, the head coach, and Gholam Pirvani coach of the Iranian national youth team, invited Saeid Lotfi to the national team, and the team reached the fourth place in Asia and the 2001 World Cup qualifiers without a loss (in penalties in the semi-finals and ranking game). And were able to experience their second appearance in the Under-21 FIFA World Cup in Argentina after 24 years, However, the Iranian national team did not win in all three matches in the group of death with France, Ghana and Paraguay, and was eliminated with three defeats in the group stage.

After Iran returned from the World Cup and in the friendly match between the Iranian national football team and Peykan, in the 15th minute of the match, Blazevic invited him to the Iranian national adult football team. Saeid Lotfi was a member of the Iranian national football team in the 2002 World Cup qualifiers, when Iran failed to reach the World Cup in Korea and Japan after losing to Ireland.

At the 2002 Asian Games in Busan, where the U-23 national team was led by Branko Ivankovic, who coached both the senior team and Iran's Omid team, Lotfi and the team won the Asian Championship.

Lotfi also scored two goals in 43 games for the Iranian national football team as a defender, one of which was against the team of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Also on display are Lotfi's honors with the Iranian senior football team, the third West Asian team in 2002 in Syria, and the West Asian runner-up in October 2010 in Kuwait under the coaching of Branko Ivankovic. He also won three LG Cups in Morocco in 2002, Tabriz in 2002 and Tehran in 2001 with the Iranian national football team.

Loss of playing opportunity at Inter Milan

Loss of playing opportunity at Inter Milan

Saeid Lotfi has repeatedly spoken to the media about his frustration with a foot injury and the loss of an opportunity to play for Inter Milan.