[Source: PubMed]

18. Global Health. 2012 Jun 18;8:17. doi: 10.1186/1744-8603-8-17.

Developed-developing country partnerships: benefits to developed countries?

Syed SB(1), Dadwal V, Rutter P, Storr J, Hightower JD, Gooden R, Carlet J, 
Bagheri Nejad S, Kelley ET, Donaldson L, Pittet D.

Author information:
(1)African Partnerships for Patient Safety, WHO Patient Safety, WHO 
Headquarters, Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland.

Developing countries can generate effective solutions for today's global health 
challenges. This paper reviews relevant literature to construct the case for 
international cooperation, and in particular, developed-developing country 
partnerships. Standard database and web-based searches were conducted for 
publications in English between 1990 and 2010. Studies containing full or 
partial data relating to international cooperation between developed and 
developing countries were retained for further analysis. Of 227 articles 
retained through initial screening, 65 were included in the final analysis. The 
results were two-fold: some articles pointed to intangible benefits accrued by 
developed country partners, but the majority of information pointed to 
developing country innovations that can potentially inform health systems in 
developed countries. This information spanned all six WHO health system 
components. Ten key health areas where developed countries have the most to 
learn from the developing world were identified and include, rural health 
service delivery; skills substitution; decentralisation of management; creative 
problem-solving; education in communicable disease control; innovation in mobile 
phone use; low technology simulation training; local product manufacture; health 
financing; and social entrepreneurship. While there are no guarantees that 
innovations from developing country experiences can effectively transfer to 
developed countries, combined developed-developing country learning processes 
can potentially generate effective solutions for global health systems. However, 
the global pool of knowledge in this area is virgin and further work needs to be 
undertaken to advance understanding of health innovation diffusion. Even more 
urgently, a standardized method for reporting partnership benefits is 
needed--this is perhaps the single most immediate need in planning for, and 
realizing, the full potential of international cooperation between developed and 
developing countries.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-8603-8-17
PMCID: PMC3459713
PMID: 22709651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]