[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cyprus in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

es of the competing entries, the first semi-final featured guest performances by 1990 Spanish Eurovision entrants Azúcar Moreno and 1998 and 2005 Maltese Eurovision entrant Chiara, while the second semi-final featured guest performances by Maro Litra and 2000 British Eurovision entrant Nicki French.

Final
The final took place on 22 February 2006. The 10 remaining entries competed and the winner, "Why Angels Cry" performed by Annet Artani, was selected by a regional televote. In addition to the performances of the competing entries, the show featured guest performances by Stavros Konstantinou, 1984 and 1992 Irish Eurovision entrant Linda Martin, and 2001 and 2006 Maltese Eurovision entrant Fabrizio Faniello.

Controversy 
Following the Cypriot national final, seven of the ten finalists filed a formal complaint to CyBC requesting clarifications on the voting process as they had not been notified of the exact way the votes would be calculated prior to the competition (the regulations published by the broadcaster did not mention that the televoting results for the final would be calculated based on regions), and the details of the final results were never revealed. Claims that the victory was rigged for Annet Artani due to her popularity were also made by some of the finalists.

After an investigation from the Cypriot Administration in January 2007, the complaints were deemed valid as a regional televoting system was not possible for the nation due to lack of coverage from the telephone company (only votes submitted via landline were counted for Famagusta and Paphos, while only votes submitted via mobile phones were counted for Larnaca and Limassol). The controversy led to CyBC selecting both the artist and song via an internal selection for the 2007 contest.

Promotion
Annet Artani made several appearances across Europe to specifically promote "Why Angels Cry" as the Cypriot Eurovision entry.  On 15 March, Artani performed "Why Angels Cry" during the Greek Eurovision national final Feel the Party. Artani also took part in promotional activities across an additional 11 European countries, which included an appearance during the Eurovision Special Feminnem Show in Bosnia and Herzegovina on 28 April. Prior to the contest, "Why Angels Cry" was included on Artani's album Mia foni that was released in early April 2006, while a Cypriot welcome party was held in Athens on 14 May and was attended by entrants from Albania, Belgium and Turkey.

At Eurovision
According to Eurovision rules, all nations with the exceptions of the host country, the "Big Four" (France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom) and the ten highest placed finishers in the 2005 contest are required to qualify from the semi-final on 18 May 2006 in order to compete for the final on 20 May 2006; the top ten countries from the semi-final progress to the final. On 21 March 2006, a special allocation draw was held which determined the running order for the semi-final and Cyprus was set to perform in position 9, following the entry from Ireland and before the entry from Monaco. Annet Artani was joined on stage by five backing vocalists (Konstantinos Andronikou, Keanna Johnson, Anna Iliadou, Riana Athanasiou and Giorgos Georgiou, with whom she had previously performed on Britney Spears' Dream Within a Dream Tour) for the performance, and Cyprus was not announced among the top 10 entries at the end of the show and therefore failed to qualify to compete in the final. It was later revealed that Cyprus placed fifteenth in the semi-final, receiving a total of 57 points.

Both the semi-final and the final were broadcast in Cyprus on RIK 1 and RIK SAT with commentary by Evi Papamichail and Pampina Themistokleous in the semi-final, and Evi Papamichail and Vasso Komninou in the final. The Cypriot spokesperson, who announced the Cypriot votes during the final, was Constantinos Christoforou who represented Cyprus in 1996, 2002 and 2005.

Voting 
Below is a breakdown of points awarded to Cyprus and awarded by Cyprus in the semi-final and grand final of the contest. The nation awarded its 12 points to Armenia in the semi-final and to Greece in the final of the contest.

Points awarded to Cyprus

Points awarded by Cyprus

References

Bibliography 

 

2006
Countries in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006
Eurovision