[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fair Labor Association

s representing garment, footwear, and travel goods buyers who sent a joint letter to the Cambodian government, urging it to improve labor and human rights conditions. The letter came as the EU and U.S. were reviewing trade agreements with Cambodia over perceived human rights and democratic setbacks.

Addressing forced labor 
In October 2018, the FLA and the American Apparel & Footwear Association (AAFA) announced the AAFA/FLA Apparel & Footwear Industry Commitment to Responsible Recruitment.  Since the announcement, more than 130 apparel and footwear companies have signed the Commitment. The FLA and the AAFA developed the Commitment to address forced labor risks for migrant workers. Each signatory company commits to working with its partners so that no worker pays for their job; workers retain control of their travel documents; and workers are informed of the basic terms of employment before joining the workforce.

In November 2018, the FLA published a research report commissioned the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF). The report highlighted the risks of forced labor among workers, particularly migrants from neighboring countries, in the palm oil supply chain in Indonesia and Malaysia. The report indicates it is important that workers have access to functioning grievance mechanisms, and called for collaboration to tackle forced labor issues.

In January 2020, in response to reports of forced labor in China’s Xinjiang region, the FLA cautioned that due diligence in the region would not be enough to detect or rule out forced labor. This was due to a few issues including travel restrictions to the region. In March, the FLA called for the U.S. government to engage with the EU and other countries to establish a direct diplomatic channel to address the issue with the Chinese government. The association directed its affiliates to review their direct and indirect sourcing relationships to make sure they are in line with FLA principles. It also called for companies to identify the identification of alternate sourcing options opportunities, and said it would work with the government and other groups to find solutions to end human rights violations in the region. Because of forced labor reports, U.S. lawmakers called for American companies and consumers to stop buying goods produced in Xinjiang factories.

At the end of 2020, FLA banned the use of cotton and textiles from the Xinjiang region because of workers' rights violations. It was the first time the organization prohibited sourcing from a specific country/region.

FLA affiliates 
FLA affiliates are partners in implementing the FLA Workplace Code of Conduct and developing and sharing best practices in labor compliance globally. FLA-affiliated companies represent a large spectrum of industry. The overwhelming majority of factories the FLA audits are in the apparel sector (approximately 75%), followed by footwear, equipment, and accessories. Other industries represented in the FLA supplier database include collectibles, jewelry, hosiery, paper products, home goods, electronic products, and bags. FLA-affiliated companies fall under different categories: Participating Company, Participating Supplier, Category B Collegiate Licensee, Category C Collegiate Licensee, or Category D Collegiate Licensee. Participating Companies and Participating Suppliers submit their entire supply chain to the FLA independent external monitoring process and commit to a range of obligations as affiliates of the FLA.

The human and labor rights violations in domestic and overseas supply chains that surfaced in the mid-1990s were brought to the forefront on university and college campuses by student activists and national human rights groups. In response, universities joined companies and civil society organizations, including trade unions, in opposition to sweatshop labor. There are currently 208 colleges and universities that are affiliated with the FLA. Over 2,000 collegiate licensees that produce products for these institutions have joined the FLA. These licensees are required to disclose the names of facilities producing collegiate products and to uphold the FLA Workplace Code of Conduct in these facilities. High-revenue licensees and those with substantial overseas suppliers must submit their facilities to the FLA independent external monitoring process as well.

In 2019 the FLA board passed a requirement that requires FLA affiliates to disclose their factory lists.

FLA accreditation of labor compliance programs 
In order to receive accreditation from the Fair Labor Association, participating companies must demonstrate substantial compliance with the Workplace Code of Conduct throughout their supply chain. They must also undergo performance reviews, independent factory monitoring, verification of remediation initiatives, and a thorough evaluation of their internal protocols and auditing, as well as extensive training through the FLA.