[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alex Rider (character)

htshade" in Crete, and discovers that William and Sophia, along with twenty-one other children, are the organisation's assassins. By the novel's end, Alex manages to reunite Sophia with her mother, for deprogramming. Mrs. Jones hints that she may end up recruiting Alex to MI6 properly in the future.

Yassen Gregorovich 
Alex first met the Russian contract killer who killed his uncle on Herod Sayle's ground during his mission in Stormbreaker. At the time, Alex originally vows to kill him. Later, during the events of Eagle Strike, it is revealed that Gregorovich worked with Alex's father John 15 years prior. When Gregorovich's hireling captures Alex, Gregorovich is able to arrange for Alex to do bullfighting instead of being shot directly, leading to Alex being able to escape. At the end of the novel, when Damian Cray (the man who hired Gregorovich) orders him to kill Alex, he refuses and is shot and killed. Before dying, Gregorovich tells Alex that he worked with his father and to go to Venice and find Scorpia to find his destiny.

Tom Harris
Tom Harris is Alex's best friend at Brookland High School, first introduced in Scorpia, where he and Alex are holidaying in Venice. Tom's parents were going through an unpleasant divorce, and Tom was weary of their squabbling. He was invited to a holiday in Naples by his brother Jerry, and gladly accepted, bringing Alex along. In Venice he witnesses Alex stop a burglary, and creates a diversion which allows Alex to enter Casa'Vedova. Tom then becomes Alex's closest ally and confidant, learning about his friend's secret work for MI6 and aiding him further.

Tom's loyalty to Alex is unquestionable: in Crocodile Tears, Tom helps Alex escape from Leonard Straik's guards, and covers for his friend during a roll call and his subsequent return to the group. In Scorpia Rising, Tom is hit by a bullet intended for Alex, and in Nightshade Tom acts as go-between to Jack when Alex is on the run.

Appearances

Novels
Stormbreaker (September 4, 2000)
Point Blanc (September 3, 2001) (Point Blank in the United States)
Skeleton Key (July 8, 2002)
Eagle Strike (April 7, 2003)
Scorpia (April 2, 2004)
Ark Angel (April 1, 2005)
Snakehead (October 31, 2007)
Crocodile Tears (November 12, 2009)
Scorpia Rising (April 5, 2011)
Russian Roulette (October 1, 2013)
Never Say Die (June 1, 2017)
Secret Weapon (April 4, 2019)
 Nightshade (April 2, 2020)

Graphic novels
Stormbreaker: The Graphic Novel (July, 2006 - UK) (October, 2006 - USA)
Point Blanc: The Graphic Novel (September 2007 - UK) (December, 2007 - USA)
Skeleton Key: The Graphic Novel (September 2009 - UK) Was released in USA
Eagle Strike: The Graphic Novel (2011- UK) Was released in USA
Scorpia: The Graphic Novel
Ark Angel: The Graphic Novel

Supplementary books
Alex Rider: The Gadgets (October 17, 2005) (mentioned only)

Short stories
Alex Rider: Secret Weapon (February 9, 2003)
Alex Rider: Christmas at Gunpoint (January 1, 2007)
Alex Rider: Incident in Nice (November 9, 2009)

Films
Stormbreaker (July 21, 2006) (Alex Rider: Operation Stormbreaker in North America)

Video games
Alex Rider: Stormbreaker (September 25, 2006)

Film
In the 2006 Stormbreaker film directed by Geoffrey Sax, Alex Rider is played by Alex Pettyfer, a British actor. Pettyfer was chosen from 500 hopefuls for the role of Alex. Pettyfer was fifteen years old at the time of the film's shooting, a year older than his character.

Anthony Horowitz, who was the screenwriter for the film as well as the author of the novels, recommended Pettyfer to play Alex Rider after seeing him in Tom Brown's Schooldays. Horowitz gave Pettyfer intense guidance on becoming the character of Alex Rider, expressing him and bringing his athletic talents, intellect and charm to the screen. Pettyfer undertook martial arts training with Hong Kong martial arts choreographer Donnie Yen, as well as horseback riding. Pettyfer did most of his own stunts in the film, and underwent major physical preparation for the role.

Television series
In 2019, Deadline Hollywood reported that Otto Farrant would be playing the character in the upcoming Alex Rider television series, which was produced by Eleventh Hour Films and Sony Pictures Television. During the production of the first series, Farrant was 22 years old while playing the high school-age character.

References

Sources

External links

Alex Rider at KidsReads
Evaluation of Alex Rider character

Alex Pettyfer Interview about Alex Rider
Detailed Q&A about Alex's character
Anthony Horowitz/Alex Pettyfer interview
"Riders On The Storm" - Alex Rider at Findarticles

Article on Anthony Horowitz's views on Alex in an interview with Times Online