[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Silent Bomber

covers that Benoit has bonded himself to the Dante's AI. After the final battle, Benoit activates Dante's self-destruct system. Jutah tries to get back to his ship, but his way is blocked, forcing the others to leave without him. The game ends with Jutah visiting Annri at her home three years later.

Characters
Jutah Fate: A genetically engineered man created by the military government Tarakhan and based on the planet controlled by it and named for it-Tarakhan-as part of its Elite Fighter Engineering Project. He was trained as a military weapon, specialising in spying, assassination, and demolition. He lived only to destroy. Then the military government collapsed, and he was sentenced to 30 decades in prison. There, he had a mental breakdown. Now, he's fighting for his freedom.
Annri Ohara: An elite military officer and computer specialist that graduated from the military academy at the head of her class. Annri sought fulfillment in the Hornet government maintaining planet-wide peace. But, after joining the Hornet army, she discovered there were problems with the government, as with any large institution. Annri is the only member of Operation Toroy from the Hornet Military.
Benoit Manderubrot: An international political criminal and chess master who has joined and led seven major revolutions. Benoit assumed a different identity and embraced a different ideology for each conflict. He believes that revolution is like chess, and uses people as game pieces. He volunteered for Operation Toroy. Benoit is considered the most mysterious member of the troop, his ability as a soldier exceeding even Jutah's.
Micino Tifone: A professional spy who will do anything for money. Micino has stolen state secrets by seducing government officials with her beauty. Her strong points are her physical strength and cat-like agility, and her uncanny sixth sense.
John Loss: A hero, he uses guerrilla tactics to fight for the liberation of the oppressed Nufu tribe, a 'primitive' tribe held in government "preservation". He agreed to join Operation Toroy on condition that the tribe be freed. His character is described as intelligent and quiet, but once he's on the battlefield, his bravery and ferocity are unmatched.
Tim Palmer: The youngest member of the mission, Tim is a brilliant and resourceful pilot. He needs only a few minutes to master any vehicle. He gets his nickname "Mr. Escape" from his previous career of breaking prisoners out of jail. He's a talented weapons operator and is master of the hasty retreat.

Reception

The game received favorable reviews according to the review aggregation website GameRankings. In an early review, Jeff Lundrigan of NextGen called it "An engrossing, challenging game with a very different approach than most." In Japan, Famitsu gave it a score of 29 out of 40.

The D-Pad Destroyer of GamePro said of the game in one review, "Silent Bomber is just the thing for action gamers looking for something different. It's challenging enough to keep veterans busy, but the controls are simple enough to rope in casual gamers. If you've got an old-school action itch and want to try something different, this game is da bomb." In another review, Major Mike said, "Gamers looking for a fun action game that's easy to pick up will be served well by Silent Bomber. It doesn't have the deep story line of Resident Evil 3: Nemesis or Syphon Filter 2, but, as an amusing time-killer, it gets the job done."

Notes

References

External links
  CyberConnect2's Silent Bomber website
 

1999 video games
CyberConnect2 games
Holography in fiction
Multiplayer and single-player video games
PlayStation (console) games
PlayStation Network games
Science fiction video games
Video games developed in Japan