[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lithgow railway station

f meal room and gent's toilets. Apart from the toilets and the waiting room the rest of the rooms are kept locked. The interiors have been refurbished with only plasterboard ceiling panelling, simple moulded cornices and high wall vents appear to remain from the original phase. The floors are tiled.

Former book / Parcels office and goods lift tower, erected in 1925
External: The former booking office is located on the western side of the Eskbank Street overhead bridge at the Up end of the station. Constructed of timber with weatherboard cladding the building is now partially utilised as ladies waiting room and public toilets. It is elevated on a steel beam and trestles structure with a concrete deck and adjoins the arched road overbridge on the eastern side. The former booking/parcels office also adjoins the timber goods lift tower on the north side. The street elevation of the building has been faced with a brick wall and a flat awning along the street frontage. A timber panelled balustrade with artwork reflecting a coal mining theme completes the remaining portion of the overhead bridge on the north side of the tower. The door and windows on the street elevations are of later modifications with metal frames and security mesh. The large gates to the former parcels office and the goods lift have been blocked with metal panels. The original timber-framed double-hung windows with multi-paned upper sashes are located on north, east and west elevations of the booking/parcels office. A shallow pitched gabled red corrugated iron roof covers the building. The timber goods lift tower is the dominant element of the former booking/parcels office building and has a hipped corrugated metal roof. The goods lift is not in operation, and it is not clear if the original lift survives. However; the existence of a few safety signs indicates possible uses for maintenance or similar activities. The timber tower extends down onto the platform with a timber panelled out-of-shed building on the platform. The southern leg of the steel trestles sits within the out-of-shed.

Internal: Access only was available to the open ladies waiting room and toilets. The interiors of this former booking office are simple with plasterboard wall and ceiling panelling decorated with plain timber rail at lintel height and timber skirting. Floors are tiled. The original ticket window survives.

Station Master's residence, erected 
External: Located at 6 Railway Parade to the eastern side of Lithgow Station, the Station Master's residence is a fine example of a grand two-storey railway residence. It is constructed of brick and stone, with rusticated render to the main railway facades and a slate tiled roof. The residence is located on the northern side of the railway line with a projecting faceted observatory room over the entrance portico. The distinctive Victorian features include arched windows with contrasting rendered moulded trims and sills, projecting keystones, rendered contrasting string band at the first-floor slab level, decorative moulded brackets supporting the wide eaves, a rendered chimney with corbelled top, timber-framed double-hung windows with two-pane upper sashes, timber panelled entrance door with sidelights and fanlight, and an arched two-storey high decorative portico with tessellated tile flooring over the front entry dominating the railway facade. A highly decorated drawing room bay on the ground floor level dominates the Sydney side elevation of the building and features a series of segmental-arched tall windows with moulded sill course and label panels below the sill, pitched slate roof with lead capping and flashing, decorative moulded brackets supporting the awning, and moulded trims and keystones to the arches. Access to the residence is via a porch from the face brick two-storey wing on the Railway Parade elevation. A later skillion roof utility room addition is located on the western side of the residence. The orientation of the building's openings including the architectural detailing and embellishment provide evidence of the close relationship between the Station Master's residence and the Station as well as the importance given to the railway staff at the time.