[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Seizure of Abu Musa and the Greater and Lesser Tunbs

lands was restored following prolonged talks with the British government and declared that Iran would not abandon its sovereignty over the whole of Abu Musa and accordingly, the presence of local officials in certain parts of the island was inconsistent with Iran's sovereignty over the whole island.

Casualties 
Iran announced that three of its troops were killed and one was wounded, while killing four policemen and injuring five others. The UAE has claimed one policeman to have died while defending the island.

Aftermath
Iran justified the takeover, claiming that the islands were part of the Persian Empire since the 6th century BCE. The claim was disputed by the UAE which claimed that Arabs maintained control and sovereignty of the islands since the 7th century BCE. However, there is no surviving documentation from pre-colonial times regarding the sovereignty of the islands. The earliest known record regarding sovereignty is a report by the Portuguese in 1518 that the islands were inhabited and ruled by Arabs.

In the decades following the takeover, the issue remained a source of friction between the UAE and Iran. Negotiations between the UAE and Iran in 1992 failed. The UAE attempted to bring the dispute before the International Court of Justice, but Iran refused. Iran says the islands always belonged to it as it had never renounced possession of the islands, and that they are part of Iranian territory. The UAE argues that the islands were under the control of Qasimi sheikhs throughout the 19th century, whose rights were then inherited by the UAE in 1971. Iran counters by stating that the local Qasimi rulers during a relevant part of the 19th century were actually based on the Iranian, not the Arab, coast, and had thus become Persian subjects.

In 1980, the UAE took its claim to the United Nations, but the claim was deferred by the UN Security Council at that time and it was not revisited. 
According to author Thomas Mattair, executive director of Middle East Policy Council (MEPC), given that Iran has consistently refused to consider mediation or arbitration from third-party groups such as the ICJ, Mattair considers the invasion a violation of Article 33 of the United Nations Charter.

GCC, China and Russia statement
Russian diplomats voiced support for GCC support of UAE claim of tritary islands in 2023.
Chinese have similarly effectively taken UAE's side.

As Iranian pension fund crisis unraveled, it was proposed that Iran should sell some islands by a MP.

US stated their support for UAE and GCC in taking Iran to international court of justice.

UAE can already have police deployed in the island but Iranians Islamic republic military have a base of operations.

Memorandum of understanding

See also
 Iran–United Arab Emirates relations

References

Battles involving Iran
History of the United Arab Emirates
Conflicts in 1971
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi
1971 in Iran
Islands of the Persian Gulf
Iran–United Arab Emirates relations
Disputed territories in Asia