[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Georgia Institute of Technology College of Computing

onal leader in computer science” that is offering a master's degree in computer science “at a fraction of the cost".

In July 2019, Charles Lee Isbell Jr. took over as dean, replacing Zvi Galil.

In 2020, the School of Cybersecurity and Privacy was founded with Richard DeMillo as its founding chair.

Schools
 School of Computational Science & Engineering
 School of Computer Science
 School of Cybersecurity and Privacy
 School of Interactive Computing

Facilities
CODA Building
College of Computing Building
Klaus Advanced Computing Building
Technology Square Research Building

Academics
The College of Computing offers the B.S., including a degree in Computational Media offered as a joint degree with the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. It also offers the M.S. and Ph.D. in multiple disciplines, including several offered as joint degrees with other colleges in the university. Graduate certificates are also available.

OMSCS

The Online Master of Science in Computer Science (OMSCS) is a MOOC-based degree program leading to a fully accredited Masters qualification, presented in conjunction with Udacity. A contribution of $2 Million from AT&T has funded the initial development of the program as well as continuing integration of technology.

The program is designed and maintained to present a level of academic challenge entirely equivalent to a traditional MSCS course, with equivalent academic rigor as a founding principle. The estimate of the cost of studying the course is however very different; being in the region of $7,000 for a student completing the Masters course in 2 years: composed of the minimum 10 for graduation 3-credit-hour courses at $510 per course plus $301 enrollment fee per semester for say 6 semesters.

The first semester of study, in Spring 2014, some 400 students were enrolled in the program. In January 2015 some 2,000 students were enrolled in the program. As of Spring 2020, enrollment had risen to over 9,500 students, and the program has produced about 3,500 graduates to date.

Enrollment is accessible without restriction on the basis of citizenship, residence, or visa status, to students from all around the world. However, the vast majority of enrolled students are US citizens. The program does, however, mirror the gender imbalance found in many CS courses, with female students considerably outnumbered.

Research
The College of Computing is the third-highest of Georgia Tech's six colleges (behind the larger and older College of Engineering and College of Sciences) in research awards, with 139 proposals worth $93,737,529 resulting in 119 awards worth $14,579,392 in 2006.

There are several organizations tied to or within the College of Computing that are primarily dedicated to research. These include several research groups and labs. Other research-related organizations include:
GVU Center, which is primarily dedicated to computer graphics and human-computer interaction
Center for Experimental Research in Computer Systems, which focuses on hardware aspects of computer science
Georgia Tech Algorithms and Randomness Center ThinkTank
Center for Research into Novel Computing Hierarchies
Machine Learning at Georgia Tech

Affiliated Research Institutes
Institute for People and Technology
Institute for Robotics and Intelligent Machines
Institute for Information Security and Privacy
Institute for Data Engineering and Science

Student life and community
The College of Computing has numerous student organizations which help build a community within the college. These organizations include:

 Anime O-Tekku
 Association for Computing Machinery
 Entertainment Software Producers 
 Freshmen Mentoring Program
 Minorities @ CC 
 Student Activities Board 
 The FIREwall 
 Undergraduate Council 
 Upsilon Pi Epsilon
 Women @ CC 
 Tech Entrepreneurs Society

Alumni

See also
GVU Center
Institute for Personal Robots in Education
Sony Toshiba IBM Center of Competence for the Cell Processor
Center for Robotics and Intelligent Machines

References

External links
Official website

College of Computing
Information schools
Computer science departments in the United States
Educational institutions established in 1964
1964 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)