[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Uruguayan cuisine

de cumpleaños" (birthday party pizzas) as it is common to serve to guests on such occasions.

Pizza can come with a lot of ingredients, but most common are pizza (without cheese nor topings) and pizza-muzzarella.

Fainá 

Fainás are often served in pizza bars and restaurants throughout the country.

It consists of a thin, round chickpea flour baked crepe paste than can be ordered as "fainá de orilla" (fainá from the border) when is the thinnest part of the border. that is desired or "fainá del medio" (faina from the middle) when it is referred to the taller middle part of a fainá.

Unlike the common use in Italy that fainá is peppered on the plate by the crust, Uruguayan use implies peppering on the plate with white chopped pepper by the other side.

When fainá is served upside a pizza it is called "pizza a caballo" that may be translated as horse-riding pizza.

Figazza 
A figazza is a pizza bread not containing tomato sauce, topped with onions and often also muzzarella. It is probably descended from the Genoese focaccia (where it is known as ), and it is also consumed in Argentina under the name fugazzeta.

Typical ingredients of a figazza are onions, peppers, and olives.

Lahmajun 
Lahmajun (locally known as "lehmeyún") was brought by Armenian immigrants. Nowadays it is very popular, found at several small restaurants and pizzerias.

Fideos con tuco 
Tuco is an Uruguayan tomato sauce made with chopped meat, tomato sauce, onions, oreganon and garlic, fideos meaning noodles.

Tuco can be served with any pasta, fresh or dry, but most common are tallarines con tuco (spaghetti with tuco), ñoquis con tuco (gnocchi), moñitas con tuco (farfalle), raviolis con tuco (ravioli), and canelones con tuco (cannelloni).

Canelones con tuco are covered with bechamel and later covered with tuco.

Fideos con estofado 
Estofado and tuco are interchangeable for any of the mentioned noodles though estofado can serve also as a dish by itself when served alone or with potatoes.

Estofado is made by cooking meat pieces in tomato sauce by long coctions.

Ñoquis 

Gnocchi, or ñoquis of the 29th is a tradition of having gnocchi every 29, brought in by the immigration from Veneto, the tradition of Saint Pantaleo, who had many miracles attributed to him, is said to honor him.

Families and friends gather on the 29th to eat gnocchi, the tradition is that everyone at the table puts money under the plate for good fortune.

Capeletis a la Caruso 

Caruso sauce was invented by chef Raymundo Monti and takes its name from the famous tenor Enrico Caruso. It is a warm sauce that is made of cream, sliced onions, ham, cheese, nuts, and mushrooms and is served with cappelletti.

Breads 
 Pan de chicharrones
Literally meaning rind bread, also rosca de chicharrones, is a leavened bread made of cow lard and added with small rinds made of cow fat, commonly found on local bakeries among with sweet variations without rinds such as rosca de membrillo, (quince (cheese-filled) bread) and rosca de dulce de leche (dulce de leche (filled) bread).
 Flauta
Pan flauta (flute bread) is an elongated bread that is a variant of baguette.
 Tortuga
Pan tortuga it is a small round-shaped bread with a soft crust, thus its name tortuga (Spanish for turtle).
 Felipe
Felipe is a hard-crusted small bread.
 Porteño
Porteño is called after the eponym of the inhabitants of Buenos Aires and is similar to Felipe but with a smaller crumb.
 Marsellés
Marsellés is named after the city of Marseille and resembles a pair of twin Vienna bread with harder crust and covered with maize flour.
 Pan de sándwich
Pan de sándwich is a soft crumb mold bread specially made for making sandwiches.

Sandwiches 
There is a wide variety of sandwiches in Uruguay which are locally classified into two types called refuerzo (reinforcement) and sándwich (sandwich) respectively.
Sandwiches in Rio de la Plata are particular and different of those from other parts of the world because of the bread with which are made that is pan de sándwich, this type of sandwiches are simply called sándwiches and are commonly sold on local bakeries.
Also note that the Spanish distinction between refuerzo and sándwich which is also present in Mexico with torta and sándwich, which differentiates common bread sandwich from others similar to the British train sandwich, is not so pronounced on the Argentinian dialect where difference is simply made by adding de miga (crumby) to the latter.
Notable types of refuerzos are chivito, choripán and milanesa al pan.

Chivito