[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Manhattan Municipal Building

illing its two occupants. A pile of coal stored in bunkers underneath the building caught fire in 1942, and a 2005 fire slightly injured six firefighters. Additionally, a flood on the fourth floor in 1959 destroyed brand-new machinery that processed the pay checks for the building's workers.

Impact

Critical reception and influence 
Lionel Moses, appraising McKim, Mead & White's work in 1922, said that "we have a building of 580 feet to the top of the figure, of superbly monumental character and classic beauty, every part of which attests the architectural knowledge of its designers". In particular, Moses praised the fact that the firm could create a large office building on "a comparatively small plot of irregular shape", which could still accommodate a subway station, a public street, and mechanical equipment. The 1939 WPA Guide to New York City stated that the facade "gains dignity through the bold treatment of the intermediate stories, despite the poorly related tower and the disturbing character of the Corinthian colonnade at the base". In their 2004 book New York Artwalks, Marina Harrison and Lucy D. Rosenfeld described the Civic Fame statue as "a graceful and unusually charming sculpture in the allegorical style of municipal-building decorations". 

The building was also noted for its symbolism. A reporter for Newsday wrote in 1987: "It is the city not just as a metaphor—although it is certainly that, from Civic Fame (the name of the statue at the very top) right down to the stressful rumble underneath (six subway tracks where the basement would be). The Municipal Building is where the money is."

The Municipal Building was the first of several ornately-designed civic office buildings, influencing other structures such as the Terminal Tower in Cleveland, the Fisher Building in Detroit, the Wrigley Building in Chicago, and the New York Central Building in Midtown Manhattan. In particular, the base of the Municipal Building above Chambers Street was likened to the base of the New York Central Building, which spanned Park Avenue. The base also inspired the General Motors Building in Detroit, while the tower stories influenced the "Tower of Jewels", designed by Carrère and Hastings for the Panama–Pacific International Exposition. The arches of the Moscow State University's main building and of 550 Madison Avenue in Midtown Manhattan were also inspired by that of the Municipal Building.

In popular culture 
The Manhattan Municipal Building appears in several films, such as a key scene of the 1996 film One Fine Day, in which Jack Taylor (George Clooney) spots Manny Feldstein (Joe Grifasi) and chases him to the roof. In "Crocodile" Dundee (1986), muggers inside the Municipal Building entrance to the subway station pull a knife on the title character (Paul Hogan) and his girlfriend Sue (Linda Kozlowski). In Ghostbusters (1984), the team leaves to confront Gozer from the building. In The Professional (1994), antagonist Stansfield, played by actor Gary Oldman, works for the DEA at the building, in office 4602. Newsday wrote in 1987 that the structure was often used for film shoots where characters jumped off the building's roof. Additionally, the music video for the song Not Afraid, rapper Eminem is depicted standing on the edge of the building's roof in multiple shots.

See also

 Early skyscrapers
 List of New York City borough halls and municipal buildings
 List of New York City Designated Landmarks in Manhattan below 14th Street
 National Register of Historic Places listings in Manhattan below 14th Street

References

Notes

Citations

Sources

External links
 

1914 establishments in New York City
City and town halls on the National Register of Historic Places in New York (state)
Civic Center, Manhattan
Government buildings completed in 1914
Government buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Manhattan
Government of New York City
McKim, Mead & White buildings
New York City Designated Landmarks in Manhattan
Skyscraper office buildings in Manhattan