[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Admission to practice law

as Directive (Directive no. 89/48/EEC) states that those who have obtained a license or diploma in one state can pursue the profession in another state. Thus, it is not difficult for a law degree in one jurisdiction to be used as a qualifying degree in another jurisdiction within the European Union.

In addition, European Union Directive 98/5/EC provides three main methods for a foreign lawyer to be integrated into the legal profession in another member state. Through the aforementioned process of 89/48/EEC, a lawyer's foreign diploma can be recognized in another member state, in addition to passing an aptitude test. Alternatively, actively practicing the law of the host state for a period of three years provides a pathway for bar admission in the host country. The three-year period can be shortened by fulfilling other requirements.

Albania
Albanian advocates should be members of the Albanian Bar Association (). To be admitted to the bar, a candidate must complete a law degree, complete an internship with a practicing advocate lasting a minimum of one year and receive a positive evaluation, complete the initial training program at the School of Advocacy, and pass the Advocate's Qualifying Exam.

Andorra
In Andorra, advocates should be members of the local bar association ().

Austria
In Austria, an attorney ("Rechtsanwalt" in German) must meet the following requirements:

 hold a law degree,
 complete a three-year apprenticeship in a law firm as a trainee lawyer ("Rechtsanwaltsanwärter"),
 complete a seven-month clerkship at court,
 complete the required amount of training seminars (42 sessions),
 pass the bar exam.

Furthermore, trainee lawyers may only register as attorneys after they have accumulated a total of five years of professional experience (including the apprenticeship and the clerkship).

Austrian advocates should be members of one of a local bar associations which are organised into national bar association ().

Belarus
In Belarus, an advocate (barrister) must be a member of one of a local bar associations which are organised into a National Bar Association (). In order to be admitted to the bar, candidates must have a university degree in law. Law students in Belarus must specialize in one of the following fields to be eligible to practice law: jurisprudence, international law, state security, customs service, economic law, and state management in law. They must also undertake additional training in one of two ways. One of them is to obtain three years of professional legal experience by employment in a court or under other organizations and persons responsible for public order. The other is to undertake six months to a year of apprenticeship in a legal office. They must then pass an exam.

Belgium
In Belgium, a prospective lawyer ("advocaat" in Dutch, "avocat"/"avocat" in French) must meet following requirements:
 
 hold a master's degree in law (which requires two years of study and the Bachelor in Law which requires three years of study) or hold a PhD in Law
 taking the pledge in a court of appeal, 
 a three-year apprenticeship (Flemish prospective lawyers have to do 15 cases of pro bono during these 3 years), 
 the CAPA (French, 'Certificat d'aptitude à la profession d'avocat') course of study,
 pass the final bar exam.

During the three-year apprenticeship the prospective lawyer is equivalent to a licensed lawyer, and can for instance issue legal opinions and directly represent clients before all courts (except for the Supreme Court).

Bulgaria
The Highest Counsil of Advocates () regulates the profession of a lawyer in Bulgaria.

Croatia
All attorneys in Croatia have to be members of the Croatian Bar Association () as well as members of local bar associations (mandatory membership). The membership requires completion of the one-cycle five-year master's degree, the Bar Examination in the Republic of Croatia (which can be accessed after at least 18 months of apprenticeship), and at least three years of experience in a law office or in judicial bodies (or five years of experience on legal jobs outside judiciary), the time before Bar Examination included.