[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen M. Schwebel

mittee on the Question of Defining Aggression (1971); and the Special Committee on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States (1964).  He was also a member of the United Nations International Law Commission from 1977 to 1980.

Cambodian accountability

In September 1978, Schwebel, acting as deputy legal adviser to the U.S. Department of State, sought accountability for the mass executions committed by the Khmer Rouge. Schwebel wrote the U.K. Foreign Office about the possibility of instituting proceedings against Cambodia before the International Court of Justice for genocide. Although Schwebel suggested a basis for the proceedings should be the Genocide Convention, he acknowledged that proceedings of a case against Cambodia based on the convention were not well founded. Schwebel stated that the atrocities had apparently not been aimed at destroying, in whole or in part, a "national, ethnical, racial or religious group," as defined by the Genocide Convention, but rather those whom the Cambodian authorities deemed to be politically unsympathetic. The UK concurred with Schwebel's concerns by stating that it felt arguments against instituting proceedings were too strong and that the criterion for the atrocities appeared to be the political attitude (or assumed attitude) by the Cambodian government.

Filártiga v. Peña-Irala

Schwebel was a key member of the U.S. State Department team that initiated and sought to influence, through an amicus brief, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals in its hearing of the landmark case Filártiga v. Peña-Irala. In August 1979, two months before oral arguments at the Second Circuit, Schwebel, as deputy legal adviser, contacted the Civil Rights Division in the Justice Department and expressed the U.S. State Department's desire for the Justice Department to take account of developments in international law, which firmly established that all natural persons are entitled to fundamental human rights.  Schwebel wrote:

The position of the (U.S.) State Department on the question of international law immediately relevant to the District court judgment in Filártiga is that acts of torture violate an individual's rights under international law not to be tortured. That an individual has this right is a conclusion founded on provisions of the U.N. Charter and authoritative interpretations of those provisions, on other treaties, on international custom and practice and on the general principles of law- all as recognized by the U.S. and other nations. It derives also from international and national judicial decisions.

Despite taking over eight months for the U.S. State Department, Solicitor General and Department of Justice to formulate a combined final position in Filártiga v. Peña-Irala, the ruling by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, that torture is prohibited by international law, was heavily influenced by the amicus briefs initiated by Schwebel and his team at the U.S. State Department.

International Court of Justice
He was nominated for election to the International Court of Justice by the bipartisan U.S. National Group at the Permanent Court of Arbitration during the presidency of Jimmy Carter. In January 1981, Schwebel was elected by the U.N. Security Council and U.N. General Assembly, along with Fikri El-Khani of Syria, to fill vacancies created by the deaths of Richard R. Baxter (U.S.A.) and Salah El Dne Trazi (Syria). Schwebel was re-elected on February 6, 1988 and re-elected again February 6, 1997.  He was elected to vice president of the court from 1994 to 1997 and served as president of the court from 1997 to 2000. During his tenure on the court, Schwebel adjudicated 38 cases. These cases included advisory opinions such as Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons  and  Difference Relating to Immunity from Legal Process of a Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights, Oil Platforms (Iran v. United States) and Aerial Incident of 10 August 1999 (Pakistan v. India). His opinions in these cases have been characterized by scholars as expansive, impassioned, exhaustive, closely reasoned and, by those who share his views, brilliant.  His ruling in the Legality of Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons Case is considered by some scholars to be  consistent with that of a moderate conservative. Schwebel frequently voted against the majority of his colleagues; however, he also voted against his own country (U.S.) more than any other judge in the history of the Court. He believes that a nationalistic view, as opposed to a judicial view, undermines the international system and that the judicial decision making process must take in to consideration moral considerations relating to equality -  beyond just a strict legalist interpretation. He resigned from the Court in January 2000.

Case: Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons