[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Jamaican Maroons

First Maroon War.

Moore Town, located between the Blue Mountains and John Crow Mountains in Portland Parish, was relisted on the UNESCO Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2008 for its Maroon heritage, particularly music.

Jamaican Maroon treaty towns

In Jamaica

Leeward Maroons
 Cudjoe's Town (Trelawny Town), ruled by Cudjoe, and secured recognition from the British after the First Maroon War (1728–1740). Most of the Trelawny Maroons were deported after the Second Maroon War to Nova Scotia, and then to Sierra Leone. Eventually, after Emancipation, in the 1840s, a few hundred Trelawny Maroons eventually returned from Sierra Leone, and established a community of Returned Maroons near the site of Trelawny Town and called it Flagstaff. The Returned Maroons of Trelawny Town still live in Flagstaff today.
 Maroon Town, Jamaica, after the deportation of the Trelawny Maroons, the British colonial government took control of Trelawny Town, and established a military barracks there. It became known as Maroon Town, though no Maroons lived there any more.
 Accompong, along with Cudjoe's Town, Accompong was the main settlement of the Leeward Maroons. Ruled by Accompong, after whom the town was named.

Windward Maroons
 Nanny Town, one of the two main towns of the Windward Maroons during the First Maroon War, led by the legendary Queen Nanny, located in the Blue Mountains of eastern Jamaica. This town exchanged hands several times during the First Maroon War, and was eventually abandoned for a new site named New Nanny Town, also located in the Blue Mountains.
 Moore Town, the new site of the inhabitants of Nanny Town, and originally named New Nanny Town.
 Crawford's Town, another of the two main towns of the Windward Maroons during the First Maroon War, led by Quao. After the First Maroon War, Quao was replaced as leader by Edward Crawford, after whom the town was later named. In the 1750s, a conflict between two factions led by these two opposing leaders eventually led to destruction of Crawford's Town.
 Charles Town, Jamaica, was established in the 1750s, after the destruction of Crawford's Town. Most of its new inhabitants were the supporters of Ned Crawford, who made up the majority of the Maroons in Crawford's Town.
 Scott's Hall, Jamaica, was a  minor Maroon town that predated the destruction of Crawford's Town. In the 1750s, the supporters of Quao, who made up the minority of the Maroons in Crawford's Town, relocated to Scott's Hall.

In Sierra Leone 
 Maroon Town, Sierra Leone, became a settlement of Jamaican Maroons in Sierra Leone, after the Trelawny Maroons were deported from Jamaica.

Notable people from Maroon communities

See also

 Black Nova Scotians
 Black Seminoles
 Coromantee
 Dread & Alive, comic series centred on a maroon.
 Jamaican Maroon Creole
 Jamaican Maroons in Sierra Leone
 Kromanti dance (religious)
 Maroon (people)
 Maroon Town, Sierra Leone
 Sierra Leone Creole people

Notes

References
 Campbell, Mavis C. The Maroons of Jamaica, 1655–1796: A History of Resistance, Collaboration & Betrayal. Granby, Mass: Bergin & Garvey, 1988. 
 
 Craton, Michael. Testing the Chains: Resistance to Slavery in the British West Indies. Cornell University Press, 1982. 
 Dallas, R. C. The History of the Maroons, from Their Origin to the Establishment of Their Chief Tribe at Sierra Leone. 2 vols. London: Longman, 1803.
 Fortin, Jeffrey A. "'Blackened Beyond Our Native Hue':  Removal, Identity and the Trelawney Maroons on the Margins of the Atlantic World, 1796–1800", Citizenship Studies, Vol. 10, No. 1, 5–34, February 2006.
 Thompson, Alvin O. Flight to Freedom: African Runaways and Maroons in the Americas. Kingston: University of the West Indies Press, 2006.

Further reading
 Bilby, Kenneth. "Jamaican Maroons at the Crossroads: Losing Touch With Tradition," Caribbean Review, Fall 1980.
 
  Blake, Edith. "The Maroons of Jamaica", North American Review, 1898, online text at Archive.org, via JSTOR
 Campbell, Mavis C. The Maroons of Jamaica 1655–1796: A History of Resistance, Collaboration & Betrayal. Granby, MA: Bergin & Garvey, 1988.
 Dunham, Katherine. Journey to Accompong. New York: Henry Holt and Company, 1946.
 
 (Smith, Horane. Marooned in Nova Scotia - A Story of the Jamaican Maroons in Canada  America Star, 2010  https://wiredja.com/index.php/categories/newsberg/regions/diaspora/marooned-in-nova-scotia-a-story-of-the-jamaican-maroons-in-canada-by-horane-smith

External links
 Common Medicinal Plants of Portland, Jamaica, Maroon/Marocon culture
 "Queen Nanny Windward Maroons", Itz Caribbean
 Video Accompong – Black freedom fighters in Jamaica (1992). Onlinearchiv Österreichische Mediathek (Maroons,...)

 
History of Sierra Leone
History of Jamaica
Colony of Jamaica
 History of Nova Scotia