[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 153]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

guilty wretch, and setting oneself up
with a profitable grievance for life."

"To the true woman," said Mrs. Jordan, who had ruled her family with a
rod of iron for thirty stern years, "there is no joy to equal that of
self-sacrifice."

"Except that of exacting it," added Hadria.

"I advise everyone desirous of dominion to preach that duty, in and out
of season," said Madame Bertaux. "It is seldom that the victims even
howl, so well have we trained them."

"Truly I hope so!" cried Professor Theobald. "It must be most galling
when their lamentations prevent one from committing one's justifiable
homicide in peace and quietness. Imagine the discomfort of having a
half-educated victim to deal with, who can't hold his tongue and let one
perform the operation quietly and comfortably. It is enough to embitter
any Christian!"

The party broke up, with many cordial expressions of pleasure, and
several plans were made for immediately meeting again. Lady Engleton was
delighted to see that Mrs. Temperley entered with animation, into some
projects for picnics and excursions in the neighbourhood.

"Did I not tell you that all you wanted was a little lively society?"
she said, with genuine warmth, as the two women stood in the hall, a
little apart from the others.

Hadria's eye-lids suddenly fell and reddened slightly.

"Oh, you are so kind!" she exclaimed, in a voice whose tones betrayed
the presence of suppressed tears.

Lady Engleton, in astonishment, stretched out a sisterly hand, but
Hadria had vanished through the open hall door into the darkness
without.




CHAPTER XLI.


Mrs. Temperley was much discussed at Craddock Place. Professor Theobald
preserved the same grave mood whenever she was present. He only returned
to his usual manner, in her absence. "Theobald has on his Mrs. Temperley
manner," Claude Moreton used to say. The latter was himself among her
admirers.

"I begin to be afraid that Claude is taking her too seriously," Lady
Engleton remarked to her husband. He had fired up on one occasion when
Professor Theobald said something flippant about Mrs. Temperley. Claude
Moreton's usual calmness had caused the sudden outburst to be noticed
with surprise. He hated Professor Theobald.

"What possesses you both to let that fellow come here so much?"

"The Professor? Oh, he is a very old friend, you know, and extremely
clever. One has to put up with his manner."

Claude Moreton grunted. "These, at any rate, are no reasons why Mrs.
Temperley should put up with his manner!"

"But, my dear Claude, as you are always pointing out, the Professor has
a special manner which he keeps exclusively for her."

The special manner had already worked wonders. The Professor was to
Hadria by far the most entertaining person of the party. He had always
amused her, and even the first time she saw him, he had exercised a
strange, unpleasant fascination over her, which had put her on the
defensive, for she had disliked and distrusted him. The meetings in the
Priory gardens had softened her hostility, and now she began to feel
more and more that she had judged him unfairly. In those days she had a
strong pre-occupying interest. He had arrived on the scene at an
exciting moment, just when she was planning out her flight to Paris.
She had not considered the Professor's character very deeply. There were
far too many other things to think of. It was simpler to avoid him. But
now everything had changed. The present moment was not exciting; she had
no plans and projects in her head; she was not about to court the fate
of Icarus. That fate had already overtaken her. The waves were closing
over-head; her wings were wet and crippled, in the blue depths. Why not
take what the gods had sent and make the most of it?

The Professor had all sorts of strange lore, which he used, in his
conversations with Hadria, almost as a fisherman uses his bait. If she
shewed an inclination to re-join the rest of the party, he always
brought out some fresh titbit of curious learning, and Hadria was seldom
able to resist the lure.

They met often, almost of necessity. It was impossible to feel a
stranger to the Professor, in these circumstances of frequent and
informal meeting. Often when Hadria happened to be alone with him, she
would become suddenly silent, as if she no longer felt the necessity to
talk or to conceal her weariness. The Professor knew it too well; he saw
how heavily the burden of life weighed upon her, and how it was often
almost more than she could do, to drag through the day. She craved for
excitement, no matter of what kind, in order to help her to forget her
weariness. Her anxiety about Professor Fortescue preyed upon her. She
was restless, over-wrought, with every nerve on edge, unable now for
consecutive work, even had events permitted it. She followed the advice
and took the medicines of a London doctor, whom Mrs. Fullerton had
entreated her t