[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act of 2001

n credit, or guarantee to the Government of Zimbabwe; 
 any cancellation or reduction of indebtedness owed by the Government of Zimbabwe to the United States or any international financial institution.

The following were certifications that once satisfied would lift the aforementioned restrictions:

 Restoration of the rule of law: including "respect for ownership and title to property, freedom of speech and association, and an end to the lawlessness, violence, and intimidation sponsored, condoned, or tolerated by the Government of Zimbabwe, the ruling party, and their supporters or entities.  
 Electoral Conditions: That Zimbabwe has held a presidential election that is widely accepted as free and fair and the president-elect is free to assume the duties of the office

OR

that the Government of Zimbabwe has sufficiently improved the pre-election environment to a degree consistent with accepted international standards for security and freedom of movement and association.

 Transparent Land Reform: The Government of Zimbabwe has demonstrated a commitment to an equitable, legal, and transparent land reform program consistent with agreements reached at the International Donors' Conference on Land Reform and Resettlement in Zimbabwe held in Harare, Zimbabwe, in September 1998.  
 Fulfilling the agreement to end the war in the DRC: The Government of Zimbabwe is making a good faith effort to fulfill the terms of the Lusaka, Zambia, agreement on ending the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo. However, this section was removed with the amendments to ZDERA in 2018.
 Military and police: The Zimbabwean Armed Forces, the National Police of Zimbabwe, and other state security forces are responsible to and serve the elected civilian government.

Additional actions
It was further recommended from Congress that the President should begin immediate consultations with European Union nations, Canada, and other suitable nations to identify ways to:
 identify and share information regarding individuals responsible for the deliberate breakdown of the rule of law, politically motivated violence, and intimidation in Zimbabwe; 
 identify assets of those individuals held outside Zimbabwe; 
 implement travel and economic sanctions against those individuals and their associates and families; and 
 provide for the eventual removal or amendment of those sanctions.

Repeal of ZDERA
Bill S. 3722, the Zimbabwe Sanctions Repeal Act of 2010, sponsored by Senator James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma) was introduced into the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in 2010.  A vote was never taken.  Bill S. 1646, a Zimbabwe Sanctions Repeal Act of 2011, sponsored again by Senator James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma) was introduced into the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in October 2011.  A vote has yet to be taken.

Critical reception
Simbi Mubako, Zimbabwe's ambassador, and Cynthia McKinney (D-Georgia) accused supporters of the bill of anti-black racism.  McKinney referred to the bill as "nothing more than a formal declaration of United States complicity in a program to maintain white-skin privilege [...] under the hypocritical guise of providing a transition to democracy."

References

Acts of the 107th United States Congress
History of Zimbabwe
United States foreign relations legislation
2001 in international relations
2001 in Zimbabwe
United States–Zimbabwe relations
Sanctions legislation
United States sanctions
International sanctions