[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Tank services

The tank services industry exists to assist companies in maintaining their tanks.

Regular maintenance, as well as other services are required for many types of above ground storage tank systems used in the energy and petro-chemical industry.

Tank Services
Some of the areas that tank service companies provide assistance with are:

Tank Inspection, Engineering and Design
Tank Lifting and Remediation
Tank Relocation

Companies that specialise in Tank Services, oil tank removals, replacement and installations in the UK follow detailed rules & regulations. OFTEC governs a comprehensive set of guidelines and regulations on fuel tank installations. Tank Servicing companies follow a combination of both Building Regulations and OFTEC Guidelines to provide a fully compliant safe installation.

Inspection, engineering and design
At the start of any project, an API certified above ground storage tank inspector should be on hand to provide inspection and consultation services, and to ensure compliance with applicable codes and standards in the region. Each tank upgrading project has specific requirements and presents unique challenges. Proper procedure will ensure project safety, tank integrity, and the best utilization of resources and materials. A complete engineering analysis should be performed to ensure that tank components will not be overstressed during lifting and remedial operations. A professional engineer will develop project-specific drawings and procedures, and will supervise each stage of the work.

Tank lifting and remediation
An analysis of the situation will result in recommendations for the appropriate remedial action, and what repair work should be performed, possibly including but not limited to:

Tank lifting
leveling
repair and replacement of roofs and floors
shell repairs
reconstruction of foundations

Storage tanks should be updated to meet the highest local environmental standards, including the installation of release prevention barriers and leak detection.

Several different technologies exist for lifting tanks. The conventional methods involve hydraulic jacking equipment, while another method utilizes an airbag lifting system to elevate the tank from its base to allow for remedial action.

Tank relocation
Some companies choose to relocate existing tanks, rather than embark on new tank construction. Tank relocation services can be utilized on land or via navigable waterways. There can be cost benefits to relocating an existing tank, depending on variables such as distance and the condition of the tank.

References

External links
Tank Removal Service

Storage tanks