[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gerald McCarthy (hurler)

inal. He was selected as team captain for the second time in his career for the 1975 season. After winning a fifth Munster Championship title, McCarthy later captained Cork to their first ever All-Ireland semi-final defeat by Galway. He ended the season by being Cork's only recipient of an All-Star.

Cork consolidated their position as the top team in Munster by retaining the provincial title after a 3–15 to 4–05 defeat of Limerick in the 1975 Munster final. It was McCarthy's sixth winners' medal. After being caught at the semi-final stage the previous year, Cork's provincial title allowed the team to qualify automatically for the 1976 All-Ireland final. After conceding two goals to Wexford in the opening six minutes, Cork fought back to win the game by 2–21 to 4–11. Having collected his third All-Ireland medal, McCarthy was also named man of the match. Cork subsequently went through a period of dominance that they hadn't enjoyed in over 20 years. A third successive Munster Championship was followed by a second successive appearance against Wexford in the 1977 All-Ireland final. McCarthy, who had been switched from midfield to centre-forward earlier in the season, ended the 1–17 to 3–08 victory with a second successive man of the match award and a fourth All-Ireland winners' medal.

McCarthy was the longest-serving member of the Cork team when he began his 15th season in 1978. After securing a Munster Championship four-in-a-row, Cork turned their attention to the All-Ireland three-in-a-row when they qualified for the 1978 All-Ireland final against Kilkenny. McCarthy was once again at centre-forward and claimed his fifth All-Ireland medal following the 1–15 to 2–08 victory. The possibility of Cork winning a record-equalling fourth successive All-Ireland meant that McCarthy, who was approaching his 34th birthday, decided to remain with the team for one final season. His decision resulted in a ninth Munster Championship medal after an 11-point win over Limerick in the 1979 Munster final. Age and the exertions of the three previous campaigns finally caught up with Cork in the All-Ireland semi-final and a 2–14 to 1–13 defeat by Galway brought the four-in-a-row dream to an end. The following month McCarthy captained Cork against Tipperary in the Christy Ring Memorial Fund game, in what was his last game for Cork.

Inter-provincial
McCarthy earned his first call-up to the Munster team during the 1968 Railway Cup. It was the first of four successive years with the inter-provincial team and yielded three successive Railway Cup medals after defeats of Leinster (1968, 1970) and Connacht as captain of the team. After a three-year hiatus, McCarthy earned inclusion on the Munster team once again. Defeats of Leinster in 1976 and Connacht in 1978 brought his medal tally to five.

Early coaching career

St Finbarr's
When McCarthy retired from playing in October 1979, he hinted that he would be interested in becoming involved in team management and coaching. He was appointed coach of the St Finbarr's senior team less than two months later. McCarthy first season as coach yielded the Cork SHC title after a 1–09 to 2–04 win over Glen Rovers in the 1980 final. St Finbarr's nearly completed a dream season; however, after securing the Munster Club Championship title, the team was beaten by Ballyhale Shamrocks in the 1981 All-Ireland club hurling final. McCarthy remained in situ as coach and guided the team to a second successive Cork SHC title after a three-point win over Glen Rovers once again. He described that victory as "the best moment I have savoured since giving up hurling." McCarthy stepped down as coach in December 1981, citing the "pressure of business" as the reason for his decision.

Cork
McCarthy's successful first season with St Finbarr's resulted in him becoming a selector with the Cork senior hurling team in October 1980. He took over as coach of the team a short while later following the stepping down from the position of Bertie Troy. McCarthy had a successful first season by guiding the team to the 1980-81 National League title after a defeat of Offaly in the final. His second season at the helm saw Cork win the Munster Championship after a record 31-point defeat of Waterford, before losing the 1982 All-Ireland final to Kilkenny. McCarthy stepped down as coach in November 1982.