[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Causes of the 1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight

ves or other sources, Morris made a judgement as to the main causes for the Arab exodus from each of the 392 settlements that were depopulated during the 1948-1950 conflict (pages xiv to xviii). His tabulation lists "Arab orders" as being a significant "exodus factor" in only 6 of these settlements.

Furthermore, in his comprehensive book on the Arab–Israeli conflict, Righteous Victims, Morris wrote:
In some areas Arab commanders ordered the villagers to evacuate to clear the ground for military purposes or to prevent surrender. More than half a dozen villages ... were abandoned during these months as a result of such orders. Elsewhere, in East Jerusalem and in many villages around the country, the [Arab] commanders ordered women, old people, and children to be sent away to be out of harm's way.... [T]he AHC and the Arab League had periodically endorsed such a move when contemplating the future war in Palestine.

In a 2003 interview with Haaretz, Morris summed up the conclusions of his revised edition of The Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem: "In the months of April–May 1948, units of the Haganah were given operational orders that stated explicitly that they were to uproot the villagers, expel them and destroy the villages themselves. At the same time, it turns out that there was a series of orders issued by the Arab Higher Committee and by the Palestinian intermediate levels to remove children, women and the elderly from the villages."

The Arab National Committee in Jerusalem, following the 8 March 1948 instructions of the Arab Higher Committee, ordered women, children and the elderly in various parts of Jerusalem to leave their homes and move to areas "far away from the dangers. Any opposition to this order ... is an obstacle to the holy war ... and will hamper the operations of the fighters in these districts."

In a 1959 paper, Walid Khalidi attributed the "Arab evacuation story" to Joseph Schechtman, who wrote two 1949 pamphlets in which "the evacuation order first makes an elaborate appearance." Morris, too, did not find any blanket orders of evacuation.

References

Notes

Footnotes

Sources

External links
Boyd, Douglas. Clandestine Radio Broadcasting During the British Palestine Mandate
Glazer, Steven. (Summer 1980) "The Palestinian Exodus in 1948." Published by Journal of Palestine Studies, vol. 9, no. 4. (A pdf version is available on www.palestine-studies.org)
Zimmerman, J. (1973/1974) Radio Propaganda in the Arab-Israeli War 1948 published by the Weiner Library Bulletin, 30/31, 2-8. (A copy of the four page article can be found on www.middleeastinfo.org)

1940s in All-Palestine (Gaza)
1948 in Mandatory Palestine
1948 Palestinian exodus
Forced migration
Palestinian nationalism
1948 Palestinian expulsion and flight