[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ted Serong

, and later in Malaya and Vietnam. According to Serong "...conventional soldiers think of the jungle as being full of lurking enemies. Under our system, we will do the lurking." Officers were also trained in battle tactics at Canungra, and various research and development activities were undertaken.

Following its independence from Britain in 1948, Burma had been fighting against ethnic unrest and Chinese Nationalist Kuomintang irregulars, and several Burmese Army officers had trained in Australia in the 1950s. A Burmese staff officer, Major Muang Muang, later requested the assistance of Serong or another Australian officer. As a result, Serong was sent to Burma as a counter-insurgency instructor with the Burmese armed forces, lecturing senior officers for a few months in 1957 before returning to Australia. Serong subsequently advocated the dispatch of a small team of Australian officers to assist in training the Burmese, but this did not occur. At the request of Muang Muang, Serong returned to Burma in 1960, serving in Rangoon as a strategic adviser to the Burmese armed forces. Muang Muang had resigned in early 1961, and as a consequence Serong's influence was limited from this time, During this period he worked to prepare the Burmese for a border war against China. While in Burma Serong's expertise brought him to the attention of the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and as a result he was later invited to supervise counter-insurgency programs in Vietnam. In February 1962 he wrote to Pollard, by then CGS, to suggest the deployment of a small team of Australian officers under his command to South Vietnam to work with the US advisory group there. Soon after the Burmese Army staged a coup, seizing control and moving the country towards communist China, after which Serong made arrangements to leave.

In April 1962 Serong returned to Australia, visiting Vietnam on an information-gathering tour on his way home, though Australia had not yet made a decision to provide military assistance to South Vietnam. He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the Queen's Birthday Honours List the same year. The award had been made on Pollard's recommendation on the basis of Serong's work at Canungra and its influence on the training of the post-war Australian Army during "its formative period". Pollard wrote that "...the position that establishment now occupies in the Australian Army and its reputation overseas is due in great measure to the foresight and determination shown by Colonel Serong." He believed that the extent of Serong's influence on the Army's training had been because of his "originality of mind" and "strength of character" which had allowed him to enact "ideas and techniques which a less determined person might not have succeeded in doing." Serong's influence on the training of the Australian Army during this period was significant, codifying its techniques for jungle training. He also helped develop its doctrine for counter-insurgency warfare, the basis of which he had laid down in several planning initiatives.

Vietnam War

In May 1962, Serong was selected to lead the 30-man Australian Army Training Team Vietnam (AATTV) of instructors to South Vietnam. Serong had been appointed by Pollard—with whom he was close friends—and was given authority to act unilaterally. He conducted a reconnaissance of South Vietnam in June, and the main body of the AATTV began arriving in early August. Serong based his headquarters in Saigon; the rest of the team was located at various installations throughout the country. Although the AATTV was mostly involved in training the South Vietnamese forces, a few had been attached to the Combined Studies Division, run by the CIA as a counter-insurgency organisation. Serong later became a counter-insurgency advisor to General Paul Harkins, Commander US MACV, but this relationship ended under Pollard's successor, Lieutenant General John Wilton, who reduced Serong's autonomy while continuing to grant him considerable latitude. In May 1963 Serong accepted an invitation to visit the US Special Warfare School in North Carolina, informing the Military Board only after doing so, and he later visited West Germany to become familiar with intelligence activities there, again without informing Wilton, who reacted angrily after finding out about it from a newspaper report. Meanwhile, in late 1963, Serong started to redeploy members of the team into combat advisory roles, and by February 1964 some officers and NCOs were working with Special Forces teams involved in counter-insurgency operations. Resulting in the first involvement of Australian personnel in combat during the conflict, this was a significant decision; it was retrospectively approved by Wilton, who lifted earlier restrictions on the role of AATTV personnel that had prevented them being involved in combat.