[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ba Chúc massacre

The Ba Chúc massacre () was the mass killing of 3,157 civilians in Ba Chúc, An Giang Province, Vietnam, by the Liberation Army of Kampuchea (Khmer Rouge) from 18 to 30 April 1978. The Khmer Rouge took the local villagers to temples and schools to torture and kill them. The residents who fled to the mountains in the following days were also brutally slaughtered. Almost all the victims were shot, stabbed or beheaded.

The event is considered to be the catalyst for the Vietnamese decision to invade Cambodia later that year, which would result in the overthrow of both the Khmer Rouge and its leader Pol Pot.

Background
Communists in Vietnam and Cambodia allied to fight the U.S.-backed government during the Vietnam War, but after taking power the Khmer Rouge leadership began to purge its ranks of Vietnamese-trained personnel and then began to invade Vietnam. On 3 May 1975, Khmer Rouge troops invaded Phu Quoc Island, then on 10 May, they occupied Tho Chu Island, killing 528 civilians, and on 14 June, they were expelled by the Vietnamese People's Army (PAVN).

Despite the conflict, the leaders of the reunified Vietnam and of Cambodia held several public diplomatic exchanges during 1976 to underscore their supposedly-strong ties; however, the Khmer Rouge began cross-border attacks. Such incidents occurred in Kien Giang province on 15–18 March 1977 and in An Giang province from 25 to 28 March, with more attacks on 30 April, 17 May, and 19 May, killing 222 civilians in the 17 May assault. The Central Khmer Rouge shelled Chau Doc, the capital of An Giang Province. On 25 September 1977, during the Mid-Autumn Festival, the Khmer Rouge launched an attack along the Cambodia-Vietnam border, about 10 kilometers deep into the territory of Tay Ninh Province, killing 592 local residents.

Massacre
On 18 April 1978, the Liberation Army of Kampuchea crossed the border in Vietnam and surrounded the town of Ba Chúc  from the border, cutting off all roads leading into the town. The Khmer Rouge then began to go from house to house looting valuables and killing cattle, before burning the houses to the ground. Any civilians that were caught by the Khmer Rouge soldiers were rounded up into schools and temples and killed with various melee weapons; civilians were shot and had their throats cut or were beaten with sticks. Children were flung into the air and then slashed with bayonets. Women were raped and staked in their genitals to death. Many civilians attempted to hide in the pagodas of Tam Buu and Phi Lai in the town, where they thought they would be safe. The Khmer Rouge quickly surrounded the pagoda and began to fire into it, killing 80 people. At least 100 people tried to surrender to the Khmer Rouge soldiers and were immediately massacred. At Tam Buu Pagoda, about 800 people were marched out of the building into a barren field and executed. Many civilians escaped the massacres in the town and attempted to hide in the caves outside the town. The Khmer Rouge, using tracking dogs, followed the civilians into the caves, throwing grenades and shooting inside to kill the hiding civilians. By 30 April, the Khmer Rouge had retreated from the town before the Vietnamese army showed up leaving land mines that killed or injured another 200. By the end of the massacre, 3,157 civilians had been killed.

Nguyen Van Kinh, a survivor of the massacre, recounted: "...my wife, four children and six grandchildren were all killed. Before shooting, they forced [us] to strip all jewelry and property... When I woke up, I looked around and saw all the bodies. I was dumbfounded when I saw my granddaughter holding her mother's breast and sucking and next to her dear daughter lying motionless in a pool of blood." He crawled out of a pile of corpses under the cover of darkness and hid in a cave in the Dâmrei Mountains, known as Elephant Mountain, when "those who were mutilated by Pol Pot did not stop screaming". Another survivor, He Thi Nga, was taken captive near the border with her parents, siblings, husband and six children and was brutally beaten. Her young daughter was hit three times in the head with an iron bar, screaming "Mom. Mom! Help me!" When she had regained consciousness, her whole family was dead. Nguyen Thi Ngoc Sang, a girl who fled with her parents to Sam Poh Temple, and the villagers who took refuge inside the temple were driven by the Khmer Rouge to the wasteland outside the temple, where they were shot en masse. She was rescued from a pile of corpses and taken to the hospital after the Khmer Rouge evacuated.

Aftermath