[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Irvine Bulloch

Bulloch and a secret purchase made by the Confederacy, to use the ship as a raider to prey upon Union shipping. Irvine fought against the U.S. government long after the surrender of General Lee. He fired the last gun on the cruiser CSS Alabama before it went down in the harbor of Cherbourg, France.

Bulloch's sword is in the Merseyside Maritime Museum's collection in Liverpool, England. His nephew Theodore Roosevelt and wife Edith Carow Roosevelt saw it during their visit to the city. At the same museum, President Roosevelt spoke of his uncle with affection and high praise.

Final years in Liverpool, England
Irvine lived in Sydenham Avenue, Liverpool, and died at the age of 56 at Selby Tower, Llandrillo-yn-Rhos, Colwyn Bay, Wales. The cause of his death was Bright's Disease and cerebral hemorrhage. He was buried in Toxteth Park Cemetery in Liverpool, in a grave alongside his brother's family. In 2009 a ceremony organised by Sons of Confederate Veterans, a Neo-Confederate organisation at Toxteth Park Cemetery rededication the grave of Irvine Bulloch

Theodore Roosevelt on his uncles
In 1905, Theodore Roosevelt toured the South. After spending October 19 in North Carolina and skipping South Carolina, T.R. visited Roswell, Georgia, the next day. He spoke to the citizens there as his "neighbors and friends" and concluded his remarks as follows:

"It has been my very great good fortune to have the right to claim my blood is half southern and half northern, and I would deny the right of any man here to feel a greater pride in the deeds of every southerner than I feel. Of all the children, the brothers and sisters of my mother who were born and brought up in that house on the hill there, my two uncles afterward entered the Confederate service and served with the Confederate Navy."

"One, the younger man, served on the Alabama as the youngest officer aboard her. He was captain of one of her broadside 32-pounders in her final fight, and when at the very end the Alabama was sinking and the Kearsarge passed under her stern and came up along the side that had not been engaged hitherto, my uncle, Irvine Bulloch, shifted his gun from one side to the other and fired the two last shots fired from the Alabama. James Dunwoody Bulloch was an admiral in the Confederate service."

"Men and women, don't you think I have the ancestral right to claim a proud kinship with those who showed their devotion to duty as they saw the duty, whether they wore the grey or whether they wore the blue? All Americans who are worthy the name feel an equal pride in the valor of those who fought on one side or the other, provided only that each did with all his strength and soul and mind his duty as it was given to him to see his duty."

In T.R.'s autobiography, he mentions his uncle Irvine:
"My mother's two brothers, James Dunwoody Bulloch and Irvine Bulloch, came to visit us shortly after the close of the war. Both came under assumed names, as they were among the Confederates who were at that time exempted from the amnesty... My uncle Irvine Bulloch was a midshipman on the Alabama, and fired the last gun discharged from her batteries in the fight with the Kearsarge. Both of these uncles lived in Liverpool after the war. "

See also

 List of ships of the Confederate States Navy
 Martha Bulloch Roosevelt
 James Dunwoody Bulloch
 Theodore Roosevelt
 Eleanor Roosevelt

References

Sources
 
 

Further reading

External links

https://web.archive.org/web/20060308233715/http://www.mersey-gateway.org/server.php?show=ConNarrative.101
http://www.civilwarcourier.com/news/view_article.asp?idcategory=9&idarticle=261
http://www.georgiaencyclopedia.org/nge/Article.jsp?
http://www.bartleby.com/55/1.html Theodore Roosevelt Online Biography

1842 births
1898 deaths
American emigrants to England
Confederate States Navy officers
CSS Alabama
Bulloch family
People from Roswell, Georgia
People of Georgia (U.S. state) in the American Civil War