[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shawbury United F.C.

ed as First Team Manager in a season that saw Shawbury return to FA Cup action for the first time since the 2009–10 season. Richards was at the helm when Shawbury's league fortunes took a turn for the better, culminating in the club winning the West Midlands League Premier Division title in 2015/16.

The club embarked on their first season in the Midland League Premier Division, and whilst enjoying memorable wins against some of the better teams in the division, including a 5–1 thumping of FA Cup heroes Westfields, they were thankful for a final-day victory at Brocton, which condemned Walsall Wood to the drop instead of Shawbury and ensured the club finished in its highest-ever league position of 19th.

Shawbury suffered some off the field woes towards the end of the season, with them leaving their home of over twenty years, the Butler Sports Ground in Wem, and having to relocate to Ludlow Football Stadium, some 40 miles away. Shawbury were not in a position to be able to help pay for new floodlights on their rented ground, and due to the lights then having to be dismantled, had to find another suitable ground, with Ludlow being the only option for them to remain at Step 5.

The club found its second season at Step 5 challenging eventually finishing 21st, 9 points from safety, and were relegated back to the Midlands Regional Premer Division along with Shropshire neighbours Haughmond FC. Following relegation a vast number of the playing squad left the club to remain at Step 5. Joint Managers Dave Richards and Stu Lewis looked to rebuild a younger playing squad in their first season back at Step 6. The club introduced a new Youth Team competing in the Midland Floodlit Youth League in which numerous players were promoted to the first team.

On 13 April 2019, Joint Managers Dave Richards and Stu Lewis mutually agreed to leave their roles so Richards could concentrate on his duty as Chairman and Lewis as new manager of a second youth team at the club. Subsequently Lewis left to join WMRL Division One side Allscott Heath as manager the same summer.

On 17 May 2019, the club announced former A.F.C. Telford United Youth Head Coach, Declan Allen, as the new First Team manager. He was joined at the club by Sean Evans, after he left Whitchurch Alport following a brief spell there as coach. Their tenure got off to a good start drawing 0-0 with top four favourites Wolverhampton Casuals, who had finished third in the previous season before beating Worcester Raiders in their second game. The club went onto to reach the first round proper of the FA Vase for just the seventh time in the club's history before losing to Uttoxeter Town in a replay. After a good start, results slipped and the side went on a run of 10 games without a win. Luck changed following a 2-1 victory over former landlords, Wem Town, in January. The club having slipped to 3rd bottom went on a run which saw them pick up 3 wins and a draw from their next 6 games lifting them to 15th a just 5 points from a mid-table finish before the outbreak of COVID-19 cut the season short.

At the end of the 2020–21 season the club were transferred to Division One of the Midland League when the Premier Division of the West Midlands (Regional) League lost its status as a step six division.

Ground
In 2017 after many years groundsharing with Wem Town at the Butler Sports Centre in Wem, around 6 miles from Shawbury, the club moved 'temporarily' to Ludlow after agreeing a groundshare agreement with Shropshire County League club Ludlow FC after Wem Town lost the use of their changing rooms, a requirement for the league. Ludlow Football Stadium has a small covered stand and floodlights as well as a viewing balcony. The ground is shared with Ludlow FC of the West Midlands (Regional) League Division Two, and has a 3G astro turf on the opposite side of the main stand. Despite the move to Ludlow being temporary, they are still playing at Ludlow (nearly 40 miles from Shawbury) as of 2023

In September 2014, the club submitted planning proposals to Shropshire Council for their new ground situated off of the A53. Planning permission was granted in December 2014. In January 2020 the club announced that land had been secured for the project following a donation from land owner Gerard Verdino. The club have signed a 99 year lease for the land. However as of March 2022 not a single piece of work had started at the location, and the land was still being as farmland. The latest Google Street view of the location (dated March 2022) still shows a ploughed farmers field. On 21 May 2023, the club announced via Twitter that they had reached an agreement with EFL side Shrewsbury Town, allowing the club to play home games at the Community 4G pitch at New Meadow for the 2023–24 season, bringing the club closer to returning to Shawbury.