[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Seafort Saga

the navy to the best of his ability. He divorces Annie and marries an old academy classmate, Arlene Sanders. His unswerving devotion to honesty in all things leads to his government being voted out of office, but allows him to preserve his integrity and his honor.

Voices of Hope
Published in 1997.

The style of this book differs from the previous ones as it encompasses not merely Captain Seafort's perspective on the events contained within, but also certain other characters.

Years after retiring from politics, Captain Seafort lives in a private compound with his wife Arlene, his son Philip Tyre, his aide Adam Tenere, and Adam's son Jared. Adam's wife died when Jared was very young, and her loss has caused Adam to be very lax with disciplining his child. As a result Jared has grown up to be a rebellious teenager with a lack of respect for authority.

In contrast, Nick and Arlene have raised their son to military standards of hygiene, morality, and behavior, although not encouraging him to follow them into the Navy.

Philip has grown into a very intelligent adolescent, with deep respect for his parents and what they expect of him. This contrasts with Jared who spends his days resenting his father, resenting captain Seafort, and finding pride in his computer hacking abilities and idolizing those cause internet mischief.

Captain Seafort regularly makes return visits to the monastery where he found necessary seclusion which enabled him to restore his soul. During the course of preparing for one of these excursions, Captain Seafort discovers Jared spying on a private conversation that a visitor is having, in the hopes of selling the information to a newspaper. The visitor in question is former Cadet Boland, now Assemblyman Boland. 

The conversation that was overheard was between the Assemblyman and his father, about how they could potentially discredit Captain Seafort's reputation. Neither of them enjoy the prospect, but they feel it may become a political necessity.

With both his father, captain seafort, and Philip (referred to as PT) mad at him, Jared hacks his father's Bank accounts, steals money, and sneaks off to New York in the hopes of selling what information he has on the attempts of the Bolands to discredit Captain Seafort. He hopes he can use the story to make enough money, to live his own life where he can do what he pleases.

Well this is going on, senator Boland is making plans to continue revamping New York city. In the process, the demolition and construction projects are destroying the territories that belong to the various tranny tribes. The most notable impact is the lack of clean water, which is being diverted from the old pipes. This is causing all the various gangs to be more on edge than normal, even attacking one anothers territory in an attempt to get better water supplies.

Eddie boss, hearing about this from his former tribe mates, reaches out to Pedro Chang for help. Chang, who has recently started taking a young rebellious tranny named pook under his wing, decides to try and visit Captain Seafort to rally support.

Unfortunately the captain is not there, and he is ignored. Pedro decides to attempt to visit the monastery to reach the captain. While this is going on, PT, who feels guilty over what he perceives is his own blame in causing Jared to run away, decides to run away to look for him.

Jared's attempt to sell the information fails. And he is captured by trannies when he goes on the run in New York. Pedro Chang, acting as mediator, arranges for various tranny tribes to try to work together to fight the UN government from pushing them out of their territory.

Before they can unite against the UN, the sub tribe makes an effort to clear out the parka tribe (located in Central Park), and pressure Captain Seafort to assist them. Captain Seafort, who had sought out the Subs needing their help to find his son, and Jared, reluctantly agrees when Pedro Chang informs him that the Parka tribe are viewed as almost sub-human by most other tranny groups, due to cannibalism.

While aiding in the battle, the Subs are attacked by UN troops and local police. The attack comes about due to pressure that Arlene Seafort and Assemblyman Boland had brought to bear earlier. Using Captain Seafort's influence, they persuaded the armed forces to attack the tranny's, hoping it would allow for finding PT. 

Instead it has the opposite effect, causing the subs to distrust the Captain, and results in an all-out war between the tranny gangs and the UN soldiers. In the process of this war, the UN government uses poison gas, and attempts to use the space laser cannons that were put in place to destroy asteroids and fish, to destroy parts of New York to kill the gangs.