[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Battle of Peleliu

in the Philippines, and the airfield captured on Peleliu did not play a key role in subsequent operations. Instead, the Ulithi Atoll in the Caroline Islands was used as a staging base for the invasion of Okinawa. The high casualty rate exceeded all other amphibious operations during the Pacific War.

In addition, few news reports were published about the battle because Rupertus' prediction of a "three days" victory motivated only six reporters to report from shore. The battle was also overshadowed by MacArthur's return to the Philippines and the Allies' push towards Germany in Europe.

The battles for Angaur and Peleliu showed Americans the pattern of future Japanese island defense but they made few adjustments for the battles for Iwo Jima and Okinawa. Naval bombardment prior to amphibious assault at Iwo Jima was only slightly more effective than at Peleliu, but at Okinawa the preliminary shelling was much improved. Frogmen performing underwater demolition at Iwo Jima confused the enemy by sweeping both coasts, but later alerted Japanese defenders to the exact assault beaches at Okinawa. American ground forces at Peleliu gained experience in assaulting heavily fortified positions such as they would find again at Okinawa.

On the recommendation of Admiral William F. Halsey Jr., the planned occupation of Yap Island in the Caroline Islands was canceled. Halsey actually recommended that the landings on Peleliu and Angaur be canceled, too, and their Marines and soldiers be sent to Leyte Island instead but this plan was overruled by Nimitz.

In his book With the Old Breed, Eugene Sledge describes his experiences in the Battle for Peleliu. One of the final scenes in Parer's War, a 2014 Australian television film, shows the Battle of Peleliu recorded by Damien Parer with his camera at the time of his death.

Individual honors

Japan

Posthumous promotions
For heroism:
 Colonel Kunio Nakagawa – lieutenant general
 Kenjiro Murai – lieutenant general

United States

Medal of Honor recipients
 Captain Everett P. Pope – 1st Battalion, 1st Marines
 First Lieutenant Carlton R. Rouh – 1st Battalion, 5th Marines
 Corporal Lewis K. Bausell –1st Battalion, 5th Marines (Posthumous)
 Private First Class Arthur J. Jackson – 3rd Battalion, 7th Marines
 Private First Class Richard E. Kraus – 8th Amphibian Tractor Battalion, 1st Marine Division (Reinforced) (Posthumous)
 Private First Class John D. New – 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines (Posthumous)
 Private First Class Wesley Phelps – 3rd Battalion, 7th Marines (Posthumous)
 Private First Class Charles H. Roan – 2nd Battalion, 7th Marines (Posthumous)

Unit citations

 Presidential Unit Citation:
 1st Marine Division, 15-29 September 1944
 1st Amphibian Tractor Battalion, FMF
 U. S. Navy Flame Thrower Unit Attached
 6th Amphibian Tractor Battalion (Provisional), FMF
 3d Armored Amphibian Battalion (Provisional), FMF
 Detachment Eighth Amphibian Tractor Battalion, FMF
 454th Amphibian Truck Company, U. S. Army
 456th Amphibian Truck Company, U. S. Army
 4th Joint Assault Signal Company, FMF
 5th Separate Wire Platoon, FMF
 6th Separate Wire Platoon, FMF
 Detachment 33rd Naval Construction Battalion (202 Personnel)
 Detachment 73rd Naval Construction Battalion's Shore Party (241 Personnel)
 USMC Commendatory Letter:
 11th Marine Depot Company (segregated)
 7th Marine Ammunition Company (segregated)
 17th Special Naval Construction Battalion (segregated)

See also
 U.S. National Register of Historic Places (The Peleliu Battlefield, listed 1985)
 , an amphibious assault ship named in memory of the battle
 Helmet for My Pillow, a memoir of the battle written by Robert Leckie
Peleliu Naval Base
Naval Base Kossol Roads

Notes

References

Bibliography
 
 
 Blair, Bobby C., and John Peter DeCioccio. Victory at Peleliu: The 81st Infantry Division's Pacific Campaign (University of Oklahoma Press; 2011) 310 pages

Further reading

External links

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Peleliu
Palau in World War II
Battles of World War II involving Japan
Battles of World War II involving the United States
History of Palau
Wars involving Palau
Pacific Ocean theatre of World War II
South Seas Mandate in World War II
Amphibious operations of World War II
World War II operations and battles of the Pacific theatre
United States Marine Corps in World War II
September 1944 events
October 1944 events
November 1944 events
Seabees