[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Arthur R. Gould

Arthur Robinson Gould (March 16, 1857July 24, 1946) was an American industrialist involved in lumber, railroads, hydroelectricity, and other large scale industry in Aroostook County, Maine and the neighboring Canadian province of New Brunswick from the 1880s until his death in 1946. From 1926 to 1931, he served as a Republican United States senator from Maine. Prior to being elected to the Senate, he had stated that he was in favor of maintaining the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution which banned the manufacture, sale, or transportation of alcohol. However, once in office, he became nationally known for writing in favor of the legalization of wine and beer.

Born in Corinth, Maine, he attended the common schools and East Corinth Academy. He moved first to Bangor, Maine, where he opened a candy factory and met Mary Frances Donovan, who became his wife. They moved to Presque Isle, Maine, in 1887, where he engaged in the lumber business and built power plants and an electric railroad. He was president of the Aroostook Valley Railroad from 1902 to 1946.

Gould served in the Maine Senate from 1921 to 1922, and was elected on September 13, 1926, as a Republican to the U.S. Senate to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Bert M. Fernald and served from November 30, 1926, to March 3, 1931. He was not a candidate for renomination in 1930. During his time in office he served as chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Immigration for the 71st Congress.

He was blind for approximately six years prior to his death at his home in Presque Isle in 1946. He is interred at Bangor's Mount Pleasant Cemetery alongside his wife.

Anti-Klan Republican
 

The special election to replace Senator Fernald occurred near the height of the Ku Klux Klan's influence in Maine politics. Klan infiltration of the Democratic Party split Maine Republicans, with Klansmen finding their champion in Maine Governor Owen Brewster, and their chief opponents in former Governor Percival P. Baxter and Senator Frederick Hale. Gould, whose wife was Catholic, ran on an anti-Klan platform after receiving the Republican nomination for Senator, which caused Gov. Brewster to take the unprecedented step of denouncing his own party's candidate in the general election.

The Maine special election was of national importance because the U.S. Senate was evenly split along party lines (47 to 47). Maine Democrats, however, deserted their party in droves to vote for Gould, in order to break the power of the Republican Klan faction. In an unprecedented outcome, Gould carried every city and county in the state. The Chairman of the Republican State Committee hailed Gould's victory as demonstrating that "the sinister influence of an oath-bound organization no longer threatens the welfare of Maine". The issue would be played out one more time, however, when Gov. Brewster challenged Sen. Hale for the Republican Senate nomination in 1928, and lost, signaling the eclipse of Grand Dragon DeForest H. Perkins and the Klan as a force in Maine politics.

Gould was no friend of the Klan, but he shared with them antipathy toward immigrants, especially French-Canadians. While in the Senate, he joined the Senate Committee on Immigration and proposed a bill that would have set a quota on immigration from Canada, thus reducing Maine's French Canadian population. However, the measure was defeated.

Anti-Prohibition Republican
Although the US was experiencing Prohibition in the 1920s, and Maine had the nation's oldest prohibition law, and the Republican Party was the main proponent of prohibition, Gould did not believe in it and both made and consumed alcohol at home. He created a minor scandal in 1929 when a testimonial he had written in 1927, revealing that he fermented fruit juice for personal consumption, was made public. Gould had written that "I come from a prohibition state and am supposed to be a prohibitionist, but I am about as loyal to the prohibition element as some Southern Democrats are to the Democratic Party".
Maine's temperance proponents declared they'd work to unseat Gould, but he stated soon after that he wouldn't run for a second term, while denying the prohibitionist threat entered into his decision. In making that announcement Gould referred to prohibition as "this rotten farce".