[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Western corella

ustralia.

Historical records indicate the species was common at the time of colonisation of Western Australia, and continued to be seen in large flocks during the nineteenth century. The absence of records by the early collector John Gilbert's suggests that this corella was abundant and ubiquitous.

The habitat of Cacatua pastinator consists of undulating land with low relief (less than 100 m) with more than 90% of native vegetation cleared for farming of wheat and sheep. The remaining woodland and shrub vegetation communities are restricted to small isolated patches and road reserves. Habitat critical to Cacatua pastinator comprises large eucalypts and other trees (either alive or dead) in forested areas or as lone paddock trees and roadside vegetation, preferred tree species are marri (Corymbia calophylla), jarrah (Eucalyptus marginata), moitch (Eucalyptus rudis), yate (Eucalyptus cornuta) and the paperbark, moonah (Melaleuca preissiana).

Cacatua pastinator have displayed three phases of movement patterns within the central wheatbelt of Western Australia, these phases are dependent on the age of the birds. Breeding takes place in spring, following fledging of nestlings the family groups join up with immature flocks and move to summer feeding locations, during the following month the young are weaned and the parents move back to the breeding ground during the January – March period, the juveniles do not return until May or June. Although there is some dispersal to other breeding areas, most individuals display attachment to their natal area with some birds being known to return after being absent for up to five years.

Threats and recovery actions
The habit of some cockatoos to form large flocks and their ability to exploit resources provided by man has often brought them into conflict with landholders. The exploitation of cereal crops during the late 1800s and early 1900s resulted in widespread shooting and poisoning of large numbers of Cacatua pastinator, this persecution was the likely cause of a rapid decline in the range of its sub species’ and population numbers.
The population decline of the species was examined by the Western Australian ornithologist Tom Carter, summarised in a report published by the Ibis in 1912. By the 1920s there were only two populations remaining, the northern population of Cacatua pastinator butleri, and the southern population of Cacatua pastinator pastinator which declined to approximately 100 birds in 1921. The southern population continued to decline until the 1940s. The northern population has expanded eastwards since the low of the 1930s following agricultural development. Since the period of decline at the turn of the twentieth century the population of both sub-species has steadily increased. In the last 50 years the release from persecution by landowners, together with their adaptability, has allowed an expansion of range into the Western Australia wheatbelt which provides abundant food and water supplies.

Cacatua pastinator butleri is not listed as a species of conservation concern. Cacatua pastinator pastinator is listed as a species of Specially Protected Fauna – Schedule 4. Muir's Corella (Cacatua pastinator pastinator) is listed by the Western Australian Threatened Species Scientific Committee as Endangered using the IUCN (2001) Red list Categories and Criteria and this listing has been endorsed by the Western Australian Minister of the Environment. Cacatua pastinator pastinator has been listed as Vulnerable under the Commonwealth Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999.

The threatening processes for Cacatua pastinator pastinator are:
 Killing by illegal shooting and poisoning
 Habitat loss
 Changes in land use
 Nest hollow shortage
 Competition for available nest hollows and killing by feral Honeybees.

Recovery actions identified for Cacatua pastinator pastinator are:
 Seek the funding required to implement future recovery actions
 Determine population numbers, distribution and movements
 Identify factors affecting the number of breeding attempts and breeding success and manage nest hollows to increase recruitment
 Map feeding and breeding habitat critical to survival of all wild and translocated populations, and prepare management guidelines for these habitats
 Revegetate with favoured hollow-bearing trees
 Determine and implement ways to remove feral Honeybees from nesting hollows
 Produce an information kit to help eliminate illegal killing and distribute to the wider community
 Prevent the spread of non-endemic Corella populations in south-west Western Australia
 Collect DNA samples and analyse to determine the taxonomic status of Cacatua pastinator subspecies.