[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Night shark

ales mature sexually at a length of , corresponding to an age of 8 years, and females at a length of , corresponding to an age of 10 years. The oldest known individuals are 17 years old; based on growth curves, their maximum lifespan has been estimated at 28 years for males and 30 years for females.

Human interactions
Because of its deepwater habitat, the night shark is not known to pose a danger to humans. This species is prized for its large fins, which are exported for use in shark fin soup, and is also used as a source of meat, liver oil, and fishmeal. Traditionally, it has comprised a part of the bycatch of pelagic longline fisheries targeting swordfish (Xiphias gladius) and tuna in the western Atlantic. Since 1991, it has also been the focus of a longline fishery operating over seamounts off northeastern Brazil, where large numbers of sharks congregate and are easily captured. Some 90% of the seamount shark and ray catch in this area now consists of night sharks; of those, about 89% are juveniles. However, a study has found that night sharks from off northeastern Brazil accumulate high levels of mercury within their bodies, likely from their piscivorous diet. Some 92% of sharks examined contained mercury levels higher than that allowed for marketed carnivorous fish set by the Brazilian legislature, and the average mercury concentration was 1.742 mg/kg. Therefore, eating only  of night shark meat per day could result in the ingestion of several times the daily mercury content judged safe by the World Health Organization.

The International Union for Conservation of Nature has assessed the night shark globally as Endangered, citing its slow reproductive rate and historical declines under fishing pressure. It has also been listed as vulnerable by the American Fisheries Society. This species was once a significant part of the Cuban artisanal shark fishery, comprising 60–75% of the catch from 1937 to 1941, before its numbers dropped substantially in the 1970s. Similarly, the proportion of night sharks in the shark catch of the southeastern U.S. pelagic longline fishery fell from 26.1% from 1981 to 1983 to 0.3–3.3% in 1993 and 1994; a comparable decline was observed in catches by South Florida marlin tournaments since the 1970s. Currently, the intense Brazilian targeted fishery is of particular concern, although fishing pressure on the night shark may be relaxing as the fishery is beginning to shift towards swordfish and bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus). No fishery information on the night shark is available for the eastern Atlantic, leading to an IUCN assessment of data deficient for that region.

In 1997, the U.S. National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) listed the night shark as a "Species of Concern", meaning that it merits conservation concern but there is insufficient evidence for listing on the Endangered Species Act (ESA). In 1999, the NMFS Fishery Management Plan (FMP) of the Atlantic tunas, swordfish, and sharks was revised to prohibit the retention of 19 species, including the night shark. The prohibition of this species was upheld by Amendment 1 of the FMP, added in 2003. Night sharks suffer high bycatch mortality on longlines, and prohibited or not, some are kept by fishers because of their value and the difficulty of identifying disembodied parts to species. Nevertheless, a 2003–2008 NMFS population assessment concluded that night shark population in United States waters has stabilized (perhaps even increasing) and no longer merits categorization as a "species of concern", though recommended that the prohibition on retention be maintained as a precautionary measure. This species should also benefit from the imposition of time/area closures in the Florida Straits and on the Charleston Bump. Off Brazil and elsewhere, fishing continues largely unmanaged. IUCN members have urged that Brazil improve catch monitoring and enforcement of existing regulations, declare some critical habitat off-limits, and implement the Brazilian National Plan of Action for Sharks (NPOA-Sharks) under the FAO International Plan of Action for the Conservation and Management of Sharks.

References

night shark
Fish of the Western Atlantic
Fish of the Americas
Fish of the Dominican Republic
Marine fish of Africa
Marine fish of West Africa
Vulnerable fish
Vulnerable biota of Africa
Vulnerable biota of South America
night shark