[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1987 Pan American Games

y pressed Cuban-American activists groups to dial down the pressure by the final week.

Medal count

To sort this table by nation, total medal count, or any other column, click on the  icon next to the column title.

Notes
 The medal counts for the United States and Canada differ in various sources.

Indianapolis Museum of Art exhibition 
Coinciding with the Pan American Games was the Indianapolis Museum of Art exhibition Art of the Fantastic: Latin America, 1920–1987. The exhibition presented 125 works by artists from a variety of nations, including Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, Puerto Rico, the United States, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Well-known artists such as Frida Kahlo and Roberto Matta were featured, as well as artists who had never exhibited outside their native country. The show was the first large-scale presentation of 20th-century Latin American art in the U.S. in over 20 years and was the museum's first contemporary exhibition to travel.

Closing ceremony 

The closing ceremony was initially planned to take place at the American Legion Mall, a popular site for open air events on the Indiana World War Memorial Plaza in downtown Indianapolis. However, in April, the management of the American Legion objected because as part of the closing protocol, the flag of the host country (the U.S.) would be lowered and that of the host country of the next Pan American games (Cuba) would be raised to fly by itself. In June, the organizing committee decided to relocate the ceremony to the Hoosier Dome. Because the gymnastics finals were scheduled to end only a few hours before the closing ceremony, it was decided to use only a portion of the dome, limiting attendance to 35,000 instead of 60,000. Despite the initial budget for all ceremonies having been allocated exclusively to the opening ceremony, the closing ceremony was staged for $500,000.

The headline act was Cuban American Gloria Estefan and her band, Miami Sound Machine, chosen, according to the organizing committee, because her album Let It Loose had just achieved platinum sales. The choice of Castro-critic Estefan, who had fled with her family during the Cuban Revolution while her father stayed behind and was imprisoned, led the Cuban delegation to again threaten to boycott. In the end, they attended the closing ceremony, but returned to the stands and sat during the dancing. The ceremony ended with indoor fireworks, and the spectators were invited to exit the building to see a 25-minute outdoor fireworks display.

Impact

The Pan Am Games brought about $175 million (1988 USD, $355.1 million 2016 USD) to Indianapolis's economy. Hosting the Games cost about $30 million. Indianapolis was the first Pan American Games host city to break even financially.

Hosting the games also attracted many sports organizations to consider Indianapolis as a site for their headquarters, most notably the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

Bibliography

References

External links

 Indianapolis 1987 - X Pan American Games - Official Report at PanamSports.org 

 
Pan American Games
Pan American Games
International sports competitions hosted by the United States
Pan American Games
Pan
Pan
Pan
Multi-sport events in the United States
Pan American Games
August 1987 sports events in the United States
1980s in Indianapolis