[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lay Down Your Burdens

of the Cylons that the attack on the Colonies, along with the pursuit of the fleet, were errors. They state that the Cylons need to find their own unique path to enlightenment and have decided to offer humanity a "reprieve". Roslin and Adama are skeptical and Roslin orders they be vented into space.

On election day, Baltar has a 5,000 vote lead over Roslin until the final batch of votes from the Zephyr are counted. Roslin wins the election against all predictions. Lt. Gaeta, who was in charge of the ballot counting, spots a major irregularity with the Zephyr's ballot papers and reports the matter to Col. Tigh. The truth is that Tigh himself, in collusion with Dualla and Tory Foster (Roslin's campaign assistant), has rigged the election in favor of Roslin. Gaeta takes the matter directly to Admiral Adama.

Adama confronts Roslin who admits she knew that Foster was planning to rig the vote. She stresses that Baltar cannot become president because he is working for the Cylons, explaining to Adama what she saw back on Caprica. He is shocked at her claims and though he has no wish to see Baltar as president he insists the vote rigging was illegal and would eventually weigh heavily on her conscience.

Roslin reluctantly cedes the victory to Baltar. Adama explains to Baltar that the original vote count was a "tabulating error". Baltar knows this isn't true but decides to let the matter rest and orders Adama to take the fleet to New Caprica.

Baltar later meets with the Gina version of Number Six (who he previously saved, then supplied with a nuclear warhead) and tells her they can live together at the new settlement, but she says she isn't going. While Baltar is sworn in as president on Colonial One, Gina sets off the warhead. The detonation destroys Cloud Nine and several other ships caught within the blast radius.  Despite the threat of a new Cylon attack, Baltar insists that plans to settle on New Caprica move forward.

The next scene opens 380 days later, when the people of the fleet have settled "New Caprica City". Above New Caprica, the remaining larger ships orbit with only skeleton crews. These include Galactica where Admiral Adama is now assisted by Helo, and Pegasus, where Commander Lee Adama is now assisted by Dualla. The battlestars are no longer being maintained in combat-ready condition.

President Baltar has turned Colonial One into a messy bachelor pad. Gaeta works diligently as his aide, though Baltar largely ignores him. Laura Roslin has returned to teaching and works inside a makeshift school assisted by Maya. Tyrol is now the leader of a disgruntled worker union denouncing the deplorable conditions the people face under President Baltar. At his side is a pregnant Cally.

Sam Anders, now married to Kara, is bedridden with pneumonia. Dr. Cottle has no more antibiotics left to give him, but Tigh tells Kara that Commander Adama has antibiotics stored away as a medical reserve on Pegasus for his pilots. Kara reluctantly calls Lee, but neither seems to wish to talk to the other. Before Lee can respond to Kara's request, a fleet of Cylon ships suddenly jumps in. Admiral Adama is reluctant to abandon those on New Caprica but Apollo, knowing that they are outmatched, convinces him to jump away, leaving New Caprica undefended.

Gaeta rushes to inform President Baltar that the Cylons have appeared and that the fleet has jumped away. The Cylons fly over New Caprica in force and proceed to occupy the human settlement. The Humanoid Cylon Leoben Conoy searches for Thrace but finds only the bedridden Anders.

President Baltar meets with the Cylons who insist they will not attack unless the humans resist. They explain that New Caprica was found by accident when they detected, from over a light-year away, the signature of the nuclear explosion which destroyed Cloud Nine. With no other option, Baltar surrenders to the Cylons on behalf of the people of New Caprica. Meanwhile, Thrace, Tigh, Roslin, Tyrol, Cally and others watch as Cylon Centurions march through the New Caprica settlement, and vow to resist.

Notes

While the episode doesn't show the deaths of the Cavils, The Plan does. While the events of the season make it appear to the audience that the Cavils and Gina's deaths will be permanent, dialogue in The Plan'' indicates that the Cavils did in fact resurrect. No mention is ever made of Gina amongst the Cylons again, indicating that she could be truly dead or perhaps even "boxed" by the Cylons.
Part 1 shows the population in the fleet is 49,550. The original election results of 46,631 ballots (Roslin credited with 24,265, Baltar with 22,366) means that at least 94.1% of the fleet is of voting age. This would mean that no more than 2,919 children have survived the annihilation of the Twelve Colonies of Kobol, prior to multiple ships being destroyed in Part 2.