[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Steward Machine Co. v. Davis

to advance the general welfare as specified in Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution]]. The Court stated that the issue "presents the great and the controlling question in the case." After it compared opposing expansive and restrictive interpretations of the Spending Clause, the Court decided:

the clause confers a power separate and distinct from those later enumerated, is not restricted in meaning by the grant of them, and Congress consequently has a substantive power to tax and to appropriate, limited only by the requirement that it shall be exercised to provide for the general welfare of the United States. Each contention has had the support of those whose views are entitled to weight. This court had noticed the question, but has never found it necessary to decide which is the true construction. Justice Story, in his Commentaries, espouses the Hamiltonian position. We shall not review the writings of public men and commentators or discuss the legislative practice. Study of all these leads us to conclude that the reading advocated by Justice Story is the correct one. While, therefore, the power to tax is not unlimited, its confines are set in the clause which confers it, and not in those of Sec. 8 which bestow and define the legislative powers of the Congress. It results that the power of Congress to authorize expenditure of public moneys for public purposes is not limited by the direct grants of legislative power found in the Constitution.

The idea that Congress has authority separate and distinct from powers granted by enumeration has been controversial. The fact that the Supreme Court struck down the Act despite an expansive interpretation of the Spending Clause reflects the turmoil in its thinking at the critical time.

Economic conditions
The nation was in the midst of the Great Depression. In its Steward decision, the Court noted:

During the years 1929 to 1936, when the country was passing through a cyclical depression, the number of the unemployed mounted to unprecedented heights. Often the average was more than 10 million; at times a peak was attained of 16 million or more.

The unemployment compensation provisions of the Social Security Act of 1935 established a tax on employers, but if a state established an approved unemployment compensation plan, the taxpayer could credit up to 90% of the federal tax paid to the state unemployment fund. In effect, the Act established a taxing structure, which was designed to induce states to adopt consistent laws for funding and payment of unemployment compensation.

The main controversy in Steward was whether the tax coerced the states and whether the tax was within the powers of Congress. Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo wrote for a sharply-divided Court, which was in the process of changing its character relative to affirmation of federal action for the general welfare:

The question is to be answered whether the expedient adopted has overlept the bounds of power. The assailants of the statute say that its dominant end and aim is to drive the state legislatures under the whip of economic pressure into the enactment of unemployment compensation laws at the bidding of the central government.

Decision

This was the key holding regarding the excise tax of the Act:

The excise is not void as involving the coercion of the States in contravention of the Tenth Amendment or of restrictions implicit in our federal form of government.

An important part of the rationale was the conclusion that even if the excise taxes

were collected in the hope or expectation that some other and collateral good would be furthered as an incident, that, without more, would not make the act invalid. Sonzinsky v. United States, 300 U.S. 506. This indeed is hardly questioned.

The arguments placed the actions of Congress within its constitutional power. The Court then established that the tax and the credit in combination were not weapons of coercion that would destroy or impair the autonomy of the states. The first step was

To draw the line intelligently between duress and inducement there is need to remind ourselves of facts as to the problem of unemployment that are now matters of common knowledge.

After it reviewed the distressed condition of the nation's economy, the Court noted:

The fact developed quickly that the states were unable to give the requisite relief. The problem had become national in area and dimensions. There was need of help from the nation if the people were not to starve. It is too late today for the argument to be heard with tolerance that, in a crisis so extreme, the use of the moneys of the nation to relieve the unemployed and their dependents is a use for any purpose narrower than the promotion of the general welfare.