[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Diana Conti

rnalist insisted "you are a supporter of one of the biggest murderers of 20th century, 20 million of people murdered? I am an stalinist, signed Diana Conti, can I record that?" the journalist said, and Diana Conti answered "Yes, I have no problem to be stalinist, maybe it is your problem, not mine".

Corruption case
While a senator, she was accused (2005) and found innocent (2012) as part of the cause that was processed before the National Court for Criminal and Correctional No. 6 by Dr. Rodolfo Canicoba Corral. The file had been issued by virtue of a complaint filed by a former employee at the Senate, Bruno Bimbi, at which time the appointee claimed to have been forced to give much of their pay under threat of losing his job. The case was initially dismissed by Judge Jose Codino in late August 2005, but the court of appeal re-opened a little later. According to Bimbi, many of the employees who appeared as Conti personnel on official documents were completely unknown to him and other real employees under the direction of Diana Conti (in fact, one was the son of Conti). In the words of Bimbi, the first time that forced him to give him the money he had just withdrawn from the bank, and seeing his face in amazement, said, "you can keep the coins", exact words of Mr. Bimbi. These statements were dismissed in the trial that was carried forward. The result was dismissed at first instance and subsequent confirmation of this ruling by the Room number 9 of the Hon. Court of Appeals in the Criminal and Correctional matter´s Federal Camera.

Recent years
During April 2006, Conti returned to the public light when she began a campaign in favour of laws for harsher punishment to those found guilty of sexual harassment at work, regardless of sexual gender. A divorced woman, Conti has participated in several seminars and law clinics in Argentina. 
During 2012 she has had appearances on public, such as when referring to the possible re-election of the President Cristina Kirchner.

References

External links
senado.gov.ar Senate profile
Interview, Diario Judicial, 2006-05-22
Profile, La Nación, 2007-05-06
, Parlamentario.com, 2009-08-02

1956 births
Politicians from Buenos Aires
Members of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies elected in Buenos Aires Province
20th-century Argentine lawyers
Members of the Argentine Senate for Buenos Aires Province
Front for a Country in Solidarity politicians
Victory Party (Argentina) politicians
Living people
Women members of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies
Argentine women lawyers
Women members of the Argentine Senate
20th-century women lawyers