[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Marcia Langton

of 20 leaders and experts from across the country—of the proposed Indigenous voice to government, under the Morrison government. In July 2021 the Indigenous Voice Co-design Process panel released its final report, often referred to as the Calma Langton report, outlining a model of a proposed Voice.

Under the Albanese government elected in 2022, the proposal changed to be an Indigenous Voice to Parliament, enshrined in the Australian Constitution. This change, along with recognition of Indigenous Australians in the Constitution, was put to a referendum in Australia. Langton campaigned for a Yes vote in the referendum. In the course of answering an audience question in a community information meeting, she said of the No campaign that "Every time the No case raises one of their arguments, if you start pulling it apart you get down to base racism — I'm sorry to say it but that's where it lands — or just sheer stupidity". For this she was lambasted in some sectors of the media and various politicians from the No campaign, including a headline by The Australian (later corrected) which read "No Voters Branded Racist, Stupid". This was followed by Opposition Leader Peter Dutton publishing on Instagram: "No voters branded 'racist, stupid' by prominent Voice campaigner Marcia Langton". Langton refuted and criticised the reporting of her statements, and said that she would be taking legal advice with regard to Dutton's post. The referendum took place on 14 October 2023, and was defeated in all six states and by national majority.

On 1 November 2023, Langton strongly backed uniform alcohol restrictions across the Northern Territory.

Current roles and views
She is a frequent media commentator, and has served on various high-level committees on Indigenous issues. These have included the Council for Aboriginal Reconciliation, the directorship of the Centre for Indigenous Natural and Cultural Resource Management, chair of the Indigenous Higher Education Advisory Council, and as chair of the Cape York Institute for Policy and Leadership.

In 2023, she is regarded as conservative by left-wing and socialist organisations, but is generally apolitical.

Other activities and roles
Langton has worked in other countries (notably Canada and East Timor) on the rights of indigenous peoples , with special reference to conservation, and environmental issues, and published works on issues of gender and identity, resource management, and substance abuse.

She is also known as a film and art critic, and has appeared in several films, including Jardiwarnpa: a Warlpiri fire (an episode in the film series Blood Brothers) and Night Cries: A Rural Tragedy.

In 2012, she gave the Boyer Lectures titled The Quiet Revolution: Indigenous People and the Resources Boom.

She has been on the judging panel for the annual Horne Prize since its inception in 2016.

Recognition and honours 
Langton was made a member of the Order of Australia in the 1993 Queen's Birthday Honours for "service as an anthropologist and advocate of Aboriginal issues". She was promoted to officer of the Order of Australia in the 2020 Australia Day Honours for "distinguished service to tertiary education, and as an advocate for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people".

Other recognition has included:
 2001: Fellow, Academy of Social Sciences in Australia
 2001: Inducted onto the Victorian Honour Roll of Women
 2002: Neville Bonner Award for Indigenous Education (jointly with Larissa Behrendt)
 2005: Named one Australia's top 20 intellectuals in a survey conducted by The Sydney Morning Herald
 2008:  Winner, Victorian Premier's Literary Awards, Alfred Deakin Prize for an Essay Advancing Public Debate, for Trapped in the Aboriginal Reality Show
 2008: Listed as 7th in a list of Australia's top 40 public intellectuals by the API Network
 2011:  Finalist, Female Actor of the Year, in Deadly Sounds Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Music, Sport, Entertainment and Community Awards
 2012: Fellow of Trinity College (University of Melbourne)
 2016: Fellow of Emmanuel College at The University of Queensland
 2016: University of Melbourne Redmond Barry Distinguished Professor, a continuing role
 2017: First Associate Provost at the University of Melbourne
 2019: Winner, Indie Book Awards, for Illustrated Non-Fiction, for Welcome to Country: A Travel Guide to Indigenous Australia
 2020: Commended, New South Wales Premier's Literary Awards, Indigenous Writer's Prize, for Welcome to Country: A Travel Guide to Indigenous Australia
 2020: International Astronomical Union's Working Group for Small Body Nomenclature formally approves the asteroid 1979 ML as 7809 Marcialangton, in honour of her efforts to incorporate Aboriginal astronomical perspectives into the Australian National Curriculum
 2021: Honorary Fellow of the Australian Academy of Technology and Engineering

Personal life
Langton has a son, who lives in New Zealand, and a daughter, who works in theatre.

Selected works