[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Beto O'Rourke

'Rourke's sister, Erin, died at the age of 42; she suffered from intellectual disabilities and O'Rourke had been her legal guardian at one time.

O'Rourke is a lifelong Roman Catholic but has publicly expressed disagreement with Church doctrine, including its refusal to solemnize same-sex marriages.

Legal issues 
On May 19, 1995, O'Rourke and his friends jumped over a fence at the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) physical plant, and were arrested by the UTEP police. He was held in jail overnight and posted bail the following day. He was initially charged with attempted burglary, but prosecutors dropped the case against O'Rourke and his friends in February 1996 when UTEP declined to pursue the charges.

O'Rourke was arrested for driving while intoxicated on September 27, 1998, at 3:00 a.m. on Interstate 10 in Anthony, Texas. O'Rourke had lost control of his car and hit another vehicle. The charges were dismissed in October 1999 after he completed a court-approved DWI program. In response to criticism from a political opponent in 2005, O'Rourke said, "I've been open about it since the very beginning. I have owned up to it and I have taken responsibility for it." He apologized and said he was "grateful for the second chance".

Electoral history

Works 
 O'Rourke, Beto and Byrd, Susie (2011). Dealing Death and Drugs: The Big Business of Dope in the U.S. and Mexico. Cinco Puntos Press. .

See also
 Electoral history of Beto O'Rourke

Notes

References

Sources

Further reading 
 Melissa del Bosque, "Lights, Camera, Mayhem!", Texas Observer, April 17, 2009.
 Matt Flegenheimer, "Beto O'Rourke Was Once Adrift in New York City. Now He's Searching Again". The New York Times, February 6, 2019.

External links 

 Beto for Texas campaign website
 
 

|-

|-

|-

|-

 
1972 births
20th-century American businesspeople
21st-century American businesspeople
21st-century American politicians
American Internet company founders
American gun control activists
American people of Irish descent
American rock bass guitarists
Businesspeople from Texas
Candidates in the 2018 United States Senate elections
Candidates in the 2020 United States presidential election
Catholics from Texas
Columbia College (New York) alumni
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Texas
El Paso City Council members
Living people