[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Human rights in Egypt

idate, punish, and repress the people. In many cases, the detainees were exploited by the authorities for personal gratification and projecting power, while in other instances, it was used as a measure to punish. Children as young as 12 have been subjected to sexual violence in the Egyptian prisons.

Amnesty International updated on 21 November 2022 about the deteriorating condition of Alaa Abd El-Fattah, after his family raised concerns since their last visit. His family visited him on 17 November and claimed that his physical and mental state were in a bad shape since starting a water strike on 6 November. The strike was followed by Alaa being restrained by the security forces, intravenous feeding and self-harm.

Use of pretrial detention
According to a 2022 report by the New York Times, President El-Sisi has  been able to hold political prisoners on a "vastly greater scale" than his predecessors by using pretrial detention. 
Prisoners can be detained for five months if prosecutors request more time to investigate. After five months, the detainee get a hearing before a terrorism court judge, "who can renew detentions for 45 days at a time. The hearings are closed to the public, even to detainees’ families. Defendants appear in crowded, soundproof glass cages that are muted to keep them from being heard — or even from hearing their own judgments.  The 45-day of additional detention "can be renewed repeatedly for up to two years. After that, the law requires that the detainee be released, though that does not always happen. In many cases, prosecutors simply bring a new case, starting the two-year timer all over again."

The Times gave the example of an academic researcher (University of Washington Ph.D. student) Waleed K. Salem who was arrested  in Cairo in 2018 while researching the Egyptian judiciary and held for over six months. Salem  was never tried or formally charged with a crime, instead he was held in pretrial detention, and "every time he maxed out the legal detention period, a prosecutor extended his imprisonment in a hearing that usually lasted about 90 seconds".

Among the Egyptians arrested in the same crackdown as Salem were "a politician mulling running against Mr. el-Sisi; ... two women on a Cairo subway overheard complaining about rising fares; ... a young conscript who posted a Facebook meme of Mr. el-Sisi wearing Mickey Mouse ears. ... a 14-year-old boy arrested in Giza, a 57-year-old woman arrested at her home in Alexandria, and a 20-year-old man arrested at an architecture office in Suez."

In a years-long campaign by President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi to eliminate opposition to the government, thousands of political prisoners were held without trial for offenses as minor as liking an anti-government Facebook post. No public records exist of the number of prisoners stuck in the pretrial detention system in Egypt. As per the reports, many detainees were locked for long stretches in cells that lack bedding, or toilets and were denied warm clothes in winter, and medical treatment, no matter how sick. More than a thousand people have died in Egyptian custody, owing to treatment that rights groups say amounts to deadly negligence. As of July 2022, human rights groups estimated that Egypt held some 60,000 political prisoners.

Extrajudicial executions
Since 2015 at least 1,700 people have been reported to have disappeared. Most of the victims were abducted from the streets or from their homes and were forcibly isolated from both family and legal aid. Police forces have carried out multiple extrajudicial executions.

Many cases of deaths in custody, forced disappearances and extrajudicial executions have been reported in Egypt.

An investigative report by Reuters news agency published in March 2019 cited figures provided by the Egyptian Interior Ministry's statements from 1 July 2015 to the end of 2018: "In 108 incidents involving 471 men, only six suspects survived... That represents a kill ratio of 98.7 percent. Five members of the security forces were killed.... Thirty seven were injured." The Reuters' analysis of the ministry's statements found that in total "465 men killed in what the Interior Ministry said were shootouts with its forces over a period of three and a half years." The killings began in the aftermath of the assassination of Egypt's chief persecutor Hisham Barakat, who was an ally of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.

According to Kate Vigneswaran, senior legal adviser at the International Commission of Jurists’ Middle East and North Africa programme, the killings described by Reuters “constitute extrajudicial executions".