[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Special Actions Detachment

The Special Actions Detachment () or DAE is the tier one special force maritime unit of the Portuguese Navy. It is part of the Portuguese Marine Corps. Raised in 1985, the DAE is one of the smallest special forces units within the Portuguese Armed Forces. It is responsible for conducting air-sea rescue, amphibious reconnaissance, amphibious warfare, black operation, bomb disposal, CBRN defense, coastal raiding, counterterrorism, direct action, executive protection, hostage rescue, irregular warfare, ISTAR, long-range penetration, JTAC, manhunt high-value target, maritime sabotage, mountain rescue, naval boarding, operation behind high risk enemy lines, special operations, special reconnaissance, tracking targets, underwater demolition, unconventional warfare, other missions in support of Portuguese and NATO armed forces. DAE's mission and training are similar to American special forces and it often trains with them.

Organization
The unit is led by a commander, and is subdivided into a command cell and four combat teams. The command cell contains the unit commander, his deputy (a lieutenant commander) and a small staff of eight. The combat teams are composed of ten men: petty officers and seamen and a commanding petty officer.

Selection and training
DAE operatives are drawn from the ranks of marines, all having high operational experience. Due to the nature of its actions, candidate acceptance is extremely restrictive and selective. Only 5–10% of the applicants manage to join the unit.

Upon completion of the basic selection phase prospective recruits then begin the first phase of their training. Phase 1 of their training is conducted at the Navy's combat diver school. Students receive instruction in: basic combat diving techniques, EOD and underwater demolitions.
Candidates who successfully complete the first phase are assigned to the DAE on a probationary status, and begin their second phase of training. Phase 2 instruction includes courses on: escape and evasion techniques, advanced driving, mountaineering, offensive operations, parachuting training and basic English. Once a trainee is permanently assigned to the DAE he will continue to receive various courses of instruction throughout his career.

After this tough selection, COEMAR starts, which lasts 18 weeks and is divided into three phases:

 Technical (7 weeks)
 Combat (3 weeks)
 Tactics (8 weeks)

During and after COEMAR, DAE's military personnel receive training in areas as varied as:

Abandonment of aircraft in immersion
Air assault
Air-sea rescue
Amphibious reconnaissance
Amphibious warfare
Artillery observer
Clandestine operation
Close-quarters combat
Cold-weather warfare
Combat diving (closed circuit) 
Coastal patrolling
Commando style raid tactics
Counter ambush
Counter maritime sabotage
Counter sniper
Counterterrorism 
Covert operation
Defusing and disposal of bombs, land mines, and unexploded ordnance
Demolitions, mines and traps
Desert warfare
Driving tactical vehicles
Executive protection
Exfil
Fast combat shooting
Forward air control
Hand and Arm Signals
Hand-to-hand combat
Helocasting
Hostage rescue
HUMINT
IED disarmament
Inactivation of conventional explosive devices – land branch
Infiltrate the area with a helicopter
Intelligence collection
Irregular warfare
Jungle warfare
Living off the desert, jungle, mountain, and sea
Marksmanship
Medical evacuation
Military parachuting with automatic & manual opening (taken at the Parachute Regiment – Tancos)
Military intelligence 
Mountain rescue
Mountain warfare
Naval boarding
NBCR on operations in contaminated environments
Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) 
Small unit tactics
Sniper (taught in Lamego at the Special Operations Troops Centre)
Surveillance and counter-surveillance of the battlefield
Special operations
Special reconnaissance
Tactical communications
Tactical emergency medical
Tactical use of motorbikes
Tracking tactics
Unconventional warfare
Underwater demolition
Urban warfare
Using fast attack craft
Using high military technology

Operations
DAE conducts regular training exercises with its NATO counterparts, including the United States Navy SEALs, Special Naval Warfare Force (FGNE), French Commandos Marine, JW GROM, Lithuanian Special Operations Force as well as the respective naval counter-terrorist units. 

They were deployed to: 

 Angola in 1992;
 Zaire in 1997;
 Guinea-Bissau in 1998;
 East Timor in 2004;
 Democratic Republic of Congo in 2006 (as part of the EUFOR);
 Somalia in 2009;
 Afghanistan in 2013;
 Mali in 2019;
 Lithuania from (2018–2022) (as part of the NATO Assurance Measures)

Equipment

Infantry weapons

Pistols 

 Glock 17 Gen 5 9-mm pistol

Submachine guns 
 Brügger & Thomet MP9
 Heckler & Koch MP5A3/A5 with Aimpoint CompM4 red dot sight's

Assault rifles 
 Heckler & Koch G36C/K 5.56mm
 Heckler & Koch HK416 A5 5.56mm
 M4 carbine with M203 40mm grenade launcher