[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nevada National Guard

n, 641st Aviation Regiment (C-12) at AASF, Reno
 1st Squadron, 221st Cavalry Regiment (HQ at Las Vegas)
422d Signal Battalion (Expeditionary)
 421st Regional Training Institute (HQ at Las Vegas) 
 Medical Detachment (HQ at Reno) 
 92d Civil Support Team (HQ at Carson City)

Nevada Air National Guard

152nd Airlift Wing 
152nd Operations Group
192nd Airlift Squadron 
152nd Operations Squadron
152nd Maintenance Group
152nd Maintenance Squadron 
152nd Maintenance Operations Flight
152nd Mission Support Group
152nd Civil Engineer Squadron
152nd Communications Flight
152nd Force Support Squadron
152nd Security Forces Squadron
152nd Logistics Readiness Squadron
152nd Medical Group
Detachment 1 (CERFP)
152nd Intelligence Squadron
232nd Combat Training Squadron

Funding
Under the direction of two state employees — the governor and the adjutant general — the Nevada Military Department oversees and manages the Nevada National Guard’s missions, facilities and training. State of Nevada employees provide administrative, accounting, personnel, firefighting, security, maintenance and custodial support for all facilities assigned to the Nevada Military Department. Not all funds used to pay personnel come from state coffers; in fact, more than 80 percent of personnel expenditures for military department state employees are from federal funds.

Adjutant General

The Adjutant General of Nevada is the senior officer of the Nevada National Guard overseeing command of more than 4,000 Nevada Army and Air National Guard personnel and responsible for both the federal and state missions of the Nevada National Guard. The adjutant general is appointed by the governor of Nevada. The position of adjutant general in Nevada was created following the state's Organic Act in 1861.

In accordance with federal law, the Territorial Legislature defined the "enrolled" militia as "every free, able-bodied white male inhabitant...between the ages of eighteen and forty-five years" except those exempted by law. Similar legislation was established following Nevada's entrance into statehood in 1864. Under Nevada law, the adjutant general serves as the senior military officer. Throughout the state's first century, though, the obligations were ex-officio positions of other offices, including lieutenant governor and secretary of state.

In 1948, the Nevada National Guard re-organized after it federalized for service in World War II. This new force included both the Nevada Army National Guard and the emergence of the Nevada Air National Guard.

In 1967, Nevada changed its militia law to create a full-time adjutant general position in the state. Since 2002, the adjutant general has worked out of the Office of the Adjutant General in Carson City, Nev.

References

External links
Bibliography of Nevada Army National Guard History compiled by the United States Army Center of Military History
 Nevada National Guard Magazine – Battle Born printed by AQP Publishing, Inc
 
 
 Nevada National Guard
 92nd Weapons of Mass Destruction - Civil Support Team

National Guard (United States)
Military in Nevada