[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harry Thuku

inducements and piece-meal reforms. Thuku remained in their thoughts as a primary leader. The East African Association declined to participate in the political process, but those co-opted individuals and a host more who were interested in classical African political rights remained actively engaged.

Kikuyu Central Association
Thuku was given permission to return to Kiambu in January 1931. By that time, the colonial government allowed formation of tribal based political parties restricted to some tribal 'homelands' only. This was done to avoid national uprising against the colonial authorities. In 1932 Thuku became president of the Kikuyu Central Association, then Kenya's foremost African political group. Although dissension arose among the loyalists and the co-opted leaders of the association, which was fomented by the colonial powers of the day. The power struggles split the organisation into factions.

Kikuyu Provincial Association
Harry Thuku went on to re-assemble the loyal remnants of the East African Association, which was renamed the Kikuyu Provincial Association in 1935, devoted to legal, non-militant protest. In 1944 he founded the Kenya African Study Union, the precursor of the Kenya African Union.

Influence on the independence movement
Harry Thuku's ideals and approach were one strand in the larger African struggle for political and economic independence from the late 1940s to 1960s. However, Thuku's advocacy of moderation in political struggle caused a permanent split between Thuku and the rising generation of the future leaders of Kenya. He was strongly opposed to the Mau Mau movement. On 12 December 1952 he broadcast to the nation, saying that "To-day we, the Kikuyu, stand ashamed and looked upon as hopeless people in the eyes of other races and before the Government. Why? Because of the crimes perpetrated by Mau Mau and because the Kikuyu have made themselves Mau Mau." On 28 January 1954 he joined twenty two other Kikuyu leaders at Kabete in subscribing to an appeal to the people to renounce and denounce Mau Mau.

Retirement from politics
Thuku later retired to a successful life in coffee-farming in Kabete, Central province, Kenya. One of the first Kikuyu to win a coffee licence, in 1959 he became the first African board member of the Kenya Planters Coffee Union. He died on 14 June 1970.

After independence, Harry Thuku Road in Nairobi was named after him.

References

Sources 
David Anderson (2000), "Master and Servant in Colonial Kenya", Journal of African History, 41:459–485.
Thuku, Harry. Harry Thuku: An Autobiography. Nairobi: Oxford University Press, 1970.
Harry Thuku explains why he formed a political movement for all East Africans.
John Lonsdale (2004), "Thuku, Harry", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press.
Wunyabari Maloba (1998), Mau Mau and Kenya: An Analysis of a Peasant Revolt. Bloomington: Indiana University Press .
Carl Rosberg and John Nottingham (1966), The Myth of 'Mau Mau': nationalism in Kenya. New York: Praeger.
Audrey Wipper (1989), "Kikuyu Women and the Harry Thuku Disturbances: Some Uniformities of Female Militancy", Africa: Journal of the International African Institute, 59.3: 300–337.

1895 births
1970 deaths
Kenyan activists
Kenyan politicians
History of Kenya
African and Black nationalists
Postcolonial theorists
British Kenya people