[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Commission for Central American Recovery and Development

f effective mechanisms of civilian political control," is critical Central American societies (ICCARD 1989: 61).  The commission's plan advises from the need for economic and social justice with a strong role in developing democracy through nongovernmental organizations and the support of the media.

For sustainable democracy, the report maintains regional institutions and cooperation are essential, noting The Central American Parliament, The Central American Economic and Social Council, as well as The Central American Court of Justice are vital to facilitating regional integration.  The vision of regional economic planning accordingly "rests on an assumption that political dialogue is the means to resolve both internal and regional conflicts" (Envio 1989). Historical factions related to integration are detailed, including the central challenges to rebuilding the Free Trade Zone under the "conditionality" of World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the U.S. Agency for International Development structural adjustment programs.  The commission suggests that while there are favorable conditions for regional investment and cooperation, the intra-regional debt also remains a major obstacle.

If integration is to be sustainable and successful, regional institutions must be strengthened, particularly the Central American Bank for Economic Integration and the Secretariat of the Central American Monetary Council.  The strengthening of these institutions is essential to achieving economic cooperation – or "acting together internationally" in the words of the report – which requires an institutional coherence that the commission suggests the European Community is, "with it long experience in developing regional structures, in an excellent position to provide expertise" (ICCARD 1989: 76).  To maintain international cooperation, the report addresses the conditions for any support to promote trade, advance technology in the region and open markets for Central American exports to revive the intra-regional economy.  Markets must provide for the modernization of regional technology and financial flows need be devoted to domestic reforms, debt reduction and restructuring.  Finally, the report advises for a coordinated diversification of foreign assistance based on performance conditions.

Conclusion

Anticipating a future turning point toward sustainable development and authentic democratic institutions in Central America, the commission concludes with statement that the recommendations documented are drawn from principles of democratic development by understanding problems of the past in light of the recent history of the region.  Commentators such as Zuvekas (2001: 125) maintains some of the report (actually, assembled from essays by key Central American scholars) is disappointing, and Envivo (1989) notes issues such as land reform remained untouched.  Nonetheless, the report is a reasonable analysis of the difficulties facing the region with authoritative perspectives for the direction domestic governments, international organizations and the overall Central American political economy need undertake to ensure recovery in the region.  The Report of the International Commission for Central American Recovery and Development is a valuable guide for case study and application of theory based upon history with hope for the future of the region.

Developments since

 Esquipulas II:  Internet searches, even further scholarly research reveal little.  Nonetheless, Envio (1989) reports that following the presentation of the report on the eve of the fourth meeting of Central American presidents, the European Economic Community (EEC) responded positively with satisfaction for the peace process undertaken.  The summit resulted in the Esquipulas II framework for regional development, peace and cooperation.  The report claims that the "Stanford Commission Report, the presidential summit and the EEC meeting have opened a new space in Central American politics" (Envio 1989).  While the Esquipulas Peace Agreement isolates the United States, the EEC continued with its support in Central America by increasing foreign aid with the dismantling and resettling of Honduras' contra troops in February 1989, showing progress for regional diplomacy.

References
 The Report of the International Commission for Central American Recovery and Development:  Poverty, Conflict, and Hope – A Turning Point in Central America. (1989). Durham and London:  Duke University Press.
 Envio Team. 1989, April. "EEC Applauds Central American Initiative." Number 95, Envio.
 Ford Foundation. 1988. "Ford Foundation Annual Report 1988."  Retrieved February 2007
 Zuvekas, C. 2001. "Alternative Perspectives on Central American Economic Recovery and Development." Latin American Research Review.

Further reading