[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Palestine–Israel Journal

The Palestine–Israel Journal  is an independent, non-profit, Jerusalem-based quarterly that aims to shed light on and analyze freely and critically, the complex issues dividing Israelis and Palestinians. In 2006 it was a candidate for the UNESCO-Madanjeet Singh Prize for the Promotion of Tolerance and Non-Violence and was recognized with a mention of honor for "its outstanding contribution to this great cause". In 2012, co-editors Hillel Schenker and Ziad Abuzayyad were awarded the Outstanding Contribution to Peace Award at the eighth International Media Awards held on May 5.

The Journal
Half of every issue is devoted to exploring a major theme on the joint Israeli-Palestinian agenda, while the other half contains regular departments relating to Culture, Economics, Viewpoints, Book Reviews, Documents and a Chronology of Events. The Journals goal is to promote rapprochement and better understanding between Palestinian and Israeli people, and striving to discuss all issues without prejudice or taboos. The Journal is a unique joint venture promoting dialogue and the quest for a peaceful resolution of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The Journal operates on the basis of cooperation, understanding and equality between the Israelis and Palestinians who comprise its joint staff. All decisions and work are shared and managed equally and in cooperation between a joint staff of Palestinian and Israel co-editors, managing editors and other staff. The fact that decisions are made together through dialogue and understanding is a matter of principle as well as a working strategy of the Journal.

The editors of the Journal are Palestinian journalist and former Minister Ziad AbuZayyad and veteran Israeli journalist and commentator Hillel Schenker. The editorial board is composed of an equal number of Israeli and Palestinian academics and journalists. Every issue contains an equal number of articles by Israeli and Palestinian contributors, with the addition of several international articles.

History
The Palestine–Israel Journal was founded in early 1994 by Ziad AbuZayyad and veteran Israeli journalist Victor Cygelman (1926–2007) who was former deputy-editor of the Israeli peace journal New Outlook. The Journal was established, concurrently with the first phases of the Oslo peace process, as a response to a much-needed avenue for dialogue among the opinion and policy-makers of the region. It was obvious from the start that, alongside the institutional efforts of Palestinians and Israelis, channels of communication had to be opened for academics and other experts; opinion, decision and policy makers, as well as grass-roots organizations and activists, to voice their views, promote and take part in the public debate for a democratic and just solution to the conflict.

Many prominent academic experts, political figures, journalists and activists have written for the Journal.  Among them are Prof. Shlomo Ben-Ami, Mohammed Dajani, Shlomo Gazit, Manuel Hassassian, Shimon Peres, Rashid Khalidi, Ghassan Kanafani, Benny Morris, David Newman, Sari Nusseibeh, Yoav Peled, Don Peretz, Desmond Tutu, Khalil Shikaki, Prof. Daniel Kurtzer, Johan Galtung, Salim Tamari, Moshe Amirav, Jimmy Carter, Kofi Annan and A.B. Yehoshua.

When Cygelman retired, he was replaced by Prof. Daniel Bar-Tal of Tel Aviv University, who served as the Israeli co-editor from 2001–2005. In 2005, veteran Israeli journalist and commentator Hillel Schenker replaced Bar-Tal as Israeli co-editor of the Journal.

Public events and Journal outreach
After each issue is published, the Journal holds public discussions aimed at promoting widespread public debate on the topics raised by the issue. For each issue, three discussions are organized: one in Arabic for Palestinians, one in Hebrew for Israelis and one joint Palestinian-Israeli event run in English.