[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Common chlorospingus

The common chlorospingus (Chlorospingus flavopectus), also referred to as common bush tanager, is a small passerine bird. It is a resident breeder in the highlands from central Mexico south to Bolivia and northwest Argentina. C. flavopectus in the loose sense is a notorious cryptic species complex, and several of the up to 25 subspecies recognized in recent times are likely to be distinct species. Some populations in fact appear to be more distinct than several other members of Chlorospingus.

Description and ecology
The adult is  long and weighs  on average. They have a brown head with a (usually) thin supercilium and a white spot behind the eye and a light throat. The upperparts are olive and the underparts yellow, becoming white on the belly. Coloration, especially of the cheeks, throat and eye region, is very variable across the wide range, giving weight to the theory that these birds form a superspecies. Immatures are browner above, darker below, and have a duller olive eye spot. Hatchlings are covered in dark gray down feathers and have bright yellow bills.

The call is a squeaky  or chit. Songs vary widely between the populations.

The related sooty-capped chlorospingus (C. pileatus) has a blacker head with a bold white supercilium rather than an eye spot.

This bird is typically found from  ASL in Middle America; near the Equator they are common found at altitudes of  ASL. Its habitat – cloud forests with ample undergrowth and adjacent bushy clearings – is dominated by trees and shrubs from such families as Asteraceae, Clusiaceae, Cyatheaceae, Melastomataceae, Rubiaceae and Winteraceae, and epiphytes of the Araceae (e.g. Anthurium) and Orchidaceae.

The common chlorospingus is usually encountered in small groups or as part of a mixed-species feeding flock, and is rather sedentary. This passerine feeds on insects, spiders small fruits and nectar.

The menoponid chewing louse Myrsidea ophthalmici was described from a Venezuelan specimen of this bird; it is not known from other hosts to date. The Venezuelan population of the common chlorospingus would, if this taxon is split up, be assigned to a distinct species.

There is apparently no dedicated nesting season at least in the hottest parts of its range, but in general it seems that the common chlorospingus prefers to breed mainly between October and May. These birds hide their nest below vegetation on a bank or slope, in a hollow or tree trunk, amongst epiphytes, or up in a tree. The bulky cup nest, made from thin twigs and roots, coarse leaves and mosses, is some  high and nearly  wide. The nest cup, lined with fine leaves and fibers, is almost  wide and deep. The nest may be placed over  up in a tree, but usually is located  high or less; in most populations nests are occasionally built less than  above and sometimes even right on the ground.

The normal clutch is two eggs in most of the range. The northernmost populations, however, sometimes produce clutches of three eggs, while in the southern Andean group one-egg clutches might be frequent or even the norm. This species is regularly double-brooded at least in part of its range. The eggs are off-white and marked with larger puce and smaller maroon spots mainly on the blunt end. They are about  long and weigh about  on average, though eggs in one-egg clutches of Andean birds may measure almost  in length and normally weigh around , but occasionally more than  . The female incubates for much of the day, while both parents provide the young with food. As the nestlings near fledging, they are fed every 15 minutes or so on average.

Systematics and taxonomy
Traditionally, the genus Chlorospingus was placed with the tanager family, Thraupidae. More recent research suggests that they are actually aberrant brush finches in the Passerellidae and particularly close to Arremonops. Hence, as a common name "chlorospinguses" would arguably better than that the widely used "bush tanagers", as the former is equally well suited to either placement.

The wide range and considerable morphological variation displayed by C. ophthalmicus has been a problem for ornithologists for many decades. Initially, many taxa presently united in this species were considered distinct, but they were eventually all lumped together. More recent results suggest that the common chlorospingus is actually a superspecies.