[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Amateur radio repeater

diplexer allows two transmitters on different frequencies to use one antenna, and is common in installations where one repeater on 2 m and a second on 440 MHz share one feedline up the tower and one antenna.

Most repeaters are remotely controlled through the use of audio tones on a control channel.

Cross-band repeaters 
A cross-band repeater (also sometimes called a replexer), is a repeater that retransmits a specific mode on a frequency in one band to a specific mode on a frequency in a different band. This technique allows for a smaller and less complex repeater system. Repeating signals across widely separated frequency bands allows for simple filters to be used to allow one antenna to be used for both transmit and receive at the same time.  This avoids the use of complex duplexers to achieve the required rejection for same band repeating.

Some dual-band amateur transceivers are capable of cross-band repeat.

Amateur television repeaters 
Amateur television (ATV) repeaters are used by amateur radio operators to transmit full motion video. The bands used by ATV repeaters vary by country, but in the US a typical configuration is as a cross-band system with an input on the 33 or 23 cm band and output on 421.25 MHz or, sometimes, 426.25 MHz (within the 70 cm band). These output frequencies happen to be the same as standard cable television channels 57 and 58, meaning that anyone with a cable-ready analog NTSC TV can tune them in without special equipment.

There are also digital amateur TV repeaters that retransmit digital video signals.  Frequently DVB-S modulation is used for digital ATV, due to narrow bandwidth needs and high loss tolerances.  These DATV repeaters are more prevalent in Europe currently, partially because of the availability of DVB-S equipment.

Satellite repeaters 

In addition, amateur radio satellites have been launched with the specific purpose of operating as space-borne amateur repeaters.  The worldwide amateur satellite organization AMSAT designs and builds many of the amateur satellites, which are also known as OSCARs.  Several satellites with amateur radio equipment on board have been designed and built by universities around the world.  Also, several OSCARs have been built for experimentation.  For example, NASA and AMSAT coordinated the release of SuitSat which was an attempt to make a low cost experimental satellite from a discarded Russian spacesuit outfitted with amateur radio equipment.

The repeaters on board a satellite may be of any type; the key distinction is that they are in orbit around the Earth, rather than terrestrial in nature.  The three most common types of OSCARs are linear transponders, cross-band FM repeaters, and digipeaters (also referred to as pacsats).

Linear transponders 
Amateur transponder repeaters are most commonly used on amateur satellites.  A specified band of frequencies, usually having a bandwidth of 20 to 800 kHz is repeated from one band to another.  Transponders are not mode specific and typically no demodulation occurs.  Any signal with a bandwidth narrower than the transponder's pass-band will be repeated; however, for technical reasons, use of modes other than SSB and CW are discouraged.  Transponders may be inverting or non-inverting.  An example of an inverting transponder would be a 70cm to 2m transponder which receives on the 432.000 MHz to 432.100 MHz frequencies and transmits on the 146.000 MHz to 146.100 MHz frequencies by inverting the frequency range within the band.  In this example, a signal received at 432.001 MHz would be transmitted on 146.099 MHz.  Voice signals using upper sideband modulation on the input would result in a LSB modulation on the output, and vice versa.

Store-and-forward systems 
Another class of repeaters do not simultaneously retransmit a signal, on different frequency, as they receive it.  Instead, they operate in a store-and-forward manner, by receiving and then retransmitting on the same frequency after a short delay.

These systems may not be legally classified as "repeaters", depending on the definition set by a country's regulator.  For example, in the US, the FCC defines a repeater as an "amateur station that simultaneously retransmits the transmission of another amateur station on a different channel or channels." (CFR 47 97.205(b)) Store-and-forward systems neither retransmit simultaneously, nor use a different channel.  Thus, they must be operated under different rules than more conventional repeaters.

Simplex repeater 
A type of system known as a simplex repeater uses a single transceiver and a short-duration voice recorder, which records whatever the receiver picks up for a set length of time (usually 30 seconds or less), then plays back the recording over the transmitter on the same frequency. A common name is a "parrot" repeater.