[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# William C. Harrop

William Caldwell Harrop (born February 19, 1929) is an American diplomat. Harrop served for 39 years as a Foreign Service Officer, with postings as United States ambassador to Guinea, Kenya and the Seychelles, the Congo (Kinshasa), and Israel.

Early life and education
Harrop was born in Baltimore, Maryland on February 19, 1929. At age ten, he moved with his family to New Brunswick, New Jersey, where his father, a research physician, worked for E. R. Squibb & Sons.  Harrop attended Deerfield Academy in Deerfield, Massachusetts. He received his A.B. from Harvard College in 1950.

After graduating from Harvard, Harrop unsuccessfully looked for editorial work with various newspapers. At the invitation of Frank Boyden, the headmaster of Deerfield Academy, Harrop spent about five months teaching at the school before entering the Marine Corps, in which he served during the Korean War.

After returning to the United States, Harrop took and passed the Foreign Service exam in 1952. At the time, Harrop was still interested in journalism, and used the G.I. Bill to earn a master's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri School of Journalism in Columbia, Missouri. Harrop then accepted an appointment to the United States Foreign Service; according to an oral history given by Harrop, he "was one of a considerable group of people who were delayed in entering the Foreign Service for a couple of years by Senator Joseph McCarthy." According to Harrop, "Accepting the appointment was a difficult decision for me. I had heard nothing from the Department for months, and was suddenly told over the phone that if I would appear within nine days in Washington I would receive an appointment and would go to Palermo."

Foreign Service career
Harrop entered the Foreign Service in a year when the new class of diplomats did not attend the standard A-100 orientation and training course at the Foreign Service Institute. One of Harrop's sons was born the day before he left for Italy for his first assignment, at the U.S. consulate general in Palermo, Sicily in 1953. This consulate would have ordinarily had only twelve staffers, but because of the Refugee Relief Act had exploded to at least eighty staffers.  Harrop was one of several vice consuls there. Harrop helped administer the Refugee Relief Program on the island, where at the time the Mafia held great sway.

Harrop served in Palermo from 1954 to October 1955, when he was transferred to the U.S. Embassy in Rome to be assistant commercial attaché there under Ambassador Clare Boothe Luce and, later, James David Zellerbach. Harrop left Rome to return to Washington in the late fall of 1958.   According to Harrop's oral history years later, "I came back under protest because by that time I had become fascinated with energy questions and with the politics of energy -- atomic energy particularly. I was asked to come back to be in the Office of Personnel in the State Department, handling personnel assignments. I sent back an imprudent cable to say that if I had wanted to be in personnel work I would have joined Westinghouse, not the State Department. ... I was told in no uncertain terms that if I wanted to continue my career in the State Department, I should come back and work in Personnel. So I did." At the Office of Personnel, Harrop was initially a placement officer and later deputy director of the Office of Washington Assignments. Around 1961, Harrop left Personnel and moved to the regional affairs office of the Bureau of European Affairs, where he replaced Arthur A. Hartman as a desk officer focused on EURATOM.

In early 1962, Harrop was transferred (at Sheldon B. Vance's request) to the Bureau of African Affairs, where he was responsible for economic matters in the Congo (then in the midst of the Cold War-era Congo Crisis) and the Katanga secession. In 1963, Harrop went to Brussels to become a mid-grade economic officer and deputy to the Economic 
Counselor there. In Brussels, Harrop served under ambassadors Douglas MacArthur II and later Ridgway Knight; he continued to follow African matters and did work relating to Belgian commerce. In 1966, Harrop left Brussels and went to the Congo, spent two years as principal officer at the U.S. consulate in Lubumbashi (the name of which had recently changed from Elisabethville). The region was extremely dangerous at the time; Harrop would arrange for C-130s to be flown down to Katanga during the period of greatest tension. In 1968, Harrop left the Congo after being assigned to do graduate work for a year at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University as part of a "Mid Career Program" sabbatical.