[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mechanical amplifier

ral) are usually triggered at higher frequencies. The specific frequency vicinity of these modes depends on the nature and boundary conditions of each mechanical system. Additionally, subharmonics, superharmonics or subsuperharmonics of each mode can also be excited at the right boundary conditions.

“As a model for a detector we note that if you hang a weight on a spring and then move the upper end of the spring up and down, the amplitude of the weight will be much larger than the driving amplitude if you are at the resonant frequency of the mass and spring assembly. It is essentially a mechanical amplifier and serves as a good candidate for a sensitive detector."

Parametric resonators 

Parametric resonance is the physical phenomenon where an external excitation, at a specific frequency and typically orthogonal to the plane of displacement, introduces a periodic modulation in one of the system parameters resulting in a buildup in oscillatory amplitude. It is governed by the Mathieu equation. The following is a damped Mathieu equation.

where δ is the squared of the natural frequency and ε is the amplitude of the parametric excitation.

The first order or the principal parametric resonance is achieved when the driving/excitation frequency is twice the natural frequency of a given system. Higher orders of parametric resonance are observed either at or at submultiples of the natural frequency. For direct resonance, the response frequency always matches the excitation frequency. However, regardless of which order of parametric resonance is activated, the response frequency of parametric resonance is always in the vicinity of the natural frequency. Parametric resonance has the ability to exhibit higher mechanical amplification than direct resonance when operating at favourable conditions, but usually has a longer build up/transient state.

“The parametric resonator provides a very useful instrument that has been developed by a number of researchers, in part because a parametric resonator can serve as a mechanical amplifier, over a narrow band of frequencies.”

Swing analogy 
Direct resonance can be equated to someone pushing a child on a swing. If the frequency of the pushing (external forcing) matches the natural frequency of the child-swing system, direct resonance can be achieved. Parametric resonance, on the other hand, is the child shifting his/her own weight with time (twice the frequency of the natural frequency) and building up the oscillatory amplitude of the swing without anyone helping to push. In other words, there is an internal transfer of energy (instead of simply dissipating all available energy) as the system parameter (child's weight) modulates and changes with time.

Other resonators/oscillators 
Other means of signal enhancement, applicable to both mechanical and electrical domains, exist. This include chaos theory, stochastic resonance and many other nonlinear or vibrational phenomena. No new energy is created. However, through mechanical amplification, more of the available power spectrum can be utilised at a more optimal efficiency rather than dissipated.

Non-resonating amplifiers 

Levers and gear trains are classical tools used to achieve mechanical advantage MA, which is a measure of mechanical amplification.

Lever 

Lever can be used to change the magnitude of a given mechanical signal, such as force or displacement. Levers are widely used as mechanical amplifiers in actuators and generators.

It is a mechanism that usually consist of a rigid beam/rod fixed about a pivot. Levers are balanced when there is a balance of moment or torque about the pivot. Three major classifications exist, depending on the position of the pivot, input and output forces. The fundamental principle of lever mechanism is governed by the following ratio, dating back to Archimedes.

where FA is a force acting on point A on the rigid lever beam, FB is a force acting on point B on the rigid lever beam and a and b are the respective distances from points A and B to the pivot point.

If FB is the output force and FA is the input force, then mechanical advantage MA is given by the ratio of output force to input force.

Gear train 

Gear trains are usually formed by the meshing engagement of two or more gears on a frame to form a transmission. This can provide translation (linear motion) or rotation as well as mechanically alter displacement, speed, velocity, acceleration, direction and torque depending on the type of gears employed, transmission configuration and gearing ratio.

The mechanical advantage of a gear train is given by the ratio of the output torque TB and input torque TA, which is also the same ratio of number of teeth of the output gear NB and the number of teeth of the input gear NA.

Therefore, torque can be amplified if the number of teeth of the output gear is larger than that of the input gear.