[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jonás Gutiérrez

o score his third goal of the season in the home tie against Wolves with a 30-yard strike in front of the Sir John Hall Stand at St James' Park; this goal made it three goals in his last three appearances against Wolves. The season also marked a transition for Gutiérrez into a central midfield role.

Newcastle's fifth-placed league finish in the previous season meant that the club qualified for the Europa League. Gutiérrez was mostly rested for the group stages but was more involved in the knockout rounds. He made six appearances as Newcastle exited the competition at the quarter-final stage. On 2 February 2013, Gutiérrez scored a header in a 3–2 home victory against Chelsea. A tumour was detected in his testicle at the end of the season and he underwent surgery in his native Argentina in October 2013.

Norwich City (loan)
Upon his return from surgery, Gutiérrez found his playing time limited at Newcastle. On 13 January 2014, he secured a loan move to fellow Premier League team Norwich City under the management of his former boss at Newcastle, Chris Hughton, for the rest of the season. He was limited to four appearances for the club following a calf injury and the sacking of Hughton.

Return to Newcastle United
On 28 February 2015, Gutiérrez made his first appearance in a Newcastle United squad since his recovery when he was named as an unused substitute for Newcastle's 1–0 home win against Aston Villa. He made his official return as a substitute on 4 March 2015 against Manchester United, and was passed the captains' armband by teammate Fabricio Coloccini on entering the field. On the final day of the season, Gutiérrez assisted the first and scored the second goal to ensure Newcastle stayed in the Premier League in a 2–0 win at home to West Ham United. He was let go at the end of the season, being made aware of this news by interim manager John Carver's phonecall to teammate Ryan Taylor, which caused him to "think they don't care about anything." Irrespective of his treatment by the club's management, Gutiérrez continued to maintain a strong relationship with Newcastle fans.

Later career
On 1 September 2015, Gutiérrez signed a one-year deal with Deportivo de La Coruña. He made seventeen appearances in all competitions, with five of them in the starting XI.

On 6 September 2016, Gutiérrez signed a one-year deal with Defensa y Justicia.

On 10 July 2017, Gutiérrez signed a two-year deal with Independiente.

On 13 July 2018, Gutiérrez re-signed with Defensa y Justicia.

On 16 November 2021, Gutiérrez announced his retirement from football.

International career

Gutiérrez was part of the victorious Argentina national under-20 team at the 2003 South American Youth Championship.

Gutiérrez has earned 22 senior caps for Argentina. He made his debut against France in February 2007 and later on in the year, earned his second cap against Australia on 11 September. He earned his third cap on 18 June 2008, away to Brazil as part of the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifiers, the match concluding in a 0–0 draw. He scored his first goal for Argentina in the first half of a friendly against France on 11 February 2009. However, due to the presence of other wingers such as Lionel Messi, Maxi Rodríguez and Ángel Di María, and the absence of Javier Zanetti in the squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, Gutiérrez often played at right back for his country.

Personal life
On 16 September 2014, Gutiérrez revealed that he was being treated for testicular cancer and had one final session of chemotherapy left, followed by two months of recuperation. He had experienced pain in his testicles following a collision in a match against Arsenal on 19 May 2013. Following inflammation of the area in September and several misdiagnoses, he went for an ultrasound scan where a tumour was discovered; he chose to have surgery to remove his left testicle in his native Argentina in October 2013. He returned to Newcastle a month later but was deemed surplus to squad requirements and was loaned out to Norwich City in January 2014 for the rest of the season. After the season ended, he experienced liver pain and swelling of his lymph nodes following a holiday and was started on chemotherapy. Until his interview in September 2014, Gutiérrez chose to keep his treatment mostly private, and only a few close friends in Gabriel Heinze, Martín Demichelis, Ezequiel Lavezzi and Newcastle teammate Fabricio Coloccini knew of his condition.

On 3 November 2014, Gutiérrez was discharged from hospital. Having completed his recovery, he made his return to the Newcastle United first team on 4 March 2015, coming on as a substitute in home match against Manchester United. After recovering, he had the lyrics "I am alive again, more alive than I have been in my whole entire life" from Eminem's "No Love" tattooed onto his arm. His appearance as a substitute on 13 April 2015, was greeted with a standing ovation by Liverpool and Newcastle fans.