[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# December 1919

, with Romania pledging to grant full citizenship and equal rights to its Jewish residents.
 Born: William Lipscomb, American chemist, recipient for the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for research into nuclear magnetic resonance and the element boron; in Cleveland (d. 2011)

December 10, 1919 (Wednesday) 

 U.S. President Woodrow Wilson was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for leading the Paris Peace Conference and brokering the Treaty of Versailles. Other recipients of the Nobel Prize included Johannes Stark for the Nobel Prize in Physics for his contributions into atomic physics, Jules Bordet for the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his research into bacteria and immunity, and Carl Spitteler for Nobel Prize in Literature for his contributions to epic poetry.
 Russian Civil War – The first attempt by the 12th Red Army to recapture Kiev from the White Russians failed, forcing the army back across the Dnieper River. The same day, Red Army forces captured Barnaul, Kazakhstan, completely cutting off the Orenburg Independent Army from the main White Army retreat into Siberia forcing them south to Semirechye, Kazakhstan.
 Australian Flying Corps officers and brothers Captain Ross and Lieutenant Keith Macpherson Smith landed their Vickers Vimy bomber in Darwin, Australia to complete the flight from England and Australia. They flew a total 17,911 kilometres (11,123 mi) in 135 hours 55 minutes (131.8 km/h or 81.9 mph). Their crew won the £A10,000 prize offered by the Australian government and received knighthoods for their flight accomplishment.
 Australian Royal Air Force officers Captain Cedric Howell and Lieutenant George Henry Fraser diverted their flight from Crete due to stormy conditions during their flight from England to Australia. They attempted to land at Corfu but crashed into the Mediterranean Sea short of the coast where both men drowned. Howell's body was recovered the following day but Fraser's body was never found. 
 The United States House Committee on Oversight and Reform allocated US$1.4 million of US$3 million requested by Second Assistant United States Postmaster General Otto Praeger to set up airmail routes between New York City and other major U.S. cities, with the goal to create a transcontinental route to San Francisco.
 Born: 
Alexander Courage, American composer, best known for the original theme for the Star Trek television series; in Philadelphia (d. 2008)
Jean Lee, Australian criminal, last woman to be executed in Australia; in Dubbo, New South Wales, Australia (d. 1951)

December 11, 1919 (Thursday) 
 The Ceylon National Congress was established to advocate independence from British rule.
 Georgian composer Victor Dolidze premiered his comic opera Keto and Kote in Tbilisi.
 The Boll Weevil Monument was unveiled in Enterprise, Alabama.
 The journalistic honor society Alpha Phi Gamma was established as Phi Alpha Gamma at Ohio Northern University before changing its name in 1923 it avoid confusion with another Phi Alpha Gamma society. It merged with Pi Delta Epsilon to form the Society for Collegiate Journalists in 1975.
 Born: Paavo Aaltonen, Finnish gymnast, three-time gold medalist at the 1948 Summer Olympics (d. 1962)

December 12, 1919 (Friday) 
 The Scotts Bluff National Monument was established in Scotts Bluff County, Nebraska along the North Platte River.
 Imperial College London established its own rowing club in Putney, London, England.
 Born: Dan DeCarlo, American comic book artist, best known for his work with Archie Comics, co-creator of Sabrina the Teenage Witch and Josie and the Pussycats; in New Rochelle, New York (d. 2001)

December 13, 1919 (Saturday) 
 Russian Civil War – The Red Army took Karkaralinsk, Kazakhstan, forcing the Orenburg Independent Army to march 600 km to Semirechye. During the march, it was estimated half of the 20,000 involved died from starvation, exposure, or typhus.
 Australia held a referendum on extending legislative powers in relation to the economy and to monopolies. Both referendums were defeated.
 The National Hockey League approved the sale of the Toronto Arenas for $5,000 to Charles Querrie, however former owner Eddie Livingstone did not receive any of the money (it was rumored NHL president Frank Calder pocketed it instead).
 Italian composer Pietro Mascagni premiered his opera Sì at the Teatro Quirino in Rome. 
 Born: Hans-Joachim Marseille, German air force officer, commander of Jagdgeschwader 52 and 27 for the Luftwaffe during World War II, recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross and Gold Medal of Military Valour, in Berlin (d. 1942, killed in action)