[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Weil, Gotshal & Manges

ankruptcy
 DirecTV's $49 billion sale to AT&T
 Lenovo's $2.9 billion acquisition of Motorola from Google
 Verizon's $4.4 billion acquisition of AOL
 Intel's $16 billion acquisition of Altera
 Facebook's $19 billion acquisition of WhatsApp
 Oracle's $9 billion acquisition of NetSuite

Notable alumni 

 Richard Ben-Veniste, member of the 9/11 Commission
 Geoff Berman, executive director of the New York State Democratic Committee
 Adam Bodnar, former Polish Ombudsman for Citizen Rights
 Jason Boyarski, music industry lawyer
 Vernon S. Broderick, judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
 Robert B. Charles, Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs
 Greg Coleman, first Solicitor General of Texas
 Gregg Costa, judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
 Christopher Nixon Cox, grandson of Richard Nixon
 Mekka Don, rapper
 Barry Eisler, novelist, creator of John Rain novels
 Michael Francies, managing partner of the firm's London office
 Jill M. Friedman, who represented Guantanamo Bay detention camp prisoners, author of The Saudi Repatriates Report
 Martin D. Ginsburg, lawyer, husband of Ruth Bader Ginsburg
 Sylvan Gotshal, founding partner
 Lawrence Otis Graham, best-selling author
 Caitlin Halligan, former Solicitor General of New York
 George J. Hazel, judge of the United States District Court for the District of Maryland
 Melinda Katz, Queens County District Attorney
 Jeffrey L. Kessler, noted sports industry lawyer
 Horace Manges, founding partner
 Harvey R. Miller, Vice Chairman of Greenhill & Co.
 Ira Millstein, current partner at the firm, longest-practicing partner in big law
 Tamika Montgomery-Reeves, associate justice of the Delaware Supreme Court
 Raymond Nimmer, former dean of the University of Houston Law Center
 Robert Odle, Assistant Secretary in the United States Department of Energy under Ronald Reagan
 Harriet Pilpel, women's rights activist
 John A. E. Pottow, professor at the University of Michigan Law School
 Rob Simmelkjaer, television journalist and executive
 Stanley Sporkin, senior judge on the United States District Court for the District of Columbia
 Robert R. Summerhays, judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana
 Theodore Tannenwald Jr., judge of the United States Tax Court
 Heath Tarbert, former Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
 Suzanne Israel Tufts, Assistant Secretary in the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
 Frank Weil, founding partner

See also

 List of largest United States-based law firms by profits per partner
 List of companies based in New York City

References

External links
 
 
 Chambers and Partners firm profile 

1931 establishments in New York City
Companies based in Manhattan
Foreign law firms with offices in Hong Kong
Law firms based in New York City
Law firms established in 1931
Partnerships
Multinational law firms