[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)

The Cuyahoga County Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument is a major Civil War monument in Cleveland, Ohio, honoring the more than 9,000 individuals from Cuyahoga County who served the Union throughout the war. It was dedicated on July 4, 1894, and is located on the southeast quadrant of Public Square in Downtown Cleveland. It was designed by architect and Civil War veteran Levi Scofield, who also created the monument's sculptures. The monument is regularly open to the public, free of charge.

History and construction

Planning (1880–1890) 

On October 22, 1879, a meeting of Civil War veterans took place in Cleveland, wherein an idea to build a monument was proposed. At this meeting, a resolution was unanimously approved, “to appoint a committee of three, whose duty it will be to formulate a plan for the erection of a suitable monument or memorial to commemorate the Union Soldiers and Sailors of Cuyahoga County.” Shortly thereafter, a convention of the soldiers and sailors of Cuyahoga County was held on October 30.  The 1,200 veterans in attendance discussed the idea of creating a monument and chose a seven-man committee to lobby the Ohio General Assembly for funding.

On April 2, 1880, an act was passed through the Ohio State Legislature authorizing the Commissioners of Cuyahoga County to levy a county wide tax for the purpose of, “erecting a Monument or Memorial Tablet commemorative of the bravery and valor of all the Soldiers and Sailors from said county, who were killed in any of the battles fought in the service of the Republic of the United States, or who died from wounds or disease received or contracted in such service, and purchase a suitable site therefor.” 

In 1886, at a meeting of the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Union, an agreement was reached regarding the general design. Some favored a traditional obelisk or shaft, others preferred the idea of a tablet room. Levi T. Scofield, a local veteran and successful architect, was asked to draw up designs and plans for the future structure and proposed a unique combination of the two styles –  a tablet room with an obelisk.

With the design well in progress, the next question was as to the location of the monument. The initial proposal was to round off the four corners of Cleveland's Public Square and to place a large statue right in the center of the square at the junction of Ontario Street and Superior Avenue. Before this plan could be implemented, the railroad companies developing the rapidly expanding street car system in the city laid claim to the intersection. Other locations throughout the city were considered for the future monument. Nevertheless, the Monument Committee remained stalwart in their desire to see the structure built on Public Square.

The Southeast quadrant at the terminus of Euclid Avenue was selected as the most ideal and appropriate site. Negotiations were then begun with the Park Commissioners of the City of Cleveland who maintained Public Square to secure the Southeast quadrant for the project. In April 1888, The General Assembly of the State of Ohio passed House Bill 462 to create a “Board of Commissioners, to be called the Monumental Commissioners of Cuyahoga County, to be composed of twelve persons, who shall be resident electors of said county, and members of the present Monumental Committee of the Cuyahoga County.”

The twelve members of this building commission were:
 William J. Gleason, President
 Levi F. Bauder, Secretary
 James Barnett
 Edward H. Bohm
 Charles Dewstoe
 J. J. Elwell
 Emory W. Force
 James Hayr
 Mortimer D. Leggett
 Joseph B. Molyneaux
 Levi T. Scofield
 R. W. Walters

Beginning of construction (1890–1894) 

In early 1890, artists, models, and other artisans began the work of designing the proposed sculptural elements under the direction of Levi T. Scofield. Maquettes of all of the exterior statuaries as well as various architectural features were produced for review and approval by the Monument Commission. The maquettes of the exterior sculptures were exhibited at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago along with Scofield's sculpture entitled “These Are My Jewels” which now resides on the property of the Ohio Statehouse in Columbus. In 1975, the maquettes were donated by Douglas F. Schofield II, Levi Scofield's grandson to the citizens of Cuyahoga County, and they are currently on display in Courtroom 2 of the Cuyahoga County Courthouse.