[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 47]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ls fear to tread."

"Are they not?" asked Hadria absently.

"We both see your difficulty," Miss Temperley went on. "Hubert would not
so misunderstand you--the dear fellow is full of delicacy--and I should
dearly love to hear him play to your accompaniment; he used to enjoy
those practices so much. Would you think him intrusive if he brought his
_'cello_ some afternoon?"

Hadria, not without an uneasy qualm, agreed to the suggestion, though by
no means cordially.

Accordingly brother and sister arrived, one afternoon, for the practice.
Henriette took the leadership, visibly employed tact and judgment,
talked a great deal, and was surprisingly delicate, as beseemed a
Temperley. Hadria found the occasion somewhat trying nevertheless, and
Hubert stumbled, at first, in his playing. In a few minutes, however,
both musicians became possessed by the music, and then all went well.
Henriette sat in an easy chair and listened critically. Now and then she
would call out "bravo," or "admirable," and when the performance was
over, she was warm in her congratulations.

Hadria was flushed with the effort and pleasure of the performance.

"I never heard Hubert's playing to such advantage," said his sister. "I
seem to hear it for the first time. You really ought to practise
together often." Another afternoon was appointed; Henriette left Hadria
almost no choice.

After the next meeting, the constraint had a little worn off, and the
temptation to continue the practising was very strong. Henriette's
presence was reassuring. And then Hubert seemed so reasonable, and had
apparently put the past out of his mind altogether.

After the practice, brother and sister would linger a little in the
drawing-room, chatting. Hubert appeared to advantage in his sister's
society. She had a way of striking his best vein. Her own talent ran
with his, appealed to it, and created the conditions for its display.
Her presence and inspiration seemed to produce, on his ability, a sort
of cumulative effect. Henriette set all the familiar machinery in
motion; pressed the right button, and her brother became brilliant.

A slight touch of diffidence in his manner softened the effect of his
usual complacency. Hadria liked him better than she had liked him on his
previous visit. His innate refinement appealed to her powerfully.
Moreover, he was cultivated and well-read, and his society was
agreeable. Oh, why did this everlasting matrimonial idea come in and
spoil everything? Why could not men and women have interests in common,
without wishing instantly to plunge into a condition of things which
hampered and crippled them so miserably?

Hadria was disposed to underrate all defects, and to make the most of
all virtues in Hubert, at the present moment. He had come at just the
right time to make a favourable impression upon her; for the loneliness
of her life had begun to leave its mark, and to render her extremely
sensitive to influence.

She was an alien among the people of her circle; and she felt vaguely
guilty in failing to share their ideas and ambitions. Their glances,
their silences, conveyed a world of cold surprise and condemnation.

Hubert was tolerance itself compared with the majority of her
associates. She felt almost as if he had done her a personal kindness
when he omitted to look astonished at her remarks, or to ignore them as
"awkward."

Yet she felt uneasy about this renewal of the practices, and tried to
avoid them as often as possible, though sorely against her inclination.
They were so great a relief and enjoyment. Her inexperience, and her
carelessness of conventional standards, put her somewhat off her guard.
Hubert showed no signs of even remembering the interview of last year,
that had been cut short by her father's entrance. Why should _she_
insist on keeping it in mind? It was foolish. Moreover she had been
expressly given to understand, in a most pointed manner, that her
conduct would not be misinterpreted if she allowed him to come
occasionally.

From several remarks that Temperley made, she saw that he too regarded
the ordinary domestic existence with distaste. It offended his
fastidiousness. He was fastidious to his finger-tips. It amused Hadria
to note the contrast between him and Mr. Gordon, who was a typical
father of a family; limited in his interests to that circle; an amiable
ruler of a tiny, somewhat absurd little world, pompous and important and
inconceivably dull.

The _bourgeois_ side of this life was evidently displeasing to Hubert.
Good taste was his fetish. From his remarks about women, Hadria was led
to observe how subtly critical he was with regard to feminine qualities,
and wondered if his preference for herself ought to be regarded as a
great compliment.

Henriette congratulated her on having been admired by the fastidious
Hubert.

"Let us hope it speaks well for me," Hadria replied with a cynical
smile, "but I have