[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Private police

cause to do so.  Private police officers have very differing powers and regulations, generally do have law enforcement powers (even if limited to the properties they are assigned to protect), such as in North Carolina, Virginia, Washington, D.C., Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, Illinois, and more.

A specific type of private police is company police, such as the specialized railroad police or mall security. In some cases, private police are sworn in as government employees in order to ensure compliance with the law, as in the Kalamazoo, Michigan-Charles Services contract, which lasted 3 years. Private police services are sometimes called "Subscription-Based Patrol." The largest private police forces in the United States are the railroad police employed by the major Class I railroads.

Private security firms in the U.S. employ more security guards, patrol personnel and detectives than the U.S. federal, state and local governments combined, fulfilling many of the beat-patrol functions once thought central to the mission of public police. It has been argued that the private police market furnishes tangible evidence about what people want but are not receiving from public police. The growth of private policing is a phenomenon that is occurring all over the world. In Australia, private and public police have conventionally been considered parallel systems, with private security as very much the lesser or junior entity.

In Boston, Massachusetts, more than 100 housing projects and low-income apartment buildings are some times patrolled by private security. A few of these companies employ Special Police Officers that are licensed and trained through the City of Boston. These Special Police officers do meet the state's standard of a special police officer. These Special Police Officers in Boston get their power from BPD rule 400. In 2021, Boston special police officers lost their commissions due to laws passed due to police reform.

In North Carolina, private police are certified company police agencies governed by the North Carolina Department of Justice chapter 74E of the Company Police Act. Under 74E Company Police in North Carolina can, and do make arrests, and write citations for violations of the law the same as any municipal police officer. Company Police jurisdiction is on any real property that they own, possess and control, or have been contracted to protect by the owner or person in control, unless they are in continuous pursuit for a crime that was committed in their jurisdiction or investigating a crime that occurred in their jurisdiction. Private police in North Carolina must meet or exceed all training and certification requirements as any municipal, county or state law enforcement officer.

In South Carolina, all Security Officers have the authority and power to make an arrest just as Sheriff's Deputies do (although this is unique for the USA).  In (Spring Valley HOA) Columbia, South Carolina, Private Officers respond to calls for service, run traffic radar, make arrests and use blue lights.  Security Officers in South Carolina are Law Enforcement under state law, case law and the Attorney General's opinions, and are authorized by the state to issue Uniform Traffic Tickets to violators and make arrests for violations of state laws. Security Officers are considered Private Law Enforcement Officers.

In Washington, D.C., special police officers have full law enforcement authority on the properties they are assigned to protect. There are both private police officers Metro Special Police, Shasthra Special Police, and PChange Special Police, and public/governmental officers, such as the University of the District of Columbia Police, DC Library Police, and special police officers working for WMATA. They all have the authority to make arrests for felonies and misdemeanors, and to utilize blue and white lights on their vehicles. New York City The MTA police is a privatize police force that gets State funding. It is part of the New York City transit Authority Police also extends to the LIRR Long Island Train service.

Relationship to anarcho-capitalism
Private police features prominently in anarcho-capitalist theory and, along with advocacy of private defense agencies, dispute resolution organizations, and private production of law, distinguishes it from minarchism. It is argued that complete privatization of the police function (with funding, control, ownership, etc. of all police forces passing to private entities) would eliminate the ability of the state to forcibly collect taxes, and that arguably the only way it could work would be within the context of a society in which all other services were privatized as well. However, Edward Stringham has pointed out numerous examples to the contrary.