[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lamy

Lamy () is a German pen manufacturing company. Josef Lamy, who was a sales representative for Parker Pen in Germany, founded the business in 1930 by purchasing the Orthos pen manufacturer. Lamy was a pioneer in the use of moulded synthetic plastics to make their products.

Lamy was run by Josef Lamy's son, Manfred, until his retirement in 2006. He was succeeded by Bernhard M. Rösner. Products manufactured by Lamy include fountain, ballpoint pens, mechanical pencils, and ink.

History 

In 1984, newspapers reported that Lamy's export share increased to 33 percent of turnover. In 1986, Lamy, Montblanc, and Parker held among them 70–80 percent of the West German market. Export markets then consisted of the United States, Japan, and Austria. Lamy hoped to expand that export share to 50 percent of turnover, which stood at approximately 40 million Deutschmark (DM) for 1985. Turnover for Lamy increased to 48 million DM for 1987, then employing 350 people, increasing to 54 million DM in 1988 and a corresponding increase in staff to nearly 400.

In 1989, turnover increased to approximately 62 million DM. Lamy had begun taking on employees as sleeping partners. Approximately one third of the then 400-person workforce became sleeping partners. In that year, Lamy established contacts with East Germany and planned to do business there as well as in West Germany. 1991 held an increase in staff and turnover again, this time to 85 million DM and five hundred staff. Lamy invested in their "innovation workshop" in Heidelberg, in 1996, along with approximate expected turnover being 113 million DM. 1999 showed Lamy reporting stable turnover of approximately 120 million DM, though domestic demand has fallen.

Product range
The company refers to their products by prefixing "Lamy" in front of the descriptive name, such as "Lamy Scribble" (to avoid repetition, here only the descriptive name is used).

Fountain pens 

Many Lamy fountain pen models share the same type of feed and nib. Most use Fe-Ni-Cr stainless steel alloy Z 50 nibs which can be interchanged by the user.
The feeds are made of ABS plastic and after injection molding are chemically etched with polyethylene glycol (PEG). The etching process causes micro surface scratches by removing styrene from the feed surface and ink channels. This roughening optimizes ink flow characteristics over the feed surface.
The 2000 fountain pen model uses nibs of another type which is incompatible with Lamy's other fountain pen models.

abc
Lamy's abc beginner's fountain pen was designed by Bernt Speigel to be used by children while learning to write. The body is normally made from maple wood and includes a name sticker in the cap to assist in identifying each student's pen.
The pen features a non round grip section optimized to be held with a 'tripod pen grip'.

Safari, AL-star, LX and Vista  

The Lamy Safari was designed by Wolfgang Fabian
and Bernt Spiegel of the Entwicklungsgruppe Mannheim
which remains in production from 1980. The Safari and the derived AL-star and Vista lines are all cartridge/converter filled and are intended for students and young writers. The pens are made primarily of ABS plastic and like the Lamy abc they all feature a non-rounded grip section optimized to be held with a 'tripod pen grip'. The Vista line is a transparent demonstrator version and the AL-star features an anodized aluminum body and cap with a semi-transparent grip section. In 2016, Lamy released a more expensive variant of their AL-star line called the LX that comes in five colors all named after precious metals, with the exception of the Marron special edition. In addition to the fountain pen, the Safari, AL-star, LX and Vista lines are also available in a ballpoint, rollerball, and mechanical pencil configurations.

Dialog 
The Dialog is a cap-less fountain pen with twist action to expose the 14 carat gold nib. Twisting also causes the pen's clip to retract into the barrel. When closed, a ball valve seals the barrel to protect the nib. The Dialog was designed by Franco Clivio.

Accent 
The Accent is a design from Andreas Haug. The pen comes in a variety of barrel materials and features a grip section that can be swapped for a customized appearance. The Accent's cap has a hinged clip and posts with clicking tabs. The Accent also appears in Lamy's ball-point, rollerball, and mechanical pencil platforms.

Studio