[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# List of coups and coup attempts

overthrew President Luis Adolfo Siles Salinas.
1969 Somali coup d'état: Military officers led by Siad Barre overthrew President Sheikh Mukhtar Mohamed Hussein and Prime Minister Mohammad Egal, leading to Barre's 21-year-long military rule and the imposition of an authoritarian government.

1970–1979

1970
Corrective Revolution in Syria: Hafez al-Assad overthrew the government of Salah Jadid in a bloodless coup.
Bolivia: A junta of commanders of the Bolivian army enact a coup, but the highly polarized military forces were split. President Alfredo Ovando Candía sought asylum in a foreign embassy, believing all hope was lost, but leftist military forces reasserted control under the leadership of General Juan José Torres. Embarrassed by his quick abandonment of the fight and exhausted by a grueling 13 months in office, Ovando agreed to leave the presidency in Torres's hands.
1970 Omani coup d'état: Qaboos bin Said, with the support of the British, ousted his father Said bin Taimur in a bloodless coup during the Dhofar Rebellion.
Golpe Borghese (Borghese Coup) in Italy: A coup plot in Italy by neo-fascist groups failed to materialize.
Mishima Incident in Japan: After barricading the headquarters of the Eastern Command of the Japan Self-Defense Forces and tying the commandant to a chair, Yukio Mishima, the leader of the Tatenokai, delivered a speech to soldiers gathered outside, intending to inspire a coup. After this failed, Mishima committed seppuku.
1970 Cambodian coup d'état: Chief of State Norodom Sihanouk was ousted in a military coup, and Prime Minister Lon Nol took power.
Chile: With the United States Central Intelligence Agency strongly invested in Salvador Allende not coming to power in the 1970 Chilean presidential election, the CIA discussed several possible coup options.

1971
 1971 Turkish military memorandum: The Chief of the General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces delivered a memorandum demanding the formation of a "strong and credible government, which will neutralise the current anarchical situation".
 1971 Ugandan coup d'état: A military coup led by General Idi Amin overthrew the government of President Milton Obote while he was abroad, and installed Amin as dictator.
 Thailand: Prime Minister Thanom Kittikachorn launched a self-coup against his own government, dissolving parliament and appointing himself Chairman of the National Executive Council.
 1971 Sudanese coup d'état: Major Hashem al Atta leads a short-lived coup against the government of the Democratic Republic of the Sudan and President Jaafar Nimeiry. Several days later, Nimeiry loyalists enacted a counter-coup, toppling Atta's government and executing him.
 Project 571 in China: An alleged coup plot was developed against the Chinese leader Mao Zedong by the supporters of Lin Biao, then vice-chairman of the Chinese Communist Party. Any attempts that may have been made at the coup ultimately failed.
 Morocco: A coup attempt was organized by General Mohamed Medbouh and Colonel M'hamed Ababou and carried out by cadets during a diplomatic function at King Hassan II's summer palace in Rabat. The King and important guests were detained, and plotters took control of Rabat's radio station to say that the king had been killed and a republic had been founded. Royalist troops regained the palace and ended the coup attempt.
Bolivia: General Hugo Banzer overthrew President Juan José Torres and established a military dictatorship.

1972
Ghana: Colonel Ignatius Kutu Acheampong led a coup to overthrow the democratically elected government of the Progress Party and its leader Kofi Abrefa Busia on 13 January.
Martial law declared in the Philippines: President Ferdinand Marcos declared martial law in a self-coup, beginning 14 years of authoritarian rule.
October Yusin (or October Restoration) in South Korea: President Park Chung Hee assumed dictatorial powers in a self-coup on 17 October.
1972 Dahomeyan coup d'état: Major Mathieu Kérékou led a coup that overthrew the Dahomeyan Presidential Council. 
Honduras: On 4 December, General Oswaldo López Arellano led the Armed Forces of Honduras to oust President Ramón Ernesto Cruz Uclés after only 18 months in power.