[Source: PubMed]

22. Torture. 2022;32(3):49-64. doi: 10.7146/torture.v32i3.130227.

Asylum seeker trauma in a student-run clinic: reducing barriers to forensic 
medical evaluations.

Gallagher A(1), Steiner G(1), Michel M(2), Nava Gonzales C(1), Mendez-Contreras 
S(1), Lu A(1), Armendariz M(1), DeFries T(3), Barakat S(4), Kivlahan C(4).

Author information:
(1)Human Rights Collaborative, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA, USA.
(2)Human Rights Collaborative, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Human Rights Collaborative, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA Division of General Internal Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Human Rights Collaborative, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA Department of Community and Family Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Introduction This research, through the analysis of the case-law of the 
Inter-American Court of Human Rights (IACtHR), seeks to shed light on the nexus 
between families of the missing' claims, their agency and State compliance with 
reparations. The IACtHR has a unique follow-up system in the area of 
reparations, where victims can directly address the judges during hearings. This 
paper suggests that victims' participation - before and after the judgment- 
pervades the legal rigidity of international jurisdictions and contributes to a 
better understanding of reparations.
INTRODUCTION: The number of forcibly displaced immigrants seeking asylum in the 
United States continues to rapidly increase. Movement from Latin America to the 
United States was the third-largest migration worldwide in 2017 (Leyva-Flores et 
al., 2019). As migration patterns change, understanding the background and 
trauma profile of newly displaced populations is essential to meet their health 
needs and aid successful resettlement. University-affiliated student-run asylum 
clinics conduct a growing number of forensic medical evaluations of asylum 
seekers and provide a vital lens to study changes in this population's profile 
over time.
METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of the first 102 asylum seekers 
receiving forensic medical evaluations between 2019 and 2021 at a 
university-affiliated student- run clinic, reporting demographics; trauma, 
medical, and mental health histories; referral patterns; and legal outcomes. 
Bivariate statistics were used to investigate the relationship between past 
trauma and mental health outcomes.
RESULTS: Clients reported an average of 4.4 different types of physical, 
psychological, and sexual ill-treatment per person. The current mental health 
burden was extensive with 86.9 percent of clients reporting symptoms of PTSD 
and/or depression. Clinician-student teams evaluated clients within a clinic 
structure deploying a continuous improvement model to reduce common barriers to 
forensic evaluations and promote longitudinal follow- up and referrals.
DISCUSSION: This study demonstrates the complexity of trauma exposure reported 
by asylum seekers, contributes to the evidence on how trauma results in mental 
health outcomes, and describes trauma-centred clinic adaptations that reduce 
barriers to forensic evaluations known to improve the rates of legal protection.

DOI: 10.7146/torture.v32i3.130227
PMID: 36519196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]