[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of South African slang words

e only ever summons him by accident whenever she's in panic. The popularity of the catchphrase ensured that it gained use via the general public and therefore is used by a person whenever their in a state of panic.
 O gonna Madonna – ("g" sound pronounced in the back of the throat) Derived from "O Gonna" ("Oh Shit", but not vulgar), the singer Madonna's name was added to the phrase by Leon Schuster for comedic rhyming effect, it has since become one of his signature catchphrases along with: "O gatta patata" and "Oh Schucks" (both mean "Oh Shit", and the latter was inspired by Leon's own last name). 
 oom – an older man of authority, commonly in reference to an older Afrikaans man (Afrikaans for "uncle")
 ou (diminutive outjie, plural = ouens, outjies) man, guy, bloke (also oke) (literally "old")
 ou toppie – lit. "old head." Refers usually to an elderly man and a father.
 ouballie – lit. "old little ball(s)."  Old man, dad; as in: "shaft me, ouballie" "My ouballie (father, dad) will be home soon".
 pap – also called "mieliepap", is a traditional maize ("mielie") porridge similar to grits; can also mean "deflated". Pap (porridge) is primarily known in three stages; all three are variant to the water-to-maize ratio: stywepap (lit. "stiff-pap"; 3/4 water-to-maize), phutupap/krummelpap (pap with a crumbly texture; 1/4 water-to-maize) and slap-pap (pap with a runny texture; 4/3 water-to-maize). Unlike most international porridges, pap (specifically the aforementioned phutupap and stywepap variations) is commonly served at both breakfast and dinner times in the Northern half of the country.
 paplepel – lit. "pap-spoon"; a wooden spoon used in the making of pap, but can also be used to give a hiding
 papgat – lit. "flat/uninflated hole."  Tired or weak.
 pap-sop-nat – very wet
 pak – lit. "to pack". Also means "to give a hiding", as the shortened version of pakslae, a "parcel of hidings"
 patat –  lit. "sweet potato". A favourite side-dish for Afrikaners, the name "patat" ("pah-tut") can also become a pet-name or term of endearment.
 plak – lit. "to stick". Can also refer to starting an informal settlement like a Township (Plakkerskamp)
 plakkerskamp/township – an informal settlement primarily housing non-whites of very low-income in poorly self-constructed houses known as "shacks"
 paraat – disciplined. Somebody who is paraat, generally has "houding" i.e. style / character
 paw-paw – lit. a Paw-paw fruit. Can refer to an idiot, but is less derogatory and often used to lightly joke with the person in question.
 perdedrolle is vye – lit. "Horseshit is figs". When someone is accusing another person of bullshitting them: Jy probeer my se dat perdedrolle is fye! (You're trying to tell me that horseshit is figs!)
 plaas – lit. "farm". Also, when someone falls down: Plaas gekoop. As a verb, it translates to "placed down" or "put down"
 platteland – lit. "flat land", refers to a rural area, country (as in living in the country, as opposed to living in the city). The "flatness" refers to the fact that the area is geographically similar to farmlands.
 plaas se prys - lit. "the price of a farm". Refers to anything that is considered too expensive regardless of its actual worth, considering that a farm is one of the most expensive pieces of property one could privately own.
 platsak – lit. "flat pocket."  Out of cash, flat broke
 piel – derogatory term for a male genitalia ("cock" or "dick")
 piele – everything is cool, e.g.: piele vir Sannie
 piesang, piesang, paw-paw – lit. "banana, banana, paw-paw". Children's rhyme used when a person makes a fool of himself and/or is a sore loser.
 Piet Pompies – used to identify an anonymous man, similar to Joe Soap.
 poepol – (from poephol, arse) an idiot. lit. an arsehole (more specifically the anus), but not as derogatory. Can be used as source of comedy: Ek voel soos 'n poepol.
 poepolletjie – lit. Diminutive form of poepol, strictly reserved as a term of endearment between couples.
 poep – lit. "to fart". Derived from the English term "poop", it literally means "to pass gas".
 soos 'n poep teen donderweer – lit. "it's like farting against a thunderstorm". Meaning the argument being presented is falling on deaf ears due to either a much more intimidating defense, or just plain ignorance, i.e. the sound of the fart is being drowned-out by the sound of thunder. Its closest English counterpart would be "it's like talking to a brick wall".
 poepruik – lit. "to smell a fart". Refers to a person who is sleeping in late, though it specifically points to the person wasting time because of it.
 poes – derogatory term for female genitalia ("pussy" or "cunt" or "Ezekiel" )
 poesklap – lit. "vagina hit."  A very hard slap. similar to "klap" (to smack/slap), but far more painful: Ek gaan jou so 'n harde poesklap gee, jou tanne gaan vibreer vir maande lank. (I'm gonna smack you so hard, that your teeth will vibrate for months). Poesklap therefore is far more life-threatening than a "bitch-slap".