[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Beulah (land)

From the Choirgirl Hotel. Dennis brown mansions it in the song deliverance the destiny beulaland instead of Babylon

 Mentions in music 
Composer Charles Ives used the hymn tune "Beulah Land" in his "String Quartet No.1" (1896), entitled "Salvation Army", and the second movement of his 4th Symphony.

In the final moments of the opera The Ballad of Baby Doe, by Douglas Moore, the title character, referring to her husband, sings "In the circle of his arms I am safe in Beulah Land."

The Tom Waits song, "Take Care Of All My Children," includes the line "I'll be goin' up to Beulah Land."

The Vigilantes of Love song "Earth Has No Sorrow" from the album Killing Floor, includes the line "I hear angels 'cross that river in Beulah land".

Songwriter Drew Nelson won international acclaim with the 2009 album "Dusty Road to Beulah Land", produced by Michael Crittenden of Mackinaw Harvest Music.  The album has been described as "a love song to the state of Michigan."  Local community radio station WYCE in Grand Rapids, Michigan, honored it as the "Best Local Album" at the 2010 Jammie Awards.

Mahalia Jackson says that she will go “out sightseeing in Beulah” in her 1947 Gospel hit “I Will Move On Up A Little Higher”.

Books
 Modern author Krista McGruder, a native of the Ozarks, entitled her 2003 collection of short stories "Beulah Land". The final story in the collection is also titled "Beulah Land".

Mary Lee Settle, National Book Award winner for Blood Ties, 1978, wrote a series of novels called the Beulah Land Quintet, beginning in 1956 with O Beulah Land.

Oregonian novelist H. L. Davis, best known for his 1935 Pulitzer Prize–winning Honey in the Horn, wrote a 1949 novel called Beulah Land about the travails and westward travels of a Cherokee family from the Southeastern United States. A coffee shop and bar called Beulahland (one word) in Portland, Oregon, is possibly named after Davis' novel.Sweet Beulah Land is a 1999 novel by North Carolina writer Bernice Kelly Harris.Fire in Beulah is a 2001 novel by Rilla Askew.

In Jane Eyre, Chapter XV, the title character, having saved Mr. Rochester from the fire in his bedroom, returns to her own bed but does not go to sleep.  “Till morning dawned I was tossed on a buoyant but unquiet sea, where billows of trouble rolled under surges of joy. I thought sometimes I saw beyond its wild waters a shore, sweet as the hills of Beulah; and now and then a freshening gale, wakened by hope, bore my spirit triumphantly towards the bourne: but I could not reach it, even in fancy ….”
In Samantha at Saratoga'' by Marietta Holley, Beulah is compared with Saratoga Springs, New York by Josiah Allen and Samantha.

Places
Welsh immigrants founded Beulah, Pennsylvania, in 1796. It is today a ghost town (see Ghost Town Trail).
 Beulah Land Baptist Church is in Yazoo City, Mississippi.
 Beulahland, Virginia, is an unincorporated community in King and Queen County, Virginia.
 Beulah, Victoria, Australia
 Beulah Park, South Australia, Australia
 Beulah Park, Ohio

See also
Zion

References

External links 
Camp meeting origin
Beulah Land from CyberHymnal

American Christian hymns
1870s songs
Book of Isaiah
19th-century hymns