[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mainz Microtron

The Mainz Microtron (German name: Mainzer Mikrotron), abbreviated MAMI, 
is a microtron (particle accelerator) which provides a continuous wave, high intensity, polarized electron beam with an energy up to 1.6 GeV. MAMI is the core of an experimental facility for particle, nuclear and X-ray radiation physics at the Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz (Germany). It is one of the largest campus-based accelerator facilities for basic research in Europe. The experiments at MAMI are performed by about 200 physicists of many countries organized in international collaborations.

Research goals
The scientific research at MAMI focusses on the investigation of the 
structure and dynamics of hadrons, particles consisting of quarks and gluons
bound by the strong force.  
The most important hadrons 
are protons and neutrons, the basic constituents  
of atomic nuclei and, therefore, the building blocks of ordinary matter. 
Electrons and photons interact with the electric charges
and the magnetization of quarks inside a hadron in a relatively weak and  
well understood way providing undistorted information about 
basic hadronic properties like (transverse) size, magnetic moments, 
distribution of charge and magnetism, flavor structure, polarizabilities and 
excitation spectrum. 
At MAMI the full potential of electroweak probes is explored in an
energy region characteristic for the first hadronic excitations and with a 
spatial resolution in the order of the typical hadron size of about 1 fm.

The MAMI accelerator

The MAMI accelerator consists of four cascaded 
microtrons, an injector linac, a thermal source for unpolarized 
electrons and a laser-driven source for electrons with 80% spin polarization. 
The operation principle is based on the  
continuous wave (cw) microtron technique. There the
beam is recirculated many times 
through a normal-conduction linear accelerating structure
with a moderate energy gain per turn. Due to constant, homogeneous  magnetic bending 
fields the length of the beam path is increasing 
with energy after each turn. The magnetic fields, the radio-frequency (rf)
used to accelerate the electrons and the energy gain per turn
have to be adjusted to meet the microtron coherence condition, i.e. the 
condition that the length of each path is an integer factor of 
the rf wavelength. 
This microtron scheme makes efficient use of the rf power and 
the inherent strong longitudinal phase focussing guarantees 
excellent beam quality and stability.

 
In each of the first 3 stages 
the recirculation is archived by two homogeneous 180° bending magnets.
The electron tracks are reminiscent of the race track of an 
antique arena which is the origin for the name "race-track-microtron (RTM)".
The third stage, MAMI-B, started operation in 1990 and delivered 
a beam for experiments with energies up to 882 MeV and 100 A cw for more than
97800 h until the end of 2007. The quality of the beam is very high:
an energy spread of 30 keV and an emittance of 25 nm*rad is achieved 
routinely. The bending magnets of MAMI-B 
are approximately 5 m wide and weigh 450 t. At this 
point the mechanical limit of the RTM concept has been reached, leaving 
MAMI-B to be the biggest microtron in the world.

At the end of the 1990s, the demand for an energy increase up to about 1500 MeV arose. This was accomplished by adding a fourth accelerator stage. Adding another RTM was not possible because it would have required bending magnets of ~2200 tons each. Therefore, the technique was modified by splitting the 180°-dipoles into a system of symmetric pairs of 90°-dipoles, each forming an achromatic 180° 
bending system with magnets of only 250 tons each. To compensate for the strong vertical defocusing due to the 45° pole-face inclination 
between the magnets, these dipoles incorporate an appropriate field gradient normal to this pole edge. In this scheme 
there are two non-dispersive sections which allow to install  two linear accelerators. To meet the microtron coherence condition
within the confined space of existing experimental areas the acceleration frequency of one of these linacs is twice the MAMI-B frequency of 2.45 GHz.
The other linac still  operates at 2.45 GHz for enhanced 
longitudinal stability. 
This special rf scheme gave rise to the name Harmonic Double-Sided Microtron (HDSM). 
MAMI-C is the worldwide first accelerator
using this concept (Kaiser, K.H. et al., 2000).