[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arto Der Haroutunian

ehind the preparing and eating of traditional foods while at the same time encouraging the reader to try the food either at home or in a restaurant. He also contributed articles on food to many magazines.

In addition to his own writing he also translated Turkish, Arab, Persian and Armenian authors.

Art
Arto started painting in 1963 after being goaded into it by an artist friend. He converted the coal cellars of the rectory into a studio and within six months had produced seventy paintings. The first article about his art appeared in 1965 in "The Idiom" an arts magazine produced at the University. At the time he was having his first one-man exhibition at the Manchester Central Library and it was transferred to the Student's Union afterwards.

Without the "benefits" of a formal art school training his paintings possess an individuality which is entirely his own. Over the years Arto succeeded in fusing his two backgrounds of East and West into a new and personal style. He was a master of line and colour. His architectural training is evident in the linear aspect of his works. His pictures are full of sinuous lines which flow across the canvasses creating shapes, spaces and depths without much recourse to perspective so showing the influence of ancient Armenian manuscripts. Primarily though he was a colourist and he has said "I am from a warm country. Colours are brighter in the Middle East because of the sun. I don't have theories about colour, I follow instinct. My colour has modified though – it has been toned down by the British weather!"

Arto exhibited both in the north and south of England as well as abroad. Along the way he struck up friendships with fellow northern artists Colin Jelicoe, Geoffrey Key, John Picking and Emanuel Levy. His works are in several private collections in Britain and abroad as well as in galleries in Armenia, Syria, Lebanon and Nigeria.

Each painting can be distinguished by his distinctive signature which combines his first name in English and Armenian. Arto was devoted to Armenia, its people and its heritage and he visited his Armenian homeland for the first time in 1978 when he was invited to attend the 2nd International Symposium on Armenian Art where he was a guest speaker and presented a lecture on the Armenian Castle of Azqit. On his return he wrote a book of poems "From the Future to the Past" in response to that highly emotional visit. The poems tell of his thoughts and experiences before, during and after his visit.

Arto's first love was music, but owing to family and financial pressures he studied architecture instead. However, shortly before he died he had started to attend music composition classes at the Northern College of Music in the little spare time he had.

Death
Der Haroutunian died of a sudden heart attack in 1987 at the age of 47. He is survived by his wife Frances, their son and grandson.

External links
 Official website

British people of Armenian descent
British writers
Syrian people of Armenian descent
People from Aleppo
1987 deaths
1940 births
20th-century Armenian painters
Syrian emigrants to the United Kingdom