[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Little Women (musical)

nd Laurie
 Days of Plenty- Marmee
 The Fire Within Me- Jo
 Small Umbrella in the Rain- Jo and Professor Bhaer
 Sometimes When You Dream (Reprise) – Jo

Note: Better (Reprise), Take A Chance on Me (Reprise), and Off To Massachusetts (Reprise) are excluded from the cast recording.

Cast and characters

Reception
Reception for the musical was mixed to positive, with praise being aimed at Foster's performance and the musical's score, and criticism for the book and overall pacing of the production.

Ben Brantley, reviewing for The New York Times, wrote "Watching this shorthand account of four sisters growing up poor but honest during the Civil War is like speed reading Alcott's evergreen novel of 1868. You glean the most salient traits of the principal characters, events and moral lessons, but without the shading and detail that made these elements feel true to life in the book...Since the characters do not acquire full personalities, you don't feel emotionally invested in them." He wrote of Sutton Foster: "The slim and supple Ms. Foster has a lot to carry on those twitchy shoulders. If 'Little Women' does develop the following of young girls and their mothers the producers have targeted, it will be largely Ms. Foster's doing."

The Village Voice reviewer noted "The show itself, similarly, seems lost in the drafty hugeness of the Virginia, where the often charming family scenes are dwarfed by the high proscenium arch (emphasized by the metal scaffolding that frames Derek McLane's otherwise attractive settings). The pity of it is that, between seizures, so much of Little Women's reality has been established. Allan Knee's script offers long passages of astutely condensed Alcott; Jason Howland's pleasant music, inventively orchestrated by Kim Scharnberg, pulls contemporary shapes out of period waltzes, polkas, and quadrilles, bumpily but gamely supported by Mindi Dickstein's uneven lyrics. And the cast, as always, offers many potential rescuers."

Awards and nominations

Original Broadway production

References

22. https://www.plymouththeatrecompany.com/

External links

Little Women listing production and plot, Guide to Musical Theatre
Little Women, Music Theatre International website

2005 musicals
Broadway musicals
Musicals based on novels
Musicals set in Massachusetts
Musicals set in the 1860s
Works based on Little Women