[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum

928 he was appointed as a member of a committee to examine the educational conditions in NWFP, Delhi and Ajmer-Merwara. The committee submitted a report in 1930, with an in-depth analysis, general recommendations and specific stress on female education, sanitation and necessary changes in curricula.

He represented NWFP at the Round Table Conferences (India) during 1931-33 period.

The 1st NWFP Legislative Council was established in 1932 and Abdul Qayyum was appointed the first and sole Minister of Transferred Departments. As a consequence of the Government of India Act 1935, the NWFP status was upgraded to a governors' province, hence requiring a separate Legislative Assembly. Following the first elections in NWFP in 1937, no single political party was able to gain a majority. Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum became the first Chief Minister of the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa on 1 April 1937. However, this government could not last more than 6 months. Owing to Indian National Congress's opposition who considered him to be the 'spokesman of British imperialism', a vote of no-confidence was passed against him in September 1937. He was replaced by the Congress ministry headed by Dr Khan Sahib. A. Qayyum died 92 days after his ouster from the office on 4 December 1937.

The achievements of his short-lived government included:

 Provision of 2.4 million rupees for the Malakand Thermal Power plant
 Establishment of a government training school in Peshawar
 Special measures were taken for the growth and expansion of educational facilities, especially Islamia College
 Removal of ban on political activities in the province, and the cancellation of 1935 administrative circular that made Urdu or English as mandatory language for instruction in government-aided schools

Death 
A delegation from Islamia College, headed by the then Principal R.L. Holdsworth came to visit Abdul Qayyum at his residence in Topi on 3 December 1937. They were discussing the Silver Jubilee plans of the college, scheduled for the spring of 1938. After seeing his guests off, while walking back home he became dizzy, vomited and was about to fall down, but was supported by those around him. He was sat down on a chair. He told his kinsmen that the life was ebbing out of his limbs on one side. He soon fell into a coma and died at around 1:30 AM the next morning. It was 3 December and also Eid.
His funeral was held the same day at 4pm and was attended by the Governor of NWFP and many high-ranking officials.
The Eastern Times reported  "... He was incomparably the greatest man that the Province had ever produced.". 

After the death of Sir A. Qayyum, most of the members of his party (United Muslims Nationalist Party) joined the newly formed All-India Muslim League, electing Sardar Aurang Zeb Khan as its party leader in the assembly.

Monuments
In dedication to his services, there are numerous monuments named after him, 

 Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum Road in Sector I-8, Islamabad (from Khayaban-e-Johar Metro Station to I-8 Interchange on Islamabad Expressway) 
 Qayyum Manzil at Islamia College
 Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum Khan Road in University Town, Peshawar
 Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum Khan Archaeological Museum, Peshawar University
 Sir Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum Khan Road in GIKI

References

External links
 "Death anniversary of Sahibzada Abdul Qayyum Khan observed on December 4", Radio Pakistan, December 4, 2012

1863 births
1937 deaths
Chief Ministers of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Durand Line
Knights Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire
Indian knights
Founders of Indian schools and colleges
All India Muslim League members
Pashtun people
People from Swabi District
Indian educationists
Pakistan Movement activists