[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Co-operative economics

d and organized by producers or suppliers, such as farmers (e.g., OceanSpray, Sunsweet, etc.). The surplus is distributed according to how much goods or services the member has supplied the cooperative.
 Purchasing cooperatives, which are owned by organizations that joint-purchase goods or services.

The equity structures of cooperatives are therefore various and unlimited. Some implement private/investor equity while others do not. Since the broad purpose of cooperatives is to offer different power structures than ordinary capitalist institutions (which are owned by profit-seekers that may or may not work at the firm), as well as to improve the economic and social life of workers and all who are involved beyond mere profit and creating products/services, there is much internal debate about what is truly cooperative, democratic, etc. For example, if a firm is 60% owned by private investors and 40% owned by workers, this would generally not be considered a worker cooperative. ESOPs are also not considered cooperatives even if workers own 100% of the firm, because of the usual lack of democratic governance.

Legal structures 
Cooperatives may take on different legal structures depending on jurisdiction, such as an LLC, ESOP, 503c non-profit, or a distinctive cooperative legal structure (if the state provides for one, such as Massachusetts). ESOPs (Equity Stock Ownership Plans, where workers own shares for retirement; see, for example, Bob's Red Mill) that implement democratic governance are colloquially referred to as "ESOPeratives."

In 1996, New Zealand passed the Cooperative Companies Act. In 2003 the Statute for a European Cooperative Society created a specific legal structure for cooperatives in the EU.

Facts and figures on cooperatives 

 There are about 3 million cooperatives on the planet.
 12% of global humanity is a member of a cooperative.
 1 in 3 Americans are coop members.
 1.5 million Americans live in a housing cooperative.
 Cooperatives electrically power 56% of the United States' landmass and 42 million people.
 Coops possess over $1 trillion in assets worldwide and over $640 billion in annual sales.
 92 million Americans turn to 7,500 credit unions (client-owned cooperatives) for financial services; 50,000 American families rely on cooperative day-care facilities.
 The Navy Federal Credit Union (founded 1933) is the world's largest credit union with 10.8 million members, 345 branches, and $147.9 billion in assets, serving the men and women of the Armed Forces, Department of Defense, veterans and their families.
 The largest worker-cooperative is Mondragon Corporation in Spain, which has over 80,000 associates (workers).
 The largest cooperative sector by membership is mutual insurance, with over a quarter million members.

The most comprehensive data collection on the largest cooperatives comes from the World Cooperative Monitor.

Distinctives 
Cooperatives are different from conventional firms in that the purpose of the firm is not to profit shareholders, but to benefit its members (whether workers, consumers, suppliers or purchasers). Because parts of the cooperative movement were anti-capitalist but not as revolutionary as Marx (who aimed to abolish all private property), Marx and Marxists were hesitant about supporting the cooperative movement (especially consumer cooperatives) in the 19th century. The value of consumer vs. worker cooperatives continues to be debated by theorists, activists, and scholars (see below).

The International Cooperative Alliance provides seven principles of cooperatives, each that contrasts with capitalist firms:

 "Voluntary and Open Membership" (in contrast to coerced/involuntary participation)
 "Democratic Member Control" (in contrast to nondemocratic control)
 "Member Economic Participation" (in contrast to purely transactional relationships and closed-book management)
 "Autonomy and Independence" (in contrast to state-owned or corporate-ownership)
 "Education, Training, and Information" (in contrast to "mushroom management" where workers are "kept in the dark," and information is intentionally funneled through power channels)
 "Cooperation among Cooperatives" (in contrast to competition amongst firms)
 "Concern for Community" (in contrast to purely product or profit-oriented concerns)

An earlier summary of cooperative principles is called the Rochdale Principles.