[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Algernon Sidney Crapsey

ncil in May. Nevertheless, the trial was set for April 17, 1906.

Trial and deposition
Crapsey's heresy trial and the events leading up to it were reported and discussed by the press and the religious journals of the Episcopal Church. The story "held the interest of the nation for nearly two years."

For the most detailed account of Crapsey's heresy trial one would read Crapsey's autobiography The Last of the Heretics published in 1924 when he was seventy-five years old. However. Crapsey's account is marred by his "self-aggrandizing." However, two people have written more objective accounts: Carolyn Swanton in her essay "Dr. Algernon S. Crapsey" and Stephen Todd Neese in his article "Algernon Sidney Crapsey and the Move for Presentment" in Anglican and Episcopal History Vol. 70, No. 3 (September 2001) and in his book Algernon Sidney Crapsey: The Last of the Heretics (Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2009). Therefore, the following account will be based on these works.

Walker commanded Crapsey to appear before an ecclesiastical court held in St. James Church, Batavia, New York. The "presentment charge" was that Crapsey "did openly, advisedly, publicly and privately utter, avow, declare, and teach doctrines contrary to those held and received by the church."

Besides witnesses from St. Andrews for Crapsey's defense, clergy came from other parishes in the diocese, as well as a large delegation from Boston. So many people came to the trial that it had to be moved to the Batavia Court House to accommodate them. Among the people who came to the trial were "experts on theology" and "eminent churchmen" whom Crapsey had lined up as witnesses for his defense, but none of them were allowed to testify.

Closing arguments
Closing arguments began on April 27, 1906:
In its closing arguments, the prosecution alleged that Crapsey, "an officer of his Church in his official capacity, denies the fundamental doctrines of his Church," and demanded "a verdict of guilty."
One of Crapsey's attorneys James Breck Perkins said in his closing argument that it certainly is not heresy to say that "God is Love" which was the main thesis of the defendant's lectures and writings.
In his own concluding remarks, Crapsey said that he was not charged with any moral offence, but only with having said things which the prosecution claims were unlawful for him to say.

On May 9, 1906, the five-member Ecclesiastical Court met and by a four to one vote decided Crapsey was guilty. The Court's findings were then forwarded to Bishop Walker. The verdict was delivered to Crapsey on May 15, 1906.  The story was carried all of the nation's major newspapers.

An appeal to the Court of Review was filed on June 6, 1906 giving eleven reasons why an appeal should be granted. The complete argument by Crapsey's counsel Edward M. Shephard on October 19, 1906. for appealing Crapsey's verdict can be read at "Argument for Appeal." The complete argument against appeal by John Lord O'Brian, the Church Advocate for the Diocese of Western New York, can be read at 

The Court of Review unanimously affirmed the guilty decision of the diocesan Ecclesiastical Court. On November 20, 1906, the clerk of the Court of Review delivered the decision to Bishop Walker. The decision was then delivered to Crapsey. Rather than wait to be deposed by Bishop Walker, Crapsey wrote the bishop asking to be deposed. This action gave him a bit of control over what was taking place.

Walker was quoted as saying, that the Crapsey affair was "the most painful happening" in his life. The bishop said: "I have known and respected Dr. Crapsey for many years and have honored and respected him for his great abilities. I have great affection for him and have watched him as he grew up in Church work, so the matter of the present gives me great pain." Crapsey did Walker a favor by asking for his deposal by letter. By sending Walker his resignation, Crapsey relieved Walker of the duty of deposing.

Removal from St. Andrew's
After the Appeal was denied, Crapsey was given until the end of the year to leave St. Andrew's. Many of his parishioners were "heartbroken at the loss of their rector." On December 4, 1906, Crapsey gave his last sermon to a capacity congregation.

Life after deposition
William Rossiter Seward, who was neither a parishioner nor a friend of Crapsey, financed a new home for the Crapseys. Even though Rossiter did not know Crapsey personally, he supported Crapsey's work in Rochester. Seward later helped finance the education of the Crapseys' children.