[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Presidential Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Romania

The Presidential Commission for the Study of the Communist Dictatorship in Romania (), also known as the Tismăneanu Commission (Comisia Tismăneanu), was a commission started in Romania by Romanian President Traian Băsescu to investigate the regime of Communist Romania and to provide a comprehensive report allowing for the condemnation of communism as experienced by Romania.

Formed in April 2006 as a panel headed by the political scientist Vladimir Tismăneanu, it focused on examining the activity of institutions that enforced and perpetuated the communist dictatorship, "the methods making possible the abuses, the murders, the felonies of the dictatorship, the flagrant violations of human rights and the role of some political figures in the maintaining and the functioning of the totalitarian regime in Romania".

The Commission presented its final report to the Romanian Parliament on December 18, 2006. The report has been adopted as an official document of the Romanian Presidency and published on its website. The report made Romania the third former Eastern Bloc country (after the Czech Republic and Bulgaria) that officially condemned its communist regime. The quality, conclusions and choice of commission members of the report are subject to debate in Romanian society. On January 8, 2007, modifications started to be made to the report to correct errors and omissions.

Members
The following members were selected by the commission's President Vladimir Tismăneanu: Sorin Alexandrescu, Sorin Antohi (resigned September 13, 2006), Mihnea Berindei, Metropolitan Nicolae Corneanu (resigned December 2006), Constantin Ticu Dumitrescu, Paul Goma (dismissed April 2006), Radu Filipescu, Virgil Ierunca (died September 28, 2006), , Gail Kligman, Monica Lovinescu, Nicolae Manolescu, Marius Oprea, Horia-Roman Patapievici, , Andrei Pippidi, , , Stelian Tănase, Cristian Vasile, and Alexandru Zub.

Final report

Pillars, enforcers and supporters of communism
The report identifies several individuals as responsible for officially endorsed violent methods. Several of their biographies were reviewed as part of the 660-page report. Among those identified included former Romanian President Ion Iliescu, Romanian Senators Corneliu Vadim Tudor and Adrian Păunescu, and the Commission president's father, Leonte Tismăneanu. In the category comprising those found to be "guilty of enforcing and perpetuating a regime built on crimes" were Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, Ana Pauker, Gheorghe Apostol, , Manea Mănescu and Ion Iliescu. Among those found responsible for political indoctrination were Ion Iliescu, Mihai Roller, Paul Niculescu-Mizil, Valter Roman and Silviu Brucan.

A special category comprises those participants in the cultural life who were found to have actively supported the communist regime. The report mentions Eugen Barbu, Corneliu Vadim Tudor, , , Dinu Săraru, Adrian Păunescu, , , Nicolae Dan Fruntelată,  and . The Săptămâna magazine, directed by Eugen Barbu and Corneliu Vadim Tudor, was considered "the main platform for manipulative pseudo-nationalism during the late years of the Ceaușescu regime".

The report mentions Mihai Bujor Sion and Leonte Tismăneanu among the main activists of the Romanian Communist Party. Those identified as involved in the regime's propaganda apparatus are Matei Socor (head of the Agerpres news agency), Paul Niculescu-Mizil, Leonte Răutu,  and Ion Iliescu. Ghizela Vass and Ștefan Andrei were identified as main agents of the communist regime involved in policies pertaining to external affairs.

In a speech accepting the report, Băsescu denounced the communist regime as "illegitimate and criminal" and said that it used the Romanian people as "guinea pigs for an experiment".

Other conclusions
The report also contradicts President Băsescu's earlier assertion (a thesis also supported also by the Left-wing and nationalist groupings of the Romanian political spectrum) that the communist secret police, the Securitate, can be divided into two distinct sections: one serving the regime and the other ensuring the nation's security. Vladimir Tismăneanu was quoted by Adevărul as saying:

We [the Commission] reject on a scientific basis the existence of two kinds of Securitate, one of before 1965, for the Comintern and anti-patriotic, and the other one devoted to the people and to the patriotic values.

Criticism
Critics of the report of the Tismăneanu commission do not deny that it does have a considerable merit: it contains factual, informative parts, based on studies conducted by experts and is an important source on the history of the totalitarian Communist Romania.

Critics have focused on three problems: the choice of events and personalities included in the report, the moral authority of the commission members and the conclusions of the report.