[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sam Gindin

oted worldwide corporate investment and production.

According to Gindin and Panitch, the neoliberal era ushered in a second, highly-profitable "golden age", but this time only for the capitalist class, not for workers whose wages stagnated while union membership declined.

Global financial meltdown

The final chapter in the book is devoted to a detailed examination of the international financial crisis that began in 2007 bringing an end to high corporate profits as millions lost their homes and consumer spending fell. Gindin and Panitch write that the crisis was preceded by decades of growth in volatile financial markets that had become crucial to underwriting capitalist expansion. They argue that the U.S. encouraged the growth in financial markets with its accompanying risk-taking even though it was periodically required "to put out financial conflagrations" such as the 1997 Asian financial crisis. The crisis of 2007-08, however, was not regional, but global:

The roots of the crisis, in fact, lay in the growing global importance of U.S. mortgage finance – a development which could not be understood apart from the expanded state support for home ownership, a long-standing element in the integration of workers into U.S. capitalism. Since the 1980s, wages had stagnated and social programs had been eroded, reinforcing workers' dependence on the rising value of their homes as a source of economic security. The decisive role of American state agencies in encouraging the development of mortgage-backed securities figured prominently in their spread throughout global financial markets. The close linkages between these markets and the American state were thus crucial both to the making of the U.S. housing bubble and to its profound global impact when it burst, as mortgage-backed securities became difficult to value and to sell, thus freezing the world's financial markets.

Gindin and Panitch add that the collapse of housing prices led to a sharp decline in U.S. consumer spending because housing represented a main source of workers' wealth. "The bursting of the housing bubble," they write, "thus had much greater effects than had the earlier bursting of the stock-market bubble at the turn of the century, and much greater implications for global capitalism in terms of the role the U.S. played as 'consumer of last resort'."

The authors note that the U.S., as manager-in-chief of the global capitalist system, once again came to the rescue with billions of dollars in bail-out money for domestic and foreign banks.

Work

Books
 The Socialist Challenge Today (co-authored with Leo Panitch and Stephen Maher), Merlin Press: 2019
 The Making of Global Capitalism: The Political Economy of American Empire (co-authored with Leo Panitch), Verso: 2012
 In and Out of Crisis: The Global Financial Meltdown and Left Alternatives (co-authored with Greg Albo and Leo Panitch), PM Press: 2010
 The Canadian Auto Workers: The Birth and Transformation of a Union, James Lorimer & Company: 1995

Articles
 Superintending Global Capital (co-authored with Leo Panitch), New Left Review 35, 2005
 Global Capitalism and American Empire (co-authored with Leo Panitch), Socialist Register 40, 2004

References

External links
 Sam Gindin, The Canadian Auto Workers: The Birth and Transformation of a Union (Look inside the book at amazon.ca)
 Sam Gindin: Unmaking Global Capitalism. Nine things to know about organizing in the belly of the beast. Jacobin magazine, No. 6, Brooklyn 2014
 Sam Gindin bio on the York University website.
 Sam Gindin articles on the Socialist Project website.

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
University of Wisconsin–Madison College of Letters and Science alumni
Canadian socialists
Canadian Auto Workers people
Academic staff of York University
People from Winnipeg
Soviet emigrants to Canada
Deutscher Memorial Prize winners