[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Education in Jamaica

Geography and History)
 Language Arts
 Mathematics
 Science
 Communication Tasks

Social Studies, Language Arts, Mathematics and Science usually take the form of multiple choice whereas Communication Tasks usually requires students to write stories, letters, fill out forms, or make recommendations.

The GSAT examination is a national examination that is administered by the Ministry of Education (MOE). Students cannot move on to public high schools without having sat these exams. The MOE prepares these exams, sends trained persons into the schools to administer these exams and is in charge of marking the exams. School teachers do not get to see the exam until after the exam is completed, and do not get to mark their students' scripts. To ensure transparency, efficiency and fairness, the government uses computers to mark the multiple choice scripts and specially trained individuals from University (lecturers), high schools (teachers) and so on to mark the communication task exams. After the examinations are marked, the grades are registered in computers. Based on students' scores, the high schools they selected and where they reside, the computer places them.

Each June, primary schools get the results of the examinations. The public is generally made aware of the release date of the exams and many parents would visit the schools to collect the results of the students. The paper with the results usually has the scores the students get for each subject, their overall average and the high school at which they have been placed. Usually the media descends on some schools to capture the reaction of the students as their results are being read by the teachers.

The Minister of Education holds a press conference to discuss the results of the examinations, and often explains what subjects have recorded a better performance than the previous year and which ones have declined. A comparison is often made between the performance of boys and girls and the top performing students highlighted. Congratulatory notes and messages from schools and parents are usually placed in the local newspaper to identify individual students who have done well.

Issues with the GSAT

When the GSAT came into effect in 1999, many people praised it for its inclusiveness. It ushered a new era in primary and secondary education in Jamaica. Unlike the previous Common Entrance Examination, the GSAT places almost all primary school students who sit the exams into a secondary institution or a junior high school. No sooner had the students started to prepare for the exams than it started to receive criticisms and these criticisms have increased over the years. The main criticism of the exams is that the students are required to know much information and often, information that some believe they should be learning at the high school level. The exams have gained fame for being rigorous and requiring students to know an overwhelming wealth of information. Also, students are stressed to prepare for these exams and that it is difficult to determine students' true abilities on these one-shot exams because many suffer from anxiety over these exams. Some also say it is unfair to prepare students for the exams for two to three years and because they do not necessarily do well (for whatever reason such as illness or family issues), they cannot be placed at a school of choice. Therefore, these people have called for a more continuous assessment method to be used to determine students' success on these exams. Some critics have also argued that in many instances, students who get good grades (usually considered averages of 80% and over) are not placed at traditional high schools that they selected. In addition, many education specialists in the country have also said that many students suffer from emotional and physical exhaustion so much so that when they get into a high school they fail to maintain the grades they received in the GSAT exams. Some argue that many of these 12-year-old students simply want a break from the high demands of the education system in Jamaica. Another criticism of the exam is that it places top students at particular "Jamaican Ivy League" high schools, and students who do not do well go to other high schools. Many have argued for a balance of students to be placed at all schools so as to remove the negative stigmas attached to certain schools.

In 2018, the Primary Exit Profile (PEP) replaced both the Grade 4 Literacy and Numeracy Test and the Grade Six Achievement Test.

Secondary education