[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# MyRichUncle

any to raise significant amounts of external capital. In July 2004, Iempower, with an equity capital raise of $4.2 million, entered into a reverse public merger with Pacific Technologies, a publicly traded company. Upon completion of the takeover, Iempower Inc. changed its name to MRU Holdings, Inc.

In February 2005, MRU Holdings obtained a $165 million credit facility, expandable to $300 million, for funding private student loans from Nomura Credit and Capital Corporation, a subsidiary of Nomura Holdings, Japan's largest investment bank.  In May 2005, it began offering private student loans under the brand name MyRichUncle. In January 2006, MRU Holdings obtained a $175 million credit facility with Merrill Lynch Bank USA and also closed a $29 million PIPE offering with Merrill Lynch Private Equity Partners, Battery Ventures, Lehman Brothers, and several senior MBNA executives.

In May 2006, MRU introduced its PrePrime product to the market after raising investment funds through a consortium of European investors. MRU announced this product as the first of its kind, stating that it "put the 'student' back into the student lending equation". By April 27, 2007, MRU was able to expand its ability to originate PrePrime loans by securing a $100 million credit facility from Germany's fifth-largest bank, DZ Bank.

In June 2006, MyRichUncle introduced its federal loan program as a complement to its private student loan products.

In October 2006, MRU Holdings was listed on NASDAQ under the symbol UNCL. The company had a market capitalization of over $200 million.

In 2007, MRU Holdings entered into several acquisitions and partnership deals in order to enhance its product offering.  MRU Holdings purchased Embark Corp. on February 12, 2007, from The Princeton Review. Embark provides online admissions applications and enrollment management services to colleges and universities, and to a number of other institutions, foundations, and scholarship and fellowship programs. In March 2007, one month after the Embark purchase, MRU Holdings announced a partnership with STA Travel to provide travel loans for study abroad students. In April 2007, MRU Holdings announced an exclusive marketing partnership with The Princeton Review. In June 2007, MRU Holdings closed its first securitization transaction (2007-A), issuing $200 million in principal amount of asset-backed securities through Merrill Lynch & Co. Of the $200 million in bonds issued, $165 million were rated AAA, with a $21.5 million tranche rated A, and a $13 million tranche rated BB by Standard & Poor's and Moody's. The issue had a number of innovative features, including the first issuance of BB-rated securities in a private student loan securitization transaction, and the first time a new issuer transaction was able to receive premium proceeds. 

In July 2008, MRU Holdings closed its second securitization, issuing $140 million in principal amount of asset-backed securities through Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs & Co. and BB&T Capital Markets. The securitization was the only student loan securitization transaction completed in nine months and was completed at a time when deals from larger issuers such as Sallie Mae and First Marblehead were rumored to be in the market, but unable to be completed.

Between May 2005 and September 2008, MRU Holdings originated over $550 million in student loans.

2007 student lending scandal

In 2006, MyRichUncle drew attention for publishing a New York Times advertisement questioning financial aid administrators' practice of taking "kickbacks" from lenders in exchange for a place on their "preferred lender" lists. The MyRichUncle campaign pointed out that these deceptive practices on the part of financial aid offices and lenders were resulting in higher interest rates for students and a lack of transparency for students into available education financing options.

In January 2007, New York Attorney General Andrew Cuomo began an investigation to uncover relationships between schools and lenders. MyRichUncle's campaign is often cited as a catalyst in initiating the attorney general's investigation of student lending practices. On March 15, the New York Attorney General released a summary of the investigation's early findings: "There is an unholy alliance between banks and institutions of higher education that may often not be in the students’ best interest", Andrew Cuomo said in a news release. "The financial arrangements between lenders and these schools are filled with the potential for conflicts of interest. In some cases they may even break the law." The following month, on April 4, 2007, the New York Attorney General released another statement: "We are seeing more and more suspicious practices and dealings between university officers and loan companies come to light. ...This creates even more questions about the integrity of the student loan industry and the process by which colleges steer students to loans."