[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries

n state party's 69-59 distribution of pledged delegates and restored half votes to Florida's and Michigan's delegations. This resulted in a net gain for Clinton of 24 pledged delegates. Obama remained significantly ahead, with a lead of 137 pledged delegates before the Puerto Rico primary on June 1.

On June 3, the day of the final primaries in South Dakota and Montana, Obama rolled out about sixty superdelegate endorsements. Those endorsements, together with the pledged delegates awarded in the final primaries, put him well over the "magic number" of 2,117 delegate votes necessary for a majority at the Democratic National Convention. By early in the evening, all major news organizations had announced that Obama had clinched the Democratic nomination, and Obama claimed the status of presumptive nominee in a speech in St. Paul, Minnesota. Clinton did not concede the nomination in her election night speech, saying that she would be "making no decisions tonight". On the morning of June 5, Clinton posted on her website an open letter to her supporters, which she also sent by e-mail that day. It announced that on Saturday (June 7) Clinton would endorse Obama's candidacy. During a well received concession speech in Washington DC on Saturday June 7 Clinton endorsed Obama in the following terms:
"The way to continue our fight now, to accomplish the goals for which we stand is to take our energy, our passion, our strength, and do all we can to help elect Barack Obama, the next president of the United States.
Today, as I suspend my campaign, I congratulate him on the victory he has won and the extraordinary race he has run. I endorse him and throw my full support behind him."

* Two at-large DNC superdelegate seats are vacant, see: History of superdelegate composition changes.

Results 

Below are the results for the state primaries and caucuses held by the Democratic Party in 2008 for the presidential primaries.  Clinton won one territorial contest, Puerto Rico, whilst Obama won Guam, the US Virgin Islands and American Samoa. He also won the District of Columbia.

N.B: The grey counties in Michigan denote that the counties are uncommitted for either candidate.

Voter turnout 

Voter turnout was at historically high levels in the 2008 primaries and caucuses, with many contests setting all-time records for turnout. Voter turnout on Super Tuesday was at 27% of eligible citizens, breaking the previous record of 25.9% set in 1972. Turnout was higher among Democrats than Republicans, with Democratic turnout surpassing Republican turnout even in traditionally red states where the number of registered Democrats is proportionally low. Many states reported high levels of Democratic voter registration in the weeks before primaries. From January 3 through February 5, Democratic turnout exceeded Republican turnout, 19.1 million to 13.1 million.

The high Democratic turnout was attributed to several factors:
 the compressed primary calendar, which gave voters in more states an opportunity to participate in the nomination
 media interest and voter excitement generated by the first viable African-American and female presidential contenders
 dissatisfaction with Republican presidential candidates
 the early emergence of John McCain as the presumptive nominee of the Republican Party
 open primaries in some states, which allowed Republicans and independent voters to participate in Democratic contests
 dissatisfaction with President George W. Bush and Iraq War policy
 cyclical party realignment

See also 
 Fundraising for the 2008 United States presidential election
 Nationwide opinion polling for the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries
 Political positions of Barack Obama
 Political positions of Hillary Clinton
 2008 Republican Party presidential primaries
 Statewide opinion polling for the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries
 2016 Democratic Party presidential primaries

Notes

References

External links