[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Business history

developments, became an important topic of debate on this subject. William Lazonick for example argued that cotton textile entrepreneurs in Britain failed to develop larger integrated plants on the American model; a conclusion similar to Chandler's synthesis of a number of comparative case studies.

Studies of British business leaders have emphasized how they fit into the class structure, especially their relationship to the aristocracy, and the desire to use their wealth to purchase landed estates, and hereditary titles.  Biography has been of less importance in British business history, but there are compilations.
British business history began to widen its scope in the 1980s, with research work conducted at the LSE's Business History Unit, led first by Leslie Hannah, then by Terry Gourvish. Other research centres followed, notably at Glasgow and Reading, reflecting an increasing involvement in the discipline by Business and Management School academics. More recent editors of Business History, Geoffrey Jones (academic) (Harvard Business School), Charles Harvey (University of Newcastle Business School), John Wilson (Liverpool University Management School) and Steven Toms (Leeds University Business School) have promoted management strategy themes such as networks, family capitalism, corporate governance, human resource management, marketing and brands, and multi-national organisations in their international as well as merely British context. Employing these new themes has allowed business historians to challenge and adapt the earlier conclusions of Chandler and others about the performance of the British economy.

Africa 
There is a growing body of work of business history in Africa. In one of the recent works Ebimo Amungo chronicled the birth, growth and contributions of indigenous African multinationals to the economic development of Africa with his book "The Rise of the African Multinational Enterprise".

Notes

Bibliography

Textbooks and surveys: USA
 Blackford, Mansel G.  A History of Small Business in America ) (1992)
 Blackford, Mansel G.,  and K. Austin Kerr. Business Enterprise in American History () (1990)
 Blaszczyk, Regina Lee, and Philip B. Scranton, eds. Major Problems in American Business History: Documents and Essays (2006) 521 pp.
 Bryant, Keith L.  A History of American Business (1983) ()
 Chamberlain, John. Enterprising Americans: A Business History of the United States () (1974) by popular journalist
 Chandler, Jr., Alfred D. The Visible Hand: The Managerial Revolution in American Business (1977), highly influential study
 Chandler, Jr., Alfred D. Strategy and Structure: Chapters in the History of the Industrial Enterprise (1962) 
 Chandler, Jr., Alfred D. Scale and Scope: The Dynamics of Industrial Capitalism (1990).
 Chandler, Jr., Alfred D.  "The Competitive Performance of U.S. Industrial Enterprises since the Second World War," Business History Review 68 (Spring 1994): 1–72.
 Chandler, Alfred D., Jr.  and James W. Cortada. A Nation Transformed by Information: How Information Has Shaped the United States from Colonial Times to the Present (2000) 
 Cochran, Thomas Childs. Business in American Life: A History (1976) 
 Dibacco, Thomas V. Made in the U.S.A.: The History of American Business (1988) ()
 Friedman, Walter A. and Tedlow, Richard S. "Statistical Portraits of American Business Elites: a Review Essay." Business History 2003 45(4): 89–113. 
 Groner, Alex. The American heritage history of American business & industry, () (1972), very well illustrated
 Krooss, Herman Edward. American Business History  () (1972)
 Lamoreaux, Naomi R.; Raff, Daniel M. G.; and Temin, Peter. "Beyond Markets and Hierarchies: Toward a New Synthesis of American Business History." American Historical Review 2003 108(2): 404–433. online
 Lamoreaux, Naomi R., and Daniel M. G. Raff, eds. Coordination and Information: Historical Perspectives on the Organization of Enterprise (1995)
 McCraw, Thomas K., and William R. Childs. American Business Since 1920: How It Worked  (3rd ed. 2018) excerpt
 Porter, Glenn. The rise of big business, 1860–1920 (3rd ed. 2005)
 Schweikart, Larry. The Entrepreneurial Adventure: A History of Business in the United States (2000)
 Serwer, Andy, et al. American Enterprise: A History of Business in America (2015) excerpt
 Temin, Peter, ed. Inside the Business Enterprise: Historical Perspectives on the Transformation and Use of Information (1992)
 Walker, Juliet E. K. Encyclopedia of African American Business History Greenwood Press, 1999 
 Waterhouse, Benjamin C. The Land of Enterprise: A Business History of the United States (Simon & Schuster, 2017). 280 pp
 Whitten, David O. The Emergence of Giant Enterprise, 1860–1914: American Commercial Enterprise and Extractive Industries (1983)

Textbooks and surveys: World
 Amatori, Franco and Geoffrey Jones, eds.  Business History around the World at the Turn of the Twenty-First Century (2003) pp 192–214; historiography