[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

hear cases regarding foreign surveillance, FISA does not provide a mechanism for the court to allow non-governmental parties to provide arguments against government surveillance proposals or otherwise participate in court proceedings. As a result, there are very few appeals of FISA court decisions.

The PCLOB report recommended that the US end bulk data collection and that the FISA court judges' decision making "would be greatly enhanced if they could hear opposing views when ruling on requests to establish new surveillance programs" to increase public confidence in intelligence and surveillance programs. It recommended that the government should promote more transparency to inform public debate on technology, national security, and civil liberties. Among other things, the board recommended that the FISA court should declassify its rulings and opinions of the FISA court and establish a Special Advocate board should be formed. These measures would allow citizens to bring up surveillance concerns in court, challenge government surveillance proposals, and help keep the proceedings of the court more transparent.

Current members
As of September 2022:

Criticism 
Some people initially viewed the PCLOB with skepticism, since the board was convened to protect the American public against privacy intrusions by their own government. Under the board's statute, only the Chairperson is a full-time employee and has the power to hire staff. Since Medine was not confirmed until May 7, 2013, it was not until after that time that the Board was finally able to begin to engage in any substantial projects.

Proposals to strengthen the Board
In 2015, Ron Wyden (D-OR) in the Senate and Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI-2) in the House spearheaded, along with co-sponsors Tom Udall (D-NM) and Trey Gowdy (R-SC-4), the Strengthening Privacy, Oversight, and Transparency (SPOT) Act, to, as Udall stated, strengthen the PCLOB and "significantly improve the oversight and accountability of the nation's intelligence community to protect Americans' constitutional rights."

In 2017, the House bill H.R. 3523, the Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act (CISPA) of 2011, proposed that the PCLOB issue annual reports on the civil liberties and privacy impact of CISPA's provisions for the sharing of "cyber threat" information and intelligence between the government and private companies. It would have made PCLOB responsible for reporting on privacy and civil liberty intrusions under its information sharing program. The bill died in Congress.

See also
 Title 6 of the Code of Federal Regulations
 President's Intelligence Advisory Board
 Mass surveillance in the United States

Footnotes

General references
 Public Law 110-53, Title VIII (August 3, 2007).
 "Dempsey Nominated for Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board". Benton Foundation. 2008-08-20. Retrieved 2008-12-01.

External links

 
 Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board in the Federal Register
CRS report for Congress with more information
C-SPAN Video Library: Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
 NSA surveillance programs (1) Legal Perspectives Jul 9, 2013
 NSA surveillance programs (2) Technical Perspectives Jul 9, 2013
 NSA surveillance programs (3) Policy Perspectives Jul 9, 2013

Independent agencies of the United States government
United States federal boards, commissions, and committees
2004 establishments in the United States