[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Bridges

ke any appearances for the Latvian club. Despite the injury, he spent three months in Latvia before returning to England to "assess his options". After returning to England in November 2004 for rehabilitation at Lilleshall, he began part-time training with Cambridgeshire club Histon in January 2005.

He signed for Braintree Town on a short-term contract shortly after training with Histon, making his debut for the club in a 2–1 home victory against Slough Town a day after joining the club. He suffered a foot injury in a 3–1 away victory at Hendon, which proved to be his last game for the club; he played four times for Braintree, all of which were victories. A month later, Bridges joined Histon on a short-term basis, making his debut for the club in March 2005, playing the whole match in a 3–1 home win against Tiverton Town. He scored once for Histon in a 3–0 home victory against Solihull Borough on 18 April 2005. Bridges made 11 appearances for Histon and helped the club achieve promotion to the Conference South in his two months at the club. He left Histon at the end of the season, and subsequently earned himself a one-year contract to re-join his former employers, Cambridge United, following a successful trial at the club. Bridges said he "did not hesitate in joining Cambridge for a second time" when he was eventually offered a full-time contract in June 2005.

Return to Cambridge
During the 2005–06 season, Bridges was a regular in the centre of Cambridge's midfield. He made his second debut for Cambridge in a 1–0 defeat at Forest Green Rovers, and scored in the following two games against both Hereford United and Accrington Stanley. Bridges played 40 times during the season, scoring seven goals from midfield. He was voted the club's Player of the Year award at the end of that season, as well as earning a one-year contract extension in May 2006.

He continued playing regularly under new manager Jimmy Quinn in the 2006–07 season. He scored his first goal of the season in a 3–0 home win against Gravesend & Northfleet in November 2006, and scored again two weeks later in the club's 2–1 away win at Southport at Haig Avenue. After Cambridge's 2–0 home defeat to St Albans City in December, Bridges did not feature in the first-team for two months. He returned to the first-team in Cambridge's 3–0 win against Woking on 27 January 2007, and scored his third of the season in a 2–1 away victory against Stafford Rangers. He played 31 games during the season, scoring three times. Bridges was released by Cambridge in May 2007 as they made wholesale changes to their playing squad. During his second spell at Cambridge, Bridges made 71 appearances in all competitions over two seasons, scoring ten times.

Kettering Town
Two months later, Bridges joined Conference North club Kettering Town on a one-year deal. Bridges made his debut for Kettering in late August 2007, starting in the club's 3–2 away victory against Worcester City. He scored his first goal for the club in the following game, doubling Kettering's lead in a victory against Tamworth. He played regularly for the Northamptonshire club throughout Kettering's 2007–08 league season, scoring 11 goals in 27 appearances to help Kettering earn promotion to the Conference Premier.

Stevenage
He was offered a new contract by manager Mark Cooper, which was rejected, as he opted to join his former Kettering team-mates Craig Westcarr and Gary Mills in signing for Stevenage on 13 May 2008. Bridges suffered a knee injury during pre-season and subsequently missed the first half of the 2008–09 season. He eventually made his debut for the Hertfordshire club in a 1–1 draw against Oxford United on 20 December 2008, scoring Stevenage's goal with an "unstoppable drive from outside the area". Bridges scored three goals in the club's successful FA Trophy run that season, scoring in 4–0 victories against both Burton Albion and Forest Green Rovers, as well as scoring the winner in Stevenage's 3–2 home win against Ebbsfleet United in the first leg of the semi-final. His season was cut short when he suffered an injury in a 1–1 draw against Oxford United at Broadhall Way, a game in which he scored Stevenage's goal, but ultimately missed the rest of the season. Bridges made 19 appearances during the club's 2008–09 season, scoring six times.