[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Energy policy of India

port coal as well; and indoor, urban and regional environmental impacts, necessitating the need for the adoption of cleaner fuels and cleaner technologies. In recent years, these challenges have led to a major set of continuing reforms, restructuring, and a focus on energy conservation.

Oil and gas

India ranks third in oil consumption with 4.669 million barrels/day in 2020 after USA and China. During the calendar year 2019, India imported 221.7 million tons of crude oil and 44.4 million tons of refined petroleum products and exported 60.7 million tons of refined petroleum products. India is the second biggest net importer of crude oil and its products after China. India has built surplus world-class refining capacity using imported crude oil for exporting refined petroleum products. The net imports of crude oil is lesser by one fourth after accounting exports and imports of refined petroleum products. Natural gas production was 26.9 billion cubic meters and consumption 59.7 billion cubic meters during the calendar year 2019.

During the financial year 2012–13, the production of crude oil was 37.86 million tons and 40,679 million standard cubic meters (nearly 26.85 million tons) natural gas. The net import of crude oil  & petroleum products is 146.70 million tons worth of Rs 5611.40 billion. This includes 9.534 million tons of LNG imports worth of Rs. 282.15 billion. Internationally, LNG price  (One million Btu of LNG = 0.1724 barrels of crude oil (boe) = 29.52 cubic meters of natural gas = 21 kg of natural gas = 29.2 liters diesel = 21.3 kg LPG = 0.293 MWh) is fixed below crude oil price in terms of heating value. LNG is slowly gaining its role as direct use fuel in the road and marine transport without regasification. By the end of June 2016, LNG price has fallen by nearly 50% below its oil parity price making it more economical fuel than diesel/gas oil in transport sector.  In 2012-13, India consumed 15.744 million tons petrol and 69.179 million tons diesel which are mainly produced from imported crude oil at huge foreign exchange out go. Using natural gas for heating, cooking and electricity generation is not economical as more and more locally produced natural gas will be converted into LNG for use in the transport sector to reduce crude oil imports. In addition to the conventional natural gas production, coal gasification, coal bed methane, coal mine methane and Biogas digesters / Renewable natural gas will also become a source of LNG forming decentralised base for the production of LNG to cater to the widely distributed demand. There is possibility to convert most of the heavy duty vehicles  (including diesel driven rail engines) into  LNG fuelled vehicles to reduce diesel consumption drastically with operational cost and least pollution benefits. Also, the break even price at user end for switching from imported coal to LNG in electricity generation is estimated near US. The advent of cheaper marine CNG transport will restrict LNG use in high end transport sector to replace costly liquid fuels leaving imported CNG use for other needs. As the marine CNG transport is economical for medium distance transport and has fast unloading flexibility at many ports without costly unloading facilities, they have become alternate solution to submarine gas pipelines. Natural gas/methane can also be converted cheaply into hydrogen gas and carbon black without emitting any greenhouse gas for use in the transport sector with fuel cell vehicle technology.

The state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) acquired shares in oil fields in countries like Sudan, Syria, Iran, and Nigeria – investments that have led to diplomatic tensions with the United States. Because of political instability in the Middle East and increasing domestic demand for energy, India is keen on decreasing its dependency on OPEC to meet its oil demand, and increasing its energy security. Several Indian oil companies, primarily led by ONGC and Reliance Industries, have started a massive hunt for oil in several regions in India, including Rajasthan, Krishna Godavari Basin and north-eastern Himalayas.

India has nearly 63 tcf technically recoverable resources of shale gas which can meet all its needs for twenty years if exploited. India is developing an offshore gas field in Mozambique. The proposed Iran-Pakistan-India pipeline is a part of India's plan to meet its increasing energy demand.

Coal

India has the world's 3rd largest proven coal reserves with nearly 177 billion metric tons as on 1 April 2021. In India, coal is the bulk primary energy contributor with  56.90% share equivalent to 452.2 Mtoe in 2018.