[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Harmonic map

In the mathematical field of differential geometry, a smooth map between Riemannian manifolds is called harmonic if its coordinate representatives satisfy a certain nonlinear partial differential equation. This partial differential equation for a mapping also arises as the Euler-Lagrange equation of a functional called the Dirichlet energy. As such, the theory of harmonic maps contains both the theory of unit-speed geodesics in Riemannian geometry and the theory of harmonic functions.

Informally, the Dirichlet energy of a mapping  from a Riemannian manifold  to a Riemannian manifold  can be thought of as the total amount that  stretches  in allocating each of its elements to a point of . For instance, an unstretched rubber band and a smooth stone can both be naturally viewed as Riemannian manifolds. Any way of stretching the rubber band over the stone can be viewed as a mapping between these manifolds, and the total tension involved is represented by the Dirichlet energy. Harmonicity of such a mapping means that, given any hypothetical way of physically deforming the given stretch, the tension (when considered as a function of time) has first derivative equal to zero when the deformation begins.

The theory of harmonic maps was initiated in 1964 by James Eells and Joseph Sampson, who showed that in certain geometric contexts, arbitrary maps could be deformed into harmonic maps. Their work was the inspiration for Richard Hamilton's initial work on the Ricci flow. Harmonic maps and the associated harmonic map heat flow, in and of themselves, are among the most widely studied topics in the field of geometric analysis.

The discovery of the "bubbling" of sequences of harmonic maps, due to Jonathan Sacks and Karen Uhlenbeck, has been particularly influential, as their analysis has been adapted to many other geometric contexts. Notably, Uhlenbeck's parallel discovery of bubbling of Yang–Mills fields is important in Simon Donaldson's work on four-dimensional manifolds, and Mikhael Gromov's later discovery of bubbling of pseudoholomorphic curves is significant in applications to symplectic geometry and quantum cohomology. The techniques used by Richard Schoen and Uhlenbeck to study the regularity theory of harmonic maps have likewise been the inspiration for the development of many analytic methods in geometric analysis.

Geometry of mappings between manifolds 
Here the geometry of a smooth mapping between Riemannian manifolds is considered via local coordinates and, equivalently, via linear algebra. Such a mapping defines both a first fundamental form and second fundamental form. The Laplacian (also called tension field) is defined via the second fundamental form, and its vanishing is the condition for the map to be harmonic. The definitions extend without modification to the setting of pseudo-Riemannian manifolds.

Local coordinates
Let  be an open subset of  and let  be an open subset of . For each  and  between 1 and , let  be a smooth real-valued function on , such that for each  in , one has that the  matrix  is symmetric and positive-definite. For each  and  between 1 and , let  be a smooth real-valued function on , such that for each  in , one has that the  matrix  is symmetric and positive-definite. Denote the inverse matrices by  and .

For each  between 1 and  and each  between 1 and  define the Christoffel symbols  and  by

Given a smooth map  from  to , its second fundamental form defines for each  and  between 1 and  and for each  between 1 and  the real-valued function  on  by

Its laplacian defines for each  between 1 and  the real-valued function  on  by

Bundle formalism
Let  and  be Riemannian manifolds. Given a smooth map  from  to , one can consider its differential  as a section of the vector bundle  over ; this is to say that for each  in , one has a linear map  between tangent spaces . The vector bundle  has a connection induced from the Levi-Civita connections on  and . So one may take the covariant derivative , which is a section of the vector bundle  over ; this is to say that for each  in , one has a bilinear map  of tangent spaces . This section is known as the hessian of .

Using , one may trace the hessian of  to arrive at the laplacian of , which is a section of the bundle  over ; this says that the laplacian of  assigns to each  in  an element of the tangent space . By the definition of the trace operator, the laplacian may be written as

where  is any -orthonormal basis of .

Dirichlet energy and its variation formulas
From the perspective of local coordinates, as given above, the energy density of a mapping  is the real-valued function on  given by