[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 2000 United States Senate election in New York

e was the persistently weak local economy, which Lazio hoped to link to his opponent's husband's tenure in office. Attacks on the state of the upstate economy were frequently interpreted as criticism of incumbent Republican governor George Pataki, however, limiting the effect of this line of attack.

In July 2000, the release of State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton by author Jerry Oppenheimer led to reports that Clinton had called someone a "fucking Jew bastard" in 1974. The report, which received international media coverage, "rocked" Clinton's campaign, with The Daily Telegraph describing the campaign as having "mounted a frantic damage limitation exercise after details of the alleged incident were leaked". Clinton had reportedly screamed the insult at Paul Fray, who managed Bill Clinton's unsuccessful 1974 congressional campaign. Fray, his wife, and another campaign staffer stated that they had heard Clinton's outburst, while both Clintons adamantly denied that she had referenced Fray's heritage (while Oppenheimer wrote that Fray's father was Jewish, in reality Fray was a Southern Baptist whose closest Jewish ancestor was a paternal great-grandmother).  Bill Clinton did allow that Hillary might have simply called Fray a "bastard".  In media interviews, Fray and his wife acknowledged several factors that tended to undermine his credibility:  he had lost his license to practice law for altering court records; he had made false accusations against the Clintons in the past; and he had suffered a brain hemorrhage with some resultant losses of memory.

Opponents continued to make the carpetbagging issue a focal point throughout the race and during debates. Talk radio hammered on this, with New York-based Sean Hannity issuing a daily mantra, "Name me three things Hillary Clinton has ever done for the people of New York!"  Clinton's supporters pointed out that the state was receptive to national leaders, such as Robert F. Kennedy who was elected to the Senate in 1964 despite similar accusations. In the end, according to exit polls conducted in the race, a majority of the voters dismissed the carpetbagging issue as unimportant.

During the campaign, Independent Counsel Robert Ray filed his final reports regarding the long-running Whitewater, "Travelgate", and "Filegate" investigations of the White House, each of which included specific investigations of Hillary Clinton actions.  The reports exonerated her on the files matter, said there was insufficient evidence regarding her role in Whitewater, and said that she had made factually false statements regarding the Travel Office firings but there was insufficient evidence to prosecute her.  Although The New York Times editorialized that the release of the reports seemed possibly timed to coincide with the Senate election, in practice the findings were not seen as likely to sway many voters' opinions.

A September 13, 2000 debate between Lazio and Clinton proved important.  Lazio was on the warpath against soft money and the amounts of it coming from the Democratic National Committee into Clinton's campaign, and challenged Clinton to agree to ban soft money from both campaigns.  He left his podium and waved his proposed paper agreement in Clinton's face; many debate viewers thought he had invaded her personal space and as a result Clinton's support among women voters solidified.

Late in the campaign, Lazio criticized Clinton for accepting campaign donations from various Arab groups in the wake of the USS Cole bombing.  The Lazio campaign orchestrated a wave of telephone calls to voters using this attack.  This issue caused former New York Mayor Ed Koch to take out ads telling Lazio to "stop with the sleaze already," and did not change the dynamic of the race.  Some of Lazio's campaign strategists would later say that the Cole-based attack had backfired and became the campaign's biggest blunder.

Results 

Per New York State law, Clinton and Lazio totals include their minor party-line votes: Liberal Party of New York and Working Families Party for Clinton, Conservative Party for Lazio.

Counties that flipped from Democratic to Republican
 Broome (largest municipality: Binghamton)
 Chautauqua (County Seat: Mayville)
 Chemung (largest municipality: Elmira)
 Clinton (largest municipality: Plattsburgh)
 Franklin (largest municipality: Malone)
 Jefferson (largest municipality: Le Ray)
 Monroe (largest municipality: Rochester)
 Nassau (largest municipality: Hempstead)
 Rockland (County Seat: New City)
 Richmond (Staten Island, borough of New York City)
 St. Lawrence (largest municipality: Massena)

Counties that flipped from Republican to Democratic
 Cayuga (County Seat: Auburn)
 Rensselaer (County Seat: Troy)