[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lydia Becker

in the name of women's suffrage. On 24 March 1877 Lydia appeared at a public meeting alongside J.W White, Henry Birchenough, Alice Cliff Scatcherd (subsequently one of the co-founders of the Women's Franchise League) and other early suffragists to discuss women's access to the vote in Macclesfield.

The Journal was the most popular publication relating to women's suffrage in 19th-century Britain. Roger Fulford, in his study of the movement Votes for Women: The Story of a Struggle, writes: "The history of the decades from 1860 to 1890 – so far as women's suffrage is concerned – is the history of Miss Becker." The Journal published speeches from around the country, both within and outside of Parliament. Becker published her correspondence with her supporters and her opponents, notably in 1870, when she chastised the MP for Caernarvonshire after he voted against a proposal offering women the vote.

In 1880, Becker and co-workers campaigned in the Isle of Man for the right of women to vote in the House of Keys elections. Unexpectedly, they were successful and they secured for women voting rights in the Isle of Man for the first time in the elections of March 1881. Becker became the chair of the Central Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage. This organisation had been formed in 1871 to lobby parliament. Other committee members included Helen Blackburn, Millicent Fawcett, Jessie Boucherett, Eva McLaren, Margaret Bright Lucas, Priscilla Bright McLaren and Frances Power Cobbe.

Becker differed from many early feminists in her disputation of essentialised femininity. Arguing there was no natural difference between the intellect of men and women, Becker was a vocal advocate of a non-gendered education system in Britain. She also differed with many suffrage activists in arguing more strenuously for the voting rights of unmarried women. Women connected to husbands and stable sources of income, Becker believed, were less desperately in need of the vote than widows and single women. This attitude made her the target of frequent ridicule in newspaper commentary and editorial cartoons.

Death and legacy 
In 1890 Becker visited the spa town of Aix-les-Bains, where she fell ill and died of diphtheria, aged 63.

Rather than continue publishing in her absence, the staff of the Women's Suffrage Journal decided to cease production.

Memorials

A book collection by women, with books from Helen Blackburn's collection, her friends and from second hand sources, was placed in two bookcases decorated with paintings of Becker and Caroline Ashurst Biggs, who had been chairs of the Central Committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage before Blackburn. These bookcases were given to Girton College and are extant.

Becker's name is listed on the south face of the Reformers Memorial in Kensal Green Cemetery in London. Her name is also listed on her father's gravestone (Hannibal Becker) in the churchyard of the Parish Church of St James, Altham in Lancashire. A plaque commemorating her life is situated adjacent to the Moorfield Colliery Memorial on Burnley Road, Altham, (A678) at the junction with Moorfield Way.

Becker's name and image, alongside those of 58 other women's suffrage supporters, are etched on the plinth of the statue of Millicent Fawcett in Parliament Square, London.

In Paris, France, a street is named after her, the allée Lydia-Becker (Lydia Becker Lane), near Montmartre, close to the rue Eva-Kotchever.  In Chadderton, Oldham, United Kingdom,  a street is named after her, Lydia Becker Way.

Works
 Botany for Novices (1864)
 "Female Suffrage" in The Contemporary Review (1867)
 "Is there any Specific Distinction between Male and Female Intellect?" in Englishwoman's Review of Social and Industrial Questions (1868)
 "On the Study of Science by Women" in The Contemporary Review (1869)
 "The Political Disabilities of Women" in The Westminster Review (1872)

Archives
The archives of Lydia Becker are held at the Women's Library at the Library of the London School of Economics.

Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and Inflammation 

In 2018 the Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and Inflammation  was launched at The University of Manchester.

The institute is home to internationally renowned immunology and inflammation expertise in a vast array of basic and applied disciplines. 

The institute is named after Lydia Becker because she was a celebrated natural scientist who conversed with Charles Darwin and because she strongly believed that women were intellectually equal to men and deserved the same opportunities.

Notes