[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Irish constituencies

The following list identifies every constituency used in Parliamentary etc. elections in Ireland (including Northern Ireland). The list consists of 'index names' for the seat and to identify what is potentially to be covered in a single constituency article.

The index name, which may vary from the official name or the name commonly used for a constituency in some respects, is constructed by putting the name of the geographical area first. If necessary (to distinguish between a borough constituency and a county constituency with the same geographical name) 'Borough', 'Cities', 'City' or 'Town' will be the second word of the Index Name to indicate the borough constituency. A compass point or more distinctive divisional name is to be placed next.

Special cases: 
Dublin. The PHC constituency combined the city and county and its index name is 'Dublin'. The IHC and HC (pre-1885) constituencies follow the usual rule and are indexed as 'Dublin' and 'Dublin City'. The Dublin Harbour division of Dublin City is indexed simply as 'Dublin Harbour'. There have been North and South divisions of both the county and city as well as the complication that the Republic of Ireland ceased the division between borough and county constituencies in the 1970s. The modern North Dublin and South Dublin seem descended from the county rather than the city equivalents but the names commonly used do not make this clear. The index names used for the Dublin City divisions are 'Dublin City North' and 'Dublin City South'. The inclusion of county in the official names of the county divisions is not reflected in the index names.
Universities. 'National University of Ireland' and 'Queen's University of Belfast' are special cases.

Institutions
The institutions included in this list are:

Irish House of Commons (IHC)
Irish seats in First Protectorate Parliament of the Commonwealth of England, Scotland and Ireland (PP)
Irish (and Northern Irish) seats in the United Kingdom House of Commons (UKHC)
Dáil Éireann (DÉ)
House of Commons of Southern Ireland (SIHC)
House of Commons of Northern Ireland (NIHC)
University constituencies in Seanad Éireann (SE)
Northern Ireland Assembly (NIA)
Northern Ireland Constitutional Convention (NICC)
Northern Ireland Forum (NIF)
Irish and Northern Irish constituencies in the European Parliament (EP)

List of Constituencies


A
 Antrim:
 County Antrim (UKHC)
 Antrim (NIHC)
 Antrim Bann Side (NIHC). See: Bannside
 Antrim:
 Antrim Borough (NIHC) County Division
 Antrim (IHC) Borough
 Antrim Carrick (NIHC) See: Carrick
 County Antrim (IHC)
 Antrim East See under "East Antrim"
 Antrim Larkfield (NIHC) See: Larkfield
 Antrim Larne (NIHC) See: Larne
 Antrim Mid See under "Mid Antrim"
 Antrim Newtownabbey (NIHC) See: Newtownabbey
 Antrim North See under "North Antrim"
 Antrim South See under "South Antrim"
 Ardee (IHC)
 Ardfert (IHC)
 Ards (NIHC)
 Armagh:
 Armagh (NIA)
 Armagh (NIHC)
 Armagh (UKHC)
 Armagh Borough (IHC)
 Armagh Central (Northern Ireland Parliament constituency) (NIHC) See: Central Armagh
 Armagh City (UKHC)
 County Armagh (IHC) County
 Armagh Mid (Northern Ireland Parliament constituency) (NIHC) See: Mid Armagh (UKHC)
 Armagh North (Northern Ireland Parliament constituency) (NIHC) See under "North Armagh"
 Armagh South (Northern Ireland Parliament constituency) (NIHC) See: South Armagh
 Askeaton (IHC)
 Athboy (IHC)
 Athenry (IHC)
 Athlone:
 Athlone (IHC)
 Athlone (UKHC)
 Athlone–Longford (DÉ)
 Athy (IHC)
 Augher (IHC)