[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Darley Abbey

od. After then, throughout the 17th and 18th centuries, a series of water powered mills – for corn, flint, leather and paper – were developed on land between Darley Street and the west bank of the River Derwent.
The land on the opposite bank was acquired by Thomas Evans for his cotton mills in 1778.

These mills later became known as the 'Boar's Head Mills' (the Evans family crest was a Boar's Head) and were constructed between 1782 and 1830.  The Boar's Head Mills specialised in quality thread for sewing,
embroidery and haberdashery. 
The site contains five main mills and a comprehensive range of ancillary structures, including warehouses, offices, stables, bobbin shops and domestic buildings.  The largest of the buildings is 6-storeys high.  The oldest building, Long Mill, has an attic floor which was (until 1819) used as a school room where children employed at the mill received a basic education.
The mills were originally water-powered. The weirs on the River Derwent created the head of water which powered the wheels that drove the machinery in the mill buildings. Eventually, steam power was used to supplement the water power.

The Evans' involvement in the cotton mills ceased with the death of Walter Evans II in 1903.  In 1905, John Peacock, hitherto manager, bought the mills from the estate. The Peacock family ran the business until 1943 when it was sold to J & P Coats of the Coats Viyella Group. Textile use ceased in 1970. In 1969 the sale of the mills for other uses began.  

Today, Darley Abbey Mills is home to a variety of engineering and light industrial businesses. Since 2010, the focus of the Darley Abbey Mills has shifted away from light industrial uses towards customer facing entertainment and retail and other commercial office uses.

Village
The industrialist Thomas Evans developed cotton mills on the east side of the River Derwent at Darley Abbey and, between 1792 and 1826, effectively provided a new village of over 130 houses for his workers.  The village was on the west side of the River Derwent and linked to the mills by a toll bridge.

In order of construction, the village included the following:
 1792 – Darley Street (west side).
 1792 – Flat Square and West Row.  These 3-storey terraces formed three sides of an open square.  This was a design concept introduced by Inigo Jones following his travels in Europe in the 1630.
 1792 – "The Four Houses" off Mile Ash Lane.  This is a block of four 3-storey houses built for mill foremen and their families and is the oldest surviving example of "cluster" housing in England.
 1797 – Brick Row.  This a brick-built terrace of 3-storey houses.  The attic space above the houses in the centre of the row was deliberately planned as a school, replacing a room in Long Mill (across the river).  It was used until the construction of St Matthew's School in 1819.  The party walls in Brick Row were capable of adjustment to cope with differing sizes of worker families.
 1800 – Lavender Row.  A Georgian terrace, whose individual houses are "stepped" to cope with the inclined site.
 ???? – Upper part of Mile Ash Lane (lower part constructed in 1870s).
 1819 – St Matthew's School.  Designed by architect Moses Wood of Nottingham, it had spacious classrooms, well-lit by large windows and a handsome clock set high in the front wall. The school also incorporated houses for a schoolmaster and schoolmistress at opposite ends of the building.
 1819 – St Matthew's Church (see section below).
 1826 – White-painted terraces on New Road.  These consisted of two 4-house clusters and are built of brick, although the facades are rendered and painted white.  These were occupied by senior mill employees.
A traveller in 1829 wrote favourably of the village as follows:  "I passed through Darley, interesting as the seat of the extensive cotton and paper mills of the Messrs, Evans, and also as an exhibition of their unwearied philanthropy to their numerous work-people.  The whole forms a neat town, displaying general comfort, with institutions of all kinds, for the improvement of the physical and moral condition of some hundred families….kindness and rewards are constantly bestowed in promoting cleanliness and neatness, and in stimulating industry and good conduct.  All that Mr Owen has benevolently fancied, these gentlemen and this amiable lady have realised.  It was cheering to view the neatness and comfort of the houses, the honey-suckles, jessamines, and roses growing in front, and the domestic occupations of persons who, in the same employment, in worse conducted establishments, live in filth, rags and squalid misery."