[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# HMNB Devonport

ll and used as a naval stores yard; it has since been redeveloped with housing and other amenities. A few surviving buildings have been restored, most notably the Grade II listed Victorian former Market Hall  (which had been used as a sale store for the Naval Supply and Transport Service).

Heritage

Listed buildings

Despite significant damage during the blitz, the South Yard still contains four scheduled monuments and over thirty listed buildings and structures (though some of these have been allowed to fall into a derelict state in recent years: the 18th-century South Sawmills and South Smithery are both on the Heritage at Risk Register). 

A number of these listed buildings and scheduled ancient monuments are now owned by Princess Yachts, which took over the southern part of the site in 2012, most notably the Grade I listed East Ropery (together with several other 18th-century buildings and structures associated with rope-making in the Yard), the covered slip (No. 1 Slip) and the 'King's Hill Gazebo', built to commemorate a visit by King George III. Others are in the Oceansgate area, including Nos. 2, 3 and 4 dry docks, and seven buildings (two of which are currently occupied by the Naval Heritage Centre: the former Dockyard Fire Station and the 18th-century Pay Office). 

Other parts of the yard also contain significant collections of listed buildings and structures: there are fourteen in the Barracks area (HMS Drake), thirteen in the Morice Yard; and seven in the North Yard (including the Grade I listed Quadrangle workshops) which are now in the care and custody of Babcock International.

Devonport Naval Heritage Centre

Devonport Naval Heritage Centre is a maritime museum located within the Oceansgate area of Devonport's historic South Yard. Run by volunteers, it is currently (as of 2023) open on Wednesdays and occasional Saturdays, March-October. The nuclear-powered submarine , used in the Falklands War, is preserved in North Yard as a museum ship, managed by the Heritage Centre (although it is currently closed to visitors until further notice). In 2018 the National Museum of the Royal Navy announced a 12-year plan to establish a 'full-time visitor attraction' in Devonport, based around a new museum (to be located in the surviving portion of the Officers' Terrace, the oldest building in any Royal Dockyard) and the decommissioned HMS Courageous (which would be preserved in the historic No. 1 Dry Dock).

Nuclear safety
Devonport has been the site of a number of leaks of nuclear waste associated with the nuclear submarines based there.
 November 2002: "Ten litres of radioactive coolant leaked from "
 October 2005: "Previous reported radioactive spills at the dockyard include one in October 2005, when it was confirmed 10 litres of water leaked out as the main reactor circuit of HMS Victorious was being cleaned to reduce radiation."
 November 2008: "The Royal Navy has confirmed up to 280 litres of water, likely to have been contaminated with tritium, poured from a burst hose as it was being pumped from the submarine in the early hours of Friday."
 March 2009: "On 25 March radioactive water escaped from HMS Turbulent while the reactor's discharge system was being flushed at the Devonport naval dockyard"

The nuclear submarine refit base was put into special measures in 2013 by the Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR) and it could be 2020 before enhanced monitoring ceases. Safety concerns on ageing facilities, stretched resources and increasing demand are blamed for the measures.

Nickname

The Naval base at Devonport is still nicknamed "Guzz" (or, sometimes, "Guz") by sailors and marines. One suggestion is that this originates from the word guzzle'' (to eat or drink greedily), which is likely to refer to the eating of cream teas, a West Country delicacy and, therefore, one with strong connections to the area around Plymouth. Another explanation advanced is that "GUZZ" was the radio call sign for the nearby Admiralty wireless station (which was GZX) at Devil's Point, though this is disputed and has recently been disproved by reference to actual wireless telegraphy callsigns in existence over the past century.

Another explanation is that the name came from the Hindi word for a yard (36 inches), "guz", (also spelled "guzz", at the time) which entered the Oxford English Dictionary, and Royal Navy usage, in the late 19th century, as sailors used to regularly abbreviate "The Dockyard" to simply "The Yard", leading to the slang use of the Hindi word for the unit of measurement of the same name. The Plymouth Herald newspaper attempted to summarise the differing theories, but no firm conclusion was reached. Charles Causley referred to Guz in one of his poems, "Song of the Dying Gunner A.A.1", published in 1951.