[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Central Bank of Armenia

utions of Armenia
 Risks derived from the developments of financial infrastructures.

The Central Bank of Armenia continuously carries out extensive work in order to make financial stability report more informative and extended in accordance with international practice and in face of new challenges.

Strategy for Maintaining Financial Stability, 2015–2017

Maintaining a sound, stable and functional financial system    
This aspect is aimed at providing the normal activity and stability of the financial system of Armenia, including the creation of necessary conditions for normal operation. This implies that financial institutions and payment and settlement system organizations, fulfill their obligations in time, perform their functions effectively, efficiently and uninterruptedly, manage their risks prudently, absorb and neutralize the risks arising from probable shock situations, while maintaining their activities open and transparent.

1. Current achievements 
The list of achievements included making a comprehensive analysis of the risks of financial institutions and introducing tools for financial stability monitoring. The financial stability report publication has improved. There were simulation games organized for working out response and other relevant action to emergency situations. A system was introduced to assess risks spilling over to the financial system from external and real sectors, through macro-prudential analyses (quantitative methods, stress tests). The crises management concept and systemic bank disclosure methodology were developed and are currently in use.

A concept of introducing the new Basel Principles (Basel 3) was developed in order to align the regulatory framework of the Armenian banking system with internationally accepted principles. Work to implement a new model (risk-based supervision) is underway. The joint World Bank and International Monetary Fund team also conducted an assessment of the financial system of Armenia under the Financial Sector Assessment Program in 2012, which marked notable improvements and progress in the field of regulation and supervision of the financial system compared to the 2005 assessment. In particular, the latest assessment indicates that the financial system of Armenia meets the abovementioned principles by nearly 93% which means the country fits the ranking as compliant or largely compliant.

A timetable of implementation of the framework Solvency 2 in the Republic of Armenia was developed and approved. The relevant works for the organization of the timetable indicated events have begun; most particularly the “Non-Life Underwriting Risk Assessment Manual” has been developed and is currently on a pilot stage. In 2012, the total evaluation of Electronic Payment System of the Central Bank in accordance with international principles, set by the Bank for International Settlements, was completed. Based on the results of the evaluation, the EPS has been estimated to be reliable and risk-free in the financial stability aspect. These evaluation results also served a basis for the World Bank activities conducted under FSAP in 2012.