[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Dental education throughout the world

ars of dental school (2 years preparatory; 4 years proper) to obtain the degree Doctor of Dental Medicine (D.M.D.). Presently, the country has a total of 25 dental schools, in which the board licensing is administered and regulated by the Board of Dentistry of the Professional Regulation Commission.

Adventist University of the Philippines
Cebu Doctors' University
Centro Escolar University
Emilio Aguinaldo College
Iloilo Doctors' College
Our Lady of Fatima University
Lyceum-Northwestern University
Lyceum of the Philippines University, Batangas
Manila Central University
Medina College Pagadian City
Mindanao Medical Foundation College
Misamis University
National University (Philippines)
Negros Oriental State University (Philippines)
Southwestern University PHINMA (Philippines)
University of Baguio
University of the East College of Dentistry
University of Perpetual Help System
University of the Philippines
University of the Visayas

Taiwan 
All the dental schools are undergraduate entry in Taiwan. After graduating from high school, students are required to take a 6-year dental program to complete their DDS/DMD degree. Dental school admissions are competitive in Taiwan. Only students obtain top 3% of academic results in the Taiwan Joint College Entrance Exam for admission in Taiwan will be admitted. The tuition for dental schools are around TWD 70,000-75,000 (~USD 2,200-2,400) per semester. Students are also required to pay additional fees for tools and other materials most of time. Students should complete 5 years of medical basic and dental professional courses at their own universities, followed by a year of internships before graduation. During summer vacation, clerkship is recommended for students to acquire experience for the future. The first dental school in Taiwan belonged to the School of Dentistry at National Taiwan University which was founded in 1953. Dental schools in Taiwan include:

China Medical University
Chung Shan Medical University
Kaohsiung Medical University 
National Defense Medical Center
National Taiwan University
National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University
Taipei Medical University

Thailand 
The Thai Dental Council, established in 1994, is the premier governing body of dental practice, and now on formulating uniform competency requirements for dental practitioners, thus directly influencing the teaching programs at the dental schools. The Ministry of Public Health plays an important role in dental manpower planning for the dental public health services. The Thai Dental Council, the Ministry of Public Health and the Consortium of  the Dental Schools work together to promote scientifically based dental education. In addition, the Thai government is placing more importance on the dental public health of its citizens.

In 2007 the number of Thai Dentists in the workforce was 7175,2093,1400 and 76 for dentists, dental nurses, chairside assistants, and laboratory technicians. In 2009, the number of dentists in public sector was 3,892 and in private practice 4,551. There were 849 and 218 dentists in the university and military.

Europe 
In all European countries, there exist public dental services and/or subsidies that ensure that most (if not all) citizens have access to the dental services they require, regardless of their ability to pay. Information regarding the various levels of dental care provision throughout Europe can be found in the Manual of Dental Practice, published by the Council of European Dentists.

Finland 
In Finland, education in dentistry is through a 5.5 year Licenciate of Dental Medicine (DMD or DDS) course, which is offered after high school graduation. Application is by a national combined dental and medical school entry examination. As of 2011, dentistry is provided by Faculties of Medicine in 4 universities:

University of Helsinki
University of Turku
University of Oulu
University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio Campus

1st phase of training begins with a unified 2-year pre-clinical training for dentists and physicians. Problem-based learning (PBL) is employed depending on the university. 3rd year autumn consists of clinico-theoretical phase in pathology, genetics, radiology and public health and is partially combined with physicians' 2nd phase. 3rd phase clinical training lasts for the remaining 3 years and includes periods of being on call at University Central Hospital Trauma Centre, Clinic of Oral and Maxillofacial Diseases and at the Children's clinic. Candidates who successfully complete the 4th year of training qualify for a paid summer rotation in a Community health center of their choice. Annual intake of dentists into Faculties of Medicine is a national total 160 students.

Ph.D. research is strongly encouraged and is mandatory alongside post graduate training. Post graduate training is available in all 4 universities and lasts an additional 4–6 years.

Italy

Organization