[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Education in Mauritius

s institutions/bodies deliver tertiary-level programmes mostly in niche areas like Information Technology, Law, Management, Accountancy and Finance. A number of the institutions are overseas with their provisions made available through the distance education mode.

Technical and vocational education

The Government has undertaken to ensure provision of educational facilities to students till they the reach the maturity age of 16 to enter the world of work. In this context the pre-vocational sector caters for around 4,000 students ejected at the end of the primary cycle, in view of their inability to meet the established benchmark for promotion to the mainstream in the secondary sector. Since its conception in the late 90s, the Prevocational Education has been providing a second chance to pupils who have failed the CPE or who are above 13. The children previously completed a 3-year program in secondary schools in line with the National Trade Certificate Foundation Course, but this has now been supplanted by a four-year technical and vocational education and training programme. Such programmes are offered by the Mauritius Institute of Training and Development. Pre-vocational education was dispensed in 126 schools in March 2011 with an enrolment of 7,270 students (64% boys, 36% girls) and 634 teaching staff. The pupil/teacher ratio was 11.

In addition to providing pre-vocational and vocational education and training options for early school leavers, institutions of technical and vocational education also provide further education and training for greater employability and career skills enhancement as well as practical training in a number of fields.

Private Tuition
In recent years private tuition has become very common among students due to the competitiveness of the education system; they would usually take private tuition after school hours and during the weekend. In October 2011, the government amended the Education Act to extend the ban on private tuition to pupils in Standards I to III to those in Standard IV. The government introduced the Enhancement Programme as an alternative to private tuition for students in Standards I to IV, a programme which covers the pedagogical aspects of the respective curriculum, as well as co-curricular and extra-curricular components to render the learning experiences more enriching, enjoyable and rewarding.

See also

 Education by country 
 List of universities and colleges by country
 List of Mauritius-related topics

References

External links

 Ministry of Education & Human Resources
 Ministry of Gender Equality, Child Development and Family Welfare
 Private Secondary Schools Authority (PSSA)
 Tertiary Education Commission
 Ministry of Tertiary Education, Science, Research and Technology
 Human Resource Development Council (HRDC)
 Mauritius Qualifications Authority
 Mauritius Examinations Syndicate
 Mauritius Research Council
 Education Portal
 Early Childhood Care and Education Authority
Education Statistics and Quality of Primary Education in Mauritius, Southern and Eastern Africa Consortium for Monitoring Educational Quality (SACMEQ)
SSR.MU E-Learning Portal for the Primary Students
http://primaryschoolsinmauritius.org/