[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# All Shall Perish

ce Facebook page. On October 4, All Shall Perish released a statement about Hermida leaving, confirming that the band would continue. An interview with Mike Tiner on the Metal Injection website stated that Mike Tiner's position was that Hermida chose to leave by not being able to commit to the band.

Return of original lineup and disbandment (2015–2020) 
On October 21, 2015, All Shall Perish announced the return of Hernan "Eddie" Hermida and guitarist Chris Storey, alongside founding members Matt Kuykendall, Ben Orum. The group's press release noted that original vocalist Craig Betit will participate in some fashion as well. The band stated that bassist Mike Tiner, the last original member in the lineup before the return of Orum, and Tiner declined a personal invitation to participate. Francesco Artusato and drummer Adam Pierce are no longer part of the band.

On April 20, 2019, the band revealed they were working on new music despite the inactivity since their last announcement. A year later on April 21, 2020, vocalist Hernan "Eddie" Hermida announced that the reunion was no longer happening.

Musical style, influences and lyrical themes

Much of the band is influenced by European metal, particularly Swedish death metal.  Their influences are by a large number of groups, including Opeth, Cannibal Corpse, At the Gates, Dying Fetus, Tenacious D, Blood Has Been Shed, Hatebreed, The Beatles, Journey, Michael Jackson, Queen, The Police, Harry Belafonte, Rusty Cooley, GWAR, Dissection, Dimmu Borgir, Carcass, Pantera and many others.

The band's lyrics consist of several different themes, including politics, such as government control, fascism, corporate control, and organised religion. For example, the song "Black Gold Reign" from Awaken the Dreamers references countries around the world adopting oil as the main source of currency. A majority of their songs are politically based. Although rare, the band wrote a few songs on personal subjects such as the song "In This Life of Pain" from the album This Is Where It Ends, and the song "Deconstruction," from the album Hate, Malice, Revenge, which was written about original vocalist Craig Betit's ex-girlfriend.

Band members

Final lineup
Ben Orum – rhythm guitar 
Matt Kuykendall – drums 
Hernan "Eddie" Hermida – vocals 
Chris Storey – lead guitar 
Caysen Russo – bass  lead guitar 

Former members
Mike Tiner – bass 
Jason Richardson – lead guitar 
Francesco Artusato – lead guitar 
Adam Pierce – drums 

 

Touring musicians
Luke Jaeger - rhythm guitar  (Sleep Terror)
Bray Almini – bass (Suffokate)
Joey Ellis - rhythm guitar
Jeremy Cohen - bass

 Timeline

Discography
Studio albums
 Hate, Malice, Revenge 
 The Price of Existence 
 Awaken the Dreamers 
 This Is Where It Ends

Music videos

References

External links
 Official website

American deathcore musical groups
Musical groups from Oakland, California
Death metal musical groups from California
Musical groups established in 2002
Musical groups disestablished in 2020
American musical quintets
Nuclear Blast artists
2002 establishments in California