[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Translink (Queensland)

Translink is the public transit agency for Queensland, and is part of the Department of Transport and Main Roads. Translink was first introduced by the Queensland Government in June 2003 to orchestrate bus, ferry, rail and light rail services. They work with Brisbane Airtrain, Transport for Brisbane, RiverCity Ferries, Queensland Rail and other operators to provide services. Translink operates an integrated ticketing system across Queensland and the go card system to allow the use of one ticket on multiple services in South East Queensland.

In July 2008, Translink devolved from being a division of the former Queensland Transport to the more autonomous Translink Transit Authority, before returning to management under the Department of Transport and Main Roads in November 2012. Combining the former authority and qconnect, Translink became responsible for providing public transport services across majority of Queensland from 16 January 2023. Buses in North Stradbroke Island are not part of the Translink network. It is operated by Transit Systems and fares are decided by Transit Systems.

History
TransInfo was a phone inquiry and timetable service established in August 1993 by Queensland Transport. It was found to be a very successful service, and in a 1997 research study 99% of surveyed transport users were either very or fairly satisfied with the service. After the success of TransInfo, in June 2003 the Queensland Government introduced Translink as an agency within Queensland Transport, replacing the former TransInfo service. With a $21.4 million budget, Translink was tasked to introduce common fares, zones and ticket types irrespective of transit mode, and from mid-2004 a smartcard system. Prior to Translink's introduction, combined patronage for public transport services was only around 112 million trips per year.

Translink delivered the new integrated ticketing system in July 2004. To help facilitate the change-over, Translink employed and deployed throughout South East Queensland 100 assistants. A daily ticket was introduced which allowed unlimited travel on all modes of public transport within the zones specified on the ticket, and for the first time students and aged pensioners throughout South East Queensland received a 50% discount on fares. In just two months an extra 2.3 million passengers travelled on transit services, and ticket sales increased by 11%. Following Translink's introduction, transit passenger numbers grew faster than ever before. In 2005, Translink saw close to a 20% increase in passenger numbers.

In February 2008, the go card was rolled out on bus, rail and ferry services in Brisbane only, as a precursor to its introduction throughout South East Queensland. The Queensland Government devolved Translink from being a division of Queensland Transport to the more autonomous Translink Transit Authority in July 2008, increasing its profile with new branding. At the same time a 24 hours a day, seven days a week customer information and support phone number was introduced.

In November 2009, Translink introduced cashless tickets during peak times, only accepting only go cards and pre-purchased paper tickets in an effort to improve service efficiency. In late 2009, Translink scrapped monthly and weekly paper tickets, with plans to eliminate paper tickets by the end of 2010. On 4 January 2010, to encourage the use of the go card, off-peak discounts and a direct debit top-up option were introduced. At the same time, Translink increased fares and also announced fares would increase by a further 45% over the following three years.

Ticketing

South-East Queensland 
In South-East Queensland, Translink uses 8 zones to determine fares no matter which transit mode or route a passenger uses. In South East Queensland the zones are rings centred on the Brisbane CBD. The South East Queensland zone network stretches from Gympie (170 km north of Brisbane) to Coolangatta (100 km south of Brisbane), and from Helidon (80 km west of Brisbane) in the west to Moreton Bayside suburbs of Brisbane and Redland in the east.

Originally there were 23 zones. On 19 December 2016, the number of zones was reduced to eight. At the same time, a new fare structure was introduced that included:
 Cheaper fares across all zones
 Off-peak discounts extended to 6am (from 3am)
 Free travel for seniors after 2 journeys each day and Concession Pensioner Card holders
 Free weekend travel on a child go card
 Half-price journeys after 8 trips in a week

go card