[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Commodity (Marxism)

oduction has become totally integrated into the circuits of commodity trade, in which capital accumulation becomes the dominant motive. But what prices of production simultaneously hide is the social nature of the valorisation process, i.e. how an increase in capital-value occurs through production.

Likewise, in considering the gross output of capitalist production in an economy as a whole, Marx divides its value into these four components. He argues that the total new value added in production, which he calls the value product, consists of the equivalent of variable capital, plus surplus value. Thus, the workers produce by their labor both a new value equal to their own wages, plus an additional new value which is claimed by capitalists by virtue of their ownership and supply of productive capital.

By producing new capital in the form of new commodities, Marx argues the working class continuously reproduces the capitalist relations of production; by their work, workers create a new value distributed as both labour-income and property-income. If, as free workers, they choose to stop working, the system begins to break down; hence, capitalist civilisation strongly emphasizes the work ethic, regardless of religious belief. People must work, because work is the source of new value, profits and capital.

Pseudo-commodities
Marx acknowledged explicitly that not all commodities are products of human labour; all kinds of things can be traded "as if" they are commodities, so long as property rights can be attached to them. These are "fictitious commodities" or "pseudo-commodities" or "fiduciary commodities", i.e. their existence as commodities is only nominal or conventional. They may not even be tangible objects, but exist only ideally. A property right or financial claim, for instance, may be traded as a commodity.

See also

 Commodification
 Commodity
 Commodity fetishism
 Commodity production
 Exchange value
 Labour theory of value
 Law of value
 Simple commodity production
 Use value
 Value-form (Marxism)

Notes

References
The concept of the commodity is explored at length by Marx in the following works:
 Contribution to a Critique of Political Economy
 Das Kapital Volume 1 Part 1 Chapter 1
 Commodities — from the first chapter of Das Capital

A useful commentary on the Marxian concept is provided in: Costas Lapavitsas, "Commodities and Gifts: Why Commodities Represent More than Market Relations". Science & Society, Vol 68, # 1, Spring 2004.

Both commodity and commodification play an important role in the critical approaches to the political economy of communication, e.g.:

Further reading
 Jack P. Manno, Privileged Goods: Commoditization and Its Impact on Environment and Society. CRC Press, 1999.

Marxian economics
Commodification
Marxian critique of political economy
Critique of political economy