[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gabčíkovo–Nagymaros Dams

n both States to negotiate in good faith to complete the objectives of the 1977 Budapest Treaty, which the Court declared was still in force, while taking account of the factual situation that had developed since 1989.
 Each Party must compensate the other Party for the damage caused by its conduct.

Another four months of negotiations between Slovakia and Hungary led to a treaty between the two countries about the ICJ judgment. In March 1998 the government of Slovakia approved this treaty, but the government of Hungary, which was supposed to build Nagymaros or a Pilismarót waterworks, delayed approving the treaty and proclaimed a competition for the project. After elections in Hungary, the new government cancelled this competition. In 1998, after two appeals to Hungary, the Slovak government turned to the International Court, demanding the Nagymaros part be built.

The international dispute was not resolved for more than a decade. In June 2017, the Slovak Government requested that the International Court of Justice "place on record the discontinuance of the proceedings". In a letter dated 12 July 2017, the Agent of Hungary stated that his Government "did not oppose the discontinuance of the proceedings instituted by means of the Request of Slovakia of 3 September 1998 for an additional judgment".

Technical parameters 

 The area of the Čunovo reservoir is 40 km2, exclusively on the Slovak side (the original Hrušov-Dunakiliti reservoir was to be 60 km2). The operational water level is 131.1 metres above sea level (minimal and maximum levels are 129 and 131.5 m respectively).
 The power station has eight vertical Kaplan turbines with runners 9.3 m in diameter and a maximum capacity of 90 MW each. Total capacity is 720 MW at operational discharge of 4000 m3/s. Water level differences are 24 and 12.88 m.
 The original river bed has a discharge of between 250 and 600 m3/s.
 Two navigation locks were built. A bypass canal will handle floods.
 In 1996, Europe's largest artificial whitewater slalom course, the Water Sports Centre Čunovo, was built on a river island at the head of the bypass canal. When operating at capacity, it diverts 22 m3/s into the bypass canal.
 The Gabčíkovo Hydroelectric Power Station produces 2600 GWh of electricity annually, making it the largest hydroelectric plant in Slovakia. It supplies around 8% of the country's electricity consumption.

Environmental consequences 
Regarding the environmental consequences of the dam, results of a 1996–2002 study by K. Holubová, Z. Capeková and J. Szolgay were:
 Intensive degradation of the Danube River bed downstream (especially at the Old Danube river bed) caused by the absence of the Nagymaros waterworks.
 Decreased water level,
 Increased sediment supply,
 Increased amounts of bedload and higher intensity of bedload movements,
 Reduced flood capacity,
 Decreased channel stability,

Annual joint studies of the Slovak-Hungarian governments claim:
 Stabilization of groundwater levels, local improvement of groundwater quality,
 Stabilization of the riverbed of the old Danube.
 Improved living conditions of aquatic animals and forest animals in areas around old Danube.

Differences between 2002 study and newer works may be attributed to size of studied area. As 1996–2002 study was done on area from Vienna to end of Slovak-Hungarian Danube. Government studies are targeting only Gabčíkovo waterworks and immediate area around it.

Groundwater levels are dependent on big floods, like in 2002, which removed fine silt from river bottom and allowed increased filtration. After that groundwater levels on many places reached pre-reservoir filling levels, on some places reached even higher.
Damming of the Danube improved ground water quality at Rusovce and Čuňovo water supply which are on right side of Danube. It was due changed infiltration conditions and changed groundwater flow direction from NW-SE to N-S. The ground water quality at water supplies situated on the left side of the Danube were not influenced to the same extent as on the right side.

One of the same problems identified is increased sedimentation upstream and riverbed erosion downstream from reservoir, which is a typical problem of water reservoirs.

See also 
 List of crossings of the Danube River

References

Sources 
 Chmelár, V.: Dunaj energetický, vyd. Electra Žilina, 1992

External links 
 Treaty between the Hungarian People´s Republic and the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic concerning the construction and operation of the Gabčíkovo – Nagymaros system of locks 
 Documents about the Gabčíkovo dam and its impact (alternative link)
 Details of the conflict over the project  (PDF)
 Bibliography on Water Resources and International Law, Peace Palace Library
 Annual reports on environmental monitoring 
 Gabčíkovo Dam Virtual Tour
 Historie Soustavy vodních děl Gabčíkovo-Nagymaros
 Gabčíkovo: patálie bez konce