[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of smoking bans

2008, the Bahrain government introduced anti-smoking laws indoor public areas, including restaurants, cafes, hair salons, shopping malls and public transport. The law was highlighted by the ban of smoking in private cars when there are children.

The law could be implemented in the following points:

 Planting and manufacturing tobacco in Bahrain.
 Cigarette vending machines.
 Tobacco to be sold to anyone under the age of 18.
 The importing of chewable-based tobacco products.
 Smoking at closed public places, including airports, hotels, supermarkets and schools.
 'No smoking' signs must be displayed prominently where there is a ban.

Barbados
Barbados has a smoking ban in place in indoor public places, workplaces and public transport.

Belgium
 1989: Smoking is prohibited in a list of public buildings (such as schools, hospitals, and stations).
 2005: Companies should have implemented plans to discourage smoking.
 January 2006: Smoking prohibited in the workplace.
 January 2007: Smoking prohibited in restaurants and bars, except in those that serve "light meals" (e.g. cold meals, pizzas and warm meals that are served with bread instead of French fries) and have less of 30% of their sales from food servings. Small bars are also not included in the regulations. Larger bars, such as concert venues, should enforce the regulations although the initial experience was variable.
 September 2008: Smoking no longer allowed in schools.
 January 2010: A general smoking ban that included all types of bars had been discussed but was watered-down to a set of regulations that apply only when food is served.
 July 2011: On 15 March 2011, Belgium's Constitutional Court ruled that the discrimination between bars serving food and those not serving food (and casinos) distorted competition and that, as a consequence, the partial exemption had to end by July 2011, thus banning smoking in Belgian bars, restaurants and casinos without exception.

Benin
Benin has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.

Bermuda
As of 1 October 2006, smoking is banned in all enclosed workplaces in Bermuda, including restaurants, bars, private clubs and hotels.

Bhutan

Following a resolution of the 87th session of the National Assembly on 17 December 2004, a national prohibition upon the sale of tobacco and tobacco products went into effect, but importing limited tobacco has remained legal subject to very heavy taxes. Smoking in all public places in Bhutan became illegal on 22 February 2005. It thus became the first nation in the world to outlaw this practice outright.

The Tobacco Control Act of Bhutan was enacted by parliament on 16 June 2010. It prohibits the cultivation, harvesting, production, and sale of tobacco and tobacco products in Bhutan. The act also mandates that the government of Bhutan provide counseling and treatment to facilitate tobacco cessation. Premised on the physical health and well-being of the Bhutanese people – important elements of Gross National Happiness – the Tobacco Control Act recognizes the harmful effects of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke on both spiritual and social health.

The consumption of tobacco is not altogether prohibited in Bhutan, though it is largely banned in places of public accommodation. The Act largely targets smoking in particular, though all forms of tobacco are subject to the Act. The Tobacco Control Act establishes non-smoking areas: commercial centers including markets, hotel lobbies, restaurants, and bars; recreation centers such as discothèques, cinemas, and playing fields; institutions and offices, both public and private; public gatherings and public spaces such as festivals, taxi stands, and the airport; all public transportation; and any other places declared by the Tobacco Control Board. The board also has the authority to designate smoking areas in public. Smoking areas are permitted in non-public areas of hotels (i.e. smoking floors or smoking rooms) at the discretion of the patron.

The Act allows individuals to import tobacco and tobacco products for personal consumption subject to limits set by the Tobacco Control Board, as well as duties and taxes. Those who bring their own tobacco or tobacco products into Bhutan must bear proof of taxation, may only bring goods that display required health warnings, and must not bring goods that promote tobacco by means that are false, misleading, or likely to create an erroneous impression of its characteristics, health effects, or hazards (e.g. descriptors such as "light" or "mild"). The Act totally prohibits tobacco advertisement, promotion and sponsorship, restricting the appearance of tobacco in domestic videos and movies to educational clips produced for the purpose of health promotion.