[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of former Muslims

l lady of north India, ruling a large area from Sardhana, Uttar Pradesh.
 Bob Denard – French soldier and mercenary leader. Converted from Roman Catholicism to Judaism, then Islam and eventually back to Roman Catholicism.
 Broery – Indonesian singer (from Christianity to Islam back to Christianity).

 Brother Rachid – television presenter. He hosts a TV show called Daring Question which focuses on discussing and criticizing Islam.
 Carlos Menem – former President of Argentina. Raised a Muslim but converted to Roman Catholicism, the majority religion of Argentina, due to his political aspirations (before the 1994 reform, the Argentine Constitution established that the President of the Nation had to be a Roman Catholic).
 Casilda of Toledo – saint of the Roman Catholic Church.
 Chamillionaire – (born Hakeem Seriki) American rapper.
 Chulpan Khamatova – Russian actress.
 Constantine the African – Baghdad-educated Muslim who died in 1087 as a Christian monk at Monte Cassino.
 The Clan Yusupov – noble family of Tatar descent down the Khans of the Nogai Horde, convert to Eastern Orthodox Christianity in the 17th century.
 Daniel Bambang Dwi Byantoro – leader (and Archimandrite) of the Indonesian Orthodox Church.
 Daveed Gartenstein-Ross – counter-terrorism expert and attorney (from Judaism to Islam to Christianity).
 Descendants of Kuchum – former Muslim Genghisid family which converted to Russian Orthodox Christianity.
 Diana Nasution – Indonesian singer, converted to Protestantism after marriage.
 Djibril Cissé – footballer for club and country.
 Don Juan of Persia – late-16th- and early-17th-century figure in Iran and Spain, converted from Shia Islam to Roman Catholicism.
 Donald Fareed – Iranian Christian tele-evangelist and minister.
 Eldridge Cleaver – Conversions/Associations to Nation of Islam then Evangelical Christianity then Mormonism.
 Emily Ruete – (born Sayyida Salme) Princess of Zanzibar and Oman.
 Enrique de Malaca – Malay slave of Ferdinand Magellan, converted to Roman Catholicism after being purchased in 1511.
 Ergun Caner – Swedish-American academic, author, and Baptist minister.
 Estevanico – Berber originally from Morocco and one of the early explorers of the Southwestern United States.
 Fadhma Aït Mansour – mother of French writers Jean Amrouche and Taos Amrouche.
 Fathia Ghali – Egyptian princess and youngest daughter of Fuad I of Egypt and Nazli Sabri.
 Fathima Rifqa Bary – American teenager of Sri Lankan descent who drew international attention in 2009 when she ran away from home and claimed that her Muslim parents might kill her for having converted to Christianity.
 Fernão Lopes – Portuguese nobleman, soldier and the first known permanent inhabitant of the remote Island of Saint Helena in the South Atlantic Ocean.
 Francis Bok – Sudanese-American activist, convert to Islam from Christianity; but later returned to his Christian faith.
 George Weah – Liberian soccer player (from Christianity to Islam back to Christianity).
 Ghorban Tourani – former Iranian Sunni Muslim who became a Christian minister. Following multiple murder threats, he was abducted and murdered on November 22, 2005.
 Hakan Taştan and Turan Topal – two Turkish Christian converts who went on trial in 2006, on charges of "allegedly insulting 'Turkishness' and inciting religious hatred against Islam".
 Hamid Pourmand – former Iranian army colonel and lay leader of the Jama'at-e Rabbani, the Iranian branch of the Assemblies of God church in Iran.
 Hassan Dehqani-Tafti – Anglican Bishop of Iran from 1961 to 1990.
 Hazem Farraj – Palestinian American minister, writer, evangelist
 Hisn Jihan – Circassian wife of Bashir Shihab II. Muslim by birth, she was captured by Turkish slavers and converted to Maronite Catholicism after being released by Bashir and marrying him.
 House of Yusupov – former Muslim Genghisid family which converted to Russian Orthodox Christianity.
 Ibrahim Ben Ali – soldier, physician and one of the earliest American settlers of Turkish origin.
 Ibrahim Njoya – Bamum people religion; back and forth conversions from Islam to Christianity. Also created his own religion.
 Ibrahim Tunggul Wulung – Indonesian evangelist and missionary.
 Imad ud-din Lahiz – Prolific Islamic writer, preacher and Quranic translator.
 Jabalah ibn al-Aiham – last ruler of the Ghassanid state in Syria and Jordan in the seventh century AD. After the Islamic conquest of Levant he converted to Islam in AD 638. He reverted to Christianity later on and lived in Anatolia until he died in AD 645.
 Jacob Frank – 18th century Jewish religious leader who claimed to be the reincarnation of the self-proclaimed messiah Sabbatai Zevi, and also of King David. Frank publicly converted to Islam in 1757 and later to Christianity at Poland in 1759, but actually presented himself as the Messiah of a syncretic derivation of Shabbatai Zevi's Messianism now referred to as Frankism.
 James Scurry – British soldier and statesman.
 Jean-Bédel Bokassa – Central