[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 48]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ff from them and falls to the ground; whereas ours, being quite
flat, detained almost all the rain that fell upon it, which must
necessarily soak deeper and deeper into the straw, till it penetrated
quite through."

They therefore agreed to remedy this defect; and for this purpose they
took several poles of an equal length, the one end of which they
fastened to the side of the house, and let the other two ends meet in
the middle, by which means they formed a roof exactly like that which we
commonly see upon buildings; they also took several poles, which they
tied across the others, to keep them firm in their places, and give the
roof additional strength; and lastly, they covered the whole with straw
or thatch; and for fear the thatch should be blown away, they stuck
several pegs in different places, and put small pieces of stick
crosswise from peg to peg, to keep the straw in its place. When this was
done they found they had a very tolerable house; only the sides, being
formed of brushwood alone, did not sufficiently exclude the wind. To
remedy this inconvenience, Harry, who was chief architect, procured some
clay, and mixing it up with water, to render it sufficiently soft, he
daubed it all over the walls, both within and without, by which means
the wind was excluded and the house rendered much warmer than before.




CHAPTER IV.

     The Boys' Garden--The Crocodile--The Farmer's Wife--How to make
     Cider--The Bailiffs take possession of the Farmer's
     Furniture--Tommy pays the Farmer's Debt--Conclusion of the Story of
     the Grateful Turk--The three Bears--Tommy and the Monkey--Habits of
     the Monkey--Tommy's Robin Redbreast--Is killed by a Cat--The Cat
     punished--The Laplanders--Story of a Cure of the Gout.


Some time had now elapsed since the seeds of the wheat were sown, and
they began to shoot so vigorously that the blade of the corn appeared
green above the ground, and increased every day in strength. Tommy went
to look at it every morning, and remarked its gradual increase with the
greatest satisfaction. "Now," said he to Harry, "I think we should soon
be able to live if we were upon a desert island. Here is a house to
shelter us from the weather, and we shall soon have some corn for food."
"Yes," answered Harry; "but there are a great many things still wanting
to enable us to make bread."

Mr Barlow had a very large garden, and an orchard full of the finest
fruit-trees; and he had another piece of ground where he used to sow
seeds in order to raise trees, and then they were carefully planted out
in beds till they were big enough to be moved into the orchard and
produce fruit. Tommy had often eaten of the fruit of the orchard, and
thought it delicious, and this led him to think that it would be a great
improvement to their house if he had a few trees that he might set near
it, and which would shelter it from the sun and hereafter produce fruit;
so he asked Mr Barlow to give him a couple of trees, and Mr Barlow told
him to go into the nursery and take his choice. Accordingly Tommy went,
and chose out two of the strongest-looking trees he could find, which,
with Harry's assistance, he transplanted into the garden in the
following manner:--They both took their spades and very carefully dug
the trees up without injuring their roots; then they dug two large holes
in the place where they chose the trees should stand, and very carefully
broke the earth to pieces, that it might lie light upon the roots; then
the tree was placed in the middle of the hole, and Tommy held it
upright while Harry gently threw the earth over the roots, which he trod
down with his feet in order to cover them well. Lastly, he stuck a large
stake in the ground and tied the tree to it, from the fear that the
wintry wind might injure it, or perhaps entirely blow it out of the
ground.

Nor did they bound their attention here. There was a little spring of
water which burst forth from the upper ground in the garden, and ran
down the side of the hill in a small stream. Harry and Tommy laboured
very hard for several days to form a new channel, to lead the water near
the roots of their trees, for it happened to be hot and dry weather, and
they feared their trees might perish from the want of moisture.

Mr Barlow saw them employed in this manner with the greatest
satisfaction. He told them that in many parts of the world the excessive
heat burned up the ground so much that nothing would grow unless the
soil was watered in that manner. "There is," said he, "a country in
particular, called Egypt, which has always been famous for its
fertility, and for the quantity of corn that grows in it, which is
naturally watered in the following extraordinary manner:--There is a
great river called the Nile, which flows through the whole extent of the
country; the river, at a particular time of the year, begins to overflow
its banks, and, as the whole countr