[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hector de Saint-Denys Garneau

sed of twenty-eight poems and divided into seven sections, unified, when we add "Accompaniment", unnumbered, at the end of the seventh section, entitled "Untitled". As Romain Légaré underlines: “the book is supported, like a vital necessity, by an indestructible law, that of the unity of opposites”.

For a long time, the “I” of the different speakers (living things, objects and “others”) in this book has been confused with the more erased one of the poet himself. The poems, however, are mystery enough. On the original form of this poetry, François Hébert writes:
"In a very stripped-down speech, the simplest on the surface, but with extremely varied registers, as long as you listen to it, Garneau inlaid a thousand and one surprises [...]: rhymes or assonances and unexpected references ('chaise', double phonetic and semantic contraction of a 'malaise' and a 'chose'), jarring syntax ('living and art'), phonetic gambols (of 'je' to 'jeu', from 'moi' to 'joie' via 'pas'), semantic breaks and leaps (from 'body' to 'soul', from 'self' to 'world'). [...] The verse is mostly odd. And irregular, whimsical even, [...] with its gaps, its variations, its arabesques. [...] Bizarrely laid out on the page (as a staircase, irregularly spaced), the verses abound in unforeseen rhymes, in clever alliterations, placed as if by chance [...]"

Alain Grandbois sums it up: “Garneau's poetry [...] seems to me to provide the most perfect expression of the most astonishing freedom. it unties the chains, escapes and rejoins total emancipation. ". Even if de Saint-Denys Garneau himself would have been disappointed with its reception, Regards et Jeux dans l'espace is today considered one of the most important books of Quebec poetry.

Posthumous works

Letters
The recent declassification of many unpublished letters by Garneau calls for a rereading of all of his correspondence, which can no longer simply be considered as a sideline to the work, as it links all the pieces of it. The letters form the most massive part of his work (920 pages, "well packed"). Garneau likes to write long letters, until physical exhaustion. He discusses his readings, compares such and such a composer, comments on an exhibition of paintings, tells an anecdote, paints a portrait, describes a landscape, etc: each time, he 'walks around what he is among what there is. ', reconstituting with precision “every moment of what he presents as a game in which he is both the witness and the actor”. His story unfolds “before our eyes like a comic strip using simple lines, barely sketches. Moment often “described with a strong, mocking sensuality,” as if the poet took, it is clear, great pleasure in feeling what, ordinarily, “arouses only repulsion [...]. His story corrects the expected impression, contradicts the received idea” (still today) that his atypical career “was one of near horror”. In the private space of the letter, without the restraint imposed by publication, De Saint-Denys Garneau addresses in a very free and down-to-earth way the central question of all his writings: how to be?.

In the quasi-novel that his letters are, the hero is an "I" who constantly questions his relationship to the world, to others and to himself, as if he were never certain of really existing. We rarely see what the object of the Garnelian letter is, so that we forget its immediate aim. Admittedly, its documentary value is far from negligible, but it remains secondary. It is the ontological framework, in reality, "which motivates epistolary writing". Reading his Letters in the form of a continuous text, one manages to grasp the coherence of this character, for whom “being is a fictional activity”, and writing, an absolute. In his letters — and as if his life depended on it — Garneau gives himself entirely, and always questioning the value of this “gift” of oneself, which is writing.
“ The correspondence of the poet de Saint-Denys Garneau is one of the most singular. Whether we compare it to those of letter-writers from here or elsewhere, it is difficult to find a single one that really resembles it. ”

 — Michel Biron, 2022
For the editor of the Lettres, Michel Biron, "de Saint-Denys Garneau is proving to be a remarkable letter-writer, both in terms of the quality and the quantity of letters written in barely a dozen years". In 2020, we discover "a fascinating letter writer who puts the best of himself into his letters, but also a complex, funny and endearing character" writes Biron, "so different from the character frozen in the role of victim that [we] attributed to him, also so different from an austere and sad Garneau [...]". His letters are “both a sort of novel […] and a form of essay". They tell "the story of a life with an intensity, a lucidity and an acuity superior to anything that Garneau's friends or commentators on his work have attempted to do" and this life, "vibrates everywhere.".