[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# U.S. Route 97 Alternate

U.S. Route 97 Alternate (US 97 Alt., also abbreviated as US 97A)  is an alternate route of US 97 within the state of Washington. It runs for  from Wenatchee to Chelan, following the west bank of the Columbia River opposite from US 2 and US 97. The highway travels through sparsely-populated areas along the river and passes near the Rocky Reach Dam and through the town of Entiat.

Wagon roads along the west side of the Columbia River were plotted in the 1880s by American settlers and added to the state highway system in 1897. The wagon road was designated as State Road 10 (later the Lake Chelan and Okanogan Highway) and was completely paved by the late 1930s. US 97 was created in 1926 and followed the highway, which was relocated in the 1950s due to the construction of the Rocky Reach Dam. A highway on the east side of the river was completed in the 1980s and designated as part of US 97 in 1987, leaving the west side to become an alternate route.

Route description

US 97A begins north of Wenatchee at a partial cloverleaf interchange with US 2 and US 97 at the west end of the Richard Odabashian Bridge. US 2 and US 97 travel concurrently through the area on an east–west divided highway, while the roadway itself continues south towards Wenatchee Confluence State Park as Euclid Avenue. US 97A travels north alongside the Cascade and Columbia River Railroad on the west bank of the Columbia River, passing through an industrial area and intersecting Ohme Garden Road at a roundabout. The highway narrows to two lanes and moves closer to the river, abutting the steep slopes of the Entiat Mountains to the west. Along this section of the river, US 97A passes Rocky Reach Dam and its visitor center, located opposite Lincoln Rock State Park on US 2 and US 97.

The highway continues northeast alongside the Columbia River and Lake Entiat, passing several resort communities on the riverbank. US 97A and the railroad move closer to the riverbank near Tenas George Canyon and gradually turn north, crossing several creeks that empty into the lake. Near Numeral Mountain, the highway crosses over the mouth of the Entiat River and enters the city limits of Entiat. US 97A travels to the west of several waterfront parks and recreation areas and skirts the east edge of the city's main commercial and residential neighborhoods. The highway passes the Columbia Breaks Fire Interpretive Center and continues out of the city, continuing along the river as it bends eastward near Winesap. The mountains to the west of US 97A form part of the Chelan Wildlife Area, which stretches along the west side of the river from Wenatchee to Chelan.

At the mouth of Navarre Coulee, the highway intersects the south end of SR 971, which travels north to Lake Chelan State Park. US 97A continues northeast for a short distance before leaving the river and railroad at Knapp's Hill, which the highway crosses under with a short tunnel. The highway turns north to follow Knapp Coulee, which lies at the eastern edge of the Wenatchee National Forest, and passes through a vineyard and zipline park. US 97A ascends into the coulee's narrower reaches, gaining a northbound climbing lane, and then descends while turning northeast towards the shore of Lake Chelan near the Bear Mountain Ranch golf course. After a stair-step turn to the east and north adjacent to several wineries, the highway intersects the north end of SR 971 and turns east onto Woodin Avenue. US 97A continues east along the foothills of the Chelan Butte and enters the city of Chelan near Lakeside Park.

Woodin Avenue passes several resort hotels, a marina, and a terminal for the Lady of the Lake ferry that travels to Stehekin. Near Chelan High School, Woodin Avenue splits from US 97A, which continues east onto Webster Avenue and crosses over the Chelan River near the Lake Chelan Dam. The highway then turns north onto Sanders Street and east onto Woodin Avenue, beginning a concurrency with SR 150 as it leaves downtown Chelan. US 97A and SR 150 pass through a commercial strip before splitting near the eastern outskirts of the city, with US 97A continuing northeast into the hills overlooking the Columbia River. The highway crosses part of the Gallagher Flat State Wildlife Recreation Area and travels just south of the Lake Chelan Airport before terminating at a junction with US 97 southwest of Azwell.