[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

ould again come under attack and faced with dwindling supplies, Harrison decided to withdraw his force into Missouri. On April 25 the two loyal Arkansans regiments departed Fayetteville along with a train of over 1,000 unionist families, many of which likely belonged to the 1st infantry and cavalry.

Service on the Frontier 1863-1864 
After a March of over 100 miles, the regiment arrived at Springfield on May 4, marching into the city in their “ragged and tattered ’Butternuts’” according to one account. Here Col. Johnson returned to the regiment and for the next two months, the regiment would remain in Springfield at  where they likely waited to receive proper equipment. Company E reported that its men were sent to guard forage trains and conduct patrols, all the while lacking any shoes, coats or blankets to protect them against the elements. On July 6 the regiment was ordered to Cassville, Missouri, less than 20 miles from the Arkansas border. Rebel activity was strong around Cassville with scouts being attacked by small bands of confederates, though the city itself was never directly attacked. Col. Johnson was appointed the commander of the post and was active in this command, personally meeting with confederates under a flag of truce and sending out scouts across the region. The former involved a confederate captain requesting that Johnson remove the armed unionists from Arkansas, a request that was promptly denied by the colonel. On July 30 the Colonel received the same types of unionists the confederate captain referred to when Elijah Drake, the sheriff of Madison County, and 32 of his neighbors arrived at Cassville with weapons and enlisted into the union regiments at the post, including the 1st Arkansas Infantry. Drake and his fellow unionists had been hiding out in the hills due to the violence and theft which had become commonplace in the region.

Also in July, a scouting mission to Fayetteville was launched from Cassville, which included a few soldiers from the 1st Arkansas infantry who were mounted for this expedition. The scout reached Fayetteville but the rebels had retreated just before they arrived. The scouts were attacked on their return trip by concealed confederates, who wounded 2 men. Responding in kind, the scouts took 9 prisoners and reportedly killed 17 of their attackers.

While Col. Johnson operated the post Lt. Col. Searle and Major Ham oversaw the daily regimental drill. Reverend Springer wrote the following in regards to the regiment's training:

Capture of Fort Smith 

In August the regiment was ordered to report to Major General James Blunt, commanding the Army of the Frontier, at Fort Gibson in the Choctaw Nation (Indian Territory) to take part in an offensive against the confederates in the region. On August 13 the regiment departed Cassville heading south and crossed the Arkansas border, from there heading west. During the march, Colonel Johnson decided to take a different route than a previous federal division to be in a better position if any confederate forces attacked but none came and the regiment marched into Indian Territory unmolested. On August 23 the 1st Arkansas reached Fort Gibson and the following day began marching south, behind General Blunt's main force. It was on that day, the 24th, that Col. Johnson was nearly the victim of friendly fire. Johnson decided to scout the route ahead of the regiment alone and after traveling 3 miles he spotted four men. Believing them to be rebels given their attire he approached the group and the two questioned each other, to which the answers Johnson gave didn't satisfy the men. The standoff gradually ended after Johnson, who was wearing a coat that hid his rank, asked if they belonged to General Blunt's army and the four replied they did. From there the two learned of each other's identity; the four men were union scouts who were hoping to rejoin the army. One of the men told Johnson that they “felt a strong inclination at the sight of him to fire upon him”, with the man further elaborating to the Colonel that “our Army of the Frontier has its scouts & spies dressed in citizens' dress,in Federal uniform, in rebel uniform, in butternut & in buckskin; & we have a right to suppose that the secesh are as uncertain in their dress as we are”.