[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cound

on who had also played for Surrey and all England.

During the winter of 1905/1906 a new cricket square was laid on its current site through the generosity of then President A.C. McCorquodale. In 1955 the club was able to raise sufficient monies to purchase the ground outright from the Cound Estate.

As of 2008 Cound CC field 2 teams in the Shropshire Cricket League, the 1st playing in Division 1 and the 2nd XI winning promotion to Division 3. The club also has a mid-week team, and a thriving junior section. The club improved facilities with the addition of new changing facilities in August 2006. In the season practice nights are on a Monday for the seniors and Thursdays for the juniors.

Cound in the media
Cound Hall featured in one-off BBC feature Fast Show special, Ted and Ralph in December 1998, where it starred as Ralph's ancestral home.

In 2004, during the period that Cound Hall stood empty and increasingly derelict it also featured in the BBC programme Restoration but was unsuccessful in the public competition for funds to renovate the building. Fortunately, funds were subsequently raised by building new houses within the grounds of the Hall and it has been now almost fully restored and is inhabited once again.

In 2010, 2 episodes of the BBC programme "Songs of Praise" were recorded from the church of St. Peter in Cound. One episode (broadcast in December 2010) saw the church and congregation in Edwardian dress and featured an Edwardian themed Christmas concert. The second episode (broadcast in Lent 2011) sees the church in a more modern light with an "up-to-date" service.

Notable people
Sir Thomas Lodge (Lord Mayor of London) was born at Cound about 1509.
Edward Cressett, son of the original Lord of the Manor at Cound Hall, served as Dean of Hereford Cathedral before being ordained as Bishop of Llandaff between 1748 and 1754 (Jonathan Humphries, Cound Hall Past and Present, 1989).
Barbara Cartland (1901-2000), romantic novelist, lived at Cound Hall during her first marriage (to Alexander McCorquodale).

See also 
 Listed buildings in Cound
 Cound Brook
 Condover
 Severn Valley Railway

References

External links

COUND GUILDHALL
1939 photographs of Cound
Cound Listed buildings and structures
BBC:Shropshire
English Heritage: Cound Hall, Shropshire
Cound Cricket Club Website

Populated places on the River Severn
Villages in Shropshire
Shrewsbury and Atcham