[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Matot

ive commandment:
Not to transgress in matters that one has forbidden oneself

According to Sefer ha-Chinuch
According to Sefer ha-Chinuch, there is 1 positive and 1 negative commandment in the parashah. 
The precept of the law of nullifying vows
That we should not break our word in vows that we make

Haftarah
The haftarah for parashah Matot is . The haftarah is the first of three readings of admonition leading up to Tisha B'Av.

When parashah Matot is combined with parashah Masei (as it will be until 2035), the haftarah is the haftarah for parashah Masei:
for Ashkenazi Jews:  & .
for Sephardi Jews:  & .

Summary
The haftarah in  begins by identifying its words as those of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, a priest in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, to whom God's word came in the thirteenth year of the reign of Josiah the son of Amon as king of Judah, in the reign of Josiah's son Jehoiakim, and through the eleventh year of the reign of Josiah's son Zedekiah, when Jerusalem was carried away captive.

God's word came to Jeremiah to say that before God formed him in the womb, God knew him, sanctified him, and appointed him a prophet to the nations. Jeremiah protested that he could not speak, for he was a child, but God told him not to fear, for he would go wherever God would send him, say whatever God would command him to say, and God would be with him to deliver him. Then God touched Jeremiah's mouth and said that God had put words in his mouth and set him over the nations to root out and to pull down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant. God asked Jeremiah what he saw, he replied that he saw the rod of an almond tree, and God said that he had seen well, for God watches over God's word to perform it.

God's word came to Jeremiah a second time to ask what he saw, he replied that he saw a seething pot tipping from the north, and God said that out of the north evil would break forth upon all Israel. For God would call all the kingdoms of the north to come, and they would set their thrones at Jerusalem's gate, against its walls, and against the cities of Judah. God would utter God's judgments against Judah, as its people had forsaken God and worshipped the work of their own hands. God thus directed Jeremiah to gird his loins, arise, and speak to the Judean people all that God commanded, for God had made Jeremiah a fortified city, an iron pillar, and brazen walls against the land of Judah, its rulers, its priests, and its people. They would fight against him, but they would not prevail, for God would be with him to deliver him.

God's word came to Jeremiah to tell him to go and cry in the ears of Jerusalem that God remembered the affection of her youth, her love as a bride, how she followed God in the wilderness. Israel was God's hallowed portion and God's first-fruits, and all that devoured Israel would be held guilty and evil would come upon them.

Connection to the special Sabbath
The first of three readings of admonition leading up to Tisha B'Av, the haftarah admonishes Judah and Israel in . And then in , the haftarah concludes with consolation. The Gemara taught that Jeremiah wrote the book of Lamentations, and as Jews read Lamentations on Tisha B'Av, this probably accounts for why a selection from Jeremiah begins the series of haftarot of admonition.

Notes

Further reading
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these sources:

Biblical
 (vow).
 (vows).
 (vows);  (vows);  (valuation of vows).
 (vows);  (trumpets);  (the spies);  (sharing with the priests and Levites);  (vow);  (Midianites).
 (Reubenites and Gadites);  (vows).
 (Reubenites and Gadites); ;  (Reubenites and Gadites).
 (Midianites).
1 Samuel  (vow);  (division of booty).
 (God avenges);  (paying vows);  (the righteous shall inherit the land);  (men call their lands after their own names);  (paying vows);  (washing);  (performing vows);  (value of lives);  (vengeance belongs to God);  (Peor);  (value of lives).
 (vows).

Early nonrabbinic
Josephus, Antiquities of the Jews 4:7:1, 3. Circa 93–94. In, e.g., The Works of Josephus: Complete and Unabridged, New Updated Edition. Translated by William Whiston, pages 113–14. Peabody, Massachusetts: Hendrickson Publishers, 1987.
Matthew  Antioch, circa 80–90 CE. (vows).
Qur'an: 2:224–226; 5:89; 9:12–13; 16:91–92, 94; 66:2 (vows).