[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Zenobia Camprubí

reet.

On 22 August 1936, they left Spain. Four days later they boarded in Cherbourg in the 'Aquitaine' liner bound for New York and the couple began a journey in which they visited Cuba, United States, Buenos Aires and Puerto Rico, where Zenobia worked as a teacher at the University of Puerto Rico.

In 1937 and 1938 the Jiménez-Camprubí couple was located in Cuba and lived in the Hotel Vedado in Havana. They developed a series of social and cultural activities, as well as  taking part in a political act of support on the Spanish Republican faction. They continued taking care of Spanish orphan children and fundraising through subscriptions in the press of New York newspapers and other publication.  Zenobia also worked as a volunteer in women's prisons and donated her clothes.

In January 1939, they moved to Coral Gables, Florida. At the end of the Civil War, the flat that Zenobia and Juan Ramón had in Madrid that survived during all the conflict had been robbed: books, documents and other personal items were taken.

In January of the following year, when Juan Ramón taught his first formal lecture at the University of Miami, Zenobia simultaneously read an English version translated by her.
In 1942 her older brother, José Camprubí, died of a heart attack.

In 1943 Zenobia and Juan Ramón moved to Washington and, in January of the next year, the University of Maryland wanted Zenobia to teach Spanish to a group of soldiers. After that, they decided to hire her as a teacher in the Department of history and European culture too. 
 
In 1945 they moved to live in Riverdale, because she was given a permanent job. Two years later, they bought a house where she and Juan Ramón Jiménez taught classes.
In 1948 the couple travelled around Argentina and Uruguay. The trip was extended more than three months so the poet could give 12 more lectures. Neither Juan Ramón nor Zenobia imagined the massive and warm reception they would receive there.

In 1950, they traveled during November and December to Puerto Rico due to the nervous breakdowns of Juan Ramón.

In 1951, he had to get a cancer operation in Boston. In 1954, he had to have another operation in Puerto Rico, because he didn't want to go to the United States. Zenobia not only left behind an interesting life, but also the possibility of receiving a good treatment for her own health problem. Zenobia signed a contract with the University of Puerto Rico to translate scientific brochures for a year. She started her classes at the University of Río Piedras. At the end of the year, she was operated on for cervical cancer in the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.

In February 1952 she recovered and returned to Puerto Rico. She continued her work at the University. On 18 August, Zenobia completed the Puerto Rico oath as an American citizen, thus she got dual citizenship.

At the beginning of 1953, her brother Augusto suffered cancer and spent a season with her and Juan Ramón in Puerto Rico before returning to the United States where he would die at the end of March. Zenobia completed her cancer treatment.

Final Years

In 1954, Zenobia stopped working at the University because of medical advice. The American magazine published an autobiographical entitled Juan Ramón and I.

In 1956, the cancer reappeared and in April Zenobia started a treatment that gave her serious burns. In the month of June, she flew to Boston for another operation, but the doctors told her not to have the operation and gave her only a few months to live. 

Zenobia died on 28 October 1956, in Puerto Rico, three days after her spouse received the Nobel Prize for literature.

Juan Ramón Jiménez survived two more years, and today, their remains are buried in Moguer.

Legacy

In 1955, and at their behest, the University of Puerto Rico established a research room for the couple which would concentrate on their personal library and on modern Hispanic literature. The research room now also covers publications about the couple and contains an approximate total of 105,699 volumes and documents. It bears the name of Zenobia and Juan Ramón Jiménez to this day. 

The House of Culture Zenobia and Juan Ramón was created in Moguer.

See also

List of Latin American writers
List of Puerto Rican writers
List of Puerto Ricans
Puerto Rican literature
Multi-Ethnic Literature of the United States
Puerto Rican poetry

References

  Zenobia Camprubí profile 
  Biografía de Zenobia Camprubí
  Zenobia Camprubí

External links