[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Wooldridge (politician)

ent Director' of the ASX listed Australian Pharmaceuticals Industry Limited. In September 2009, Wooldridge was invited to join a panel hosted by CSL Limited "a major manufacturer [of flu vaccine] in a US$2 billion influenza industry" hosted by the company to dispel myths about swine flu vaccination.

Wooldridge has served on the Boards of Resonance Health Ltd, Dia-b Tech Limited (resigned in 2009, company since de-listed) and a Director of CogState Ltd. He is currently Chairman of Neurosciences Australia, Healthsource Australia (Ministerial Advisory Committee on AIDS, Sexual Health and Hepatitis), the CRC for Mental Health and the Oral Health Cooperative Research Centre. He is also Associate Professor at the University of Melbourne.

In December 2013, Wooldridge and four other directors of Australian Property Custodian Holdings Ltd (APCHL) were found liable by the Federal Court for breaching their duties as officers of APCHL.  APCHL was the responsible entity of the Prime Retirement and Aged Care Property Trust (Prime Trust), a managed investment scheme which owned retirement villages in Queensland, NSW and Victoria. APCHL collapsed in 2010 when administrators were appointed owing investors approximately $550 million. On 2 December 2014 he was banned as a company director for more than two years over his role in Prime Trust. Other directors, including founder Bill Lewski, received bans up to 15 years.

Wooldridge has also served on the board of the anti-wind energy activism organisation, the Waubra Foundation, along with other prominent anti-wind energy activists, including Sarah Laurie, Peter Mitchell, and Kathy Russell. The Waubra Foundation promotes the view that wind turbines cause ill health. Wooldridge and family are objectors to the Bald Hills wind farm in Gippsland Victoria.

Michael Wooldridge is the brother of Mary Wooldridge, Mental Health Minister in the Victorian State Government 2010–14.

References

External links
Department of Health and Aging, Speeches and press releases from January 2001 to November 2001
 

|

20th-century Australian medical doctors
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Casey
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Chisholm
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
1956 births
Living people
Liberal Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Australia
People from Ballarat
Medical doctors from Melbourne
Politicians from Melbourne
Monash University alumni
People educated at Scotch College, Melbourne
21st-century Australian politicians
20th-century Australian politicians
Australian Ministers for Health