[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of PlayStation games incompatible with PlayStation 2

pressed on the title screen, noise continues to sound after that.)
Indy 500
International Superstar Soccer Pro
In Cold Blood
Jackie Chan Stuntmaster
Jampack Vol. 2
Jigoku Sensei Nube (The screen may not be displayed properly in the movie when the game is started.)
Jikki Pachi-Slot Tettel Kouryaku - Speed-Cr Kinkakuji 3 (When playing with a pachislot controller (SLPH-00098) connected, saving game data may fail. * This symptom does not occur when a normal controller is connected.)
Judge Dredd
Kasei Monogatari (Registration may not be performed correctly when changing the "ASCII GRIP V" setting.)
Konya mo Dorubako!! 2000 (When switching screens or loading from a disc, the symptom that the image stops frequently occurs.)
Krazy Ivan (Each item may blink on the aircraft setting screen after clearing the stage.)
Lemmings
Logic Puzzle Rainbow Town (The screen freezes when the game starts.)
Lunar 2: Eternal Blue Complete
Lupin the Third Chateau De Cagliostro (The screen freezes when the game starts on Disc 2 or 3 of and replace it with another Disc.)
Magic: The Gathering Battlemage
Marionette Company 2 Chu!
Megatudo 2096 (When "KEY CONFIG" or "RECORDS" is selected from the title menu, the screen is not displayed normally.)
Mitsumete Knight R - Daibouken Hen (If a player reset the game, the screen may freeze after the logo is displayed immediately after restarting.)
Mobile Suit Gundam - Char's Counterattack (In "STAGE 2" during the game, part of the video may not be displayed properly.)
Monkey Hero
Monster Rancher / Monster Farm (The symptom that the image stops on the screen displaying the match result of the league match frequently occurs.)
Moorhuhn 3
Mortal Kombat Trilogy
Muppet Monster Adventure
Murakoshi Seikai no Bakuchou Seabass Fishing (Sound effects are not played normally in "SE TEST" on the DISC 1 option screen.)
Namco Anthology Vol.02 (Arranged version of "King of Kings" may stop progress.)
Namco Museum Encore (Of the 7 titles recorded, 2 titles, "Wonder Momo" and "Rolling Thunder," are slow in the game.)
Namco Museum Vol.2 (In "Xevious", the speed during the game is slow.)
Namco Soccer Prime Goal / J.League Soccer Prime Goal EX (Characters may not be displayed properly in "penalty shootouts" during the game.)
Newman Haas Racing
NFL Gameday
NFL Xtreme
NHL 2000
NHL 2001
NHL Blades of Steel 2000
NHL Rock the Rink
Not Treasure Hunter (When loading game data on a memory card and when switching screens after the game is over, the symptom that the image stops frequently occurs.)
Nuclear Strike
Omizu no Hanamichi (The screen may not be displayed properly in some scenes during the game.)
One
Ongaku Tsukuru - Kanade-Ru 2 (The song data on the memory card cannot be loaded in the "jukebox".)
Oukyuu No Hihou Tension (The map display is not displayed properly in the dungeon.)
Pink Panther - Pinkadelic Pursuit
PO'ed
Premier Manager 99
Racingroovy (On the "COURSE SELECT" screen, the screen may stop if the course is changed continuously.)
Rascal / Bubblegun Kid (The operating speed of the game is generally slow.)
Resident Evil 2 / Biohazard 2 (After selecting "NEW GAME" in the game, the sound may not be played normally on a part of the movie screen.)
Resident Evil 3: Nemesis
Rushdown
Sentient
Shadow Madness
Shadow Master
Shin Fortune Quest - Shokutaku no Kishi-tachi (When selecting the character "Pastel" in the game, the character may not be displayed properly.)
Shisha no Yobu Yakata - Pandora Max Series Vol.2 (The game progress may stop when the screen is switched.)
Shoryu Sangokuengi (The screen freezes after the logo is displayed when the game starts.)
Shuukan Gallop - Blood Master (During the game, when switching screens, the game may stop progressing without the next screen appearing.)
Speed Freaks / Speed Punks
SpongeBob SquarePants: SuperSponge
Sold Out (The screen freezes after playing the movie when the game starts.)
Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro (there are texture issues and voice lines play randomly)
Spyro 3 - Year of the Dragon (Very rare frame drops, game is playable.)
Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (Major sound glitches, minor to major graphical issues, control issues with DualShock 1, sometimes freezes.)
Street Fighter Alpha 2 / Street Fighter Zero 2 (The picture may stop when the match begins.)
Street Fighter: The Movie
Street Racer
Super Puzzle Fighter II Turbo
Susume! Kaizoku - Be Pirates! (When a player win the attacked ship in the game and check the loot they have acquired, the picture stops on the loot explanation screen.)
Syphon Filter 2
Syphon Filter 3
Taiko Risshiden III (When saving to a memory card, writing may fail.)
Taikyoku Igo - Heisei Kiin (The screen does not display properly in some scenes during the game.)
Tanaka Torahiko no Ultra-ryuu Shougi - Ibisha Anaguma-hen (The screen is not displayed normally on the environment setting screen after selecting "Option" from the title menu.)
Test Drive 4 (If a player make specific settings in "Options" of the title menu, part of the course