[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Michuki

(NAK), as a merger of smaller opposition parties that endorsed Kibaki as flag-bearer.
In October 2002, NAK coalesced with the breakaway faction of KANU, the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to form the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) in 2002, which dislodged Moi and KANU after four decades in power.

Michuki became a central figure and a key Kibaki ally in the NARC politics, retaining his Kangema parliamentary seat. President Kibaki subsequently appointed him Minister of Transport and Communications in the NARC government.

Michuki Rules
Michuki's legacy as the Minister for Transport and Communications was the famous "Michuki Rules" aimed at restoring order in public transport, especially the chaotic Matatu (Taxi) sector.
The rules which came into effect in February 2004 required all public taxis ("matatus") and buses to install speed governors, passenger safety belts, operate in clearly defined routes, to carry a specified number of passengers and their drivers and conductors to be disciplined and to have a clean security record.

In recognition of his efforts to reform public transport, Michuki won the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights' Waziri (Minister's) award.
The defeat of the government sponsored constitution in the 2005 referendum culminated to the cabinet reshuffle which saw Michuki appointed as the Minister of influential ministry Internal Security and Provincial Administration.
Michuki was appointed as Minister for Roads and Public Works in the Cabinet named by President Kibaki on 8 January 2008 following the controversial December 2007 presidential election. He would however serve this ministry for a short while as when the Grand Coalition government was formed after a power-sharing agreement between president Kibaki and the leader of the opposition Raila Odinga.

Minister of Environment
Michuki was appointed as Minister for the Environment and Mineral Resources in the Grand Coalition Cabinet named on 13 April 2008. He was also appointed by president Kibaki as an Acting Minister of Finance on 11 July 2008 to stand in for Amos Kimunya.
Amos Kimunya stepped aside pending investigation on corruption allegation in the Ministry when he censored by parliament over the sale of Grand Regency Hotel and the Safaricom IPO.
As Minister for Environment and Mineral Resources, has initiated diverse programmes and projects among them being the Nairobi River's Rehabilitation and Restoration Programme, the reclamation of the Kenya's five water towers (the Mau Forest Complex, Mount Kenya, Aberdare Range, Mount Elgon and Cherangany Hills).
He was honoured with a UNEP Award for his clean-up of the Nairobi River and the city.
Michuki is the force behind the enactment of a new mining act to regulate environmental degradation and mining.
He also took key leadership role in addressing Africa's position towards the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen (December 2009) and served as the co-chair of International Environmental Governance (IEG). Michuki led the Kenya delegation to the Durban Environmental Conference in South Africa on 28 November – 9 December 2011 where he stated Kenya's determination to reduce the menace of global warming and called on the world's wealthy nations to assist the poor ones to mitigate the devastation of climate change. This turned out to be the Minister's last official assignment, having missed the 12th Special Session of the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) Governing Council Global Ministerial Forum held in Nairobi on 20 February 2012.

Controversies

'Shoot-to-Kill' 
Perhaps the most contentious issue surrounding Michuki is the infamous ‘Shoot-to-kill’ order against the out-lawed Mungiki sect, which he is alleged to have directed the police while he served as the Minister for Internal Security.
Human Rights groups condemned the order citing that it contravened both the Police Act and general Human Rights guaranteed by the constitution.

Michuki is alleged to have ordered the raid on the Standard Media Group in February 2006. He sparked more protest when he declared that "when you rattle a snake you must be prepared to be bitten."

The 2010 Referendum Politics 
During the 2010 referendum, Michuki initially took a neutral stand and was reluctant to declare support for the proposed constitution.
Michuki was in some instance reported in the media to be opposed to the draft constitution 'dismissing it as a foreign document'.
However, Michuki, who had remained mute for the better part of the campaigns, finally broke silence endorsing the draft constitution saying he did not want to "act as a stumbling block to the passage of a new constitution which has eluded Kenyans for over twenty years".
He also cited his long friendship with President Mwai Kibaki, who was heading the pro-constitution campaigns.