[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Civil Defence Auxiliary Unit

ending on the type of service, non-residentical training is conducted at the Civil Defence Academy (CDA) located at Jalan Bahar or at the Division HQ after office hours or weekends. Upon successful completion of training, CDAU officers will be deployed to the respective Division HQ or Fire Stations.

Service & Deployment 
CDAU is not an independent unit but placed subordinate to the different line units. Senior Officers (Lieutenant & Above) and Junior Officers (Senior Warrant Officer & Below) serve at least 24 and 16 hours respectively per month. They are required to serve a minimum of 2 hours per duty. Former SCDF regulars and national servicemen are given their last-held rank subject to approval. Those who are not previously served in SCDF will start with the corporal rank. Like the regulars and NS men, CDAU officers are rewarded similarly for their respective IPPT results. CDAU officers are also eligible for commendations and service medals awarded to their regular counterparts.  With effect from November 2016, the hourly allowance increase from $3.60 to $4.60 meant to offset out-of-pocket expenses such as transport and food.  As a result of the home team unified rank structure and scheme started in July 2016, new CDAU officers will start off as SGT 1 from July 2017 onwards.  Most of the existing CDAU officers holding corporal rank will be emplaced to SGT 1 similarly.

CDAU officers can remain active in service as long as he is medically fit, up to the age of 50 for junior officers or 55 for Senior Officers. As CDAU follows SCDF rank structure, auxiliary officers must meet the stringent requirement as their regular counterparts to be eligible for career progression.  Similarly to their regular counterpart, CDAUs must clear their annual IPPTs and other mandatory tests required for the respective vocations. Duty in CDAU are not counted as part of reservist liability.  CDAU members are also trained in SG Secure initiatives from 2016 onwards.

Attire 
Auxiliary officers are issued with either the working or field dress, similar to that of ordinary SCDF officers, to suit their working conditions. Auxiliary officers uses identical equipment with their regular counterparts.  Currently, only the difference in epaulette distinguish between ordinary SCDF officers and Auxiliary officers. Auxiliary Officers are allowed to don the respective SCDF decoration identical to their regular counterparts whenever qualified.

From April 2014 onwards, CDAU Officers don the similar epaulette as SCDF Officers.  CDAU Officers are distinguish by a badge pinned on the top right breast pocket.

Others 
CDAU should not be confused with Community Emergency Response Team (CERTs) as the latter is a non-uniformed organisation under People's Association and is only limited to support in its own community with lesser duty obligation.  When the Committee to Strengthen National Service (CSNS) report is released in May 2014, CDAU was mentioned.  Following that, CDAU was quoted on several media included Minister of Defence speech in Parliament seating.

In popular culture 
Fictional Television programs
 Fiery Passion (烈焰焚情 Liè Yàn Fén Qíng), 12 February 1992
 On the Frontline (穿梭生死线 Chuān Suō Shēng Sǐ Xiàn), 2000
 Life Line, 2005
 Without Warning 26 October 2006
 Life Line 2, 15 May 2007
 Rescue 995, 06 Feb 2012

See also 
 Ministry of Home Affairs (Singapore)
 Home Team Volunteers Network
 National Civil Defence Cadet Corps
 Volunteer fire department
 SAF Volunteer Corps
 Volunteer Special Constabulary

External links 
 
 CDAU Facebook Page
 Home Team Volunteer
 Committee to Strengthen National Service

Organisations of the Singapore Government