[Source: PubMed]

25. Mil Med. 2025 Nov 1;190(11-12):e2321-e2327. doi: 10.1093/milmed/usaf122.

A Narrative Review of Military Reverse Triage.

Hurst DJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education and Scholarship, Rowan-Virtua School of 
Osteopathic Medicine, Stratford, NJ 08084, United States.
(2)Chaplain Corps, United States Air Force Reserve, Fairchild AFB, WA 99011, 
United States.

INTRODUCTION: Military reverse triage has been described at several points in 
the literature. However, an extensive review of the concept and any gaps that 
may exist has not been conducted. This narrative review seeks to understand how 
reverse triage is used in the military literature and how it might be 
implemented in practice, as well as the documented historical applications of 
reverse triage.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four databases were searched manually for 
English-language articles: PubMed, SCOPUS, JSTOR, and Worldwide Political 
Science Abstracts. In addition, a manual search of references, U.S. DoD, and 
NATO doctrine, as well as other published works that the investigator was 
familiar with that are not cataloged in databases (such as print volumes) was 
performed.
RESULTS: After duplicates were removed, 15 articles were located from the 
database search. An additional 14 records were located from the manual search, 
resulting in 29 records that were screened for eligibility. After reviewing the 
abstracts of the records, 11 were excluded as not specifically discussing 
military reverse triage, resulting in 18 records for this review. Recurrent 
themes in the records reviewed include (1) military necessity, (2) reverse 
triage from physician, patient, and unit perspective, (3) fiduciary duties, (4) 
international humanitarian law (IHL), (5) military doctrine, and (6) moral 
injury. Reverse triage has been described as rare but historically significant, 
with only 3 documented potential instances identified in this review. These 
include its use by the German Army in World War II to prioritize lightly wounded 
soldiers for rapid return to duty, the selective use of penicillin during World 
War II, and a reported instance during the Falklands conflict. Despite these 
examples, current literature offers limited practical guidance on implementing 
reverse triage, raising questions about decision-making authority, criteria for 
implementation, and ethical considerations such as prioritization based on 
military occupational specialty, rank, or demographic factors. These 
uncertainties highlight the need for further exploration of the operational and 
ethical dimensions of reverse triage.
CONCLUSIONS: Reverse triage has evolved with a focus on military necessity but 
remains absent in U.S. military doctrine and rare in practice. Limited 
historical documentation and scant discussion in doctrine leave uncertainty 
about whether and how the U.S. military would implement reverse triage in future 
large-scale combat operations. Addressing these gaps requires further empirical 
investigation into the perspectives of key stakeholders to guide ethical and 
operational decision-making.

© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2025.

DOI: 10.1093/milmed/usaf122
PMCID: PMC12588714
PMID: 40215129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.