[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 131]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ng himself, and therefore that he could
accept of no offers, however advantageous they might appear, which would
interfere with the discharge of this duty. The officer replied, and
ridiculed the scruples of the young man; but, finding him inflexible in
his resolution, he at last turned from him with an air of contempt, and
called his men to follow him, muttering, as he went, reflections on the
stupidity and cowardice of Sophron.

"The party had not proceeded far, before, by ill fortune, they came to
the place where Sophron's favourite lamb was feeding; and as the animal
had not yet learned to dread the cruelty of the human species, it
advanced towards them with all the confidence of unsuspicious innocence.
'This is a lucky accident,' cried one of the soldiers, with a brutal
satisfaction; 'fortune was not willing we should go without a supper,
and has therefore sent us a present.' 'A happy exchange,' answered a
second; 'a fat sheep for a lubberly shepherd; and the coward will no
doubt think himself happy to sleep in a whole skin at so small an
expense.' Saying this, he took the lamb, and bore it away in triumph,
uttering a thousand threats and execrations against the master if he
should dare to reclaim it.

"Sophron was not so far removed to escape the sight of the indignity
that was offered him. He followed the troop, with so much swiftness that
it was not long before he overtook the soldier who was bearing away his
friend, and from his load marched rather behind the rest. When Sophron
approached him, he accosted him in the gentlest manner, and besought
him, in words that might have touched any one but a savage, to restore
his favourite; he even offered, when he found that nothing else would
avail, to purchase back his own property with something of greater
value; but the barbarous soldier, inured to scenes of misery, and little
accustomed to yield to human entreaties, only laughed at his complaints,
and loaded him with additional insults. At length he began to be tired
with his importunities, and drawing his sword, and waving it before the
eyes of Sophron, threatened, that if he did not depart immediately he
would use him as he intended to do the lamb. 'And do you think,'
answered Sophron, 'that while I have an arm to lift, or a drop of blood
in my veins, I will suffer you, or any man, to rob me of what I value
more than life?' The soldier, exasperated at such an insolent reply, as
he termed it, aimed a blow at Sophron with his sword, which he turned
aside with a stick he held in his hand, so that it glanced inoffensively
down; and before he could recover the use of his weapon, Sophron, who
was infinitely stronger, closed in with him, wrested it out of his
hands, and hurled him roughly to the ground. Some of the comrades of the
vanquished soldier came in an instant to his assistance, and without
inquiring into the merits of the cause, drew their swords, and began to
assail the undaunted young man; but he, brandishing the weapon which he
had just seized, appeared ready to defend himself, with so much strength
and courage that they did not choose to come too near.

"While they were thus engaged, the officer, who had turned back at the
first noise of the fray, approached, and ordering his men to desist,
inquired into the occasion of the contest. Sophron then recounted, with
so much modesty and respect, the indignities and insults he had
received, and the unprovoked attack of the soldier, which had obliged
him to defend his own life, that the officer, who had a real respect for
courage, was charmed with the behaviour of the young man. He therefore
reproved his men for their disorderly manners, praised the intrepidity
of Sophron, and ordered his lamb to be restored to him, with which he
joyfully departed.

"Sophron was scarcely out of sight, when Tigranes, who was then by
accident returning from the chase, met the same party upon their march.
Their military attire and glittering arms instantly struck his mind with
admiration. He stopped to gaze upon them as they passed; and the
officer, who remarked the martial air and well-proportioned limbs of
Tigranes, entered into conversation with him, and made him the same
proposals which he had before done to Sophron. Such incentives were
irresistible to a vain and ambitious mind; the young man in an instant
forgot his friends, his country, and his parents, and marched away with
all the pleasure that strong presumption and aspiring hopes could raise.
Nor was it long before he had an opportunity of signalizing his
intrepidity.

"Asia was at that time overrun by numerous bands of savage warriors,
under different and independent chiefs. That country, which has in every
age been celebrated for the mildness of the climate and the fertility of
the soil, seems to be destined to groan under all the horrors of eternal
servitude. Whether these effects are merely produced by fortune, or
whether the natura