[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Polar auxin transport

side). As a result, in the root vasculature, auxin is transported directionally from the shoot to the root tip (i.e. downwards).

Role in plant development

Self-organisation of polar auxin transport 

See also "Uneven distribution of auxin" and "Organization of the plant" in the main Auxin article

Auxin plays a central role in PIN protein polarity establishment. The regulation of PIN localisation by auxin creates a feedback loop where PIN proteins control the directionality of auxin fluxes, and auxin in turn controls PIN proteins localisation. These interactions between auxin and its own transporters confer to the system self-organizing properties, which explains for instance phyllotaxis (the regular and geometrical arrangements of lateral organ along the stem), the formation of leaf serrations, and the formation of vascular strands. This positive feedback regulation auxin on its own transport also plays an essential role in vascular development, which process is called canalization.

PIN proteins are so named because mutant plants lacking the founding member of this family, PIN1, cannot develop flowers. The formation of flowers is triggered by regularly spaced local auxin accumulation at the surface of the shoot apical meristem and, for this PIN1 is required. As a result, the pin1 mutant plants produce a "pin-like" inflorescence consisting only of a naked stem. This highlights the importance of polar auxin transport in plant development.

Tropisms 

Other external and internal signals (e.g. blue light, mechanical stress, gravity or cytokinins) can interfere with PIN protein polarity and therefore with the directionality of auxin polar transport. Because auxin controls cell division and cell elongation, the change of PIN proteins localisation, and the subsequent change in auxin distribution, often lead to a change in the growth pattern.

For instance, the regulation of polar auxin transport is central in a process such as gravitropism. This process, which ensures that the root grows downwards, relies on the redistribution of auxin by the columella cells (the cells located at the very tip of the root). These cells respond to gravity by special organelles, the statoliths, that redistribute auxin from the vasculature to the root epidermis and the lateral root cap. These tissues (which form the external cell layers of the root) transport auxin back to the elongation zone where it regulates cell elongation. When the gravitational gradient is not aligned with the axis of the columella cells (because the root is not vertical), the PIN proteins move to the side of the cell membrane that is gravitationally lowest. This causes more auxin to flow to the lower side of the root. Once in the elongation zone, the extra auxin inhibits cell elongation and cause the root to re-orient downwards.

Similar mechanisms occur in other tropic responses, such as phototropism. The mechanisms were first described by the Cholodny-Went model, proposed in the 1920s by N. Cholodny and Frits Warmolt Went.

Generation of morphogenetic gradients 

Polar auxin transport is required for the generation of auxin gradients throughout the plant body. Those gradients have development significances akin to the gradients of morphogens in animal bodies. They are necessary for development, growth and response of any plant organ (such as cotyledons, leaves, roots, flowers or fruits) and response of plant to environmental stimuli known as tropisms.

Regulation 

Although the detailed molecular mechanism of PIN proteins polarity establishment remains to be elucidated, many endogenous and exogenous regulators of PIN proteins localisation have been characterised.

Auxin 
Most importantly, PIN proteins localisation on the plasma membrane is controlled by auxin. Several mathematical models making different assumptions on the way auxin influences PIN localisation explain different observations. Some models assume PIN proteins polarize towards the neighbouring cell containing the highest cytosolic auxin concentration. These models are called "up-the-gradient" models and explain for instance phyllotaxis. Other models assume that PIN proteins localise on the side of the cell where the efflux of auxin is the highest. These models are called "with-the-flux" models and explain the formation of vascular strands in leaves.

The molecular mechanism responsible for these different behaviours of the system (with-the-flux and up-the-gradient) is not yet fully understood. Noticeably, an auxin receptor protein called ABP1 is thought to play a potentially significant role in the control of PIN proteins polarity by auxin.

Mechanical stress 

Mechanical signals have been proposed to regulate PIN polarity.

Vesicle Trafficking 

The asymmetrical localisation of PIN efflux carrier protein at the plasma membrane has been shown to involve the localized targeting of vesicles and the local regulation of endocytosis. The latter involves the actin cytoskeleton.