[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HIV/AIDS in China

en 1983 and 1985. Four of the recipients, all hemophiliacs, were infected with HIV, making them at the time the first identified cases of native Chinese infected within the country's borders. Armour had been aware that original sterilization methods for Factorate were inadequate since at least 1985.

The Chinese government reacted to the threat of HIV in the blood supply before any confirmed cases of infection had occurred. In September 1984, the Chinese Ministry of Health, in conjunction with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade (now the Ministry of Commerce) and the General Administration of Customs, issued a notice restricting imports on foreign blood products, including a complete ban on blood coagulation factors, specifically to prevent HIV/AIDS from entering the country. The bans were poorly enforced by some local governments, prompting central authorities in August 1985 to issue another notice nationwide, reiterating the ban and ordering all sub-national governments to comply. On 30 January 1986, all blood products, with the sole exception of human serum albumin, were banned from import into China for both organizational and personal use.

Southern intravenous drug users

In 1989, central authorities became aware of a large outbreak of HIV/AIDS in western Yunnan province, in the border city of Ruili. 146 cases had been identified, mostly in injection drug users (IDUs), and Yunnan soon became the most heavily impacted province in China. The outbreak was the first instance of a widespread, native infection in China, and stunned officials previously concerned mainly with preventing infection through sexual contact with foreigners.

Yunnan borders the Golden Triangle region of Southeast Asia and has been a major hub for drug trafficking. HIV likely crossed into China along heroin trafficking routes from Myanmar. As heroin grew in popularity in Chinese border regions, injections with used needles became more common, greatly accelerating the rate of infection. The disease spread over the next several years, confined mainly to drug using populations of ethnic minorities in poorer, rural areas, reaching other high-risk groups and provinces by 1995.

Sichuan and Xinjiang first reported HIV outbreaks among injection drug users in 1995, the first two provinces besides Yunnan to do so. The following year, cases were confirmed in Guangdong, Guangxi, Beijing, Shanghai, and Guizhou. Additionally, an independent outbreak of a separate sub-strain of HIV among IDUs began in 1997 in the city of Pingxiang, Guangxi. Drug users crossed the border into northern Vietnam, where heroin was similarly smuggled in from Myanmar, and shared needles with Vietnamese dealers and users to test purchases before returning to China.

Bloodhead controversy

Unique to China was the large-scale transmission of HIV through blood donation centers in the early to mid-1990s. The ban on blood product imports from the preceding decade restricted China's blood supply, making blood donation more lucrative, particularly for inadequately funded rural healthcare systems already weakened by privatization. Additionally, medicines containing blood plasma became popular among Chinese consumers, also contributing to demand for blood. By 1990, thousands of public and commercial blood and blood plasma collection centers had been established across China, attracting donors with payments that could equal over a month's worth of income for some farmers. A significant grey market of poorly regulated "bloodheads" (, xuètóu, coll. xiětóu) concurrently arose.

The unsanitary practices in the blood market led to massive propagation of the HIV virus among rural populations. Donation centers frequently recycled needles, mixed blood donations without screening, and failed to adequately sterilize equipment, spreading blood-borne disease to both donors and recipients. For plasma donations, blood was often mixed with other donors' samples and reinjected after plasma extraction. Wu, Rou, and Detels (2001) found that 12.5% of plasma donors in eastern China tested positive for HIV, compared to 1.3% of non-donors; infected donors spread the disease to marital and other sexual partners. 

In 2004, official estimates put the number of people infected via unsafe blood donation practices across the most heavily impacted provinces — Henan, Hebei, Anhui, Shaanxi, and Shanxi — between 200,000 and 300,000. Gansu and Qinghai also reported infections stemming from the commercial blood trade during the same time period. Overall, 24% of all HIV/AIDS cases in China in 2004 had been attributed to blood donation and related activities.