[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jon Bluming

judoka from 1st dan to 4th dan, and he still threw them all within about four seconds in full view of the press. Even so, Geesink did not step down to fight him. After watching Geesink's victory in Paris, a frustrated Bluming retired from competition and focused only on karate and teaching instead.

In 1965, Bluming became the first non-Japanese in being awarded the 6º dan in karate from Masutatsu Oyama. This decision was controversial enough among Asian karatekas to force Oyama to put a challenge in a magazine, challenging any of them to a fight against Bluming in a boxing ring and promising to strip him from his black belt if the Dutchman lost. Oyama was so confident that he also promised a hefty bounty and swore to retire himself from the Kyokushin school. Only the Korean champion Kwan Mo Gun accepted the challenge, and was swiftly knocked out by Bluming via shotei. Bluming remained a close coworker of Oyama, but over time he became critical with his policies, and eventually left the school due to disagreements with him, founding his own school, Kyokushin Budokai. However, he remained a respected member of the association, being awarded the 9º dan in 1989.

Four years later, Bluming was contacted by Akira Maeda from Fighting Network Rings, a professional wrestling and mixed martial arts promotion which had a working agreement with both Oyama himself and Bluming's apprentice Chris Dolman. Through Maeda, Masutatsu offered him to return as a trainer and mediator with Rings, which Bluming accepted on the condition to expel another of his enemies, Loek Hollander, from the school.. In 1994, after Oyama's death, Bluming was awarded the 10º dan by Kenji Kurosaki.

Bluming died on December 17, 2018, in De Bilt, Netherlands.

Notable students
Azuma Takashi - founder of Daidō Juku Kūdō.
Chris Dolman - Sambo World Champion (‘69 & ‘85) and European silver medalist  (‘74) in Judo.
Wim Ruska - World Champion (‘67 & ‘71) and Olympic Champion (2x ‘72) in Judo.
Otti Roethof -World Champion in Karate.
Jan Kallenbach - Gold at the 1974 European Karate Championships. Representative of Taikiken in Europe.
Jan Plas - introduced Kickboxing in the Netherlands, and coach of many World Champions in Kickboxing.
Johan Vos - coach of many World Champions in Kickboxing.
Lucien Carbin - Kickboxing World champion and coach of many World Champions in Kickboxing.
Thom Harinck - Kickboxing/Muay Thai  pioneer and coach of many champions.
Semmy Schilt - K-1, Daidō Juku Kūdō and mixed martial arts champion.
Gilbert Yvel - mixed martial arts champion
Juan Carlos I of Spain

Filmography

References

External links
 Jon Bluming official website
   Autobiography

1933 births
2018 deaths
Dutch male judoka
Dutch male karateka
Dutch expatriates in Canada
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Dutch expatriates in Japan
Karate coaches
Kyokushin kaikan practitioners
Sportspeople from Amsterdam
Judoka trainers
Dutch hapkido practitioners