[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yemeni Air Force

they shot down two PDRYAF Su-22s. In response, a campaign against the YAR's major air defence positions started, and most of these were destroyed. Moreover, three YARAF MiG-17s were shot down by PDRYAF MiG-21s. At the end of the war, the YARAF's combat aircraft fleet was almost completely destroyed.

Following the Yemen Arab Republic's defeat, Saudi Arabia and the United States arranged a $390 million arms deal, in which the Saudis would finance the acquisition of military hardware and transfer some of their own surplus weapons to the YAR. The United States delivered F-5E fighters and two Lockheed C-130H Hercules transport aircraft, while Saudi Arabia transferred four of its own F-5Bs to the YARAF. Saudi financial aid also enabled North Yemeni president Ali Abdullah Saleh to order new weapons from the Soviet Union. These included 60 MiG-21bis, 14 Su-22Ms, 18 Mil Mi-8s, three Antonov An-24s and three An-26s. Soviet advisors also helped repair some of the remaining MiG-15s, MiG-17s and Ilyushin Il-28s. This rapid expansion of the YARAF meant that foreign advisors were necessary to support its operations: while the Soviets helped with Soviet-built types, Taiwanese pilots and ground crews constituted the majority of the F-5 squadron's personnel until 1985, and they only left the country in 1991, after the unification. Moreover, the aircraft loss rate was high, due to the crews' inexperience.

Meanwhile, the PDRYAF was getting some reinforcements as well: six additional MiG-21s were delivered shortly after the 1979 war, while 40 Su-22Ms, Su-22M3s and Su-22UM3Ks were delivered by 1986. 16 secondhand Mil Mi-24A helicopters were also delivered in 1985-1986. For the southern air force, the first half of the 1980s was spent training in intensive joint exercises, in order to increase the armed forces' readiness in the prospect of a new war with the YAR. This period was brought to an abrupt end in January 1986, when a coup resulted in an 11-day civil war, colloquially known in Yemen as The Events. This short civil war resulted in the destruction of around 75% of the air force, while dozens of thousands of people fled to the North, including up to 40 PDRYAF pilots. Even though the Soviet Union subsequently delivered additional MiG-21bis, Mil Mi-25 helicopters, and a batch of between 12 and 14 Sukhoi Su-22M-4Ks, rebuilding the South Yemeni military to pre-1986 strength proved impossible.

Unification and civil war
On 22 May 1990, North and South Yemen were officially unified. The military forces of the two countries were to be gradually merged, but the process did not go as planned. Indeed, tensions started to rise up, and eventually led to the Yemeni Civil War of 1994.

Even though the PDRYAF had been considerably weakened by the 1986 civil war, its commanders still assessed it as superior to its northern counterpart, and expected it to establish air dominance. On the morning of 4 May, around 40 MiG-21s and Su-22s were sent to attack several targets in the north, including the Presidential Palace in Sanaa and several YARAF air bases. While these attacks caused significant damage and the YARAF did not react to it, the results still fell short of expectations. However, the PDRYAF kept on trying, and its Su-22 units performed several additional long-range bombing missions through the war, achieving notable results. Meanwhile, the YARAF was also using its own Su-22s, as well as MiG-21s, against targets in the south. YARAF F-5Es were also used in air combat and scored several victories. They allowed the Northerners to achieve local air dominance over crucial parts of the front lines. Since both air forces operated similar types of aircraft, friendly fire incidents were very common.

As the war continued, the Northerners' territorial gains and the losses took their toll on the PDRYAF. Even though its pilots often flew three or four sorties per day, the general situation of the Southerners was worsening. It was in this context that the PDRYAF introduced to service Mikoyan MiG-29 fighter-bombers. Bought second-hand from Moldova, these aircraft were flown by Eastern European mercenaries, and saw their first combat use on 29 June. Despite being the most modern combat aircraft available in Yemen, the MiG-29s did not provide the PDRYAF with an advantage in air combat, because their pilots were inadequately trained in air-to-air combat. Indeed, the only reported air-to-air action involving a MiG-29 was an encounter between one MiG and two F-5Es on 29 June. Neither side opened fire, and all three aircraft came away safely. The next day, South Yemeni president Ali Salem al Beidh fled abroad, followed by thousands of South Yemenis. Dozens of PDRYAF members fled to Djibouti, Oman, and even the United Arab Emirates with their aircraft, while others fought to the bitter end. The war ceased on 7 July.