[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# True Believer (1989 film)

True Believer (also released as Fighting Justice) is a 1989 American courtroom drama directed by Joseph Ruben, written by Wesley Strick, and starring James Woods, Robert Downey Jr., Yuji Okumoto, Margaret Colin, and Kurtwood Smith.

The film is loosely based on an investigative series of articles written by Pulitzer Prize-nominated journalist K. W. Lee on the wrongful conviction of immigrant Chol Soo Lee for a 1973 San Francisco Chinatown gangland murder. The news coverage led to a new trial, eventual acquittal and release of the prisoner from San Quentin's Death Row. Strick based the character of Eddie Dodd on real-life Bay Area defense attorney Tony Serra.

Plot summary
Eddie Dodd is a burnt-out attorney who has left behind civil rights work to defend drug dealers. Roger Baron is an idealistic young legal clerk, fresh out of law school, who encourages Dodd to take on the case of Shu Kai Kim, a young Korean man who was imprisoned for a gang-related murder committed in New York's Chinatown eight years ago, and has now killed a fellow inmate in self-defense. Kim's mother believes her son was wrongfully accused in the gang-related murder.

Dodd and Baron's investigation leads to a conspiracy among District Attorney Reynard, police informant Art Esparza, and police officers Sklaroff, Dennehy and Montell. Dodd gets permission from the judge to put Reynard on the stand. Reynard had been an assistant district attorney leading a major Colombian crime syndicate case, and protected the true murdererEsparzaby having Sklaroff, Dennehy and Montell frame Kim in order to continue the Colombian case. During Dodd's forceful questioning, Dennehywho is dying of cancerenters the court and sits with Dodd's team; Reynard admits the truth of the conspiracy, knowing that Dennehy has clearly revealed the true facts to Dodd. Kim is released from prison.

Cast

In addition, Luis Guzmán portrays Ortega, Shu Kai Kim's duplicitous fellow prisoner.

Reception
Strick's screenplay was nominated for a 1990 Edgar Award for Best Mystery Motion Picture. Film critic Roger Ebert commended Woods's performance for being "hypnotically watchable."

At the time of True Believers release, K. W. Lee told the Charleston Gazette he enjoyed the film "as fiction...but it was not a true picture. They have completely preempted the struggle of Asians."

True Believer inspired a spin-off television series, Eddie Dodd, starring Treat Williams in the title role.

The film holds a rating of 96% on Rotten Tomatoes from 23 reviews.

Home media
The film was released on Blu-ray in the United States by Mill Creek Entertainment on August 13, 2019.

References

External links
 
 
 

1989 films
1989 crime drama films
1980s American films
1980s English-language films
1980s legal drama films
1980s prison drama films
American courtroom films
American crime drama films
American films based on actual events
American legal drama films
American prison drama films
Asian-American drama films
Chinatown, Manhattan
Columbia Pictures films
Crime films based on actual events
Drama films based on actual events
Films about Korean Americans
Films about miscarriage of justice
Films about race and ethnicity
Films directed by Joseph Ruben
Films produced by Walter F. Parkes
Films scored by Brad Fiedel
Films set in Manhattan
Films set in San Quentin State Prison
Films shot in New York City
Films with screenplays by Wesley Strick