[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 16]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ked so plump, nor had learned all these little tricks
to recommend him; but, as his master was too poor to maintain anything
but what was useful, and was obliged to be continually in the air,
subject to all kinds of weather, and labouring hard for a livelihood,
Keeper grew hardy, active, and diligent; he was also exposed to
continual danger from the wolves, from whom he had received many a
severe bite while guarding the flocks. These continual combats gave him
that degree of intrepidity, that no enemy could make him turn his back.
His care and assiduity so well defended the sheep of his master, that
not one had ever been missing since they were placed under his
protection. His honesty too was so great, that no temptation could
overpower it; and, though he was left alone in the kitchen while the
meat was roasting, he never attempted to taste it, but received with
thankfulness whatever his master chose to give him. From a continual
life in the air he was become so hardy that no tempest could drive him
to shelter when he ought to be watching the flocks; and he would plunge
into the most rapid river, in the coldest weather of the winter, at the
slightest sign from his master.

"About this time it happened that the landlord of the poor man went to
examine his estate in the country, and brought Jowler with him to the
place of his birth. At his arrival there he could not help viewing with
great contempt the rough ragged appearance of Keeper, and his awkward
look, which discovered nothing of the address for which he so much
admired Jowler. This opinion, however, was altered by means of an
accident which happened to him. As he was one day walking in a thick
wood, with no other company than the two dogs, a hungry wolf, with eyes
that sparkled like fire, bristling hair, and a horrid snarl that made
the gentleman tremble, rushed out of a neighbouring thicket, and seemed
ready to devour him. The unfortunate man gave himself over for lost,
more especially when he saw that his faithful Jowler, instead of coming
to his assistance, ran sneaking away, with his tail between his legs,
howling with fear. But in this moment of despair, the undaunted Keeper,
who had followed him, humbly and unobserved, at a distance, flew to his
assistance, and attacked the wolf with so much courage and skill, that
he was compelled to exert all his strength in his own defence. The
battle was long and bloody, but in the end Keeper laid the wolf dead at
his feet, though not without receiving several severe wounds himself,
and presenting a bloody and mangled spectacle to the eyes of his master,
who came up at that instant. The gentleman was filled with joy for his
escape and gratitude to his brave deliverer; and learned by his own
experience that appearances are not always to be trusted, and that great
virtues and good dispositions may sometimes be found in cottagers, while
they are totally wanting among the great."

"Very well indeed," said Mr Barlow. "I find that when young gentlemen
choose to take pains, they can do things almost as well as other people.
But what do you say to the story you have been reading, Tommy? Would you
rather have owned the genteel dog that left his master to be devoured,
or the poor, rough, ragged, meagre, neglected cur that exposed his own
life in his defence?" "Indeed, sir," said Tommy, "I would have rather
had Keeper; but then I would have fed him, and washed him, and combed
him, till he had looked as well as Jowler." "But then, perhaps, he would
have grown idle, and fat, and cowardly, like him," said Mr Barlow; "but
here is some more of it, let us read to the end of the story." Tommy
then went on thus:--

"The gentleman was so pleased with the noble behaviour of Keeper, that
he desired the poor man to make him a present of the dog; which, though
with some reluctance, he complied with. Keeper was therefore taken to
the city, where he was caressed and fed by everybody; and the disgraced
Jowler was left at the cottage, with strict injunctions to the man to
hang him up, as a worthless unprofitable cur.

"As soon as the gentleman had departed, the poor man was going to
execute his commission; but, considering the noble size and comely look
of the dog, and above all, being moved with pity for the poor animal,
who wagged his tail, and licked his new master's feet, just as he was
putting the cord about his neck, he determined to spare his life, and
see whether a different treatment might not produce different manners.
From this day Jowler was in every respect treated as his brother Keeper
had been before. He was fed but scantily; and, from this spare diet,
soon grew more active and fond of exercise. The first shower he was in
he ran away as he had been accustomed to do, and sneaked to the
fire-side; but the farmer's wife soon drove him out of doors, and
compelled him to bear the rigour of the weather. In consequence of this
he daily became more vigoro