[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of websites founded before 1995

Banjo" on September 30, 1992, and later "Cybergrass" in 1995. Its content was bluegrass music and Digital Traditions lyrics & chords. It was hosted on the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center's vax, parcvax.xerox.com. It now resides at www.cybergrass.com.  It was the first music-based website on the web.

1993
By the end of 1993, there were 623 websites, according to a study by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) researcher Matthew Gray.
ALIWEB (Archie Like Indexing for the WEB) is considered the first Web search engine. It was announced in November 1993 by its developer Martijn Koster. ALIWEB was presented in May 1994 at the First International Conference at CERN in Geneva. 
Bloomberg.com Financial portal with information on markets, currency conversion, news and events, and Bloomberg Terminal subscriptions.
BridesByDeBora.com Wedding and bridal store website launched in 1993 as BridesbyDeBora.com. It was later changed to DeBoraRachelle.com, also known as DeBora Rachelle and PromDressShop.com.
Chabad.org The flagship website of the Chabad-Lubavitch Hasidic movement. It serves its own members and Jews worldwide.
Corpus of Electronic Texts (formerly CURIA) Peter Flynn from University College Cork (UCC) saw Tim Berners-Lee demonstrating the WWW at a RARE WG3 meeting. The former then requested the latter to install the software at UCC for the CURIA project.
Doctor Fun One of the first webcomics, noted by the NCSA as "a major breakthrough for the Web".
The LANL preprint archive Web access to thousands of papers in physics, mathematics, computer science, and biology; developed out of earlier gopher, File Transfer Protocol (ftp), and e-mail archives at Los Alamos. Now known as ArXiv.
Électricité de France One of the first industrial Web sites in Europe which started as the Web site of the Research and Development (R&D) Division, and was implemented by R&D Engineers Sylvain Langlois, Emmanuel Poiret, and a few months later, Daniel Glazman. They did not have approval for it and had to restart the server by connecting to RENATER through a 155Mb link, every time IT shut it down. Electricité de France's R&D later submitted patches to CERN httpd and was active in Web Standardisation.
Global Network Navigator Example of an early web directory created by O'Reilly Media and one of the Web's first commercial sites; it was hosted at Bolt Beranek and Newman (BBN).
Haystack Observatory Haystack Observatory's website explained its radio and radar remote sensing mission and provided data access for science users. The content was rolled out on December 13, 1993 by Dr. John Holt of Haystack. The website is still active, and the original web page format is still available online.
The Internet Movie DatabaseFounded in 1990 by participants in the Usenet newsgroup rec.arts.movies, the IMDB was rolled out on the web in late 1993, hosted by the computer science department of Cardiff University in Wales.
Internet Underground Music Archive Created by students at the University of California, Santa Cruz to help promote unsigned musical artists. Music was shared using the MP2 format, presaging the later extreme popularity of MP3 sharing and Online music stores.
Joachim Jarre Society 
Created by students at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in November 1993 as one of the first websites in Norway.
JumpStation
The world's first Web search engine, created by Jonathon Fletcher on December 12, 1993, and was hosted at the University of Stirling in Scotland. In operation until 1994.
Kent Anthropology
One of the first social science sites (online May 1993). 
LSD.com
The Digital Acid Test came online 11-18-1993.
SITOAfter a start as an anonymous ftp-based art gallery and collaborative collective, the OTIS project (later SITO) moved to the web due to SunSITE's hosting.
The TechThe MIT campus newspaper, The Tech, claims to be the first newspaper to deliver content over the Web, beginning in May 1993.
NASA
NexorWeb site set up for Nexor, an early Internet software company, by Martijn Koster.
MTVThe music television network's domain was registered in 1993 by VJ Adam Curry, who personally ran a small unofficial site.
PARC Map ServerArguably the earliest precursor of MapQuest and Google Maps. PARC researcher Steve Putz tied an existing map viewing program to the web. Now defunct.
photo.net An online photography resource and community, designed and founded by Philip Greenspun. Greenspun released the software behind photo.net, the ArsDigita Community System, as a free open-source toolkit for building community websites.
Principia Cybernetica Probably the first complex, collaborative knowledge system, sporting a hierarchical structure, index, map, annotations, search, plenty of hyperlinks, etc. Designed by Francis Heylighen, Cliff Joslyn and Valentin Turchin to develop a cybernetic philosophy.
ExPASyThe first life sciences web site. Still active.
Trojan room coffee potThe first webcam.
Trincoll JournalA multimedia magazine published by st