[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 69th Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment

coming the only soldier of the 69th so decorated.

After the Battle of Cold Harbor, the 71st Pennsylvania was merged into the 69th. During the Siege of Petersburg, the Philadelphia Brigade was broken up, with the 72nd Pennsylvania mustered out of service and the 106th reduced to a single battalion. 

The 69th participated in the pursuit of the Army of Northern Virginia during the Appomattox Campaign, during which time it sustained multiple additional casualties.

After the war's end, the regiment participated in the Union's Grand Review of the Armies in Washington, D.C., in May 1865. The regiment was then officially mustered out at Ball’s Cross-Roads, near Washington, D.C., on July 1, 1865.

Battle flags and uniforms
The 69th Pennsylvania Volunteers' first battle flag, the First State Color, was manufactured by Horstmann Brothers and Company, and was presented to the regiment sometime after November 1861. It was carried into battle until December 1863, when it was retired and replaced by the Second State Color, which was manufactured by Evans and Hassall. That second battle flag remained in use until the regiment was mustered out on July 1, 1865.

In addition, the 69th carried a green "Irish" flag into battle. According to The Philadelphia Inquirer, the 69th Pennsylvania's battle flag was "a beautiful specimen of art" that did "credit to the taste of donors." One side "represented the coat of arms of ancient Ireland"; the other featured the coat of arms of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Initially presented to the regiment while it was stationed at Berryville, Virginia in early 1862, which was replaced with a new green flag in March 1864 when members of the regiment re-enlisted with the 69th Pennsylvania for additional tours of duty.

Companies I and K, designated as the regiment's skirmisher companies, wore a very Americanized Zouave uniform. This uniform consisted of a dark blue Zouave jacket with green trimming, green cuffs, and sixteen brass buttons down the front on both sides of the jacket, a sky blue Zouave vest, chasseur sky-blue trousers, and a dark blue kepi. This was one of the few Zouave uniforms that did not use red as the jacket trimming. However, the Zouave uniforms were mostly destroyed during the Peninsula Campaign and were not replaced.

Casualty rates and burial locations
Of the original one thousand men mustered into service at the formation of the regiment, only fifty-six "returned whole at the end," according to regimental historian Donald Ernsberger. Following their deaths, many of the veterans of the 69th Pennsylvania were buried in unmarked graves in West Philadelphia because their families were too poor to afford headstones. 

According to historians at the U.S. National Park Service, the regiment sustained a total of 288 casualties during its tenure of service. Twelve officers and 166 enlisted men were mortally wounded or killed in action. Three officers and 107 enlisted men died from disease.

Survivors' Association of the Sixty-Ninth Pennsylvania Regiment
Post-war, veterans of the 69th Pennsylvania established the Survivors' Association of the Sixty-Ninth Pennsylvania Regiment. Officers of the organization were elected annually, and participated in organizing annual reunions.

Reenactors
The 69th Pennsylvania Irish Volunteers, schools, and other living history groups portray the regiment at various reenactments each year.

See also

List of Pennsylvania Civil War Units

References

External links
Bryan, Kerry L. "The Gallant 69th PA Volunteers at Gettysburg and Beyond." Philadelphia, Pennsylvania: The Irish Edition, July 1, 2013.
69th Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry Regiment (reenactment group). Southern California: Retrieved online November 26, 2022.
The 69th PA Irish Volunteers (reenactment group). Pennsylvania: Retrieved online November 26, 2022.
Unit history at Pennsylvania in the Civil War

Units and formations of the Union Army from Pennsylvania
Philadelphia Brigade
Irish regiments of the United States Army
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865