[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mercury Fur

d enacting his own violent sexual fantasy against a child.

Response and legacy

Rejected publication from Faber and Faber

Before the play received its premiere Ridley's publisher Faber and Faber (who had published the majority of his previous plays) refused to publish the play-text of Mercury Fur.

Ridley has said that he was told that Faber had "objected to the play because of its cruelty to children" and that what he had written "had gone too far". This reasoning was felt to be somewhat ironic as Faber’s decision to refuse publication was relayed to Ridley by phone whilst he was watching footage on his TV of the Beslan school siege, which claimed the lives of over 330 children. Ridley has stated that "The first comment that the editor at Faber said to me was, “I've got to tell you that several people here are seriously offended by this.” I have a thing about dialogue, so I remember. Those were her words. It was as if they'd all suddenly turned into a bunch of Cardinal Wolseys, deciding what was right and wrong. It's not their job to be moral arbiters; it's their job to publish. I think Faber realised they couldn't say this, so after a few weeks they decided to rephrase it as, 'It's a piece of writing that I do not admire.'" Ridley also states that "There was no discussion. I wasn't invited in to clarify my intentions. I sent them a letter saying I thought they had misread it, but they didn't want a discussion. Of course I'm upset, but it is not just an ego thing. If a publisher is saying, 'You've gone too far', what kind of message is that sending out to writers?"

As a result, Ridley parted ways with Faber and joined Methuen who published Mercury Fur instead.

Initial reception and controversy

The play became a theatrical cause célèbre when it premiered, with walkouts reported each night of the show's original run.

Although most critics praised the production’s acting and direction, Ridley’s script was very divisive.

Critics were especially split regarding the play’s depiction of cruelty, which was condemned by some as gratuitous and sensationalist in nature. Matthew Sweet wrote that the play had content that "seemed little more than a questionable authorial indulgence - an exercise in exploitative camp" that reduced "the sensitivity of the audience until they began to find such images [of cruelty] ludicrous and tiresome". Charles Spencer was highly critical, describing Mercury Fur as "the most violent and upsetting new play" of the last ten years, adding that "It positively revels in imaginative nastiness" and condemning it as "a poisonous piece". He went on to declare that everyone involved with the production had been "degraded" and, more controversially, that Ridley was "turned on by his own sick fantasies."

In contrast, the play’s violent content was defended by a variety of reviewers. Kate Bassett wrote that "One might complain that Ridley is a puerile shock jock [or] wonder if the playwright isn't indulging in his own nasty fantasies or even encouraging copycat sadism […] Ridley is writing in the tradition of Greek and Jacobean tragedies. He underlines that brutality warps, suggests that love and morals persist, and is deliberately creating a nightmare scenario rife with allusions to actual world news."  Other critics felt that the play justified any shock or offense it might cause. The Independent'''s Paul Taylor wrote that "the play has the right to risk toying with being offensive to bring home just how morally unsettling this depraved, perverted-kicks world has become. If you could sit through it unaffronted on the artistic level, it would surely have failed in its mission." Likewise, John Peter wrote that "Ridley is an observer, shocked and conscientious, as appalled as you are. But he understands the mechanics of cruelty and the minds of people who are fascinated by cruelty and take an obscure pleasure in moralising about it. Ridley doesn't moralise, but he expects you to respond, and he delivers a moral shock." Some other critics also felt that the play contained moral content, such as Aleks Sierz who called it "a very moral play, in which the bad end badly, and the good go down tragically".