[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Australian Broadcasting Corporation

of an Issue or Event for the report George Pell and Sexual Abuse in the Catholic Church, and the 2016 Golden Quill award to Louise Milligan and Andy Burns for their extensive coverage of Cardinal George Pell's evidence given at the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse.

The ABC Media Watch program of 20 April 2020 noted that the ABC had been accused of leading a "witch hunt" against Cardinal Pell. Media Watch reported that, following his acquittal, Pell said the ABC gave an "overwhelming presentation of one view and only one view". Media Watch also canvassed other criticisms including from The Australian newspaper's editor-at-large Paul Kelly, who charged the ABC with having run a "sustained campaign against Pell". Media Watch also offered criticism of its own, noting Louise Milligan and the Four Corners program had failed to canvass any of Pell's defence from the trial and "lined up witnesses condemning Pell", while social media commentary by Barrie Cassidy and Quentin Dempster had undermined the presumption of innocence. Margaret Simons similarly noted in The Guardian that "there has been some social media activity by ABC journalists that looks very much like lobbying against Pell..."

Environmentalism
Planet Slayer was an ABC website run by scientist Bernie Hobbs to teach children about the environment in around 2008/9. It included a "Greenhouse Calculator" which aimed to help children to work out their carbon footprint by providing an estimate of the age a person needs to die if they are not to  use more than their fair share of the Earth's resources. Victorian Liberal senator Mitch Fifield criticised a cartoon series on the site for portraying those who eat meat, loggers, and  workers in the nuclear industry as "evil". ABC managing director Mark Scott said the site was not designed to offend anyone, but instead have children think about environmental issues.

See also

 History of broadcasting in Australia
 Timeline of Australian radio

References

Further reading
 Cater, Nick The Lucky Culture and the Rise of an Australian Ruling Class  (2013) pp 199–228
 Curgenven, Geoffrey. Dick Boyer, an Australian humanist (Bolton, 1967) (Dick Boyer was chair of the ABC Board from 1940 until his death in 1961.)
 Inglis, K. S. This is the ABC – the Australian Broadcasting Commission 1932 – 1983 (2006) 
 Inglis, K. S. Whose ABC? The Australian Broadcasting Corporation 1983–2006 (2006)
 Moran, Albert, and Chris Keating. The A to Z of Australian Radio and Television (Scarecrow Press, 2009)
 Semmler, Clement. The ABC: Aunt Sally and Sacred Cow (1981)

External links

 
 Australian Broadcasting Corporation Act 1983

 
Commercial-free television networks
Public television in Australia
Publicly funded broadcasters
Commonwealth Government agencies of Australia
Mass media companies established in 1932
Organizations established in 1932
Articles containing video clips