[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Brookwood Labor College

Faculty also helped establish and maintain Brookwood's clearinghouse on worker education materials, and hosted an annual conference on worker education that drew labor educators from across the nation.

Curriculum
Generalizations about the curriculum are difficult because it was constantly changing.

However, Brookwood's curriculum primarily emphasized general education, with a strong emphasis on labor economics, labor history, and trade union organizing.  The curriculum focused primarily on the humanities, and included courses in contemporary politics, creative writing, economics, English literature, labor history, literacy and reading comprehension, sociology, language studies, public speaking, rhetoric, and world history. Because so many students were immigrants or had very low levels of education, basic courses in reading and writing were also taught. Faculty also taught courses in how to be a better student, such as "How to Study" and "Use of the English Language". Brookwood's curriculum also emphasized the theory and practice of trade union organization and administration and labor militancy. Common courses included "History of the American Labor Movement", "Trade Union Organization Work", and "Foreign Labor History". "Preparation for Field Work", another labor course, analyzed successful and failed strikes and organizing campaigns, ways to generate positive publicity, and the difficulties of organizing disparate groups of workers. There were also courses in running meetings and parliamentary procedure. Texts included works by John R. Commons, David J. Saposs, and William Z. Foster. Courses in economics emphasized the maldistribution of wealth, the problems of the free market, and the benefits of a socialism, while those in psychology discussed how best to approach workers in union organizing campaigns. An exceptionally strong labor journalism course was offered, and the school published its own weekly journal, the Brookwood Review. Lawrence Rogin, who joined the school in 1934, was the journal's editor until 1937, and students were encouraged to submit pieces for publication to sharpen the skills learned in class.

One of Brookwood's innovative aspects was its emphasis on personal learning.  Non-competitiveness was emphasized. There were no grades, no tests, no report cards, and no diplomas. High quality work was demanded by one's fellow students, who often protested vocally and publicly when their peers turned in poor work.

Another innovation in the Brookwood curriculum was an emphasis on manual labor.  All students were expected to engage in manual labor to keep the school clean and to make repairs to buildings, equipment, vehicles, and furniture. Cooking, serving meals, farming the college's extensive vegetable gardens, chopping wood for fuel, and assisting with the food and work animals on the campus were also expected. Faculty and even guests were expected to participate in manual labor as well.

Brookwood also worked to foster a strong sense of community among its leadership, faculty, and students. Enrollment in each course was kept small to encourage group cohesion. Small group work was common. Since many students were poor readers, just learning to read, or had English as a second language, educators often made sure that each group had at least one good reader.  Together, the group conducted research, organized their work, and reported back orally to the rest of the class. Faculty ate at the same tables as students, and all meals were communal. A number of extracurricular activities were also offered to not only enhance the health of faculty and students but also to promote a sense of community. These included athletics, dances, group hikes, and communal singing.

Brookwood's educational program was initially a two-year one. Courses were three hours a week for 15 weeks. However, students and others pressed the college to make the program shorter to reduce the demands on workers, and a one-year program was added in 1926. Brookwood also began offering two-week "summer institutes" in 1926 for those who could not take the longer program. Speakers at these institutes included U.S. Senators, corporate executives, U.S. military personnel (often from the Corps of Engineers), and representatives from state regulatory agencies. Correspondence courses and extension courses (primarily delivered through labor unions) were part of the offerings as well.  The college's educational efforts also included publication of a number of short, pragmatic pamphlets, worksheets, and booklets for workers to use in union organizing campaigns and strikes. Brookwood began offering a Chautauqua in 1934. Organized by students, the traveling show of speakers, drama, singers, and others traveled throughout New England, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.

Student body
Brookwood Labor College was a residential college, the first and only residential labor college in the United States.