[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Dean Heller

criticism of Trump for several months. In March 2018, Trump endorsed Heller in his Senate bid, convincing primary challenger Danny Tarkanian to drop out of the race.

In 2018, Heller repeatedly confronted the Trump administration over its plans to reopen the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository.

In April 2018, Heller said that he did not support legislation to protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller from being fired by Trump, saying "I don't think that's going to happen so I don't think there's a need for legislation." Heller said that he did not want the President to fire Mueller but that Mueller should quickly wrap up the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.

Since Joe Biden defeated Donald Trump in the 2020 presidential election, Heller has repeatedly refused to acknowledge Biden winning the presidency.

Health care
Heller voted against the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (Obamacare).

During the debate prior to the federal healthcare law's passage, Heller said that members of Congress should be forced to join any government-run healthcare plan proposed in early versions of the healthcare law.

Heller questioned the constitutionality of the law following its passage, and called on Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto to join a multi-state lawsuit challenging it.

On January 19, 2011, Heller voted to repeal the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare).

In May 2013, Heller introduced a bill to suspend $440 million in IRS funding to enforce Obamacare.

In June 2013, Heller called Obamacare a “colossal monstrosity,” but in April 2014, The Hill named him as one of several “anxious Senate Republicans” who were worried that Republican leaders were “focusing too much this election year on Obamacare.”

In June 2017, Heller held a joint press conference with Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval, where Heller fervently opposed the American Health Care Act, the Republican Party's repeal and replacement bill for the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Heller said that he could not support a bill "that takes away insurance from tens of millions of Americans and hundreds of thousands of Nevadans."

At a Republican Senate meeting held at the White House July 19, 2017, President Trump said "Look, he wants to remain a senator, doesn't he? And I think the people of your state, which I know very well, I think they're gonna appreciate what you hopefully will do." to Heller and the media. A few days later, Heller voted yes to allow debate on legislation to repeal and replace the ACA. Heller was one of seven Republicans who voted 'no' to repealing the ACA without a replacement. Two days later, he voted in favor of "skinny" repeal of the Affordable Care Act. The July 2017 attempt to repeal failed when Republican Senators John McCain, Susan Collins, and Lisa Murkowski voted against the "skinny" repeal proposal. In August 2017, when asked about the Senate's health care votes, Heller said that he was "real pleased at the way this thing turned out".

In September 2017, Senators Graham, Cassidy, Heller, Johnson and Santorum proposed another health care reform bill, commonly referred to as "Graham-Cassidy" or "Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson". This bill did not come up for a vote in the Senate, after three Republican Senators said they would not vote for it, making it mathematically impossible to pass.

In December 2017, at least 10 protestors were removed from a LIBRE Initiative public event with Senator Heller. Cancer patient and health care activist Laura Packard was escorted out after questioning him about his health care votes.

During his 2018 re-election campaign, Heller said that he had authored a bill that would have kept in place protections for preexisting conditions; according to CNN, this was false: the Graham-Cassidy bill would have "actually weakened Obamacare's protections for those with pre-existing conditions. Had that legislation become law, states could have opted to once again allow carriers to base premiums on a person's medical history and to sell skimpier policies that don't cover Obamacare's 10 essential health benefits. Those with pre-existing conditions could have found themselves unable to afford insurance or able to only buy bare bones policies that wouldn't have covered all the treatments they need."