[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lamon

e tract called 'via pagana') which from Altinum reached Augusta Vindelicum (Augusta), in the province of Raetia. The road, traced by Drusus and "fitted" by Claudius, passed directly (or a branch of it, the question is still debated) through the Lamonese territory in the direction of Castello Tesino.

A settlement developed in the first centuries of the Christian era, where the hamlet of  stands today, a geomorphologically suitable point for controlling the street. This is evidenced by the findings of the necropolis located downstream of today's hamlet, from which objects of burial tombs have been discovered. Recently the area has been the subject of investigations by the Superintendency which has highlighted several 2nd and 3rd century AD burials. The recovered objects are now kept in an exhibition in Lamon. Within these investigations, the wall structures at Col Furlan were also highlighted, perhaps related to the Castle of San Donato referred to in oral tradition. A second housing nucleus developed around the already popular San Pietro hill, on which it is believed that a tower was placed in order to be visually connected with other observation points located along the route of the road in the nearby Sovramonte plateau. Between the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning of the twentieth century various finds from the Roman era (tombs, jewels, coins) came to light on the hill and in the surrounding area. The belt of the control stations on the Roman road finished at the Castle of Valdeniga (whose ruins were still visible in the nineteenth century). These fortresses originated in the late ancient age and then developed in the early medieval and medieval ages.

In fact, in the late antiquity, the importance of the Via Claudia Augusta did not decrease. Both for the Empire and for the Germanic people, it was a path of great fruition in the 4th to 6th centuries AD. Proof of this is the Calice argenteo del Diacono Orso (silver chalice of the Deacon Bear, 6th century AD), by far one of the greatest finds of Christianity and the oldest in the Christian West. It was recovered in 1836 in a ravine near San Donato, in the Coronini area. The inscription, written in capital letters, quotes: DE DONIS DEI URSUS DIACONUS SANCTO PETRO ET SANCTO PAULO OPTULIT. It probably testifies to the birth of the diocese of Feltre in the fifth century AD. According to some, the object belonged to the deacon Ursus, who carried out a permanent and itinerant service; the chalice would have been kept in the cathedral of Feltre and hidden when the Lombards arrived. For others, however, a chalice of this invoice would have belonged to episcopal seats of much higher prestige, Concordia or Aquileia, and would have been subject to raiding and therefore hidden along the route of the Via Claudia Augusta. Whatever the truth, what seems certain is that the object was voluntarily hidden, thus it was recovered intact. In this period, between the Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages, the plateau and its surroundings were affected by the allocation of people of Germanic origin. Several place names, including the Campigoti (literally, lands of the Goths) are proof of this. The agricultural exploitation of some localities located on the edge of the road layout is to be ascribed to this time, as in the case of the hamlets of Rugna and Ronche (from the late Latin runcare: to till the soil, deforest).

Introduction of bean cultivation 

The cultivation of the well-known Lamon bean began in 1528-1532. It was initiated by the Belluno abbot Pietro Valeriano. He had used the seeds given to him by Pope Clement VII. Beans have been the staple and popular food for Lamonese cuisine for centuries. Due to its richness in proteins, it has been called the meat of the poor. 

The Lamonese bean has "a very thin rind and a tender pulp", which makes it sought after by gourmets.

Demographic evolution

Image Gallery

References

External links 
 Comune di Lamon 
 Pro Loco Lamon 

Cities and towns in Veneto