[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gear Fighter Dendoh

is a Japanese robot anime television series produced by TV Tokyo, Yomiko Advertising and Sunrise. It was directed by Mitsuo Fukuda, with Chiaki Morosawa handling series scripts, Hirokazu Hisayuki designing the characters and monsters, Satoshi Shigeta serving as mechanical animation director and Toshihiko Sahashi composing the music. The series ran for 38 episodes, from October 4, 2000 to June 27, 2001, on the TV Tokyo network and its affiliates.

The series features many of the production staff and main cast members that worked on the Future GPX Cyber Formula series that concluded in 2000, including Fukuda, Hisayuki, Morosawa, and Shigeta, and many of them went on to participate in the later Mobile Suit Gundam SEED series as well. The production period of the anime was a transitional period in which the production environment for animated works was shifting from the traditional cel coloring and film compositing to coloring and editing on computers, and the percentage of computer production increased in the latter half of the series. Although 3D computer graphics with cel shading were used, they were limited to a small portion of stock shots due to the limited processing power of computers at the time, lack of technical expertise, and budgetary constraints.

Summary
One day, a shiny object crashed from outer space and burst into flames, from where six colored lights flew away. On the opposite shore, a girl with blue hair staggered along the beach. She had run out of strength and collapsed, but there were two mobile terminals beside her, and a figure came to her aid.

17 years later, the giant fortress "Spiral Castle" of Galfa, a mechanical life form that plans to exterminate the human race, flies to the moon one day. From the fortress, the "mecha-beasts," robots under its command, begin their march toward the earth. Hokuto Kusanagi, a boy who has moved to Hoshimi Town, meets Ginga Izumo, a boy practicing kenpō in the schoolyard of his elementary school. Soon after that, a number of mecha-beasts, which have taken up interceptor satellites, fly in and begin attacking the town. Worried about their families, they hurry home, but on the way they find a lost little girl crying and try to save her. Just as a mecha-beast sets its sights on them and attacks, a giant blue robot breaks through the floor and appears, welcoming the startled pair into its chest cockpit. It is the "Gear Fighter Dendoh," the hope of mankind.

Characters

A fifth grader at Hoshimi Elementary School, he is an active boy who prefers to act rather than think. When the Galfa attacked the earth, he and Hokuto were chosen as Dendoh pilots and he was entrusted with the blue Gear Commander. At first, he was proud of being chosen as a Dendoh pilot and underestimated the battle against Galfa. However, as he experienced defeats and setbacks, he matured and awakened to his mission to protect the earth. Although he and Hokuto often clashed, they gradually came to recognize each other.

A fifth grader at Hoshimi Elementary School, he is an intelligent boy who is both thoughtful and decisive. On the day he moved to Hoshimi Town with his family, he encountered an attack by Galfa. He and Ginga are chosen as Dendoh pilots and he is entrusted with the black Gear Commander. Although he is perplexed at having to bear the fate of the earth on his shoulders, he becomes more and more aware of his role as a Dendoh pilot as he witnesses the crisis on the earth. Although he and Ginga, who have opposite personalities, sometimes disagree with each other, they gradually build a relationship of trust.

The second-in-command of GEAR, an earth defense organization, she was initially scheduled to be Dendoh's pilot. She was an advisor to combat command and supported Dendoh's battles by standing on the front lines herself. She is also an expert in combat, with a number of special weapons, and is skilled enough to go toe-to-toe with the black knight Arthea. One of the people deeply involved in the creation of GEAR, she has a wealth of knowledge about Dendoh, data weapons, and Galfa. Her costume is made of the latest technological materials.

A Knight Ogre pilot with a white gear commander sent from the main planet of Galfa to capture data weapons. He is the elite guard of Emperor Galfa, who holds the title of Black Knight, and his rank is equal to that of Spiral Castle. He has an outstanding fighting sense, and has tormented Dendoh many times.

A prodigy girl who graduated from M.I.T. (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) at the age of 10. With a PhD in electronics, she was recruited by GEAR as the youngest person ever. She was initially working on data weapon research at GEAR's U.S. branch, but was selected as the chief data weapon analyst and transferred to the Japan headquarters. After arriving in Japan, she transferred to Hoshimi Elementary School as a chaperone of Ginga and his friends.