[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# The Caretaker

etation
In his 1960 book review of The Caretaker, fellow English playwright John Arden writes: "Taken purely at its face value this play is a study of the unexpected strength of family ties against an intruder." As Arden states, family relationships are one of the main thematic concerns of the play.

Another prevalent theme is the characters' inability to communicate productively with one another. The play depends more on dialogue than on action; however, though there are fleeting moments in which each of them does seem to reach some understanding with the other, more often, they avoid communicating with one another as a result of their own psychological insecurities and self-concerns.

The theme of isolation appears to result from the characters' inability to communicate with one another, and the characters' own insularity seems to exacerbate their difficulty communicating with others.

As the characters also engage in deceiving one another and themselves, deception and self-deception are motifs, and certain deceptive phrases and self-deceptive strategies recur as refrains throughout the dialogue.  Davies uses an assumed name and has convinced himself that he is really going to resolve his problems relating to his lack of identity papers, even though he appears too lazy to take any such responsibility for his own actions and blames his inaction on everyone but himself.  Aston believes that his dream of building a shed will eventually reach fruition, despite his mental disability. Mick believes that his ambitions for a successful career outweigh his responsibility to care for his mentally damaged brother. In the end however all three men are deceiving themselves. Their lives may continue on beyond the end of the play just as they are at the beginning and throughout it. The deceit and isolation in the play lead to a world where time, place, identity, and language are ambiguous and fluid.

Production history

Premiere
On 27 April 1960, the first production of The Caretaker opened at the Arts Theatre, in London, prior to transferring to the West End's Duchess Theatre on 30 May 1960.  It starred Donald Pleasence as Davies, Alan Bates as Mick, and Peter Woodthorpe as Aston.  The productions received generally strong reviews.

Other notable productions and major revivals

1961 – Lyceum Theatre, New York City, on 4 October 1961 by Roger L. Stevens, Frederick Brisson, and Gilbert Miller. Directed by Donald McWhinnie. Setting: Bert Currah, Sets Supervised and lighting: Paul Morrison, Production Supervisor: Fred Herbert, Stage Manager/Understudy: Joel Fabiani
Cast: Alan Bates (Mick), Donald Pleasence (Davies), and Robert Shaw (Aston).
1972 – Residenz Theatre, Munich directed by August Everding
Cast: Heinz Rühmann (Davies), Gerd Baltus (Aston) and Michael Schwarzmaier (Mick)
1976 – Virginia Museum Theater (VMT), directed by James Kirkland. Part of the mission of the Virginia Museum at the time was to disseminate the arts, including drama, widely to the people of Virginia.  In this regard, it is noteworthy that this was the second Pinter play to be produced by VMT, showing the increasing popularity of his works.  This production followed the company's statewide tour of The Homecoming two years previously.
1981 – Royal National Theatre. Directed by Kenneth Ives.
Cast: Jonathan Pryce, Kenneth Cranham, and Warren Mitchell
1983 – Royal Exchange, Manchester directed by Richard Negri
Cast: Charlie Drake (Davies), Jonathan Hackett (Aston) and Tim McInnerny (Mick). Michael Angelis also played one of the two brothers.
1990 – Sherman Theatre, Cardiff (24 October – 10 November)
Cast: Miriam Karlin played Davies – the first time a woman performed the title role – with Mark Lewis Jones (Aston) and Gary Lilburn (Mick). Directed by Annie Castledine.
1991 – Comedy Theatre, London. Directed by Harold Pinter.
Cast: Donald Pleasence, Peter Howitt and Colin Firth
1993 – The Studio Theatre, Washington, D.C. (12 September – 24 October)
Cast: Emery Battis, Richard Thompson, John Tindle.
2000 – Comedy Theatre, London, November 2000 – February 2001.  Directed by Patrick Marber. Designer, Rob Howell; lighting, Hugh Vanstone; sound, Simon Baker (for Autograph Sound).  Associate Director, Gari Jones
Cast: Michael Gambon (Davies), Rupert Graves (Mick), and Douglas Hodge (Aston)
2003 – Roundabout Theatre Company, New York City.  Directed by David Jones. Set design: John Beatty, Costume design: Jane Greenwood, Lighting: Peter Lezorowski. Design: Scott Lehrer.
Cast: Patrick Stewart (Davies), Aidan Gillen (Mick), and Kyle MacLachlan (Aston).
2005 – Zephyr Theatre. Los Angeles. Directed by Matt Gottlieb.
Cast Robert Mandan (Davies), Steve Spiro (Mick) and Jaxon Duff Gwillim (Aston).
2006 – Sheffield Theatres, part of UK tour in 2006–2007 season. Directed by Jamie Lloyd.
Cast Nigel Harman, David Bradley, and Con O'Neill.
2006–2007 – "Le gardien".  Théâtre de l'Oeuvre.  Transferred to the Théâtre de Paris.  Directed by Didier Long.
Cast: Robert Hirsch, S