[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Israeli passport

ies, ranking the Israeli passport 21st in the world in terms of travel freedom (tied with the Barbadian and Emirati passports). Additionally, Arton Capital's Passport Index ranked the Israeli passport 16th in the world in terms of travel freedom, with a visa-free score of 146, as of 2 December 2018.

Limitations on use by Israel
Under the 1954 Israeli Prevention of Infiltration Law, Lebanon, Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Iraq and Yemen were designated "enemy states". Israeli citizens may not visit countries so designated without a permit issued by the Israeli Interior Ministry. Egypt and Jordan were removed from the list following the signing of peace accords with these countries in 1978 and 1994, while Iran was added after the 1979 Iranian Revolution. In January 2020, Israel's Minister of the Interior announced that Israeli citizens, both Muslims and Jews, can travel to Saudi Arabia for religious and business purposes. These countries have their own bans on the entry of Israelis.

Countries that do not accept Israeli passports

Fourteen countries that do not recognize the state of Israel also do not admit Israeli passport holders:

 A: Except for Iraq's Kurdistan Region.
 B: Unless a clearance permit is obtained from the Ministry of Home Affairs in addition to a visa prior to arrival.
 C: Since 2020, except for religious and business purposes.

In addition, six of these countries — Iran, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Syria and Yemen — do not allow entry to people with evidence of travel to Israel, or whose passports have either a used or an unused Israeli visa.

As a consequence, many countries may issue a second passport to citizens wishing to circumvent this restriction, and the Israeli immigration services have now mostly ceased stamping entry or exit stamps in all passports. Some Israelis will try to apply for dual citizenship in order to circumvent existing travel bans as an Israeli citizen.

Image gallery

See also
 Mandatory Palestine passport
 Visa policy of Israel
 Visa requirements for Israeli citizens
 Israeli identity card
 Israeli nationality law
 Who is a Jew?
 Law of Return

References

External links 
 

Foreign relations of Israel
Law enforcement in Israel
Passports by country