[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Christopher Wise

Christopher Wise (born 1961) is a cultural theorist, literary critic, scholar, and translator. His publications largely focus on Sahelian West Africa, especially Mali, Burkina Faso, and Senegal, as well as Palestine, Jordan, and Israel. He has also published theoretical works on Fredric Jameson, Jacques Derrida, and Noam Chomsky.

Early life and career
Wise was born in Oklahoma and is a member of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation. He received his Ph.D. in Comparative Literature from the University of California, Riverside in 1992. 

He taught on Fulbright awards at the Université de Ouagadougou in Burkina Faso (1996–97) and the University of Jordan, Amman (2001-2003). At the University of Jordan, Wise developed American and Islamic Studies programs. In 2004, he co-directed the first American Studies Conference in the Middle East, held in Cairo, Egypt. 

He taught on the faculty of the University of West Georgia and Occidental College. Wise has been a professor at Western Washington University since 1996.

African Scholarship and Translation 
In 1997, Wise traveled to Mopti-Sevaré in Central Mali, where he met the reclusive novelist and marabout, Yambo Ouologuem. Wise's interview was the only interview granted by Ouologuem after the time that he went into seclusion in the mid 1970s until his death in 2017. In the interview, Ouologuem revealed that he was a fierce critic of Arab neo-imperialism in West Africa. Wise's widely discussed interview was published in ‘’Research In African Literatures’’ and later reprinted as a book in both English and French.  Wise later translated Ouologuem’s works into English in his book, The Yambo Ouologuem Reader. Wise’s works on Ouologuem have contributed towards a reconsideration of Ouologuem’s writings at a time that he had been discredited due to plagiarism controversies. In 2001, Wise edited a collection of writings by Sahelian writers entitled The Desert Shore that included political essays by the slain Burkinabe journalist Norbert Zongo. Obed Nkunzimana called The Desert Shore “A substantial scholarly, humanistic, and ethnical contribution to the understanding of Africa in general and the Sahel in particular.”  Wise also translated Zongo's The Parachute Drop into English in 2004, a novel about a corrupt West African dictator which was based on figures like Mobutu Sese Seko and Blaise Compaore. Ngugi wa Thiong’o later endorsed the book, stating, “In this novel, with its clear and readable English translation, Zongo's spirit rises from the dead to tell the oppressor: I will never stop to fight for a more humane Africa.” Wise's work on Zongo's murder brought international attention to Compaore's use of assassination to eliminate his enemies. Wise later translated Al Hajj Mahmud Kati's Timbuktu chronicle the Tarikh al fattash into English, a 16th-century Songhay Dynasty manuscript. Nubia Kai called Wise’s translation “an occasion for celebration,” and she attributed the long neglect of Kati's book to institutional racism.<ref>Review: Mahmud Kati, Ta’rikh al-fattash: The Timbuktu Chronicles 1493- 1599,”by Nubai Kai. Journal of the African Literature Association, Vol. 6, No. 2 (2013).</ref> Wise's translation of the Tarikh al fattashhas been praised for its readable prose, and it remains one of Africa World Press's best-selling books.