[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Big Wapwallopen Creek

1861. It got its water supply from the upper reaches of the watershed of Big Wapwallopen Creek. In the 1800s, F.K. Miller constructed a tannery on a tributary of the creek in southeastern Dorrance Township. By 1865, the community of Dorrance had a gristmill, four sawmills, and a tavern on the creek.

Historically, there was a timbering industry in the watershed of Big Wapwallopen Creek. It was carried out by J.C. Patterson. However, the timbering was completed by the 1870s on several properties. In the early 1900s, the main industry in the watershed of Big Wapwallopen Creek was agriculture. However, the creek's main stem and Crystal Lake were used as a water supply by the Spring Brook Water Supply Company. A small hydroelectric plant and several mills operated in the lower reaches of the creek. In the early 1900s, the main population centers in the watershed included Wapwallopen, Hobbie, and Briggsville. Their populations were 450, 113, and 60, respectively. The Lehigh Valley Railroad and the Central Railroad of New Jersey historically passed through the upper part of the creek's watershed and the Wilkes-Barre and Hazleton Railway also passed through the creek's drainage basin. The Albert Methodist Church was moved from the Powder Glen near Wapwallopen in the early 1900s and dedicated in 1927.

In March 1936, Big Wapwallopen Creek flooded in Rice Township to a depth of  over Nuangola
Road. The two largest floods in Hollenback Township occurred in August 1955 and June 1972. During these flooding events, discharge of Big Wapwallopen Creek at the Hobbie Road Bridge was 3140 and 5410 cubic feet per second, respectively. The gage heights were  and , respectively. The floodwaters reached a depth of  on Hobbie Road and many nearby homes were flooded.

A metal truss bridge carries T-392/Faux Road over Big Wapwallopen Creek. It is  long. A masonry arch bridge with a length of  was built across the creek in 1897 and repaired in 1963. Another metal truss bridge was built over the creek in 1908 and is  long. Three concrete tee beam bridges with lengths of , , and  were constructed over the creek in 1925 and the third was repaired in 1963. A concrete slab bridge with a length of  was built across the creek in 1930 and a concrete tee beam with a length of  was built over the creek in 1957. A prestressed box beam or girders bridge with a length of  was built over it in 1958. Another bridge of the same type, but with two spans and a length of  was built over the creek in 1961.

Two prestressed box beam or girders bridges with three spans were built across Big Wapwallopen Creek in 1965 and repaired in 1982. Both carried Interstate 81 and were  long. A concrete culvert bridge carrying Pennsylvania Route 239 was built over the creek in 1970. This bridge is  long. A prestressed box beam or girders bridge with a length of  was built over the creek in 1993. A prestressed box beam or girders bridge with a length of  was constructed across the creek in 1996.

The Big Wapwallopen Creek Watershed Association is based on Dorrance.

Biology
The drainage basin of Big Wapwallopen Creek is designated by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection as a Coldwater Fishery and a Migratory Fishery. Wild trout naturally reproduce in the creek from its headwaters downstream to its mouth. They also do so in all three of the creek's named tributaries. A  long stretch of the creek from Crystal Lake to a powerline crossing upstream of Nuangola Road is designated as Class A Wild Trout Waters for both brook trout and brown trout. The tributaries Bow Creek and Balliet Run are also Class A Wild Trout Waters.

Big Wapwallopen Creek is stocked with trout. It was stocked with rainbow trout a month before the fishing season in 2014, on March 5.  It has also been stocked with brook trout at times. Minnows and suckers have been observed within the creek.

A major fish kill occurred in Big Wapwallopen Creek in 1967. A tank of a caustic substance was accidentally overturned and its contents spilled into the creek, polluting it for a stretch running from approximately  from the tributary Bow Creek to Legion Road/Legislative Route 40112. Approximately 4000 fish were killed, most of them minnows, suckers, and trout.

Hemlock trees form a canopy over Big Wapwallopen Creek in some places. The Wapwallopen Gorge is listed as a Locally Significant site on the Luzerne County Natural Areas Inventory. Hemlock and yellow birch are common at the gorge's upper end. However, river birch and sycamore are more common at the lower end of the gorge. There are riparian forests along Big Wapwallopen Creek in the American Legion Post 781 land tract. The tract of land also contains some wet areas such as vernal pools and marshes. These areas provide breeding grounds for reptiles, amphibians, fish, and aquatic invertebrates.