[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fox Conner

dier general on August 8, 1918. After the Armistice was signed in November, Conner was assigned to the Army General Staff in Washington and was promoted to permanent colonel on August 22, 1919.

Conner gained Pershing's respect and admiration during the war, causing Pershing to write to Conner that:

In 1920, a subcommittee of the House of Representatives launched an investigation in the losses among United States Army personnel that had occurred in the hours between the time when the Armistice of 11 November 1918 had been signed and the time when it came into effect. During the hearings, Conner drew heavy criticism from Congressman Oscar E. Bland and was named by Brigadier General John H. Sherburne, of the Massachusetts National Guard and the former commander of the artillery of the African American 92nd Division, as the individual most responsible for not stopping a scheduled attack by the 92nd Division of Lieutenant General Robert Lee Bullard's Second Army. The panel members rejected Sherburne's assertion and the final report of the subcommittee held no one person accountable for the losses.

For his service as the "brain" of the AEF, Conner was awarded the Army Distinguished Service Medal and the French Croix de Guerre. After the war, Conner and Palmer received credit for writing the after-action report on World War I operations which influenced the content of the National Defense Act of 1920 and set the course for the interwar army.

Army Distinguished Service Medal citation

Conner and Eisenhower

Conner's most remembered contribution to the army was his mentorship of promising subordinates, most notably Major Dwight D. Eisenhower. Conner first met Eisenhower "in Autumn of 1920, introduced by Lieutenant Colonel George S. Patton at a Sunday dinner at the Pattons." Eisenhower would later note that perhaps the greatest reward of his friendship with Patton was being introduced to Conner. Conner and Eisenhower immediately developed a great mutual respect: "Conner became Eisenhower's teacher and a father figure whom he admired above all others." Following his promotion to permanent brigadier general in 1921, Conner took command of the 20th Infantry Brigade in Panama. He invited Eisenhower to join his staff and for three years Conner conducted a systematic course of study for Eisenhower that ranged from extensive readings in military history to daily practical experience writing field orders for every aspect of the command. "As Eisenhower later told it, the next two years under Conner were the most intense period of military education he ever experienced. Conner recognized that Eisenhower had a great but underdeveloped talent, which Conner set out to fix".

Conner had three principles or rules of war for a democracy that he imparted to both Eisenhower and Marshall. They were:
 Never fight unless you have to;
 Never fight alone; and
 Never fight for long.

Of particular importance to Eisenhower's later career, Conner emphasized the importance of coalition command in preparation for the inevitable war. Said Eisenhower,

Conner pulled strings to get his protégé admitted to the U.S. Army Command and Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, where Eisenhower graduated first in his class thanks in no small part to his comprehensive Panamanian tutelage, in addition to the class notes Eisenhower received from Patton, who had attended the school earlier.

Eisenhower later commented on Conner's abilities: "Outside of my parents he had more influence on me and my outlook than any other individual, especially in regard to the military profession."

Later service
Conner left Panama in late 1924 to assume his duties in Washington as the Army's Assistant Chief of Staff for Logistics (G-4), which started on December 1, 1924.

Conner was promoted to major general on October 20, 1925, and assigned as Deputy Chief of Staff of the Army on March 9, 1926. He commanded the 1st Division at Fort Hamilton from May 1 to September 1, 1927, and the Hawaiian Department in Honolulu from January 25, 1928, to August 5, 1930. He was assigned as commander of the First Corps Area in Boston on October 7, 1930.

Conner was Pershing's preference for Army Chief of Staff in 1930, but was passed over in favor of Major General Douglas MacArthur. "According to some sources, Conner took himself out of the running. He hated Washington, and he did not want to go back there. Nonetheless, one can only speculate how differently the course of U.S. Army history might have run if Conner rather than MacArthur had replaced Summerall". He was assigned to command the First Army in 1936 and retired on November 4, 1938, after forty years of service.

Conner's lasting legacy was as a role model and inspiration to World War II high commanders including Marshall, Eisenhower, and Patton. Eisenhower considered Conner to be the greatest soldier he ever knew, saying: "In sheer ability and character, he was the outstanding soldier of my time."