[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Solutrean hypothesis

at the sites, but no evidence that deep sea resources had been exploited. Advocates state that the historic coastlines of western Europe and eastern North America during the Last Glacial Maximum are now under water and thus, evidence of Solutrean-era seafaring may have been obliterated or submerged.

Another challenge to the hypothesis involves the paucity of non-technological evidence of a kind we would expect to find transmitted from east to west; cave paintings of a kind associated with the Cave of Altamira in Spain, for example, are without close parallel in the New World. In response, Bradley and Stanford contend that it was "a very specific subset of the Solutrean who formed the parent group that adapted to a maritime environment and eventually made it across the north Atlantic ice-front to colonize the east coast of the Americas" and that this group may not have exhibited the full range of Solutrean cultural traits.  A carved piece of bone depicting a mammoth found near the Vero man site in Florida was dated between 20,000–13,000 BP. It is described as possibly being the oldest art object yet found in the Americas. Art historian Barbara Olins has compared the Vero carving to "Franco-Cantabrian" drawings and engravings of mammoths. She notes that the San of southern Africa developed a realistic manner of representing animals similar to the "Franco-Cantabrian" style, hinting that such a style could have evolved in North America independently.

Political controversy 
Similar to the controversy surrounding Kennewick Man, the Solutrean hypothesis also became politicized in the 2010s. Reports claimed that it had attracted the support of white supremacist groups, who interpreted the theory to say that the "original inhabitants of the Americas" were "white Europeans" (disregarding the fact that the Solutreans were likely brown-skinned) and the present-day Native Americans are the descendants of "later immigrants" from Asia.

An episode of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation documentary The Nature of Things in January 2018 was widely criticized by scientists and Native Americans for its uncritical presentation of the Solutrean hypothesis.

See also 

 Peopling of the Americas: When Paleolithic hunter-gatherers entered North America from the North Asian Mammoth steppe via the Beringia land bridge
 Last Glacial Maximum: The most recent time during the Last Glacial Period that ice sheets were at their greatest extent.
 Solutré: Solutrean culture.
 Models of migration to the New World: Scientifically accepted models of migration to the New World.

References

Archaeological theory
Clovis culture
Peopling of the Americas
Pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact
Stone Age Europe
Upper Paleolithic
Origin hypotheses of ethnic groups