[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 30]
# History of Cumbria

he status of the Lake District as a northern Arcadia" amongst the upcoming painters of London.

Painters who were enticed north, amongst a host of others, included Philip de Loutherbourg (1784); Thomas Gainsborough (1783); Francis Towne (1786); Joseph Wright of Derby (1783–1797); Paul Sandby (1793).

J. M. W. Turner visited the Lakes in 1797 (Keswick, Lodore Falls, Borrowdale, Crummock Water, Buttermere, Grasmere, Patterdale, Ambleside, Coniston, Furness Abbey and across the sands to Lancaster and Yorkshire). Ignoring the Picturesque guidebooks, his paintings (worked up in the studio during the Winter from sketches done at the time), took some liberties with the topography, but are reckoned to capture the elemental forces of the Lakes more than anyone else. Later visits took place in 1801 and 1831. Turner took a mythic view of the Arcadian and Paradisal aspects of the Lakes, emphasising the "fragility, trancience and triumphant returning"

John Constable came to Windermere in 1806 and stayed seven weeks, at his uncle's house, Storrs Hall, and then at Brathay Hall. Although no great paintings were produced from this trip, the numerous sketches and watercolours that he produced have been admired, and take their place in his development as an artist, dealing largely with questions of composition and mood. Constable was one of those artists, like Robert Hills who signalled a move towards the sketch, in HilVictoria and Albert Museum (1984), l's case moving away from the Arcadian panorama towards close-up views. Hills visited the Lakes in 1803, accompanied by John Glover (artist), and guided by William Green. Glover followed the Arcadian tradition of Richard Wilson.

If Turner and Constable took freedoms with what they saw in the Lake District, William Green, a surveyor from Manchester who went to live in Ambleside in 1800, decided to reproduce what he saw faithfully, like Farington. His was a painstaking and accurate depiction, in drawings, etchings and watercolours, of the topography of the land and of the architecture (he complained of the fad for modernising some of the old vernacular buildings). He became friendly with the Wordsworths and other local gentry and sold many of his engravings to them. He produced The tourist's new guide (1819) with sixty etchings and a text.

Of the 19th-century painters, mention might be made of Peter De Wint who imbued his paintings (watercolours and oils made from 1821 onwards) "with the Christian sense of immanence." Later in the century, painters followed Ruskin's ideas about 'natural composition', that is Nature, rather than human beings, was the model to go to, rather than pictorialism and the making of panoramas. The close-up view and accuracy of observation led to the "Romantic cult of the sketch or study" that was taken up by later painters of the Lake District. The landscape realists of the 1850s onwards did detailed studies in front of the subject and were often linked with the Pre-Raphaelite movement and with the newly established National Schools of Art and the increasing patronage of the museums and galleries of Liverpool and Manchester. Atkinson Grimshaw and Daniel Alexander Williamson are two representatives of this movement.

Early tourism
The early tourists (who came to the Lakes from around 1760 onwards) were pulled towards the Lake District because of their interest in antiquity, aesthetics, and science as expressed in the writings of Hutchinson, Gray, West, Gilpin and so on (a "counterpoint of curiosity with connoisseurship and of imagination with the senses.") But after around 1790, Nicholson argues, these motives became degraded to ones where "the curiosity of the scientist becomes a mere itch for oddities; the artist's careful assessment of the landscape in terms of visual beauty and design becomes a mere taste for prettiness..." The search for thrills by people who were no longer "explorers", but "holiday-makers", took over

The writings and paintings of artists added to the desire of people to view the location of their art, and vivid stories such as the one about Mary Robinson, with its Picturesque overtones of a Primitive culture being corrupted by the evil ways of city-based civilisation, caused tourists to flock to Buttermere. They also came to see the regattas held by Joseph Pocklington, who had purchased Derwent Island House in 1778, (as well as the land on which the Bowder Stone stood in 1789). They viewed the curiosities to be found in Pocklington's friend (and regatta-organiser) Peter Crosthwaite's museum. Crosthwaite was the "first local man to see just how lucrative the tourist trade might become and to invent attractions specifically tailored for the visitors."