[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# China Merchants Group

an estimated 25 million taels of silver.

Following Sheng's death in 1916, Li Hongzhang's grandson, Li Guojie (), was appointed as a board director of CMSNCo. Li Guojie had previously served as the Chinese Minister to Belgium (1910-1912). In 1924 he was elected as Chairman of the board of directors.

Civil war period 
In 1927, Li continued to head the company although the entire Chinese shipping industry was placed under the supervision of the Communications Ministry of the Nationalist government. In 1929, the Nationalist government commenced investigations into past financial dealings of the company, and in particular those of the late Sheng Xianhuai. After uncovering evidence of impropriety, the Jiangsu Provincial Government ordered the confiscation of assets from Sheng's estate. Li Guojie also came under suspicion for misappropriating funds from the company and for taking out personal bank loans secured on the company's assets. This culminated in a lawsuit again Li to recover lost monies.

The scandal escalated when on 24 July 1930, Zhao Tieqiao, a senior member of the Shanghai Investment Promotion Bureau tasked with investigating past financial irregularities, was assassinated outside the company's offices in Shanghai. Li immediately fell under suspicion but lacking sufficient he was instead detained on economic fraud charges relating to obtaining personal foreign loans using state-owned assets as collateral. He was convicted and sentenced to 3 years imprisonment. However, through his political connections he was soon released. Li remained in Shanghai, heavily involved in the corrupt political power struggles prevalent in that era. He was shot outside his Shanghai home on 19 February 1939 and died soon afterwards.

The firm was nationalized and reorganized as the China Merchants Group in 1935, acquiring the name it uses today. During the Sino-Japanese war, the company sold four of its ships: Haiyuan, Haili, Haichen and Haiheng to the Hong Kong-based trading company Jardine Matheson & Co. Other ships were scuttled during the hostilities. 

During World War II, the headquarters moved around, being for a period in Hong Kong and at Chongqing.

Post-Civil War split 
In 1949, following the Chinese Civil War, the company's head office was transferred together with the Republic of China government from the Mainland to Taiwan. The Taipei-based part of CMSNCo. merged with Yang Ming Marine Transport Corporation on 1 July 1995. 

Meanwhile, the People's Republic of China retained ownership of some of the company's ships and of the Hong Kong subsidiary, allowing the latter to retain its name (China Merchants Steam Navigation Company Limited) to avoid legal disputes. In 1950, transfer of the original core company was moved to its Hong Kong headquarters but with overall control still being retained by the PRC.

Modern history (1978 to today) 
The company slipped into relative obscurity during the Mao era. This only changed with China's opening of its economy in 1978, when the free-trade zones created in China led to the company's revival. On 31 January 1979, Yuan Geng became the first CEO of the PRC-owned company. Yuan had founded the Shekou Industrial Zone in Shenzhen and was made CMG CEO following Beijing's approval of the zone proposal, making it a corner stone of the first special economic zone in Shenzhen as part of Deng Xiaoping's reformist policies.

Throughout its development of the Shekou Zone during the 1980s and 1990s, CMG got involved in business sectors beyond shipping, including investing in and operation of amenities, social and industrial infrastructures, numerous industrial ventures from containers to food manufacturing, real estate and finance.  In 1987, it founded the first joint-stock bank in the PRC, China Merchants Bank, making it a "highways-to-banking conglomerate". 

Although CMG was involved in numerous horizontal businesses, in 2001 this was rationalized to three "core business sectors", namely transport infrastructures, financial, as well as property development and industrial park operations.

Since the Chinese government's adoption of the Belt and Road Initiative in 2013, CMG has been playing a major role in furthering the policy through its flagship port business. CMG has been seeking to expand international operations accordingly. Besides operating in Hong Kong and Mainland China, CMG now has operations in strategic locations across South Asia, Europe, for example in Greece, Lithuania and Belarus, and Africa, including most notably Nigeria and Djibouti.

CMG became active in Nigeria in 2010 with the acquisition of a 47.5% stake in the Tin Can Island Container Terminal in Lagos. CMG became involved in Djibouti in 2013, when it acquired a 23.5% stake in the Doraleh container terminal. In January 2021, Djibouti and CMG signed a deal for the Chinese conglomerate to expand the Port of Djibouti at a cost of $350 million. The development plan will follow the Shekou Zone model.

House flag