[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kolar

is the 7 time winning member of parliament from kolar lok sabha constituency 

And now the city is represented by Member of Parliament elected from the Kolar Lok Sabha constituency is Muniswamy of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Srinivas Gowda is the MLA elected from the Karnataka Legislative Assembly.

Civic utilities 
The masterplan of the city is developed by the Urban Development Department, State of Karnataka. Kodikannur tank in the north of the city is its main source of water supply. The city has a shortage of drinking water, being an area with a 'permanent drought', and pipes being over 35 years old. Water is also supplied from four borewells at Maderahalli tank, and five more borewells that were revived in April 2020. According to the city municipality's website, the city receives a total of 56.20 MLD water, at 125 LPCD per capita.

The city has both open and closed drains. Kolar receives wastewater from Bengaluru as part of the KC project, which was expected to increase groundwater levels but has received criticism when it started contaminating the area. In 2017, it was reported that non-clearance of garbage by the municipal council had caused unhygienic conditions in the city.

Tourist attractions

Transportation 
Kolar has transportation amenities such as Buses, Taxis, and Auto Rickshaws.

Kolar also has a local transportation facility " Antaragange Kolara Nagara Sarige" which was inaugurated in July 2012 but Govt has stopped this services and utilising these buses for rural areas.

Railways

The district headquarters has a railway station connecting two destinations:

1. Bengaluru - Via Bangarapet Junction railway station

The nearest junction to Kolar is Bangarapet Junction railway station. It is the first railway junction in Karnataka on  Chennai Central– Bengaluru City line

2. Bengaluru - Via Srinivaspura, Chinthamani, Sidlaghatta, Chikkaballapura, Devanahalli, Yelahanka

Educational institutes 
 Bengaluru North University, Sri Devaraj Urs Extension, NH 75, Tamaka, Kolar-563103.
 Sri Devaraj Urs Medical College (SDUMC) - Next to Horticulture college, NH 75, Tamaka, Kolar-563103.

Notable people 
 

 M. Visvesvaraya  – Celebrated Indian Engineer and Statesman, also known as "Father of Indian Engineering" and "The architect of modern Karnataka".
 D. V. Gundappa – was an Indian writer, Kannada poet and philosopher .
 Masti Venkatesha Iyengar – Kannada poet and recipient of Jnanpith Award
 B. K. S. Iyengar -  Founder of the style of yoga as exercise known as "Iyengar Yoga", considered one of the foremost yoga gurus in the world.
 N. R. Narayana Murthy -  is an Indian billionaire businessman and the founder of Infosys.
 K. C. Reddy – First Chief Minister of Karnataka, (then Mysore State)
 Hyder Ali – Ruler of Mysore Kingdom, Father of Tippu Sultan.
 Prashanth Neel- Renowned Indian Movie Director of  K.G.F: Chapter 1 and K.G.F: Chapter 2 fame.
 A. N. Prahlada Rao highest Crossword writer in India.
 K. H. Muniyappa – is an Indian Politician.He is a member of the Indian National Congress (INC) political party.
 Mallikarjuna Reddy – Guinness World Record holder, Micro Artist , Miniature artist.
 S. Muniswamy - is an Indian politician, a member of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and MP of Kolar.

References

External links

 City Official Website

Cities and towns in Kolar district
Cities in Karnataka