[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# In Treatment

ription for sleep medication. Adele perceives that lack of sleep is not his real problem.

The show remains set in Paul's apartment. Unlike the first two seasons, the third season has only four episodes per week. The show aired on Mondays and Tuesdays and, like season 2, had seven weeks of sessions.

On March 30, 2011, HBO said In Treatment would not continue in its existing form but might continue in a different format.

Season 4
In July 2020, it was reported that HBO was developing a reboot of the series. In October 2020, HBO confirmed the revival and production began in late 2020. The 24-episode season premiered on May 23, 2021, on HBO and HBO Max. Jennifer Schuur and Joshua Allen are the fourth season's co-showrunners.

Main cast
 Uzo Aduba as Dr. Brooke Taylor, a therapist
 Anthony Ramos as Eladio Restrepo, Brooke's patient who works as a home health aide for a wealthy family
 John Benjamin Hickey as Colin, Brooke's patient who is a white-collar criminal recently released from prison
 Quintessa Swindell as Laila, Brooke's patient who is a rebellious teenager
 Charlayne Woodard as Rhonda, Laila's grandmother
 Liza Colón-Zayas as Rita, Brooke's AA sponsor

Recurring cast
 Joel Kinnaman as Adam, Brooke's longtime on-again, off-again boyfriend

Critical response
The series was generally well-received, attaining positive reviews. On the review aggregator website Metacritic, the first season scored 70/100, the second 85/100, the third 83/100, and the fourth 73/100.

On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has a 78% approval rating with an average score of 6.1/10 based on 36 reviews; the critical consensus reads, "In Treatment has finely-written scripts that develop with raw emotion while unspooling engrossing suspense." The second season has a 100% approval rating with an average score of 8.9/10 based on 19 reviews; the critical consensus reads, "In Treatment continues to hone in on its characters in the second season, allowing the cast to find more nuances in their performances." The third season has an 87% approval rating with an average score of 8.6/10 based on 23 reviews; the critical consensus reads, "In Treatment offers some of the tightest dramatic writing and purest performances on television." The fourth season has a 96% approval rating with an average score of 7.5/10 based on 24 reviews; the critical consensus reads, "In Treatment returns with a solid fourth season that captures the spirit of the original while giving its new ensemble—led by an outstanding Uzo Aduba—plenty of room to shine.

The Los Angeles Timess Mary McNamara called In Treatment "cleverly conceived," well-written and -acted, but "stagey" and "strain[ing]... believability". Varietys Brian Lowry deemed it "more interesting structurally than in its execution". On Slate, Troy Patterson found it tiresome for its "nattering" and "ambitious hogwash". In Entertainment Weekly, Ken Tucker gave it a "B+", with "lots of great soapy intrigue". The New York Times wrote, "In Treatment [...] is hypnotic, mostly because it withholds information as intelligently as it reveals it. [...] The half-hour episodes are addictive, and few viewers are likely to be satisfied with just one session at a time. [...] In Treatment provides an irresistible peek at the psychopathology of everyday life—on someone else's tab."

Awards and nominations