[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Refugees and asylum in Russia

it is only a temporary benefit limited to three years, after which it must be extended on an annual basis. Opponents of the law suggest that the process in and of itself is difficult to manage.  Once a determination is made, the refugee should be free to live like all other residents of the country.

Finally, the most troubling complaint is that in some cases the law cannot be relied upon because it is not being properly implemented by the authorities (i.e. state authorities fail to issue a certificate to the asylum seeker upon receiving application, in accordance with Article 4.6). Legal representatives of asylum seekers, such as the UNHCR and the Committee for Civic Assistance, complain that individuals with legitimate claims are being denied asylum without just cause – and where a showing of persecution upon return to their home country is clear and apparent.  Others argue that the law is not being properly implemented because the attention of the Russian authorities in the migration sphere is elsewhere – primarily with combating illegal migration.

Organizations Offering Legal Representation to Refugees

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the Committee for Civic Assistance (CCA) provide legal consulting to refugees and forced migrants, mediate between refugees and the authorities, defend refugees in the courts, and advocate for refugee rights to housing and work.  In connection with these tasks, both organizations have constant contact with all structures dealing with refugee problems: the Federal Migration Service, regional migration services, and the Commission on Refugees in the State Duma.

Durable solutions

Organizations such as the UNHCR and the CCA work directly with those individuals they deem worthy of "refugee" status (i.e. UN mandated refugees – though this status is not recognized by the Russian authorities) and help them with reaching the most desirable outcome for them and their family.  The three most durable solutions are:

Voluntary Repatriation

In some instances, the situation in a mandated refugee’s home country changes for the better, and the fear of persecution upon return is no longer an immediate or long term issue.  Nevertheless, the issuance of exit visas by the Russian authorities remains an obstacle delaying the repatriation process.  The UNHCR helps the individual determine the best way to return home.  With the aid of the UNHCR, the Russian authorities will offer a one time deportation visa (which takes less than one week), as opposed to the exit visa normally required of all individuals leaving Russia (which could take several months).

Local Integration

According to the Law on Refugees, Government recognized refugees can apply for citizenship.  Nevertheless, there are significant legal obstacles for their acquisition of citizenship due to the restrictive registration system, which required proof of adequate income.  Local integration, though typically desirable, is an unrealistic goal for most asylum seekers as the Russian government does not recognize the UN mandated refugees.

Resettlement

The most common solution for UN recognized refugees is resettlement.  Due to inadequate protection capacity, resettlement remains the most viable option for UN mandated refugees.  It is estimated that there are thousands of UN mandated refugees in Russia who have been in the Russian asylum system for five years or more.  For these individuals especially, resettlement to Western Europeans countries and to North America is very desirable – where they can actually settle.  The UNHCR works with the migration offices of these countries and attempts to find these mandated refugees a home.

Present Day Conditions for Asylum Seekers in Russia

The conditions for asylum seekers in Russia are generally very poor.  Asylum seekers in Russia typically have to wait years to receive a decision from the FMS.  During that time, they are typically living without proper legal documents – making it nearly impossible for them to find a job outside of the local food markets.  According to the United Nations, until recognized as refugees by the state, asylum seekers cannot enjoy such rights as "legal employment, healthcare, housing assistance and social benefits" - and even the right to register marriages and births.

Asylum seekers in Russia are constantly in friction with the police.  Amnesty International states that "asylum seekers are often harassed and ill-treated by law enforcement officers who feel they can abuse such people with impunity". Amnesty International has received persistent reports of asylum-seekers from outside the territory of the former Soviet Union having their identity papers destroyed by police and being subjected to police harassment in the form of extortion, beatings and general intimidation. Many have been subjected to police raids or intimidated into leaving their homes.