[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Crystal Mountain (Washington)

Crystal Mountain is a mountain and alpine ski area in eastern Pierce County, Washington, United States, located in the Cascade Range southeast of Seattle. It is the largest ski resort in the state of Washington and lies within the Mount Baker–Snoqualmie National Forest. The resort is accessible from the Seattle–Tacoma metropolitan area via State Route 410.

Primarily a day-use area, Crystal has nine chairlifts, various dining locations, and multiple hotels. It is also home to the Mt. Rainier Gondola, which provides year-round access to the resort's summit and is the state's only high-speed gondola. The gondola was installed in 2010.

Crystal Mountain was acquired by the Alterra Mountain Company in 2018.

Location
Crystal Mountain is accessible from Enumclaw, by driving to the Sunrise entrance of Mount Rainier National Park, past the small town of Greenwater.

The ski resort is located in the valley of the Silver Creek, a tributary of the White River, and on the east and north east slopes of Crystal Mountain. The main summit of Crystal, also called Silver King, is  (NAVD88 elevation) and is the highest land in a  radius. Subsidiary peaks on the north ridge of Silver King are The Throne (), Silver Queen (ca. ), Grubstake Point (ca. ) and North Way Peak (). The latter three can be reached by ski lifts, and the resort has a Summit House on a shoulder just south of Grubstake. The summits offer an unobstructed view of Mount Rainier, which is less than  west-south-west.

History

1960s
Crystal Mountain Resort opened in December 1962 with two double chairlifts.  The first of these lifts, Miner's Basin, was decommissioned in the summer of 2011. Its route was close to that of the Gondola and ended by the top of the Exterminator and Deerfly runs. The other original lift (Iceberg Ridge) was removed when the Rainier Express was built.  The site, just northeast of Mount Rainier National Park, was chosen after some Tacoma skiers were unable to start a resort within the boundaries of the park. The Green Valley double chairlift was built the following summer, and the Quicksilver lift followed in 1964.

In 1965, Crystal hosted the collegiate ski championships in late March and the following week the U.S. Alpine Ski Championships, which included famous racers such as Karl Schranz of Austria, Olympic medalists Jimmie Heuga and Billy Kidd of the U.S., future triple gold medalist Jean-Claude Killy of France, and future gold medalist Nancy Greene of Canada.

Crystal hosted the national championships again in 1968, a few weeks after the Winter Olympics. Kidd, Heuga, and Greene were again in the field, as well as Spider Sabich. Back from the Olympics and the World Cup tour, local Judy Nagel won the women's slalom and combined titles at age sixteen. Five years earlier, her father Jack Nagel (1926–2004) and the racing school at Crystal were featured in Sports Illustrated, with her older sister Cathy, then fourteen, on the cover.

1970s
The Campbell Basin chairlift opened in 1970, which opened Campbell Basin to skiing for the first time and traveled from the base area all the way to the site of the current Campbell Basin Lodge.

Two weeks after the 1972 Olympics, Crystal hosted the World Cup tour  in late February 1972 with two downhills for both men and women, with the start above Campbell Basin. Weather forced a low start; the winning men's times were under 90 seconds. Newly-crowned Olympic downhill champion Bernhard Russi of Switzerland won the Saturday race and took second on Sunday. American Mike Lafferty of Eugene, Oregon, took second  and fourth in the two downhills. A women's slalom scheduled for Sunday was cancelled due to weather.

In 1974, Crystal added its first triple chairlift, Bullion Basin. High Campbell, the highest lift at Crystal, was added in 1976.  It was pre-owned, purchased from the defunct Yodelin Ski Area near Stevens Pass.  High Campbell serves the summit of Silver Queen and provides access to The Throne, Silver King, Campbell Basin, Avalanche Basin, and Silver Basin.

1980s
In 1984, Bullion Basin was moved to its current location as the Gold Hills lift. That same year, the Rendezvous and Discovery triple chairlifts were installed.

Washington's first high-speed detachable quad chairlift, the Rainier Express was installed in the summer of 1988, replacing the original chair 2. A fixed grip quad, Midway Shuttle, was added to connect the base area with Rainier Express.  The Campbell Basin double was shortened because the lower half was no longer necessary.  These upgrades were funded with money from investors, who in return would get future discounts on lift tickets and season passes.  Today this group of investors is the Crystal Mountain Founder's Club.