[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Azarias Ruberwa

Azarias Ruberwa Manywa (born August 20, 1964) is a Congolese politician, lawyer, and public figure. During the Second Congo War he was Secretary-General of the Rassemblement Congolais pour la Démocratie (RCD-G) rebel group. Following the war he was one of the vice-presidents in the transitional government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo between 2003-2006. He has also been the leader and president of RCD-G's political party since 2003. He is a member of the Banyamulenge community of South Kivu who belong to the Tutsi ethnic group.

Early life and education
Ruberwa was born on August 20, 1964, in the village of Rugezi, located in the highland region of the Fizi territory in the South Kivu province. He belongs to the Banyamulenge community who are a part of the Tutsi ethnic group. Tutsis in the Congo makeup a very small minority.

Ruberwa spent his early years in Minembwe, South Kivu before moving on to the Katanga Province to finish high school and college. He attended the University of Lubumbashi where he received his LLB (degree in Law), specializing in economics and social law and finishing with highest distinction. After graduation, he passed the Zaire national bar exam and became licensed to practice in August 1990.  After three years of working for a law firm in Lubumbashi, Ruberwa opened his own law firm known as “Cabinet Azarias Ruberwa Manywa” in 1993.  He practiced law in Lubumbashi until the war began in 1996.

Congo Civil Wars (1996-2003)
After the First Congo War began, Tutsis in the Congo were being persecuted. Ruberwa and his family were forced to flee the country because they were Tutsis. However, in early 1997, Ruberwa decided to join the AFDL rebel group as a political analyst and speech writer in order to help the group win the war against longtime dictator Mobutu Sese Seko. Ruberwa is credited with writing Laurent-Désiré Kabila's victory speech after the fall of Lubumbashi, often described as the turning point of the war, as well as writing Kabila's inaugural speech.

Once the war ended, Ruberwa was appointed Chief of Staff to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Bizima Karaha. Among other things, he led a delegation to Rome during his tenure to represent the Democratic Republic of Congo in the negotiations leading up to the Treaty of Rome-which was responsible for creating the International Criminal Court.

The Second Congo War began on August 2, 1998. Ruberwa, along with several other Congolese politicians left the government to create the Rally for Congolese Democracy (RCD), a Rwandan-backed movement based in Goma which went on to amass between 30,000 and 40,000 troops and control about 50 percent of the country. Ruberwa first served as Chief of Cabinet for the RCD's Department of Exterior Relations. He later became a member of the Executive Committee and the Deputy Head (Chief of Adjunct) of the Department of Exterior Relations.

Ruberwa was eventually appointed RCD Secretary General in October 2000, which effectively made him the de facto political leader of the organization. In this capacity, Ruberwa took on the chief negotiator role for the movement at both the Lusaka Ceasefire Agreement in Zambia and the Sun City Accords in Pretoria, South Africa.

Ruberwa did not become president of the RCD movement until after the transitional government began in July 2003.

Vice President of the DRC (2003-2006)
Under the Sun City Peace Deal, a power-sharing transitional government was formed and Ruberwa was named Vice President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, along with Jean-Pierre Bemba, Arthur Z'ahidi Ngoma, and Abdoulaye Yerodia Ndombasi. Vice President Ruberwa was given executive control of political affairs, defense, and security. Under this title, he was given a broad range of responsibilities such as being in charge of the process to draft the country's newest constitution, helping to create a unified national army, and helping to organize the first legitimate elections in the country since the independence of Congo from Belgium in 1960. More or less, he successfully accomplished each of the three against many obstacles.

Gatumba Massacre
One of the most difficult decisions Vice President Ruberwa had to make came on the night of August 13, 2004. Having just come back to Congo that day from visiting a refugee camp full of mostly Congolese Tutsi refugees in Gatumba, Burundi, Ruberwa learned of an apparent attack on that same camp. The attack was believed to have been carried out by members of the Forces for National Liberation, (a predominantly Burundian Hutu rebel movement known for its hostility towards Tutsis) and the Mai-Mai, a Congolese rebel group who seem to have also been complicit. It resulted in one of the largest civilian massacres carried out in the history of Burundi and led to at least 166 deaths and another 106 wounded people.