[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# In Treatment

returns to the military just as Paul begins to make progress with Alex's repressed insecurities. Alex is killed during a training exercise, and although his death is ruled an accident, some indications suggest that Alex's death was a suicidal reaction caused by the trauma of therapeutic reflection.

Sophie's ambivalence about life is elicited and broken down by Paul, who examines her underage sexual relationship with her much older gymnastics coach, Cy, and its effects on her, in addition to her conflicted feelings about her divorced parents and her father's distance from her. Eventually, Sophie benefits greatly from the therapy and begins to repair her relationship with her parents. At the end of the season, Sophie leaves Baltimore to pursue further gymnastic training in Denver.

Jake and Amy's debate about whether she should have an abortion is the prologue to what is revealed to be an extremely volatile, dysfunctional relationship. During their second session, Amy has a miscarriage, but the couple return  to therapy to work on their issues. Amy's inability to hold emotional connection leads her to have an affair with her boss, a man she finds "gross" but uses as a buffer against Jake. Jake and Amy each have an individual session, and finally and sadly decide to end their marriage and share custody of their son. Jake believes the therapy was helpful, but Amy thinks it hurt their marriage.

Throughout the season, Gina and Paul confront each other over issues in their shared history and opposing views, but by the finale Paul realizes he needs her input and agrees to continue therapy.

The first season consists of 43 episodes, with each episode airing on its allotted day of the week, Monday to Friday. The episodes were spread over nine weeks for most of the characters, except in the final week, which did not have Monday or Tuesday installments.

Season 2
Paul, now divorced and quite lonely, has moved to Brooklyn, and uses the living room of his small refurbished walk-up brownstone for patient visits. Alex's father, Alex Sr., serves him with a malpractice lawsuit in the first episode, and he becomes preoccupied with it.

Alex Sr. sues Paul for negligence, charging him with failing to prevent the death of his son, who voluntarily discontinued therapy and was killed in a plane crash that was either an accident or suicide. Alex Sr. and his lawyers contend that Paul's professional responsibility was to contact the military and report Alex Jr. unfit for duty. Alex Sr. later meets with Paul and makes a loaded offer: if Paul writes a letter taking blame for Alex Jr.'s death, he will drop the lawsuit, satisfied to have his belief that Paul is 100% at fault confirmed. Paul considers the offer but later concurs with Gina's advice and rejects it. The lawsuit is dismissed as frivolous, and Paul's angst about his professional competence is at least temporarily alleviated.

The season had seven episodes for each character. The Monday and Tuesday sessions aired back-to-back on Sundays, while the remaining three ran on Mondays. HBO repeated the episodes in sequence, several times each week. The season's executive producer was Warren Leight, who previously worked on Law and Order: Criminal Intent.

Season 3
After the final episode of the second season, Leight said in an interview that a third season remained possible, but that the show had been exhausting for everyone involved and also something less than a "breakout hit" for HBO. On October 23, 2009, HBO announced that it had picked up In Treatment for a third season. Production began in early 2010 for a premiere in late October.

The third season is the first not based on the original Israeli series Be'Tipul, which had only two. The format is similar: each week, a series of patients visit Paul in half-hour episodes, while in the last, Paul visits his own therapist, Adele Brouse.

There are only three patients this season. Paul still lives in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn and has a young girlfriend, Wendy.

On Mondays, Paul sees Sunil, a widower transported to New York from Calcutta after his wife's death to live with his son, his son's wife, and their two young children.

Tuesday's patient is Frances, a self-described successful actress who has returned to the stage but has difficulty remembering her lines. She is also coping with a dying sister, a broken marriage and a scornful teenage daughter.

On Wednesdays, Paul sees Jesse, a high school student who believes his adopted parents hate him because he is gay.

Paul eventually reenters therapy with the young psychoanalyst Adele Brouse, initially seeking a prescription for sleep medication. Adele perceives that lack of sleep is not his real problem.

The show remains set in Paul's apartment. Unlike the first two seasons, the third season has only four episodes per week. The show aired on Mondays and Tuesdays and, like season 2, had seven weeks of sessions.