[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lincoln Hall (climber)

ing bag, no mattress, no food nor water bottle. 'I imagine you're surprised to see me here', he said. Now, this was a moment of total disbelief to us all. Here was a gentleman, apparently lucid, who had spent the night without oxygen at 8600m, without proper equipment and barely clothed. And ALIVE."

A rescue effort that mountain observers described as "unprecedented in scale" then swung into action. Mazur and his team abandoned their summit attempt to stay with Hall, who was badly frostbitten and delusional from the effects of severe cerebral edema. At the same time, Abramov dispatched a rescue team of 12 Sherpas guides from the base camp. The rescue team comprised Ongshu Sherpa, Nima Wangde Sherpa, Passang Sherpa, Furba Rushakj Sherpa, Dawa Tenzing Sherpa, Dorjee Sherpa, Mingma Sherpa, Mingma Dorjee Sherpa, Pemba Sherpa, Pemba Nuru Sherpa, Passang Gaylgen Sherpa, and Lakcha Sherpa.

Hall was brought down the mountain, walking the last part of the way to Everest's North Col where he was treated by a Russian doctor Andrey Selivanov. He arrived at Advanced Base Camp the next day in reasonably good health although suffering from frostbite and the lingering effects of cerebral edema. He lost the tips of his fingers and a toe to frostbite.

Hall's survival and rescue came shortly after the death of UK climber David Sharp on the mountain. Initially, no attempt was made to rescue Sharp.  While he was unconscious but still alive, other climbers passed him and continued on their own ascents. However, unlike David Sharp, Hall was conscious and able to walk, two factors that allowed for his rescue. The case had raised concerns, including comments from Sir Edmund Hillary. Dan Mazur said of his team abandoning their summit attempt, "The summit is still there and we can go back. Lincoln only has one life."

After Everest
He remained close with Myles Osborne, who sacrificed his only attempt on Everest to aid Hall. Osborne says Hall was "a great guy, really laid back, with a penchant for bad jokes."

Dateline NBC aired Left for Dead on Mount Everest, an Emmy Award-nominated documentary special, in 2006.

Hall wrote two books about his experience: Dead Lucky: Life after death on Mount Everest (2007) and Alive In The Death Zone: Mount Everest Survival (2008).

A second documentary, Miracle on Everest, based on Hall's book Dead Lucky, premiered in 2008 on National Geographic Channel in the USA and on ABC1 in Australia.

Hall's story was later featured in the I Shouldn't Be Alive episode, "Left for Dead on Everest" (16 February 2011).

Death
Hall died on 20 March 2012 at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney, after suffering from mesothelioma.

Friend and fellow mountaineer Greg Mortimer, who was with Lincoln at the end, said: "It was very peaceful in the end, around 11:45 last night. Lincoln got into quiet, rhythmic breathing—it was almost meditative—and then he quietly slipped away". Hall lived in the Blue Mountains in New South Wales with his wife and two sons, who survived him.

Bibliography
 White Limbo: The First Australian Climb of Mt Everest (1985) Kevin Weldon, Sydney.
The Loneliest Mountain: The Dramatic Story of the First Expedition to Climb Mt Minto, Antarctica (1989) Simon & Schuster, Sydney.
Blood on the Lotus (fiction) (1990) Simon & Schuster, Sydney.
First Ascent: The Life and Climbs of Greg Mortimer (1996) Simon & Schuster, Sydney.
Douglas Mawson: The Life of an Explorer (2000) New Holland, Sydney.
Fear No Boundary: The Road to Everest and Beyond (with Sue Fear) (2005) Lothian Books, Melbourne.
Dead Lucky: Life after death on Mount Everest (2007) Random House, Sydney.
Alive In The Death Zone: Mount Everest Survival (2008) Random House, Australia.

See also
Beck Weathers, American climber who was left for dead on Mount Everest in 1996.

References

External links
 Lincoln Hall's website
https://youtu.be/sSXn0uzeIo0 

1955 births
2012 deaths
Australian mountain climbers
Australian summiters of Mount Everest
Recipients of the Medal of the Order of Australia
Deaths from mesothelioma
Australian National University alumni
Australian Buddhists
People from Canberra