[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gelson Fernandes

es would be leaving Manchester City, as clubs from Europe were interested in signing him.

Saint-Étienne
On 9 July 2009, Fernandes passed a medical to complete a £2 million move to Ligue 1 side Saint-Étienne and the move was confirmed the next day, signing a two-year contract for an undisclosed fee.

He made his league debut in the opening game of the season against Nice, starting a match and played 64 minutes before being substituted, in a 0–2 loss. Since joining the club, Fernandes quickly established himself playing in the defensive midfield position. At one point, he played in the right–back position, coming against Sochaux on 5 December 2009. His time at Saint Etienne had a difficult start and Fernandes moved little-by-little in the middle with some fighting and a good state of mind without being convincing. Despite this, he later helped the club avoid relegation and finished seventeenth place in the league. At the end of the 2009–10 season, Fernandes went on to make thirty–eight appearances in all competitions for Saint-Étienne in his first season.

Loan spells

After fallen out of favour by Manager Christophe Galtier and was told that he can leave Saint-Étienne on loan, it was announced on 30 August 2010, it was announced that Fernandes would be going out on loan with an option to purchase to Chievo. He made his debut for the club, coming on as a 59th-minute substitute, in a 3–1 win over Genoa on 12 September 2010. Since joining Chievo, Fernandes became involved in a number of matches in the first team for the club. He scored his first goal for the club, in a 3–1 win over Napoli on 22 September 2010. On 31 October 2010, Fernandes received a red card after a second bookable offense against Parma. It wasn't until on 20 February 2011 when he scored his second goal for Chievo, in a 2–1 loss against A.C. Milan. Despite facing suspensions on five occasions throughout the 2010–11 season, Fernandes went on to make thirty appearances and scoring two goals for Chievo in all competitions. Following this, the club decided against signing him on a permanent basis.

On 4 August 2011, Fernandes signed for Championship club Leicester City on a season long loan, subject to international clearance, and he was joined by Sven-Göran Eriksson who signed him at Manchester City. Following his return move to England on loan, Fernandes revealed he was told that his move will become permanent, but only if the club gain promotion to the Premier League. Fernandes made his debut for Leicester City in a 1–0 away win over Coventry City on 6 August 2011. Two weeks later on 20 August 2011, he scored his first goal for the club, as well as, setting up Leicester City's first goal of the game,  in a 2–2 draw against Nottingham Forest on 20 August. Since making his debut for the club, Fernandes became a first team regular for the side, playing in the midfield position. This lasted until his Eriksson's sacking due to poor results, and was replaced by Nigel Pearson, who didn't play Fernandes until on 3 December 2011 and made his last appearance for Leicester City in a 2–1 loss against Hull City. On 30 December 2011, he asked for his loan contract at the club to be terminated and to return to France. Six days later on 4 January, it was announced that Fernandes's loan deal with Leicester City had been cancelled by mutual consent. By the time he left the club, Fernandes made eighteen appearances and scoring once in all competitions for Leicester City.

After his loan deal at Leicester City ended, Fernandes was then sent out for another loan deal, but this time he signed for current Serie A frontrunners Udinese until the end of the season to strengthen the squad after some of the players went to play at the African Cup of Nations. So Udinese wanted a player who could acclimatise quickly. On 22 January 2012, Fernandes made his debut for the club in a 2–1 win over Catania in the Coppa Italia. Since making his debut for Udinese, he became a first team regular, starting in the next ten matches, playing in the midfield position. This lasted until Fernandes was dropped to the substitute bench for the next four matches. It wasn't until on 11 April 2012 when he returned to the starting line–up and scored his first goal, on his return, in a 3–1 loss against Roma. At the end of the 2011–12 season, Fernandes made seventeen appearances and scoring once in all competitions. Following this, he returned to his parent club after the club decided against signing him permanently.

Sporting Clube de Portugal
Ahead of the 2012–13 season, Fernandes once again not featured for the Saint-Étienne's pre-season training, putting his future at the club in doubt. It was announced on 4 July 2012 he signed a four-year contract with Sporting Clube de Portugal, with a €25 million buy-out clause.