[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Atlanta in the American Civil War

arel, a limited amount of furniture and a small quantity of food. When General Sherman informed General Hood of his intent to evacuate all the citizens from Atlanta, a series of heated letters were exchanged between the two generals. Mayor Calhoun also appealed to Sherman to relent, but to no avail.

On September 8, 1864, General Sherman issued special order No 67, "The city of Atlanta, being exclusively required for warlike purposes, will at once be vacated by all except the armies of the United States". The order also instructs the chief engineer to survey the city for the permanent defense and to mark all structures that stand in his way to be set apart for destruction. The order also prohibited soldiers from occupying any house. The order allowed soldiers to "use boards, shingles, or materials of buildings, barns, sheds, warehouses, and shanties" to build their own quarters.

On September 8, the mayor of Atlanta, James M. Calhoun, notified its citizens that they would have to evacuate the city. Each citizen was required to register with Lt. Col. Le Duc the number of adults, children, servants and a count of the number of packages or parcels they were taking with them.

Lieut. Col. Le Duc sat behind a table on the porch of Richard Peters house at Mitchell and Forsyth Streets. He began registering and issuing travel permits to the citizens that were evacuating Atlanta to the South. Between September 10 and September 20, Col. Le Duc registered 1,651 individuals. There were 705 adults, 860 children and 86 servants. Together they all they carried 8,842 packages of baggage.

Building the inner defensive ring (October 3 – November 1, 1864)
Gen. Sherman's Special Field Orders No. 67, section 3, ordered the chief engineer, Capt. Orlando M. Poe to construct new defensive works around Atlanta. Capt. Poe first evaluated the existing Confederate fortifications. Finding them too extensive for the number of troops planned to garrison Atlanta, Capt. Poe designed a new set of fortifications. The new line was less than three miles in length along a system of heights nearer the center of town. This new line passed through the northern part of town rendering the destruction of a great many buildings necessary. Gen. Sherman approved of the plan but instructed Capt. Poe not to begin construction.

On September 18, 1864, the confederate forces, commanded by Gen. John B. Hood,  began moving from their position near Lovejoy Station, GA, and crossed to the west side of the Chattahoochee River on September 29. Gen. Sherman began moving five of his Army Corps (the IV, XIV, XV, XVII and the XXIII Corps) to try to defeat the Confederates in the field. The XX Corps, commanded by Gen. Slocum, was left in Atlanta to guard the city. With only one corps remaining in Atlanta Gen. Sherman instructed Capt. Poe to begin the construction of the new inner defense line.

Capt. Poe and his Engineering detachment began constructing the new fortifications on October 3, 1864. During the first week, he was assisted by 2,000 soldiers of the XX Corps. On October 5, Capt. Poe reported to Gen. Sherman that they had completed positions for thirty guns. Work continued until November 1 with a much smaller work force until preparations for the March to the Sea began.

Destruction of military assets (November 7–16, 1864)

Gen. Sherman realized that the occupation of Atlanta would tie up substantial manpower resources, so he devised a plan to abandon Atlanta. The plan called for the destruction of all military assets within the city, the reorganization of the forces under his command and for reinforcing  Gen. George Thomas in Tennessee. Once these preparations were completed, he and his troops would set out on a campaign designed to destroy the state of Georgia's war-making capabilities and the will of its population to continue the war.