[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility

The Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility (ICCR) is an association advocating for corporate social responsibility. Its 300 member organizations comprise faith communities, asset managers, unions, pensions, NGOs and other investors. ICCR members engage hundreds of corporations annually in an effort to foster greater corporate accountability. ICCR's members file shareholder resolutions on issues such as climate change, human rights, corporate governance, financial practices, and other social and environmental concerns. The organization was founded in 1971.

Members 
ICCR members include faith communities, asset management companies, labor unions, pension funds, NGOs, and college and university endowment funds.

Corporate targets 
In any given year, members of ICCR file roughly 300 shareholder resolutions at hundreds of American corporations across multiple industries. 

ICCR also owns the EthVest database of shareholder resolutions.

In the 1980s, ICCR was active in the campaign for disinvestment from South Africa in protest of Apartheid.

Issues of concern 
Shareholder resolutions span a wide range of issues. In recent years, the most active issues have included climate change; human rights including topics such as human trafficking, food safety and sustainability, water sustainability, and the affordability of medicines; corporate lobbying and corporate political contributions; corporate governance; financial practices and risk; and gun control.

The Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility co-ordinated organizations using shareholder activism to influence firearms manufacturers to improve the safety of their products. The Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility supported shareholder resolutions asking American Outdoor Brands Corporation, the parent company of Smith & Wesson, and Sturm, Ruger & Co. to report to investors regarding the steps they are taking to reduce gun violence. Ruger opposed the resolution. BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager and Ruger's largest investor, and Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis, the two most important shareholder advisory firms in the United States, supported the resolution. At Ruger's annual meeting on May 9, 2018, a majority of shareholders voted in favor and Ruger said they would heed the resolution. The Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence called the vote a "first-of-its-kind victory."

References

External links 
 
 The New York Times, July 21, 2002 - Private Sector; Missionary Among the Executives
 The New York Times, January 17, 2003, Friday - Utility Shareholders Demand Liability Disclosure
 Institutional Shareowner, March 04, 2005 - Campaign to Enhance Pharma Industry Accountability Broadens Shareowner Action, by William Baue

Corporate social responsibility
Religious organizations based in the United States