[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Space Viking

ed in combat with  the Royal Mardukan Navy warship Victrix. He jumps into the fray and destroys both enemy ships, though he remains unsure if Dunnan was killed. The Victrix, under the command of Prince Simon Bentrik, is too badly damaged for hyperspace flight, so Trask takes the crew back to Marduk.

Part 3 - Marduk 
Trask becomes friends with the Mardukan royal family and particularly King Mykhail, the constitutional monarch of Marduk, but is contemptuous of their shaky democracy. It appears that a fanatical rabble-rouser named Zaspar Makann is poised to win the next election and become Chancellor, but that is not Trask's concern. He does, however, pursue a romance with Lady Valerie, a Mardukan noblewoman who is lady-in-waiting to King Mykhail's eight-year-old granddaughter

On Gram, King Angus has been abusing his power, straining relations with the other powerful nobles and also with Trask. Finally, Prince Trask declares Tanith's independence and renounces his fealty to Angus. Later, word reaches him that civil war has erupted on Gram. Many of Trask's followers urge him to claim the throne himself. Lucas is not interested. Gram, along with the other Sword Worlds, is in decline; Tanith is the future, the core around which civilization might possibly reform. To distract his divided subordinates, he fabricates a more immediate threat, claiming (without proof) that Andray Dunnan is responsible for the unrest on Marduk.

His big lie turns out to be the truth. Not winning a majority in the election, Makann seizes control of the government. Prince Simon Bentrik shows up on Tanith as a refugee with the royal granddaughter and the lady-in-waiting Trask fancies.  Prince Simon brings two pieces of news: fighting has broken out on Marduk; and, more important, that Andray Dunnan is the power behind Makann.

Trask assembles a fleet of ships, including independent Space Viking ships, the raiders of Tanith's Navy, and loyalist Royal Mardukan Navy ships and speeds to Marduk for the final showdown. He wins a fierce space battle in orbit above Marduk and his fleet lands on the surface to take back the planet. Space Viking and loyalist ground forces root out Dunnan's followers. Some of the last holdouts surrender, handing over Andrey Dunnan in return for their lives. When the insane Dunnan raves that Elaine is waiting for him back on Gram, Trask shoots him dead in an act he sees as having no more importance than shooting a mad dog.

Prince Lucas decides to marry Lady Valerie if she will have him, and take the title of King of Tanith. He also decides to strive to form a League of Civilized Worlds out of the alliance that rescued Marduk.

Sequels
During the 1980s Jerry Pournelle began work on a sequel, Return of Space Viking.  The sequel was authorised by the Piper estate, but a combination of other projects and difficulties with the plot led to it being abandoned.  A sequel, written by John F. Carr (who has been publishing sequels to Lord Kalvan of Otherwhen) and Mike Robertson was published in 2011. Entitled The Last Space Viking, the novel is set one hundred years after the original, in the early years of the Empire. Additionally, Carr announced he has rewritten the original sequel abandoned by Pournelle and it is currently being edited.  This novel is set twenty years after the original and continues the story of Trask.

In addition, science fiction author Terry Mancour published the first sequel to Space Viking in March, 2011, on Kindle and other electronic formats.  Titled  Prince of Tanith, the novel takes place just two years after the end of Space Viking and introduces Princess Valerie Trask, Lucas Trask's new wife from civilized Marduk. The use of a split narrative between Lucas (who had the sole perspective in Space Viking) and Valerie is a departure from Piper's style, but is used effectively.  Of particular note in this sequel are the return of Count Garvan Spasso and a mysterious off-stage figure known only as "the Wizard" who seems to be helping the Princely Realm of Tanith for mysterious reasons of his own.  Although Mancour didn't receive authorization by the Piper estate to continue the story, he could do so by virtue of the work's expired copyright.