[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anne of York (daughter of Edward IV)

pension. The records show that Anne, who had not even reached the age of four, was considered old enough to be separated from her nurse. Earlier, at the same time as Anne, Agnes Butler was engaged in raising the princess's younger brother George, who died in March 1479 at the age of about two years.

Under Richard III
The project of Anne's marriage to Philip of Austria remained in force until the death of the princess's father in 1483. The death of Edward IV was followed by a political crisis that dramatically changed the position of the former queen and her children. Anne's older brother, Edward V, who succeeded to the throne, was captured by his uncle Lord Protector Richard, Duke of Gloucester on his way from Wales to the capital; at the same time, Anthony Woodville and Richard Grey, Anne's maternal uncle and half-brother, who accompanied the young king, were arrested. Edward V was moved to the Tower of London to await his coronation, where he was later joined by his only brother, Richard; along with the rest of the children, including Anne, the dowager queen took refuge in Westminster Abbey.

On 22 June 1483 the marriage of Edward IV with Elizabeth Woodville was declared illegal; all the children of the late king were declared illegitimate by the Act of Titulus Regius and were deprived of their rights to the throne and all titles. A few days later, Anthony Woodville and Richard Grey were beheaded. On 6 July, Richard of Gloucester was proclaimed king under the name of Richard III; shortly thereafter Anne's brothers, who remained locked up in the Tower, disappeared. After Richard III took the throne and following his orders, his squire John Nesfield sent guards to Westminster, who, day and night, inspected everyone who entered and left the dowager queen's sanctuary, since there were fears that one of Anne's older sisters would be able to escape abroad and find an ally there for overthrow of Richard III. On Christmas Day 1483, Henry Tudor, whose mother was in a plot with Elizabeth Woodville against Richard III, swore in Rennes Cathedral that he would marry Anne's older sister Elizabeth or the next one Cecily (if the marriage to Elizabeth for any reason will be impossible) after taking the English throne. But the uprising of the Tudor party, led by the Duke of Buckingham, failed even before Henry's oath in Rennes.

After the failure of Buckingham's rebellion, Richard III began negotiations with his brother's widow. On 1 March 1484, the king publicly swore that the daughters of Edward IV would not be harmed or molested; in addition, Richard III promised that they would not be imprisoned in the Tower or any other prison, that they would be placed "in respectable places of good name and reputation", and later be married to "men of noble birth" and given dowry lands with an annual income of 200 marks each. On the same day, the memorandum was delivered to the dowager queen, along with provisions. The princesses with great joy agreed to leave their gloomy abode and go under the care of their "gracious uncle", who allocated them chambers in his palace. Tudor historian Edward Hall wrote that Richard III "made all the daughters of his brother solemnly arrive at his palace; as if with new familiar and loving entertainment they were supposed to forget...the trauma inflicted on them and the tyranny that preceded this".

Soon after the daughters of Edward IV arrived at court, the king began to look for suitable suitors for his nieces. For Anne, he chose Thomas Howard, the son and heir of the 1st Earl of Surrey and second-in-line to the Dukedom of Norfolk, to show his favor to the Howard family. The betrothal was signed in 1484, but the king didn't have time to formalise the marriage.

Under Henry VII and Henry VIII
In August 1485, Richard III died at the Battle of Bosworth, and Henry Tudor became the new king by right of conquest under the name of Henry VII, who had previously sworn to marry Anne's older sister. Upon ascending the throne, Henry VII repealed the Titulus Regius act, which deprived the children of Edward IV of titles and rights to the throne; the act itself and all its copies were removed from the archives, as well as all the documents associated with them.