[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Randall Auxier

d asymmetries were already adapted to the forms of human sensation, and for the delight of the cognizing person. The development and deployment of symbols for the stimulation of the senses in accordance with the forms of reflective intuition is the basic activity of all artists, according to Auxier.

Auxier has argued that music has a singular place in the formation of both human feeling and human culture. He follows the aesthetic theory of Susanne Langer in this regard, but departs from her understanding of the relation of time with rhythm and feeling, especially where Langer fails to recognize the complementarity between her views of image and Bergson's views. For Auxier the musical images are fundamentally hybrid units existing both in rhythmic repetition and acoustic space. The space is, as Langer asserts, virtual, but it is more than a “semblance” or “primary illusion.” The experience of the egress of possibility in musical experience is what forms the auditory image and then leaves behind not a sound but a tone. The existence of the tone requires reflection both to create and to hear, and is thoroughly virtual. However, the unheard context of the tone egresses and constitutes the ground of the intelligibility of the tone. Auxier holds that visual images are much more complex and mediated, by comparison, and that the most likely hypothesis about our experience of visual images and the virtual space in which they exist for our perception, is that humans learned to create this space by generalizing from their experience of the contrast between sounds and tones. Tones are concrete symbols. Musical notes are semiotic determinations of these tones.

Philosophy of science 
Auxier applies his metaphysics, logic, ethics and aesthetics to the critique of science by opposing reductionist and model-centric versions of scientific knowledge. He defends the principle of evolution but writes against Darwinism and other narrow versions of the science. Where evolutionary science crosses into making philosophical claims unsupported by the science itself, Auxier calls scientific theorists back toward humbler conclusions that genuinely carry scientific warrant. He also writes against Einstein's philosophical conclusions drawn from the theory of General Relativity, which Auxier regards as primarily a philosophical rather than a scientific theory. Auxier favors open and temporalist ideas in science, and sympathizes with the physics of the quantum vacuum and the evolutionary theories that see continuity between the physical creation of spaces of life and biological developments along particular lines.
Auxier's theory of the quantum of explanation, developed with Gary L. Herstein, holds that all explanation (especially scientific explanation) depends upon a structure, called “the quantum” (following Whitehead's usage) drawn from concrete reality and hypothesized as an irreducible unit for the purposes of some determinate inquiry. While Auxier and Herstein are realists in science, they are realists about this quantum, which they hold to be basic to the structure of both cognition and understanding. The quantum is, in Auxier's view, an overdetermined image modeled precisely and carefully to serve as the exact unit which is irreducibly present in the whole which is to be explained. Explanation thus moves from the analysis of a presupposed coordinate whole by means of a genetic specification of the order immanent in the quantum. Thus, all scientific knowledge proceeds by a kind of mereotopology, by the creation of s suitable space of explanation and a re-enactment of its primary characters according to the complex features immanent in the quantum. The ability to identify and describe a quantum for these purposes is a kind of talent that some people possess as a refinement of their aesthetic reflective intuition. Thus, scientific genius is no less aesthetic in character than artistic genius, in Auxier's view.