[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Christ Church (Moscow, Idaho)

ed themselves ... they might as well step down now before the methods and procedures they have internalized and endorsed come back around when it is time to devour them."

A number of additional allegations stemming from anonymous sources have been documented on Christian blogs and YouTube channels.

Local influence 
Dating back to 2019, the church's leader, Douglas Wilson, has stated that the church aims to "make Moscow a Christian town", and favors "theocracy" as opposed to "civil governments, [which] are in necessary degrees satanic, demonic, and influenced by the god of this world, who is the devil". In a November 2021 investigation, The Guardian found that "Church figures have browbeaten elected officials over Covid restrictions, built powerful institutions in parallel to secular government, harassed perceived opponents, and accumulated land and businesses in pursuit of a long-term goal of transforming America into a nation ruled according to its own, ultra-conservative moral precepts". Said parallel institutions include "educational institutions, publishing houses, churches, and national associations". Many of these institutions, including New Saint Andrews College, are run by members of Wilson's family. One of the founders of the college served as the former chief executive of the town's largest private employer, EMSI, which has hired about 10% of all of the college's total graduates since the school's inception. A local businessman, who spoke anonymously to The Guardian, said that the church had a large footprint in Moscow's downtown, and alleged that church members was attempting to attract new members to the town through a large development project planned by a church elder.

According to a Vice Media report, there is a regular section in the printed church bulletin that lists the names of those denounced by the church. Some people whose names have appeared on the list have allegedly faced harassment from church members, as well as boycotts of their businesses.

Crawford Gribben notes that Christ Church has made "very little impact on local politics", and that Moscow is not yet a Christian town.

References

External links
Christ Church Homepage
Canon Press
Greyfriars' Hall
New Saint Andrews College
Collegiate Reformed Fellowship

Evangelical churches in Idaho
Buildings and structures in Moscow, Idaho
Dominion theology
Conservatism in the United States
Christian organizations established in the 1970s