[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jock Cunningham

efence blocked Franco's attempt to seize the capital. The Jarama action had left him with three rifle wounds through his left upper arm and another rifle bullet under his shoulder blade that had entered his left chest, passed through, and lodged there. Cunningham was hospitalised from 15 March 1937.

He later served as Chief of Brigade Staff of the XV Battalion, but after the battle of Brunete the Communist Party of Great Britain recalled all the leaders of the British volunteers back to London. Spanish Government supporters praised Cunningham's military skill and en route to London, he was welcomed back to Glasgow on 31 August 1937 by 2,500 Communist Party members.

Controversy and resignation from the Communist Party 
Jock Cunningham was a popular and courageous commander. His military influence was praised by Harry Pollitt, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB) during his speech at a Unity Campaign meeting 15 March 1937 in Liverpool: "One day we shall tell our children about the defense of Madrid, this epic story that can never die in the pages of World History. I think of Jock Cunningham leading his men fearlessly and unafraid…dancing with death. A word of encouragement here...ceaselessly moving among his men until everyone has become influenced with the mighty unconquerable spirit of a worker blessed with a fiery hatred of Fascism…this is Jock Cunningham. Our Chapaev". In The Spanish Civil War, Hugh Thomas, explains the reference to Chapaev. Speaking of Cunningham he said: "He was a man of great physical strength and possessed marked qualities of leadership. He was nicknamed the "Chapaev" after the guerrilla leader of the Russian Civil War – and there could not at that time have been a greater compliment."

After differences arose in the CPGB, Pollitt decided Cunningham and fellow Scot Commissar George Aitken were not to return to Spain. It was a controversial decision because it was the two most capable and respected men who were not allowed to return to Spain. The official explanation was that, due to the obvious difficulties of the war, differences had arisen between the group of leaders and it was decided they could not all work together again. Aitken was appalled by the decision. Nonetheless, Pollitt stuck by it. Cunningham was placed on extended recuperation and was given a place on the Party executive.

Fred Copeman revealed many years later that there was a political motive for Cunningham's removal from the front line. Pollitt feared that he was too independent and single minded to be easily controlled.

In response to the cynical disregard for all he had done, he chose to resign from the CPGB drift away and lead his life in anonymity. He was last seen in the 1950s on the fringes of a political meeting in Aberdeen. Jock spent the rest of his days working as a casual labourer travelling across Britain. He was very close with his siblings, particularly his sister Annie and older brother John. He had residence in the family home on Old Post Office Lane in North Queensferry, although he rarely stayed longer than four weeks at a time.

Death and legacy
He had long suffered pain in his chest which he believed to be due to the bullet lodged there. On invitation of his older brother John to come to Canada, he decided to enter hospital to deal with the war injury which troubled him. It was discovered he had carcinoma, most likely the source of his pain. He died of bronchial carcinoma at Pavilion 11, Mearnskirk General Hospital, Renfrewshire, Glasgow on 22 February 1969.

Writing of Jock Cunningham to The New York Times in April 1937 Ernest Hemingway said "For what he had done he would have had a V.C (Victoria Cross) in the last war. In this war there are no decorations. Wounds are the only decorations…"

In the 1990s the Scottish playwright, Hector MacMillan, wrote a play about Jock Cunningham entitled "A Greater Tomorrow", focusing on his service in the Spanish Civil War and speculating about his later years. Cunningham was portrayed by Derek Anders.

In 2010 he was subject of a BBC Radio Scotland documentary.

References

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

British people of the Spanish Civil War
People from Coatbridge
1902 births
1969 deaths
Scottish miners
International Brigades personnel