[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Economy of South India

e National Highway 44 in the foothills of Kanjamalai in Salem district, Tamil Nadu, India. The plant has an installed capacity of 70,000 tonnes per annum in its cold rolling mill and 3,64,000 tonnes per annum in the hot rolling mill. It also has the country's first stainless steel blanking facility.

Tamil Nadu has most number of engineering Institutions in India. Chennai is referred as the Gateway of South India. Chennai is the second leading Software exporter in India. Companies such as Cognizant, Covansys, Xansa, Verizon, iSoft, Invensys, Schneider Electric and many others are Chennai based companies in India. Infosys has set up India's largest software development centre to house 25,000 software professionals at an estimated investment of Rs 12.50 billion (Rs 12.5 billion) in Chennai. Chennai has become the most preferred BPO hub in India and South Asia. Chennai is sometimes referred to as the Health Capital of India or the Banking Capital of India, having attracted investments from International corporations and the World Bank and it is called as Detroit of Asia.

Tamil Nadu has a network of about 110 industrial parks/estates that offer developed plots with supporting infrastructure. Also, the Government is promoting other industrial parks like Rubber Park, Apparel Parks, Floriculture Park, TICEL Park for Biotechnology, Siruseri IT Park, Agro Export Zones among others.

The heavy engineering manufacturing companies are centred around the suburbs of Chennai. Chennai boasts presence of global car manufacturing giants like Ford, Daimler, Hyundai, BMW, Mitsubishi, Komatsu, Yamaha, Nissan and Renault as well as home grown companies like MRF, JK Tyre, TI Cycles of India, Ashok Leyland TVS and Mahindra and Mahindra. Chennai is also home to Indian Institute of Technology, Madras. The Koyambedu Bus Stand (Asia's largest bus stand) operated by CMDA is the first bus stand in India to get the global positioning system which will use sensors to track vehicles on the move. Kalpakkam nuclear power plant, Neyveli Lignite Corporation, and the Narimanam natural gas plants provide sources of fuel and energy for the nation. 55% of electricity from wind power produced in India from wind mills comes from Tamil Nadu. The Kalpakkam Mini Reactor (Kamini) is the only U-233fueled operating reactor in the world.

Coimbatore, also known as the Manchester of South India, is one of the fast developing cities in India and the second largest city in Tamil Nadu. Coimbatore is also known for its textile factories, engineering firms, automobile parts manufacturers, health care facilities, educational institutions, wet grinders and water pumps. 76% of India's total textile market is from Erode (Loom City) and Tirupur (Textile City). It exports much of its production to South East Asian and European countries.
Karur (Home Textile City) is the India's hub for home textiles production & export. It contributes over 60% of total production of India. Karur is also known for its bus bodybuilding (contributes 80% of South Indian bus body building). Karur TNPL is the Asia's largest eco friendly paper mill in production.  Erode is also known as the Turmeric City, since it has the Asia's largest market for Turmeric. Gobichettipalayam is one of the largest producers of White silk with the country's first automatic silk reeling unit established here. Namakkal is one of the largest producers of poultry in the country. Salem is called as steel city and has many sago producing units, mineral wealth. Sivakasi is the leader in printing, fireworks, safety matches production in India. It contributes 80% of India's total safety matches production and 90% of India's total fireworks production.
Thoothukudi is the gateway of Tamil Nadu. it is a major chemical producer only next to chennai. As of 1980's Asia's largest chemical industry DCW Ltd, is situated in the district. And many more chemical industries such as SPIC, Sterlite copper, VV Titanium pigments, Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals, HWP-Tuticorin, Ferron Steels, etc.

Biovalleys in Tamil Nadu include Biotechnology Incubator Park Near Chennai, Women's Biotechnology Park Kelambakkam, Medicinal Plants Biotechnology Park, Madurai, Marine Biotechnology Park, Mandapam and Bioinformatics and Genomics Centre (BGC), Chennai.

Tiruchirappalli is a major engineering equipment manufacturing hub in Tamil Nadu. It also home to National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli, a premier technical university of India. The Golden Rock Railway Workshop, moved to Tiruchirappalli from Nagapattinam in 1928, is one of the three railway workshop–cum–production unit in Tamil Nadu. The workshops produced 650 conventional and low-container flat wagons during the year 2007–08.

Telangana

See also
Economy of Tamil Nadu
Economy of Telangana
Economy of Andhra Pradesh
Economy of Kerala
Economy of Karnataka

References

South India
Economy of India