[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Terrorism in Australia

e poisons, detonators, explosives and incendiary devices

In his judgement, Justice Anthony Whealy illustrated that Lodhi's behaviour breached the rules under the Anti Terrorism Act 2004 (Cth), Crimes Act 1914 (Cth), the Criminal Code and the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Act 1976 (Cth)

His intended targets were the national electricity supply system, the Victoria Barracks, HMAS Penguin naval base, and Holsworthy Barracks. Justice Anthony Whealy commented at sentencing that Lodhi had "the intent of advancing a political, religious or ideological cause, namely violent jihad" to "instill terror into members of the public so that they could never again feel free from the threat of bombing in Australia."

Accordingly, Whealy said the sentence to be imposed "must be a substantial one to reflect the important principles of deterrence and denunciation. In relation to count 2 the appropriate sentence, in my view, is one of imprisonment for a term of 20 years. The sentence is to commence on 22 April 2004 and to expire on 21 April 2024."

Neil Prakash 

Neil Prakash is a former Buddhist from Melbourne who became a jihadist and changed his name to name Abu Khaled al-Cambodi.

He was linked to a number of domestic terror threats, including an alleged Anzac Day terror plot in Melbourne and the shooting death of NSW police worker Curtis Cheng in western Sydney in 2015. Later, he fled to Syria and became a senior recruiter for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, appearing in propaganda videos and magazines with the intention of recruiting people to commit acts of terrorism.

Prakash was reportedly killed by a targeted US air strike in northern Iraq in May 2016. Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull commented: "Neil Prakash's death is a very, very positive development in the war against Daesh and the war against terror". The Herald Sun later reported that Australian security officials were "almost certain" that Prakash had not been killed in the airstrike and had continued to act as a recruiter for the group. In November 2016, Australian counter-terrorism officials confirmed that Prakash was still alive, and had been arrested after attempting to enter Turkey from Syria. On 16 March 2019, he was convicted in Turkey of membership in a terrorist organisation and sentenced to seven-and-a-half years in prison.

In early December 2022 Prakash was extradited back to Australia and charged in Melbourne Magistrates' Court with terrorism-related offences. He was due to reappear in court in late February 2023.

Sydney Five 

Khaled Cheikho, Moustafa Cheikho, Mohamed Ali Elomar, Abdul Rakib Hasan and Mohammed Omar Jamal were found guilty of conspiring to commit a terrorist act or acts. They were jailed on 15 February 2010 for terms ranging from 23 to 28 years.

Benbrika Group in Melbourne 

In September 2008, of an original nine defendants, five men including the Muslim cleric, Abdul Nacer Benbrika were convicted of planning a terrorist attack. During the trial, the jury heard evidence of plans to bomb the 2005 AFL Grand Final, 2006 Australian Grand Prix and the Crown Casino, as well as a plot to assassinate then Prime Minister John Howard.

Despite Benbrika having completed his sentence on 5 November 2020, the Department of Home Affairs applied to the Victorian Supreme Court to keep him detained, and he was, under an interim order from the court.

Holsworthy Barracks terror plot 

On 4 August 2009, four men in Melbourne were charged over the Holsworthy Barracks terror plot, an alleged plan to storm the Holsworthy Barracks in Sydney with automatic weapons; and shoot army personnel or others until they were killed or captured. The men are allegedly connected with the Somali-based terrorist group al-Shabaab. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd subsequently announced a federal government review of security at all military bases.

In December 2011 Justice Betty King sentenced three of the men to 18 years in prison with minimum terms of thirteen-and-half years. She said that they were all "unrepentant radical Muslims and would remain a threat to the public while they held extremist views".

2015 Anzac Day terror plot 
Sevdet Besim was arrested on 18 April 2015. Aged 18 and born to parents of Albanian origin, he planned to drive a car into and kill, then behead, a law enforcement officer on Anzac Day in Melbourne. He was subsequently sentenced to 15 years' imprisonment on 5 September 2016.

2017 airline bombing plot

In July 2017, Australian police thwarted a plot to bomb an airliner. In Sydney, four men were arrested by the Australian Federal Police and their properties were searched.
On 17 December 2019 Khaled Khayat was sentenced to 40 years in prison (with a non-parole period of 30 years). Mahmoud Khayat was sentenced to 36 years (with a non-parole period of 27 years).