[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Korea Forest Service

the KFS consolidated legal and institutional systems by newly enacting the Framework Act on Forest, the Act on Promotion and Management of Forest Resources, the Act on the National Forest Management, the Act on Forest Culture and Recreation and the Act on Promotion of Forestry and Mountain Villages.

The Fifth National Forest Plan (2008~2017) 
Based on foundations and frameworks established under the Fourth Plan, the Fifth National Forest Plan has been designed to further expand the implementation of sustainable forest management in pursuit of maximizing forest functions. Especially the Plan highlights the importance of forest functions in responding to climate change. In implementing the Plan, the KFS continues to establish a foundation for a sustainable welfare society by developing environmental and social resources, and to pursue forest related industries as blue ocean strategy. The KFS focuses on promoting systematic implementation of forest conservation and management, fitting for the purpose of achieving well-balanced land development and conservation. It also plays a central role in natural disaster prevention efforts, which is improving ecosystem health and vitality and contributing to public safety and environment conservation. It further highlights forest's recreational and cultural functions for improving quality of life and living environments both in urban areas and mountain villages as well as providing welfare benefits for the people. The overall vision of the Fifth Plan is "to realize a green nation with sustainable welfare and growth" by sustainably managing forests as key resources for strengthening nation's economic development, land conservation and improved quality of life.

Affiliated Agencies

Korea Forest Research Institute (KFRI) 
The Korea Forest Research Institute was founded in 1922 and reorganized in 1998. The main goal of the research conducted by the KFRI is to develop forest policies and techniques linked with the Forest Resources Enhancement Plan. The institute devotes its efforts to preserving and maintaining forest genetic resources for tree improvement research and future R&D.

Korea National Arboretum (KNA) 
The Korea National Arboretum is situated in the Gwangneung forest. The Gwangneung arboretum was initially established in 1987 and has been open to the public since then. On May 24, 1999, it became the Korea National Arboretum. The missions of Arboretum are to conserve and develop plant resources through comprehensive research, and to promote the public's understanding of the forests.

Forest Training Institute 
Initially the Forest Training Institute was established in 1978 within the regional administrative training center. In 2004, it was reorganized under the Korea Forest Research Institute in 2006 and again reconstructed into a separate agency directly under the KFS. The Institute aims to cultivate professionals who will lead the forestry field, and provides various training programmes in and out of the country for forestry officers, stakeholders, forest owners and the public.

Forest Aviation Headquarters 
Mainly responsible for forest fire control, the Forest Aviation Office was organized in 1971. Its mission is to prevent and control forest fires, pests and diseases using rotary-wing aircraft. This agency has 8 regional stations and plans to establish more regional stations to enable more efficient mobilization of aircraft to fire sites.

National Forest Seed and Variety Center 
The National Forest Seed and Variety Center was established under the KFS in 2008. The Center aims to protect tree species and manage forest resources. The main tasks include development of institutional mechanisms for species protection, supporting private cultivators and providing related consulting as well as assessment and registration of new plant varieties.

National Natural Recreation Forest Office 
The National Natural Recreation Forest Office serves for overall management of recreation forests nationwide. The main responsibilities of the Office are establishment and management of national natural recreation forests, operation and maintenance of recreation forests, promotion of forest education and culture and customer services.

See also
Government of South Korea
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs (South Korea)
Ministry of Environment (South Korea)s

References

Vision for Green Korea, Korea Forest Service, 2010

External links
Official site, in Korean and English

Government agencies of South Korea
Nature conservation in South Korea
Forestry agencies
Forestry in South Korea