[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Liberal Republican Party (Turkey)

The Liberal Republican Party (sometimes referred to as the Free Republican Party; in , acronymized as SCF ) was a political party founded by Fethi Okyar upon President Kemal Atatürk's request in the early years of the Turkish republic.

In the context of the One-party period, Mustafa Kemal requested for Okyar to create a new movement as an opposition party to confront the ruling Republican People's Party with the aim of establishing the tradition of multi-party democracy in Turkey. After the first tentative of  Progressive Republican Party during the period 1924-1925, it represents the second attempt to create a pluralist system in the country. 

Even if the party advocated liberal views, both economically and politically, in its program, it was quickly embraced by many opponents of Atatürk's reforms, particularly regarding secularism. Thus, after its participation in the 1930 local elections in which it won 31 of 502 municipalities, it was personally dissolved in November 1930 by Okyar, who was an ardent supporter of the reforms.

The closure of the Free Republican Party left Turkey as a one-party state until the establishment of the National Development Party (Milli Kalkınma Partisi) in 1945 and the Democrat Party in 1946.

Ideology 
The main difference between the SCF and the ruling CHF was that the first claimed that he advocated liberal views in its program. The party produced an 11-point manifesto, which echoed that of the TCF of 1924. There were four main points:

 Private at the expense of state enterprise, with the abolition of monopolies and the lower of taxes.
 More tolerant attitude toward foreign capital.
 Closer connection between Turkey and the League of Nations.
 Freedom of the press and thought.

History

Background 
1930 is a difficult year in Turkey: the aftermath of the Kurdish revolts and the global economic crisis hit Turkish policies very hard. However, the CHF had no real means of managing this discontent because of its authoritarian structure, which left it without the means of communication with the masses. At the same time, in the Assembly there began to be a discussion about the direction to give to the regime, and two factions emerged around the economic issue: whether to implement a more liberal economy or to keep a more statist one. 

Therefore, Mustafa Kemal, that was aware of the existence of discontent tanks to many reports and his frequent inspection tours in the country, decided to allow and even encourage the founding of a loyal opposition party. He decided to entrust this task to Fethi Okyar, a former Prime Minister that had recently returned from a tour of duty as ambassador in Paris and he had submitted a very critical report on İnönü's government's policies. The Turkish President may also have wanted to put pressure on İnönü who, after five years as PM, had gradually built up his own power base and was no longer a "President's puppet". Anyway, in the summer Kemal and Okyar met for a few days to discuss the issue: Okyar asked for guarantees that the government would allow a new party to function and that Atatrük itself would remain impartial, while the Turkish President demanded that the new party remained loyal to the ideals of republicanism and secularism.

Once the negotiations were over, on August 12, 1930, the Liberal Republican Party was founded by Okyar, who took the role of President. Unlike the TCF in 1924, the SCF was born under Atatürk’s directives to weak the growing discontent in the country against the government. To prove his good faith, Kemal let some of his companions join the party: Mehmet Nuri Coker, that became Secretary General, Ahmet Ağaoğlu, end even his sister Makbule Atadan (the first woman member of the party).

Despite Atatürk's claim to maintain an impartial attitude toward political affairs, a strict link between the government and the SCF kept existing. This is clearly shown by the fact that Atatürk, İnönü and Okyar met to decide how many MPs it would have. In the end, only 15 representatives joined the Liberal Party, but they were all eminent members of the Kemalist establishment.

A real opposition: first manifestations and local elections 
Despite the presence of many loyal Kemalists within the élite of the new party, and the intention to create an integrated opposition, the SCF was quickly embraced by many groups that felt excluded by the new regime. In fact, it was seen as a means to reverse the reforms of the regime.

There were three main factions that joined the party in opposition to the government: the notables from the countryside, against secularism; the Muslims of Greece that had been subjected to the exchange of population in 1923; many minorities, such as Armenians, Greeks, and Jews, against Turkish nationalism. Indeed, since in a one-party regime there were no other alternatives to express discontent towards the government other than an integrated opposition, this party became a tool of resistance to central power.