[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Controlling for a variable

only influence the dependent variable (the outcome) but also influence the main independent variable.

OLS Regressions and control variables 
The simplest examples of control variables in regression analysis comes from Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) estimators. The OLS framework assumes the following:

 Linear relationship - OLS statistical models are linear. Hence the relationship between explanatory variables and the mean of Y must be linear. 
 Homoscedasticity - This requires homogeneity of variances, that is equal or similar variances across these data. 
 Independence/No Autocorrelation - Error terms from one (or more) observation  can not be influenced by error terms of other observations. 
 Normality of Errors - The errors are jointly normal and uncorrelated, this implies that   i.e. that the error terms are an independently and identically distributed set (iid). This implies that the unobservables between different groups or observations are independent. 
 No multicollinearity -  Independent variables must not be highly correlated with each other. For regressions using matrix notation, the matrix must be full rank i.e. is invertible.

Accordingly, a control variable can be interpreted as a linear explanatory variable that affects the mean value of Y (Assumption 1), but which does not present the primary variable of investigation, and which also satisfies the other assumptions above.

Example
Consider a study about whether getting older affects someone's life satisfaction.  (Some researchers perceive a "u-shape": life satisfaction appears to decline first and then rise after middle age.) To identify the control variables needed here, one could ask what other variables determine not only someone's life satisfaction but also their age. Many other variables determine life satisfaction. But no other variable determines how old someone is (as long as they remain alive).  (All people keep getting older, at the same rate, no matter what their other characteristics.)  So, no control variables are needed here.

To determine the needed control variables, it can be useful to construct a directed acyclic graph.

See also
Scientific control
Mixed model
Age adjustment

References

Further reading

Observational study
Design of experiments