[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lebanese prisoners in Israel

tion to the above, the following people were listed in a letter  dated March 2004 to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights by Lebanon's UN permanent representative as having been arrested during the 1982 Israeli occupation of Lebanon and still missing. The allegations are disputed by Israel.

Mooussa El Sheikh Selman, from Maarka village. Said to have been arrested on June 8, 1982, and wounded when transported by an ICRC staffer from the rest house of Tyre to the field hospital of the Israeli army near Mealliya. His fate remains unknown.
Bilal Samadi, said to have been seized on June 4, 1982, with five other persons on the bridge of the Awali River following an Israeli ambush.
Ibrahim Zein El Din, a teacher in [Baaklin] Secondary School. Said to have been seized by the Israeli forces at his fiancée’s house on October 8, 1982, and transferred to the Israeli intelligence center located then in Ras El Jabal in Aley (Mount Lebanon). Two of his friends, Nazih Abou Ajram and Mounir Chami, who were arrested later on, professed to having seen him chained and naked with torture marks on his body.
Mohamad Said El Jarrar, from Chebaa village. Said to have been seized in 1979 by Israeli forces and imprisoned in Tal Nahas camp, then transferred to Israeli intelligence in Metlli. Toufic Fakhouri, one of the released detainees, has allegedly said to have recognized Mohamad El Jarrar in 1987, in one of the Israeli detention centers located in Ramallah.
Jamil Amhaz. Said to have been kidnapped by the Israeli forces in 1984. According to his family, he is imprisoned in the Chateh jail in Israel. Israel denies this.
Mohamad Ali Hawa. Said to have been arrested by the Israeli forces in 1984 on Bater crossing in Jezzine (Lebanon) and taken to the Aber center. Allegedly, his mother saw him wounded with a bleeding leg.
Mohamad Ali Gharib is said to have been kidnapped on August 12, 1984, by the Israeli forces on the Bater crossing in Jezzine. He was allegedly transferred to the Homsieh hill then to Israel. His family reported that the freed detainee Ali Noura has reported to have seen him in Atlit Prison in 1985.
Hassan Ramez Ballout was said to have been arrested in 1984, in his hometown Kfarmelky by the Israeli forces. Ballout allegedly stayed in the Jezzine barracks for eight months and was told to be wounded with infections in his leg. His fate remains unknown.
Maher Kassir from Deir Kanoun el Naher village. He was allegedly kidnapped by the Israeli forces on June 17, 1984, in the area of the Sciences University located in Chweifat, southern Beirut. His fate is unknown.
Mohamad El Abouchi from Mina in northern Lebanon. He was said to have been kidnapped in 1990. His family asserts that he is detained in Israel. Israel denies this.
Jammal Habba from Sidon, southern Lebanon was said to have been kidnapped at the Barbarra checkpoint in 1982. His family asserts that he is in Israel. Israel denies this.
Samir El Khorfan, a soldier in the Lebanese army is said to have been kidnapped in the Majdalyoun area on October 30, 1983. His fate remains unknown.

Saadeldine Ahmad kheir,a Lebanese citizen have been take during 1982 in khalda, And still his fate remains unknown.

Missing persons
People who have been missing since the Israeli military presence in southern Lebanon include:

Hassan Sami Taha
Hussein Zeid
Ibrahim Nour el Din
Mohamad Moallem
Nizard Ali Merhi
Souheil Rammal
Khaled Kachmor
Khaled Chahine
Ali Kachmor
Said Bleibel
Taleb Abo Raya
Ahmed Harbawi

Deceased militants allegedly kept in Israel
There are also some former Lebanese militants, now presumed deceased, and alleged to be kept by Israel in secret graves, including:

Yahya El Khaled
Ayad Kassir
Hussein Daher
Elias Harb
Farjallah Fouaani

See also
Israeli MIA prisoner exchanges
Suha Bishara - detained 1988-98

Sources 

 Jerusalem Post
 ArabicNews
 CNN News

External links
 Follow Up Committee for the Support of the Lebanese Detainees in Israeli Prisons 

Israeli–Lebanese conflict
2006 Lebanon War
Lists of prisoners and detainees
Prisoners and detainees of Israel
Isr|Isr