[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard F. Natonski

l, to be assigned as the Deputy Commandant, Plans, Policies, and Operations. Natonski became Deputy Commandant on 7 November 2006 upon the retirement of LtGen. Jan Huly and received his third star.  He served in this post until August 2008 when he assumed command of U.S. Marine Corps Forces Command.

On 8 September 2010, Gen. James T. Conway, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, presented Lt. Gen. Natonski with a signed letter from President Barack Obama thanking him for his service during his retirement ceremony at Marine Barracks Washington. Natonski served in the Marine Corps for 37 years.  He retired as the most decorated Marine on active duty.

Battle of Wanat investigation
On 30 September 2009, US Central Command commander General David Petraeus appointed United States Marine Corps Lieutenant General Richard F. Natonski to lead a new inquiry into the Battle of Wanat which would look into related issues "beyond the tactical level." General Natonski's review "focused on the totality of circumstances that included and affected actions at Wanat", including interviews of the officers involved, and reviews of previous investigations with the exception of the Fort Leavenworth Combat Studies Institute (CSI) narrative—stating that it had "not undergone pre-publication vetting and academic review in accordance with standing CSI research protocols".

In June 2010, upon the conclusion of Natonski's investigation, Army General Charles C. Campbell revoked the reprimands, citing that they would have a "chilling effect" on ground operations. The "Army said that the second look at the incident proved that the officers were 'neither negligent nor derelict' and that 'their actions were reasonable under the circumstances.'"

Awards and decorations

See also

Notes

References

Living people
Recipients of the Navy Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
United States Marine Corps generals
United States Marine Corps personnel of the Vietnam War
United States Marine Corps personnel of the Iraq War
University of Louisville alumni
Recipients of the Defense Superior Service Medal
American people of Polish descent
1951 births