[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alpha Epsilon Pi

s for the fraternity's well-being and meets semi-annually to discuss matters of importance, including the granting of charters.

Leadership input to the SBG from the undergraduate membership is accepted from The Undergraduate Cabinet, whose members are elected annually in the winter.

Notable alumni

Alpha Epsilon Pi has notable alumni across many different industries and fields. 
AEPi counts among its members at least 7 billionaires, including Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and Las Vegas Sands founder Sheldon Adelson. Alumni also include the founders of Tinder, Lyft, Home Depot and Hotels.com as well as former/current presidents or chairmen of Citigroup, ESPN, MGM Studios, Walt Disney Studios, 20th Century Fox and NBC Television. In sports, AEPi alumni include the founder and first owner of the Harlem Globetrotters, the current owner of the Chicago Bulls and Chicago White Sox, the CEO of the Atlanta Hawks, president of the Florida Panthers, the commissioner of the National Hockey League and at least 2 Olympians. In American politics, AEPi has had at least 6 U.S. Representatives, 1 U.S. Senator, 1 U.S. Governor, a former Israeli Ambassador to the United States and a U.S. State Supreme Court Justice. In Canadian politics, AEPi alumni include the former Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada, the current and one former Israeli Ambassador to Canada, as well as Canada's first Jewish Cabinet member and Deputy Prime Minister of Canada. In arts & entertainment, AEPi alumni include Pritzker Prize-winning architect Frank Gehry, Academy Award and Emmy Award-winner James L. Brooks, both members of Simon & Garfunkel, singer/rapper Hoodie Allen, actor Gene Wilder, as well as co-creator of American Dad! Matt Weitzman, and Family Guy writer Neil Goldman. The fraternity also counts 3 Nobel Prize-winners among its alumni.

List of chapters and alumni clubs

The fraternity currently has 154 active chapters and colonies in eleven of the fourteen Big Ten Conference schools, seven of eight Ivy League schools, and eight of the ten University of California campuses. It is also the largest international fraternity in Canada, California, New York, and Massachusetts. The fraternity established the Aleph chapter in Israel during the spring of 2009, located in the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya. It has since expanded to other universities in Israel. In 2011, the fraternity expanded to the United Kingdom, establishing a colony at St Andrews in the spring, followed by Birmingham and Leeds in the fall.

The fraternity also has 24 active alumni clubs in several major cities.

See also
List of Jewish fraternities and sororities
List of social fraternities and sororities

References

External links
 Alpha Epsilon Pi International

 
Student organizations established in 1913
International student societies
North American Interfraternity Conference
Historically Jewish fraternities in the United States
Fraternities and sororities based in Indianapolis
1913 establishments in New York City
Jewish organizations established in 1913
Jewish culture