[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pan-Borneo Highway

k–Sindumin section was completed in 1981 while the final missing link from Sibu to Bintulu was completed in 1985. However, the highway had not been fully paved with asphalt yet at that time; it was only by the end of Sixth Malaysia Plan (RMK6) in 1995 that the FT1 highway in Sarawak was fully paved.

Before 1996, all routes in the Pan-Borneo Highway network in Malaysia were state highways. After the Federal Roads Act 1959 was made effective in Sabah and Sarawak in 1984, those highways were re-gazetted as federal highways in 1996 with the route number of FT1 (from Sematan to Kudat through Brunei), FT13 (Mile 32 Sandakan to Tawau) and FT22 (Tamparuli to Sandakan). Those highways were later gazetted as a part of Asian Highway Network Route AH150.

Meanwhile, the road transportation network in Kalimantan region did not exist until the 1970s when logging roads were built by logging companies. Later, about 75% of the logging roads were converted to national roads. The Trans-Kalimantan Highway (southern route) was completed in 2016 with the opening of the Tayan Bridge.

Although some sections had been upgraded to divided highways, the Pan-Borneo Highway was notorious for its poor condition in many sections. ,  of the Indonesian Trans-Kalimantan Highway was built below the Asian Highway Network Class III standards (lane width: 3.0 m; design speed limit: 80 km/h). Meanwhile, the overall condition in many sections of the Malaysian section of the Highway was poor with many potholes, because most sections of the highway were built with standards as low as JKR R3 (design speed limit: 70 km/h; minimum lane width: 3.0 m). A study to upgrade the entire highway to a super two highway under JKR R5 standard (design speed limit: 100 km/h; minimum lane width: 3.5 m) was done, which was expected to cost RM16 billion. Ultimately, the Malaysian federal government had opted to upgrade the Pan-Borneo Highway to a divided highway. The upgrade works of the Pan-Borneo Highway to a divided highway is expected to be completed by 2023 for the Sarawakian section and by 2025 for the Sabahan section, with the overall cost of RM27 billion.

Intersections along the Pan Borneo Highway 
 Malaysia Federal Route 1 (Sarawak)#List of interchanges, intersections and towns
 Brunei Pan-Borneo Highway#List of interchanges, intersections and towns
 Malaysia Federal Route 1 (Sabah)#List of interchanges
Kimanis-Keningau Highway#List of interchanges
 Malaysia Federal Route 22#List of interchanges
 Malaysia Federal Route 13 (Sabah)#List of interchanges

Pan Borneo Highway Sabah 
UEM, MMC and Warisan Tarang Construction Sdn Bhd is teaming up, forms UEM-MMC-Warisan Tarang JV Sdn Bhd via a joint venture (JV) and received their role as project delivery partner (PDP) via Borneo Highway PDP (BHP) Sdn Bhd in 2016. Warisan Tarang owns BHP. It starts at Sindumin and ends at Serudong. In 2019, UEM announces that UEM-MMC-Warisan Tarang JV Sdn Bhd agrees the WARISAN-Pakatan Harapan government's decision to terminate their role as PDP. Since then, the joint venture company would gave up their operation and gives the project to other contractors to continue. This has caused the Sabah Pan Borneo Highway project to be disrupted in the long run until September 2020.

In October 2020, new Sabahan government was established under GRS Party defeating Warisan Party in state election. The leaders of GRS Party announced that the Sabah Pan Borneo Highway will be restarted again and will not terminated the process until the Pan Borneo projects successfully done.

In September 2023, The King of Malaysia, Yang di-Pertuan Agong, Abdullah of Pahang visits Borneo Island (the journey also known as Kembara Borneo) and The King of Malaysia checking all the remaining Pan-Borneo Highway projects. The journey began in Tawau, Sabah to Telok Melano, Lundu, Sarawak. The King's Kembara Borneo journey is aims to feel driving in the Pan-Borneo Highway and also intended to known the Borneo more closer perspective.