[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# May 1965

l Security Agency, replacing USAF Lt. General Gordon A. Blake.
Born:
Jason, Norwegian cartoonist, in Molde, as John Arne Sæterøy
Krist Novoselic, American bass guitarist for the grunge rock group Nirvana; in Compton, California
Died: Wing Luke, 40, Chinese-American lawyer and politician, plane crash

May 17, 1965 (Monday)
An underground explosion at Cambrian Colliery in Clydach Vale, Wales, killed 31 men and injured another 13. The victims had been laboring  underground, in a space only  high, and had no chance to evacuate; those who died "were identified by the numbers on their lamps".
Gasoline stations affiliated with the Cities Service Company changed their signs to reflect the new name, ""CITGO", as well as a new symbol and new colors, as part of a $20,000,000 marketing changeover. Through a spokesman, the Oklahoma-based oil producer (later acquired as a subsidiary of Petróleos de Venezuela) announced that "The distance from which the new CITGO emblem and color scheme can be seen is twice that of the previous green and white Cities Service signs and stations." Stanley D. Breitweiser went on to say that the name had been chosen from "more than 80,000 possible choices" generated by a computer programmed to create new five-letter words that began with "C", and that the logo, colors and name had been developed with the assistance of the design firm of Lippincott and Marguiles. He explained that "Its first portion, CIT, is derived from Cities Service. GO implies the company's power, energy and progressive nature."
Born: Trent Reznor, American singer and songwriter and founder of the industrial rock band Nine Inch Nails; in New Castle, Pennsylvania

May 18, 1965 (Tuesday)
Dolby Laboratories was founded in London by American inventor Ray Dolby, who invented the Dolby noise-reduction system and other innovations in audio recording technology.
President Johnson formally launched Project Head Start, a $112,000,000 program to give summertime education to more than half a million American preschool age children from underprivileged families. According to the announcement from the White House, "the first 1,676 projects... at 9,508 centers will reach 375,842 boys and girls at a cost of $65,686,741", with the vast majority of the money coming from federal grants.
Died: Eli Cohen, 40, Israeli spy, was executed in public in Syria. With the verdict of the court attached to his shirt, Cohen was taken to a gallows at the Garden of Martyrs Square in Damascus and hanged. His body remained on display for six hours before it was taken down.

May 19, 1965 (Wednesday)
The roof of the Key Food Supermarket in Brooklyn, New York, collapsed without warning upon the area closest to the checkout lines, injuring 25 employees and shoppers.
American inventor Paul C. Fisher filed for the patent on the "Anti-gravity pen", known also as the "space pen", which used "a pressurized ink supply which enables the pen to write when the force of gravity acts against the flow of ink in the ink cartridge" in order for astronauts to write data observations in a weightless environment. Although there is an urban legend that NASA spent millions of dollars to develop an unnecessary replacement to a pencil, Fisher was privately funded and earned his costs back when both the American and Soviet space programs began purchasing pens, which were necessary because of the hazards of broken pencil tips, graphite dust, and flammable wood; the pens themselves were sold for six dollars apiece. U.S. Patent Number 3,285,228 would be granted on November 15, 1966.
A single sounding rocket successfully sent aloft a "mother-daughter" experiment to transmit radio signals between two instrument packages that parted in flight and climbed separately through the ionosphere. The experiment, employing a technique developed by scientists of Penn State University, was launched at 4:11 p.m. EDT by a four-stage Jevelin (ARGO D0-4) from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Wallops Island Station, Wallops Island, Virginia.

All extravehicular equipment planned for the Gemini 4 mission, including the ventilation control module, the extravehicular umbilical assembly, and the hand-held maneuvering unit, had been qualified. The flight hardware was at the launch site ready for flight at the end of May.
Died: Tu'i Malila, 188, a tortoise that Captain Cook had given to the Tongan royal family in 1777.