[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Meriden School

Meriden, An Anglican School for Girls is an independent Anglican single-sex early learning, primary, and secondary day school for girls, located in Strathfield, an inner-western suburb of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Founded in 1897 by Jane Monckton, the school has a non-selective enrolment policy and currently caters for approximately 1650 students from early learning, through Year K to Year 12.

Meriden is affiliated with the Association of Heads of Independent Girls' Schools (AHIGS), the Alliance of Girls' Schools Australasia, the Junior School Heads Association of Australia (JSHAA), and the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia (AHISA).

History

Administratively operating as an Australian company limited by guarantee since 17 March 1997, Meriden was founded by Jane (Jeannie) Monckton in 1897, at Agnes Street, Strathfield. Monckton had decided to home school her two sons due to a lack of suitable educational facilities for boys in the Strathfield area. Friends and neighbours clamoured to have their children join the two boys under her instruction, and so it was decided to establish Meriden, a school with approximately 19 students and two staff to assist. Boarding facilities were available and fees for tuition were from 1½ guineas ($3.15) to 2 guineas per quarter for the regular curriculum, which included English, French, Latin, Mathematics, Australian History, Music, Needlework and Dancing.
In 1907, Meriden moved to Woodward Avenue, where it was sold to Bertha Turner in 1908. Turner continued at Woodward Ave until larger premises could be found near Santa Sabina College on the Boulevarde, moving again soon after to its current location in the original Redmire Estate, on Redmyre Road. The school expanded in 1914 with the purchase two properties, The Briars, located adjacent to Meriden, and the original site at Redmyre Road.

In 1918, following the 1916 changes to Department of Education requirements, Turner approached the Sydney Church of England Girls' Grammar School (SCEGGS) in Darlinghurst with the concept of amalgamation. Further negotiations were however prevented due to financial commitments, and the SCEGGS Council suggested that a group of local church people might be interested. The first school uniform and the school logo were introduced in 1921, and in 1922 the Meriden flag was presented by the Old Girls' Union.

As Turner's health deteriorated, there was a suspicion that the school might close, and subsequently, a group of local people met to discuss the future of Meriden. It was agreed that a Council should manage the school, and debentures were sold in order to obtain the necessary finance. The original home, Wariora, which was owned by Turner, was not included in this transfer but remained her property. On her death, Wariora was transferred to her brother, who sold it on to the gardener and his wife, who in turn ran it as a boarding house. Wariora was eventually purchased by Meriden and was extended to include the school tuck shop. This building has since been demolished.

After Turner's death, Grace Ovary was appointed by the Council as the new Headmistress. In 1927, sports practice was carried out at the cow pastures in the grounds of a ruined mansion named Milroy in Broughton Road, Strathfield. The end of this decade saw a growing and profitable school.

In 1936, extensive additions were made to the school with the erection of Wallis Hall, seating 450 people. The new building, designed by Thomas Pollard Sampson, encased the existing residence, The Briars, that had become the centre of the school with a new red brick facade along Redmyre Road. The additions included an octagonal chapel forming an apsidal end to the main building with quatrefoil stained glass windows. A library, dormitories, bathrooms and classrooms were part of the development. This building, with further additions, is still the main wing of the school.

In 1961, a grand face brick Edwardian style  mansion, Selbourne facing Redmyre Road, became part of the extended school campus. It housed domestic staff for the boarding house students until it was demolished in 1978 for sports grounds. Originally known by different spelling, Selborne, the house was the family home of George A. Wilson, chairman of the Public Service Board of NSW until the death of his wife Philippa Marion Wilson in 1900. Selbourne became the home of the Walsord family in the first two decades of the 1900s and became the Earwaker family home in the 1927.

According to the Australian Securities and Investment Commission, Meriden School was formally registered on 6 March 1929.