[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Committee on Standards in Public Life

The Committee on Standards in Public Life (CSPL) is an advisory non-departmental public body of the United Kingdom Government, established by John Major in 1994 to advise the Prime Minister on ethical standards of public life. It promotes a code of conduct called the Seven Principles of Public Life, also known as the Nolan principles after the first chairman of the committee, Lord Nolan.

Function
The Committee on Standards in Public Life is an independent advisory non-departmental public body, with a secretariat and budget provided by the Cabinet Office. The committee advises and makes recommendations to the prime minister on ethical standards in public life. It can conduct inquiries and collect evidence to assess institutions, policies and practices.

It is formally responsible for:

 advising the Prime Minister on ethical issues relating to standards in public life
 conducting broad inquiries into standards of conduct
 making recommendations as to changes in present arrangements
 promoting the Seven Principles of Public Life.

The Committee does not investigate individual allegations of misconduct.

Seven Principles of Public Life

The committee promotes a code of conduct for those in public life called the Seven Principles of Public Life or the Nolan Principles:

 Selflessness – Holders of public office should act solely in terms of the public interest.
 Integrity – Holders of public office must avoid placing themselves under any obligation to people or organisations that might try inappropriately to influence them in their work. They should not act or take decisions to gain financial or other material benefits for themselves, their family, or their friends. They must declare and resolve any interests and relationships.
 Objectivity – Holders of public office must act and take decisions impartially, fairly and on merit, using the best evidence and without discrimination or bias.
 Accountability – Holders of public office are accountable to the public for their decisions and actions and must submit themselves to the scrutiny necessary to ensure this.
 Openness – Holders of public office should act and take decisions in an open and transparent manner. Information should not be withheld from the public unless there are clear and lawful reasons for so doing.
 Honesty – Holders of public office should be truthful
 Leadership – Holders of public office should exhibit these principles in their own behaviour and treat others with respect. They should actively promote and robustly support the principles and challenge poor behaviour wherever it occurs.
These Seven Principles apply to anyone who works as a public office holder including:

 those elected or appointed to public office, nationally or locally,
 those appointed to work in the civil service, local government, the police, courts and probation services, Non Departmental Public Bodies, and in the health, education, social and care services, and
 those in the private sector delivering public services.

Influence 
The Seven Principles of Public Life have proved influential and are enshrined in codes of conduct across the UK public sector, from schools and government departments to hospitals. They are incorporated into a variety of government-related codes including the Ministerial Code, the Civil Service Code, the Civil Service Management Code, and the House of Lords Code of Conduct. Many local authorities, charities and educational and healthcare bodies adhere to the principles, including – to cite just a few examples  – Oxfordshire County Council, the University of Exeter, the University of Nottingham, the NHS Board, the National Trust, and the Good Governance Institute. The principles have also been important in informing ethics debates internationally.

Members 

The Committee consists of a chair, four independent members and three political members, being four men and four women. The chair and independent members are appointed by the Prime Minister for a single five-year term, following an open competition regulated by the Office of the Commissioner for Public Appointments (OCPA). The political members, nominated by the Conservative, Labour and Scottish National political parties, are appointed for three years with the possibility of reappointment.

History
The Committee was initially established in October 1994 by the Prime Minister, John Major, in response to concerns that the conduct of some politicians was unethical - for example, during the cash-for-questions affair.

1994 terms of reference
The Committee's original terms of reference were "To examine current concerns about standards of conduct of all holders of public office, including arrangements relating to financial and commercial activities, and make recommendations as to any changes in present arrangements which might be required to ensure the highest standards of propriety in public life".