[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mississippi Marine Brigade

capture by the Confederate forces.  The Switzerland was damaged but was repaired and continued duty south of Vicksburg on the Mississippi River.

On June 14, the unit joined Brigadier General Joseph A. Mower in the Battle of Richmond, Louisiana and skirmished with the Confederates, losing 3 wounded.

On June 19, Brigadier General Ellett ordered construction of a casemate on the Louisiana side of the Mississippi River opposite Vicksburg. The fortification was completed in four days and was protected with a thickness of railroad iron. A 20-pounder Parrott rifle was placed within and fired on the city the morning of June 23. The Confederates responded firing 17 rounds from 5 different guns. The fort was further strengthened by adding another thickness of railroad iron. Fire from the Parrott gun in the fort was maintained until the end of the siege with a total of 98 rounds being expended. The fort was repeatedly struck but without material damage and without loss of life. The brigade also placed a brass Dahlgren gun in the casemate near the 20-pounder Parrott.  Considerable damage to the Confederates was accomplished especially by stopping work at the foundry and machine shop.

On June 25–30, a detachment of the brigade on the steamer John Rains, formed a part of an expedition to Greenville, Mississippi under the command of Lt. Col. Samuel J. Nasmith of the 25th Wisconsin Infantry.

On June 30, the brigade saw action at the Goodrich's Landing.  Two African-American Union regiments, the 1st Arkansas and the 10th Louisiana had come under attack from Confederate forces.  The brigade arrived and pushed back the Confederate forces, suffering two casualties and one death.

Transfer to Army jurisdiction
A ruling of the Judge-Advocate General, dated 11 June 1863, seems to make the brigade a "special contingent of the army and not the navy," but as late as 23 July 1863, Maj. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant wrote: "They (the officers and men of the Marine Brigade) are not subject to my orders." By order of the Secretary of War the army assumed full jurisdiction over the brigade in October 1863.  The brigade was disestablished in August 1864, and its surviving ships were transferred to other duties.

Notable members
Henry N. Couden - 54th Chaplain of the United States House of Representatives
Brigadier General Alfred W. Ellet - commander of the Mississippi Marine Brigade
Colonel Charles Rivers Ellet - commander of the United States Ram Fleet from November 1862 to August 1863
Lieutenant Colonel John A. Ellet - commander of the United States Ram Fleet from August 1863 to 1864

See also
Charles Ellet, Jr.

References

Sources

External links
Charles Ellet, Jr. Papers, University of Michigan Library
Civil War Rosters MMB
Guide to the Ellet Family Papers, Stanford University

Louisiana in the American Civil War
Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
Mississippi in the American Civil War
Ships of the United States Army
Union Army brigades
Mississippi Marine Brigade
United States Ram Fleet