[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eva Estrada Kalaw

Eva Estrada Kalaw (  Evangelina Reynada Estrada; June 16, 1920 – May 25, 2017) was a Filipina politician who served as a senator in the Senate of the Philippines from 1965 to 1972 during the presidency of Ferdinand Marcos. She was one of the key opposition figures against Marcos' 20-year authoritarian rule and was instrumental in his downfall during the People Power Revolution. As a senator, she wrote several laws relating to education in the Philippines, such as the salary standardization for public school personnel, the Magna Carta for Private Schools, the Magna Carta for Students, and an act to institute a charter for Barrio High Schools. She was also among the Liberal Party candidates injured during the Plaza Miranda bombing on August 21, 1971.

Early life
Kalaw was born in Murcia, Tarlac (present-day Concepcion, Tarlac), on June 16, 1920, to Dr. Salvador Estrada and Demetria Reynado. She took up Bachelor of Science in Education, with a major in home economics from the University of the Philippines in Manila. She was a member of the university's Sigma Delta Phi sorority. 

An expert pistol shooter, she was once hailed the national ladies' champion in rapid-fire pistol shooting. She trained under the auspices of Filipino Olympian in shooting Martin Gison. After graduating from UP in 1940, Kalaw taught in several universities such as the Far Eastern University, National Teachers College and Centro Escolar University while taking up postgraduate studies in social work. 

On June 11, 1944, she married entrepreneur and Bataan Death March veteran Teodoro Kalaw Jr., son of former Batangas legislator Teodoro Kalaw. They had four children: daughter Maria Eva (nicknamed "Chingbee"), and sons Teodoro III, Salvador and Tyrone. Her son Teodoro followed in her footsteps and became a national pistol shooting champion and Olympic pistol shooter himself. Through her marriage to Kalaw, she became sister-in-law of fellow senator Maria Kalaw-Katigbak.

Kalaw was very active in social work and was part of the different civic organizations in the country. She was the first president of the Jayceerettes Organization, founder and national chairperson of Samahang Filipina, director of the League of Women Voters and the Chamber of Home Industries of the Philippines, board member of the Special Child Study Center for Retarded Children and chairperson of the Youth Welfare Council. She was also active in the Presidential Peace and Amelioration Campaign, the Rizal Red Cross, Anti–Tuberculosis of the Philippines and the Civic Assembly of Women's Clubs in the Philippine Association of the University Women. For her social work, she won a citation for being the Outstanding Volunteer Social Worker of the Year.

Political career

First term
A member of the Nacionalista Party, Kalaw first entered politics in 1953 when she campaigned for Nacionalista presidential candidate and former Defense Secretary Ramon Magsaysay, who ran against the incumbent president Elpidio Quirino. In 1957, she also campaigned for Senator Claro M. Recto when he ran for president against incumbent president Carlos P. Garcia. During the Garcia administration, Kalaw headed the National Economic Protectionism Association, a non-government organization that staunchly promoted economic protectionism and promotion of Filipino businesses and products.

During the 1965 Senatorial Elections, Kalaw was part of the senatorial slate of the Nacionalista Party candidate Ferdinand Marcos and won. As senator, she introduced a total of 41 bills, including ones for salary increases of public school teachers (RA 5158); the creation of Local School Boards (RA 5447) and of the Barrio High School Charter/Magna Carta for Private Schools (RA 6054); the Educational Financing Act (RA 6728) and the inclusion of the presidents of student councils in the Board of Regents of all state colleges and universities. During her term, she was the chairperson of the Senate Committee on Games, Amusements, and Tourism, as well as the Senate Committee on National Minorities.