[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Equality and Human Rights Commission

er he accepted that his annual legal income of over £500,000 would dwarf the £50,000 he would earn from the EHRC. While Christian Concern called for his appointment to be blocked,  it was welcomed by The Jewish Chronicle. In May 2019, Suzanne Baxter, another EHRC board member, joined Pinsent Masons.

In June 2020, Newsweek reported that an EHRC commissioner, Pavita Cooper, had failed to declare a November 2013 £3,500 donation to the Conservative Party recorded on the Electoral Commission website and an October 2013 fundraising reception she and her husband hosted for her local party in Brentford and Isleworth, both prior to her appointment as a commissioner in 2018. The EHRC made a statement saying "Pavita Cooper has not made a donation to any political party and is not a member of any party."

After resigning as chair in 2020, Isaac said that the EHRC had been undermined by pressure to support the Conservative government's agenda. "My view is that an independent regulator shouldn't be in a position where the governments of the day can actually influence the appointments of that body to support a particular ideology," he told The Guardian.

Allegations of Racism
In March 2017, the EHRC was criticised by campaigners, including Lord Ouseley and Peter Herbert, for allegedly targeting Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff for compulsory redundancies and for failing to appoint BAME personnel to senior positions. The campaigners said that, out of 12 staff selected for redundancy, only two were white British, while eight were from a BAME background, four were Muslim, and six were disabled. Campaigners also said that there were no visible minorities among the senior management team, after the only black director was selected for redundancy, and that all two of the remaining BAME workers were on the bottom three pay grades. The EHRC denied claims that staff were sacked by email.

In July 2020, Newsweek reported that two BAME former commissioners at the EHRC, Baroness Meral Hussein-Ece and Lord Simon Woolley, said they were not reappointed to their roles in November 2012 because they were "too loud and vocal" about issues of race.

A former senior staff member of the EHRC has made a legal claim against it for racial discrimination and unfair dismissal. The hearing begins on 2 October 2023.

Disabled people
In June 2019, Labour MP Debbie Abrahams wrote to the EHRC, asking the commission to investigate a potential cover-up by the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) of documents relating to the deaths of benefits claimants who had been sanctioned, as well as the way the department treatment of disabled people in general. Four months later, the EHRC announced that it was considering investigating the DWP.

However, the commission confirmed in June 2020 that no inquiry would take place. A spokesperson said: "The coronavirus pandemic has had a significant impact on our work, as it has on many other organisations. We have responded to Debbie Abrahams to say that we have given very careful consideration to the concerns she has rightly raised about the impact of DWP policies and practices on disabled people. It remains an important area of focus for us but due to the pandemic we will not be able to undertake an inquiry in relation to the DWP this year." A week later, Disability News Service'' revaled that the EHRC refused to consult its own disabled advisers before dropping the probe.

Investigation of Kishwer Falkner
In May 2023, a lawyer was appointed to investigate complaints against Kishwer Falkner. The complaints were made by current or former staff at the EHRC. The nature of the complaints has not been disclosed. On 26 May, the investigation was suspended "following a backlash from 54 peers and outcry across the political spectrum". The investigation restarted in July 2023 but was closed in October 2023, following an independent review of the Commission's handling of complaints, initiated by the Minister for Women and Equalities, with Falkner remaining in her position as Chair.

References

External links 
 
 Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission
 Scottish Human Rights Commission

2007 establishments in the United Kingdom
Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport
Government Equalities Office
Human rights organisations based in the United Kingdom
National human rights institutions
Non-departmental public bodies of the United Kingdom government
Organisations based in Manchester
Organizations established in 2007
Race relations in the United Kingdom
Regulators of the United Kingdom
United Kingdom labour law