[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations

The International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) is a trade association that represents internationally over 90 leading innovative pharmaceutical companies and associations around the world. IFPMA is based in Geneva and is in official relations with the United Nations where it contributes industry expertise to global health discussions.

It was formed in 1968 and is based in Geneva, Switzerland.

In 2019, IFPMA released a strengthened code of ethics and professional standards. Among the revisions to the code is a prohibition on gifts provided to healthcare professionals. The code revision has been followed by Ethoscope – an open-source, continuously evolving resource that contains diverse guidance designed to keep pace with emerging developments.

The pharmaceutical industry contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in particular Goal 3 to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Today over 35 IFPMA member companies contribute resources and knowhow to SDG initiatives  partnering with academia, development organizations, NGOs, foundations and other business sectors. There are over 250 collaborations that aim to strengthen health systems and expand quality healthcare access.

IFPMA works in partnership with other members of the global health community to achieve Universal Health Coverage (UHC) targets and contribute to a world where no one is left behind in receiving the healthcare they need. A wide range of stakeholders across the public and private sectors have an opportunity to collaborate more closely to increase affordability of and access to essential medicines, and the low-cost, but highly effective, interventions and screenings.

See also
Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations Europe
Interpharma Switzerland
Innovative Pharmaceutical Association South Africa
The Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association
Les entreprises du médicament France

References

External links

Pharmaceutical industry