[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# El-Farouk Khaki

n, an organization which goal is "Justice, Freedom and Dignity for All peoples" and rejects the idea that criticism of the government of Israel is equivalent to antisemitism.

In 2009, his Human+ Float was the recipient of Best Embodiment of the LGBTTIQQ2S award from Pride Toronto.

Electoral record

Awards
Khaki was honoured at the 2006 Pride Week gala for his role in promoting queer Muslim awareness through Salaam. Reverend Brent Hawkes of the Toronto Metropolitan Community Church said of Khaki and the group, "I think Salaam is very important, both locally and internationally, in terms of creating a safe place for people of Muslim tradition to be able to come together both socially and spiritually". Of Khaki's role, he said "The work that El-Farouk has done is to help to make sure there is an option there."

In spring 2007, Khaki received the Steinert and Ferreiro Award from the Lesbian and Gay Community Appeal Foundation for his "major role in paving the way in Canada for refugee protection on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender", and because he "broke ground" in his work on gender equality in the Muslim community. The previous summer, Pride Toronto, one of the world's largest gay-pride festivals, recognized his work building tolerance and inclusiveness in the Muslim community with the 2006 Pride Award for Excellence in Spirituality. Also in 2007, Khaki was honoured with the Canadian Bar Association's  Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Conference Hero Award for contributions made in the area of equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people for his work with refugees who are sexual minorities or suffering from HIV.

Media Mentions
"21 LGBT Muslims Who Are Changing the World." The Advocate''. December 20, 2016. Web.

References

External links
Salaam home page

1963 births
20th-century Canadian LGBT people
21st-century Canadian LGBT people
Canadian Muslims
Gay politicians
Immigration lawyers
Lawyers in Ontario
Canadian LGBT lawyers
LGBT Muslims
Tanzanian LGBT people
Canadian LGBT politicians
Canadian LGBT rights activists
Living people
Muslim reformers
Naturalized citizens of Canada
New Democratic Party candidates for the Canadian House of Commons
Ontario candidates for Member of Parliament
Politicians from Toronto
Politicians from Vancouver
Tanzanian emigrants to Canada
Tanzanian Muslims
Canadian gay men