[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Fourierism

in (ed.), Selections from the Works of Fourier. London: Swan Sonnenschein & Co., 1901.
 Mark Poster (ed.), Harmonian Man: Selected Writings of Charles Fourier. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1971.
 Design for Utopia: Selected Writings of Charles Fourier. New York: Schocken Books, 1971.

Further reading

 Catherine L. Albanese, A Republic of Mind and Spirit: A Cultural History of American Metaphysical Religion. New Haven/London: Yale University Press, 2007.
 Jonathan Beecher, Charles Fourier: The Visionary and his World. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1986.
 Jonathan Beecher, Victor Considerant and the Rise and Fall of French Romantic Socialism. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2001.
 Arthur Bestor, American Phalanxes: A Study of Fourierist Socialism in the United States. PhD dissertation. Yale University, 1938.
 William Hall Brock, Phalanx on a Hill: Responses to Fourierism in the Transcendentalist Circle. PhD dissertation. Loyola University of Chicago, 1995.
 Sterling F. Delano, The Harbinger and New England Transcendentalism: A Portrait of Associationism in America. Cranbury, NJ: Associated University Presses, 1983.
 Carl J. Guarneri, The Utopian Alternative: Fourierism in Nineteenth-Century America. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1991.
 Andrew Loman, "Somewhat on the Community System": Fourierism in the Works of Nathaniel Hawthorne. New York: Routledge, 2005.
 Karen Bergström McKnight, Seeds of Utopia: The Germination of Fourierism in America. MA thesis. University of Vermont, 1982.
 Cecilia Koretsky Michael, Horace Greeley and Fourierism in the United States. MA thesis. University of Rochester, 1949.
 John Warne Monroe, Laboratories of Faith: Mesmerism, Spiritism, and Occultism in Modern France. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2008.
 Charles Pellarin, The Life of Charles Fourier. New York: William H. Graham, 1848.
 James R. Scales, Fourierism and its Influence in America. Shawnee, OK: Oklahoma Baptist University, 1951.
 Julian Strube, "Socialist Religion and the Emergence of Occultism: A Genealogical Approach to Socialism and Secularization in 19th-Century France". In: Religion, 2016.
 Julian Strube, Sozialismus, Katholizisimus und Okkultismus im Frankreich des 19. Jahrhunderts. Berlin/Boston: De Gruyter, 2016.

Eponymous economic ideologies
Philosophical schools and traditions
Eponymous political ideologies
 
Linear theories
Sociological theories
Socialism in France
Social theories
Types of socialism
Utopian socialism