[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# July 1976

via
Died: Marshal Zhu De, 89, Communist Chinese officer who had led the People's Liberation Army to victory over the Nationalists in 1949, later the nominal Head of State of the People's Republic of China since in his honorary capacity of Chairman of the National People's Congress Standing Committee

July 7, 1976 (Wednesday)
German left-wing women terrorists Monika Berberich, Gabriella Rollnick, Juliane Plambeck and Inge Viett escaped from the Lehrter Straße maximum security prison in West Berlin.
David Steel became the new leader of the UK's Liberal Party in the aftermath of the scandal which forced out Jeremy Thorpe.
Born: 
Natasha Collins, English actress whose career was ended by a 2001 auto accident; in Luton, Bedfordshire (d. of drug overdose, 2008)
Bérénice Bejo, Argentine-born French actress and César Award-winner; in Buenos Aires
Grettell Valdez, Mexican telenovela actress
Died: 
Gustav Heinemann, 77, former President of West Germany from 1969 to 1974
Norman Foster, American film actor, screenwriter and director known for the Charlie Chan and Mr. Moto mysteries.

July 8, 1976 (Thursday)
Palapa-A1, the first satellite built in Indonesia, was launched from Cape Canaveral in the United States at 6:31 pm local time (6:31 am on July 9 Indonesian time) as a communications satellite for the Indonesian corporation Indosat.
Former U.S. President Richard M. Nixon, who had resigned from office on August 9, 1974, in the wake of accusations of interfering with investigation of the Watergate scandal, became the first former president to be disbarred from the practice of law.  The 4 to 1 opinion of the New York state court's appellate division concluded that Nixon had obstructed "the due administration of justice", a violation of the state Code of Professional Responsibility for lawyers.  The findings on the charges, brought by the New York City bar association, marked the first time that Nixon had ever "been found guilty by an official body of charges relating to Watergate."
Born: Ellen MacArthur, English yacht sailor who broke the world record for fastest solo sailing trip around the world with a 71-day voyage in 2005; in Whatstandwell, Derbyshire

July 9, 1976 (Friday)
American reporters and civilian officials were allowed for the first time to see the U.S. Department of Defense's National Military Command Center, the "war room" located inside the Pentagon.  The invited guests were admitted to the war room, "normally restricted to individuals holding only a top-secret clearance or higher."
Born: 
Fred Savage, American child actor known as the star of The Wonder Years; in Chicago
Jochem Uytdehaage, Dutch speed skater and 2002 Winter Olympics gold medalist who held the world record in the 5000 and 10,000 meter races from 2002 to 2005; in Utrecht
Died: Tom Yawkey, 73, American owner of the Boston Red Sox major league baseball team, from leukemia

July 10, 1976 (Saturday)
Ethiopia hanged 18 military leaders and merchants who had been convicted of "crimes ranging from plotting a coup to food hoarding."   The most prominent deaths were those of Ethiopian Air Force Major Sisay Harte, who was the third-ranking member of the governing Provisional Military Administrative Council, and General Getachew Nadew, the Ethiopian Military Governor of Eritrea.
Four foreign mercenary soldiers, one American and three British, were executed by firing squad in Angola, following their trial in Luanda.  Daniel Gearhart of Kensington, Maryland, had quit a low-paying job at the U.S. National Institutes of Health five months earlier after having advertised his services in Soldier of Fortune magazine, had left "on the promise of a $300-a-week salary and a $1,000 bonus as a mercenary", and left behind a wife and four children.  He had been captured only four days after arriving in Angola before participating in Canada.  Costas Georgiu, a native of Cyprus and British Army veteran who called himself "Colonel Tony Callan", died along with Britons John Derek Barker and Andrew McKenzie.  Angola's President Agostinho Neto rejected pleas for clemency and commented "Every Angolan remembers the vile and cruel behavior of the mercenaries who have sown death and despair in African countries in return for pay, trying in this way to put a brake on the higher interests of a people for a few coins."
An explosion in Seveso, Italy, polluted to a large area in the neighborhood of Milano, with many evacuations and a large number of people affected by the toxic cloud.
Born: Adrian Grenier, American TV actor known for Entourage; in Santa Fe, New Mexico

July 11, 1976 (Sunday)
The Miss Universe international beauty competition was won for the first time by a citizen of Israel, as 20-year-old Rina Messinger was crowned as the top finisher from 72 competitors in Hong Kong.
Died: Leon de Greiff, 80, popular Colombian poet

July 12, 1976 (Monday)