[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eli Ohana

Eliyahu "Eli" Ohana (; born ) is an Israeli former football player and the former chairman of Israeli club Beitar Jerusalem. He played as forward or midfielder for Beitar Jerusalem, KV Mechelen, S.C. Braga, and the Israel national football team, and was considered one of Israel's finest players, often named "the King". He managed Beitar Jerusalem, Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv, Maccabi Petah Tikva, Hapoel Kfar Saba, the Israel national under-19 football team, and the Israel national football team. Ohana played for Team Israel at the 1981 Maccabiah Games, winning a bronze medal.

Early and personal life 
Ohana was born in Jerusalem, to a Moroccan Jewish who immigrated to Israel, and settled in the Wadi Salib ma'abara in Haifa, Israel. He has seven brothers and two sisters, one of whom is from his father's previous marriage. The family struggled with financial problems.

At age 11, Ohana joined the youth club of Beitar Jerusalem at the encouragement of his brother Yossi. His father, a traditional Jew, was initially opposed but allowed him to join on the condition that he attend synagogue before practice every Saturday.

Although good on the field, Ohana had problems at school and Yossi advised him to choose between football and school. He chose football and went to live with Yossi, who had recently married.

In 1982, Ohana's girlfriend, Sarit Shwartz, was in a fatal car accident. Sarit's death drove Ohana into depression and social seclusion. In December 1991, he married model Ronit Ben Basat, with whom he had a son, Tom. They separated in 2004 without filing for divorce.

Club career 
In 1977, Ohana led the youth league team of Beitar Jerusalem to the state youth title. He  stood out for his ability to find the back of the net and was promoted to first team. Beitar played in the second league (Artzit) at the time. Although Ohana did not do well in his first matches, he and Uri Malmilian later pushed the club into the first league (Leumit), and helped to bring the club its first league title and two State Cups.

In 1986, Ohana joined Australian club Sydney City on a short-term loan, in which he played five matches.

At age 23, Ohana signed with KV Mechelen in Belgium. (The money from the Ohana sale paid for the Bayit VeGan pitches used since then for the team practice.) After one season, Ohana was instrumental in the club winning the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, becoming the first Israeli soccer player to win a European title. His goal in the semi-final and his assist on the game-winning goal in the final secured his place in Mechelen's history books. Italian magazine Guerin' Sportivo awarded Ohana the Bravo Award, which is given to the best player under 23 in European competition. Ohana also took part in the testimonial match to Oleg Blokhin.

Despite his success in Europe, Ohana returned home to sign again with Beitar, which was then playing in the Liga Artzit (Nationwide League). After one season, Ohana helped them return to the Liga Leumit (National League) and then guided the club to a league title. Five years later, Ohana led the club to back-to-back league titles. After an injury in the 7th game of the 1997/98 season, Ohana did not play any more that season. He played some games in 1998/99 but retired before the end of the season.

In the youth team of Beitar he played under number 9, in Mechelen under 10, in Beitar Jerusalem under 11.

International career 

Ohana played for Team Israel at the 1981 Maccabiah Games, winning a bronze medal. He was called up to the Israel national football team in 1983. After a friendly match in which Israel lost to Argentina 7–2, Diego Maradona said there is one great player in Israel, Eli Ohana.

Ohana secured himself a place in Israeli football history when the national team was in a crucial FIFA World Cup qualifier against Australia in 1989. Australia manager Frank Arok apparently had made antisemitic comments before the game. During the match, Ohana dribbled through two defenders and fooled the keeper, giving Israel a 1–0 lead. Ohana then ran up to the Australian manager and kissed the Star of David in front him.

In 1990 Ohana was called to the squad for a game against the Soviet Union national football team. Minutes before the game began, Ohana and the two other legionnaires of the Israeli team, Ronny Rosenthal and Shalom Tikva, realized that their insurance had not been arranged as promised, and they refused to go onto the pitch. All the players were punished, with Ohana receiving the worst punishment, banned from 10 league games and banned for four years from the national team.

In 1995/1996 Ohana had a weak season and decided to quit international football. The Uruguay national football team was invited to Israel for his testimonial match, which Israel won 3–1 with Ohana scoring the first goal.

In 1996–97 Ohana had an excellent season (he was chosen player of the year at the end of it) and Shlomo Sharf returned him to the team, with Ohana again scoring often.