[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Foley, Welch and Stewart

Foley, Welch and Stewart was an early 20th-century American-Canadian railroad construction partnership.

Earlier lumber and construction involvement
In 1897, Peter Larson, Patrick Welch, John (Jack) William Stewart, and the Foley Brothers formed an earthmoving alliance which performed grading during railroad construction.

Peter Larson
In 1868, Larson arrived in New Orleans from Funen, Denmark, almost penniless. Working northwestward, he obtained grading subcontracts on the Northern Pacific Railway construction throughout the 1870s and early 1880s. Starting with a single scraper pulled by six mules, he greatly expanded his business. He settled in Billings, Montana, which became his headquarters. In 1898, Julius Bloedel and John Joseph Donovan partnered with him in establishing the Lake Whatcom Logging Co.

In 1905, the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway (GTP) began building westward from Fort William, Ontario. Anticipating that Prince Rupert, British Columbia, would become the terminus, Larson and Ed J. Matthews secured options on most of this land. Rather than immediately profit, Larson sold the options to the GTP at cost, looking to the longer term relationship. In due course, the partners of Foley, Welch and Stewart received the contracts to build the Edmonton–Prince Rupert leg of the GTP.

J.W. Stewart
In 1882, Stewart arrived in Canada from Sutherland, Scotland, with limited means. Working westward, he reached Vancouver in 1885, where he felled trees during the layout of the Canadian Pacific Railway (CP) townsite. In the 1886 Great Vancouver Fire, he stood for hours in False Creek to escape the inferno. After 1887, he moved to Montana Territory and worked for Peter Larson.

In 1911, Bloedel, Stewart and Welch (BS&W) was established for lumber operations on Vancouver Island.

Foley Brothers
In 1830, the Foley family settled in Lanark, Upper Canada. Timothy and his three younger brothers became loggers. In the early 1870s, the brothers established a logging and sawmill operation in Benton County, Minnesota, which provided lumber for the westward extension of the Great Northern Railway (GN). Logging was in winter and railroad earthmoving in summer. In 1882, they were involved in constructing the Winnipeg–Calgary leg of the CP. In 1898, the Mann, Foley & Larson partnership built the Castlegar–Midway leg of the Columbia and Western Railway (C&W) for CP. In 1906, Foley, Locke & Larson undertook reconstruction for CP east of Winnipeg. That year, Foley, Larson & Co was awarded the  Saskatoon–Edmonton leg of the GTP westward extension.

Not only did the partnership handle construction equipment and supplies, but also groceries. To this end, the wholesale grocery firm of Foley, Lock & Larson was established in 1903. Usually, the agreements with subcontractors compelled the latter to buy all supplies from the partnership.

Patrick Welch
In 1888, Welch arrived in Helena, Montana, from New York (state). Establishing his headquarters, he oversaw the construction of the Montana Central Railway. In 1896, he relocated to Spokane, Washington, where he associated with the Foley Bros and Stewart on the GN westward extension.

In May 1904, the P. Welch & Co and J.W. Stewart & Co partnership was awarded the Grand Forks–Phoenix branch line of the Vancouver, Victoria and Eastern Railway (VV&E), owned by GN.

In July 1905, P. Welch & Co was awarded the Midway–Myncaster extension of the VV&E.

In August 1905, a joint venture between P. Welch & Co and Porter Bros was awarded the Molson–Oroville extension of the VV&E. That month, P. Welch & Co was awarded  of rock work on the Alaska Central Railroad.

During 1905–1907, a joint venture between P. Welch & Co and Porter Bros undertook $8 million of work on the GN Portland–Seattle line.

In 1907, P. Welch & Co was awarded the Keremeos–Hedley extension of the VV&E in BC.

Main construction partnership

Early expansion
Whereas Larson had married Margaret Moran, her sisters Susan and Elizabeth had married Welch and Stewart respectively. In 1907, John and Thomas Foley and Peter Larson died. The new partnership name became Foley Bros, Welch & Stewart or Foley, Welch & Stewart (FW&S), but it was not uncommon for projects to operate under the names of the individual partners.

In March 1908, Foley Bros was awarded the Superior Junction–Fort William, Ontario leg of the GTP.

In May 1908, Foley Bros was awarded the rock work on the double-tracking of the Fort William–Winnipeg leg of the CP.

In May 1908, FW&S commenced work on the  Edmonton–Prince Rupert leg of the GTP from both ends. Subcontractors were allocated sections of less than  each but some undertook multiple sections. The project was completed in April 1914.

In February 1909, after another subcontractor had failed, the GTP subcontracted FW&S to complete  eastward from a point  west of the Abitibi River crossing (Cochrane, Ontario) for the National Transcontinental Railway.