[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Master of Pharmacy

hampton – Wolverhampton

Northern Ireland

Queen's University Belfast (QUB) – Belfast
University of Ulster (UU) - Coleraine

Scotland

University of Strathclyde – Glasgow
Robert Gordon University – Aberdeen

Wales

Cardiff University (Cardiff School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences) – Cardiff

Ireland 
In Ireland, the MPharm is awarded after five years: four years of undergraduate study leading to a BSc.Pharm and a one-year placement in a community or hospital pharmacy setting.

Universities

University College Cork - Cork
Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland - Dublin
Trinity College, Dublin - Dublin

India / Australia 
Master of Pharmacy (MPharma) in India is offered as post graduate (graduate) course after completion of BPharma degree. The MPharma course is normally of two years duration. In some universities, it is one-year research and one-year theory examination, while some offer MPharm by research completely leading to a doctorate degree. The course focuses on specialisation in the field of pharmacy. The MPharma courses are offered by pharmacy colleges affiliated to unite leading to entry into the pharmacy profession. In 2004, the University of Newcastle introduced a two-year postgraduate MPharm coursework program, to provide an alternative means to gain qualification for registration to practice as a pharmacist for graduates with a bachelor's degree in any science or medical science that includes the required prerequisites. The MPharm degree is not an advanced follow-up degree for pharmacists. Following the commencement of the MPharm program at the University of Newcastle, other universities across Australia also began offering MPharm coursework programs. At present, either the BPharm or MPharm degree is accepted for registration as a practicing pharmacist.

See list of pharmacy schools: Australia for a listing of institutions offering the MPharm degree.

MPharm (Clinical)/MClinPharm

With the success and popularity of the MPharm coursework degrees, research MPharm degrees have now been redesignated Master of Pharmacy (Clinical) (abbreviated MPharm (Clinical)) or  Master of Clinical Pharmacy (abbreviated MClinPharm). This degree offers advanced training to graduates of a Bachelor of Pharmacy, and does not by itself meet the requirements for registration as a pharmacist. These are the following colleges imparting M Pharma in India in various specialties like Industrial Pharmacy, Bulk Drugs, Pharmacology, Pharmaceutics, Pharmacognosy, Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, etc.:
MIT World Peace University School Of Pharmacy, Pune
 Nalanda college of Pharmacy, Nalgonda
 Gyani Inder Singh Institute of Professional Studies, Dehradun
 J.S.S College of Pharmacy, Mysore/ Ootty
 Pad. Dr. D. Y. Patil Institute of Pharmaceutical Science and Research, Pimpri, Pune, Maharashtra, India
 Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Guru Nanak Dev University(GNDU), Amritsar, Punjab
 Hindu College of Pharmacy, sonepat, Haryana.
 Dr. Hari Singh Gour University, Sagar, Madhya Pradesh
 Suresh Gyan Vihar University, Jaipur, Rajasthan
 Alwar Pharmacy college, Alwar, Rajasthan
 Sri Jayadev College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Naharkanta, Bhubaneswar.
 Bombay College of Pharmacy, Mumbai, Maharashtra
 Banaras Hindu University (BHU ), Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh
 Delhi Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research (DIPSAR), New Delhi
 ISF College of Pharmacy, Moga, Punjab
 Manipal University, Bangalore, Karanataka
 Madras Medical College, Chennai, Tamil Nadu
 NIPERs at Mohali, Hajipur, Rae baraeli, Hyderabad etc.
 Jamia Hamdard University,Delhi
Mahakal institute of pharmaceutical studies, Ujjain
 Department of Pharmaceutical sciences and drug research Punjabi University Patiala
 Shri Guru Ram Rai institute of technology and science Dehradun(Uttarakhand Technical University, Dehradun)
 Department of Pharmacology, KIET School of Pharmacy, Ghaziabad 201 206 www.kiet.edu
 Department of Pharmacology, KIET, Ghaziabad, NCR Delhi
 NSHM College of Pharmaceutical Technology, Kolkata, West Bengal
Himalayan Pharmacy Institute, Majhitar, East Sikkim
University Department of Pharmaceutical Science, Utkal University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha

Bangladesh
1.  Department of Pharmacy, University of Development Alternative (UODA) 

2. Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Dhaka 

3. Department of Pharmacy, Jagannath University 

4. Department of Pharmacy, State University of Bangladesh 

5. Department of Pharmacy, University of Science and Technology Chittagong 

6. Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences- North South University (NSU), Masters in Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacy (PCP), Masters in Pharmaceutical Technology (PTB), MPharm in Dual Major

Pakistan

The postgraduate MPhil program is offered in Pakistan instead of Master of Pharmacy in four disciplines, namely, pharmaceutics, pharmaceutical chemistry, pharmacology and pharmacognosy. A new discipline, pharmacy practice, is also introduced by some universities.