[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chopsticks (hand game)

this action becomes identical to replacing the value of the hand with 5 minus the value.
 Unnamed: Attacking own hands are allowed, adding two additional moves (A-B, B-A). Typically played in conjunction with Swap and Cutoff variants.
 Cherry Bomb: Transferring to exactly 5 will cause the user's hand to become [1 1] and an attacked player to lose a hand, and that player's other hand becomes 1. Basically, the position becomes [1101] in a 1 versus 1 game. In a 1 versus one game, it becomes an easy forced win, so it is best played with more than 2 people.
 Self Adding: Players can add 1 finger to any living hand in their turn and this action would end player's turn. They can also self destruct by adding 1 to a living hand with 4 fingers raising up. And transferring multiple fingers to dead hand is allowed. The variation of the game let it have complicated  strategy.

Optimal strategy
Using the rules above, two perfect players will play indefinitely; the game will continue in a loop. In fact, even very inexperienced players can avoid losing by simply looking one move ahead.

In the cutoff variation, the first player can force a win. One winning strategy is to always reach one of the following configurations after each move, preferentially choosing the first one in the list if there is more than one choice. 
 [1211] (starting here)
 [ab12], where a and b can be any number of fingers (winning immediately if possible)

Conversely, in the Division and Suicide only variation, then the second player has a winning strategy.

Generalisations
Chopsticks can be generalized into a (p,r)-type game, where p is the number of players and r is the roll-over amount.

Fewer than two players
A game with one player trivially wins the game for virtue of being the last player in the game. A game with zero players is likewise trivial for there are no players in the game and thus no winners.

Two players
Given a roll-over of ,
 There are  positions, including redundancies.
 There are  functionally distinct positions.
 For , there are  reachable positions.

Since the roll-over amount is , chopsticks is a base- game. Each position is  digits long. Enumerating all numbers in base- with  digits gives us  positions. However, most of these positions are incorrect notations (e.g. 1002, 0120, and 1020). They appear different but are functionally the same in gameplay. To find the number of functionally distinct positions, we square the number of functionally distinct pairs. For a roll-over of , there are  distinct pairs, where  is the -th triangular number. Since either player could have any of these pairs, we simply square the resulting value, which gives us  functionally distinct positions.

There are  unreachable positions for . 
 of these are simply one player having each of the  distinct pairs, and the other player being dead. The problem is that the dead player is the player who just took his turn. Since the player can't lose on their own turn, these positions are obviously unreachable. 
 of those positions are when the player, whose turn it is, has two hands of value  for  and the other player has only one alive hand of value . These positions are unreachable because the player who only has one alive hand of value  would not be able to split, so therefore that player must have attacked using his sole alive head. But there is no way to use his sole alive hand to attack an enemy so that they have two hands of value , as that would require attacking a dead hand, which is illegal. 
 The position when both players have two hands of value . These position are unreachable because any player who only has hands of value  would not be able to split, so therefore that player must have attacked using one of his value  hands. But there is no way to use an  valued hand so that they have  hands of value , as that would require attacking a dead hand, which is illegal. 
 The position when the player whose turn it is has one hand of value  and one hand of value , and the other player has two hands of value . This position is only reachable from the previous position, but the previous position is not reachable from the starting position, so this position isn't either.

More than two players
Given a roll-over of 5.
 With 2 players, there are 204 positions.
 With 3 players, there are 3,337 positions.
 With 4 players, there are over 25,000 positions.

Degenerate cases
A game with a roll-over amount of 1 is the trivial game, because all hands are dead at start as values of one become values of zero.