[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# DFC Prag

The Deutscher Fußball-Club Prag, commonly known as DFC Prag, was a football club based in Prague. The club was founded on 25 May 1896 by a group of German Jews in Prague, which at the time of its founding was the capital of the Kingdom of Bohemia in Austria-Hungary. DFC Prag was one of the strongest teams in Europe in the beginning of the 1900s. The team took part in the 1903 German football championship final and became Bohemian champions several times. The club was dissolved in 1939, following the occupation of Czechoslovakia by Nazi Germany. A new DFC Prag was founded on 9 June 2016, in the tradition of the original club.

History

Founding member of the German Football Association 

The multi-national character of Austria-Hungary meant that footballers in the monarchy could find themselves playing in the leagues of Germany, Austria, Hungary or Bohemia. It was common for sports clubs to be founded based on the shared ethnicity of their members. DFC Prag was founded on 25 May 1896, by a group of German Jews from the football department of Deutscher Eis- und Ruder-Club Regatta Prag, established in 1891.

When it was formed in 1900, the German Football Association (DFB), actively sought out members among ethnically German clubs from outside of the country. DFC Prag was a founding member of the German association and its president, Dr. Ferdinand Hueppe, became the first president of this new national association.

Contesting Germany's first championship 
DFC Prag was a very strong side at the end of the 1800s and early 1900s: they were Bohemian champions in 1896, and played in Germany's first ever national final in 1903, and became again Bohemian champions in 1917.

The story of the team's appearance in the 1903 final is an odd one as they got there without having to play the scheduled playoff match against Karlsruher FV. The opponents received a telegram, supposedly from the DFB, indicating that the game had been rescheduled and consequently did not travel to the appointed match-up. DFC Prag, already waiting in Leipzig for the arrival of Karlsruher FV, were declared the winners by forfeit and advanced to the final, over the loud protests of the opponents. To this day the origin of the telegram is unknown. The second team to advance to the final was VfB Leipzig, and the match was scheduled for 31 May 1903 at the home ground of FC 93 Altona in Hamburg.

The heavily favoured DFC Prag arrived in Hamburg a day in advance and took themselves off on an ill-advised pub crawl the night before the final. Most of the team were students at the Charles University in Prague and took the opportunity to explore Hamburg. And so the team arrived to the final in less than ideal shape. The match was delayed half an hour as officials scrambled to find a football that was in good enough condition to play the match. The Altona club provided a new ball and eleven minutes in DFC Prag scored the first goal. At the end of the half, the score stood at 1–1, but VfB Leipzig then pulled away to emerge as the first German champions with a 7–2 victory. VfB Leipzig later the same year agreed to challenge Karlsruher FV and were again victorious, this time by a 7–3 score.

Play outside of Germany and dissolution 
When Germany joined FIFA in 1904, DFC Prag was no longer eligible for play in the country. FIFA also rebuffed attempts to create ethnic German and Slavic football associations within the borders of the fractious Austro-Hungarian Empire, preferring to stay clear of politics. DFC Prag played variously in Austria, Hungary, and Bohemia and remained a strong side until about 1914.  The club sent a number of players to the Austria national team in spite of the club's uncertain status. DFC Prag dominated the Sudeten league in the ethnically German area of Czechoslovakia, and in the period immediately prior to World War II, the club won a pair of amateur championships, in 1931 and 1933.

The rise to power of the Nazis in Germany in the early 1930s led to discrimination against Jews. By 1933, Jewish teams were excluded from general competition and limited to play in separate leagues or tournaments. In 1938, Jewish players and teams were banned outright as discrimination turned to persecution.

With the annexation of the Sudetenland by Germany in 1938, these policies were quickly imposed in the area. DFC Prag, its players and officials, were, despite their mostly Jewish descent, suggested to join the movement of Konrad Henlein, the Sudeten German Party. As players and officials refused, the club was immediately banned as a "Jewish club" after the German seizure of Prague in 1939, and dissolved due to the ban. Already in the years before, the players had felt the hostility from the Nazis, especially during matches against teams from German-dominated Sudetenland.