[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1945 in poetry

Toronto: Ryerson Press.
 E. J. Pratt, They Are Returning, Toronto: Macmillan.
 F. R. Scott. Overture. Toronto: Ryerson Press.
 Elizabeth Smart, "By Grand Central Station I Sat Down and Wept" (prose poem)
 Raymond Souster, When We Are Young. Montreal: First Statement.
 Miriam Waddington, Green World

India, in English
 Serapia Devi, The Book of Beneficent Grief and Other Poems ( Poetry in English ), Lahore: R. S. Ram Jawaya Kapur
 B. Rajan, Monsoon ( Poetry in English ),
 Subho Tagore, May Day and Other Poems ( Poetry in English ), Calcutta: Book Emporium
 V.N. Bhushan, editor, The Peacock Lute: An Anthology of Poems in English by Indian Writers, Bombay: Padma Pub., 155 pages

United Kingdom
 W. H. Auden, English poet living in the United States
 Collected Poems
 For the Time Being
 John Betjeman, New Bats in Old Belfries
 R. N. Currey, This Other Planet
 Walter de la Mare, The Burning-Glass, and Other Poems
 W. S. Graham, Second Poems
 Michael Hamburger, Later Hogarth
 A. P. Herbert, Light the Lights
 sidney Keyes, Collected Poems, posthumous
 Philip Larkin, The North Ship, London: Dent
 Alun Lewis, Ha! Ha! Among the Trumpets, foreword by Robert Graves; posthumously published
 Ruth Pitter, The Bridge
 William Plomer, The Dorking Thigh, and Other Satires
 F. T. Prince, Soldiers Bathing, and Other Poems
 Henry Treece, The Black Seasons
 Vernon Watkins, The Lamp and the Veil

United States
 W. H. Auden, The Collected Poetry, English poet living in the United States
 John Malcolm Brinnin, No Arch, No Triumph
 Gwendolyn Brooks, A Street in Bronzeville
 Emily Dickinson, Bolts of Melody, published posthumously
 H.D. (Hilda Doolittle), "Tribute to the Angels", second part of Trilogy (1944–46) about the experience of the Blitz in wartime London
 Randall Jarrell, Little Friend, Little Friend, including "The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner", New York: Dial Press
 William Ellery Leonard, A Man Against Time, published posthumously
 Ogden Nash, Many Long Years Ago
 John Crowe Ransom, Selected Poems
 Karl Shapiro, Essay on Rime
 Wallace Stevens, Esthetique du Mal, Cummington Press

Other in English
 George Campbell (poet), First Poems, Caribbean
 Allen Curnow, editor, A Book of New Zealand Verse 1923–45 (Caxton), New Zealander
 Denis Glover, The Wind and the Sand, New Zealander
 Kenneth Slessor, Australian Poetry, anthology, Australia

Works published in other languages

France
 Louis Aragon:
 La Diane française
 Le Nouveau Crevecoeur, about the Resistance
 René Char, Seuls demeurent
 Paul Claudel, Visages radieux
 Max Jacob, Derniers Poemès, published posthumously (died 1944)
 Pierre Jean Jouve:
 Trois Poèmes aux Démons, Porrentruy: Portes de France
 La Vierge de Paris
 Henri Michaux, Épreuves, exorcismes
 Saint-John Perse, Exil, suivi de Poème à l'étrangère; Pluies; Neiges Paris: Gallimard (a republication of Quatre poèmes, 1941-1944, Buenos Aires: Les Editions Lettres Françaises 1944), France
 Jacques Prévert, Spectacles
 Pierre Reverdy, Plupart du temps: poèmes 1915–1922
 Georges Schéhadé, Chants d'ombre

Indian subcontinent
Including all of the British colonies that later became India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal. Listed alphabetically by first name, regardless of surname:

Kashmiri
 Abdul Ahad Azad, Daryav, the author's magnum opus, on the theme of political revolution
 Mahjoor:
 Kalam-e Mahjoor (No. 9), lyrics on love
 Payem-e Mahjoor (No. 2 and No. 3), in the Devanagari script; on social and national themes

Malayalam
 G. Sankara Kurup, Nimisam
 Pappukkutti Kotamangalam, Katattuvanci, one of the first poetry books of the progressive movement in Malayalam literature
 V. A. Anandakkuttan, Aradhana

Other Indian languages
 Desikavinayagam Pillai, translator, Umarkayyam Patalkar, translation into Tamil of Edward Fitzgerald's English translation of Omar Khayyam's Rubaiyat
 Devakanta Barua, ; Assamese-language
 Devarakonda Balagangadhara Tilak, Prabhatamu-Sandhya; Telugu-language
 Dinu Bhai Pant, Guttalum, seven poems, including two lengthy ones, Dogri
 E. V. R. Namputiri, translator, Mahakavih Krtyah, translation into Sanskrit from the Malayalam poems of Ulloor
 Firak, , a major Urdu poet's literary criticism in Urdu on the idea of love as expressed in that language's poetry
 Gopal Prasad Rimal, Masan ("The Crematorium"); Nepali-language
 Gurnam Singh Tir, Hasdi Dunia; Punjabi
 Laxmi Prasad Devkota, Sakuntal (शाकुन्तल), the first long epic poem in the Nepali language, 24 cantos in Sanskrit Varnik meters, and the diction is very "Sanskritized"
 P. V. Krishnan Nair, translator, Madirotsava, translation into Sanskrit of Edward Fitzgerald's English translation of Omar Khayyam's Rubaiyat
 Trilochan, Dharti, Hindi-language pragativadi poems largely on man's struggles and life's contradictions
 V. R. M. Chettiyar, translator, Kitancali, translation into Tamil from the Indian poetry in English of Rabindranath Tagore's Gitanjali