[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

Tallahassee: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs north and south through Tallahassee, Florida. A portion of S. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs just blocks west of the State Capitol.
 Tarpon Springs: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive runs across Tarpon Springs, from US 19 west to Whitcomb Bayou.

Georgia
 Americus: US 19 through Americus is named Martin Luther King Boulevard.  The city was reluctant to grant the name, until black community leaders threatened to boycott Americus businesses.
 Atlanta: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in Atlanta (King's hometown) runs east–west through the city.  Beginning at the Chattahoochee River, it continues from Mableton Parkway in Cobb County, then runs through unincorporated Fulton County before entering the city limits.  In Atlanta, ML King Drive goes through the West side, West End and downtown before reaching its east end at Oakland Avenue near Oakland Cemetery.  The alignment of ML King Drive follows what was originally Gordon Road (SR 139), Mozley Drive and then Hunter Street.  It is a major landmark for tourism, as it borders the Atlanta University Center, a conglomerate of historically black colleges and universities that includes King's alma mater Morehouse College.
 Arlington: M. L. King Drive is a residential street running east-to-west nearly the entire length of Arlington.
 Athens: The Dr. Martin Luther King Parkway runs alongside a park along the North Oconee River in Athens. A previous plan to rename Reese Street after King was rejected by African-American residents of Athens, who opposed having King's name associated with what they described as a "drug-infested" street.
 Augusta: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard serves as a connector, linking Georgia State Route 4 (known as Milledgeville Road southwest of this intersection and 15th Street/Ruth B. Crawford Highway north-northeast of it) with Old Savannah Road and Twiggs Street.
 Bainbridge: Planter Street is named Martin Luther King Drive, running east out to Old Whigham Road.
 Blakely:  The Georgia State Route 39 bypass of Blakely is named Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Butler: Georgia State Route 137 running north out of Butler is Martin Luther King Boulevard.
 Cartersville: M.L.K. Jr. Drive is an east–west street that crosses Joe Frank Harris Parkway north of the Market Square shopping plaza.
 Cedartown: US 278/SR 6 is named Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard between US 27 Bus. and US 27.
 Columbus: Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd (most of which was renamed from Brookhaven Blvd in 1978) runs from 10th Ave (where it turns into 10th St) to Lawyers Lane, in which the road turns into Brookhaven Blvd.
 Davisboro: In Davisboro, 5th street is also marked "M. L. King Jr. Street".
 Donalsonville: Crawford Street east of Tenille Avenue becomes MLK Jr. Drive, running east–west out the east side of town.
 Gainesville: The portion of Myrtle Street through the center of Gainesville was renamed Martin Luther King Junior Boulevard in 2000 after women activists in town petitioned for the change. Businesses along the street had blocked this change three times previously.
 Griffin: US 41 is co-designated as Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway when it enters Spalding County from Pike County at the rural junction with County Line Road, southwest of Griffin's city limits, continuing north through the westside of Griffin, reverting to the single designation US 41 as it passes the junction with SR92 in northwest Griffin
 Ideal:  Macon County Route 69 running west out of Ideal is named Martin Luther King Jr. Drive.
 Lexington: A cul-de-sac running north off Fairground Road is named Martin Luther King Drive.
 Macon: US 80 is designated Martin Luther King Boulevard, south of the Ocmulgee River.
 Milledgeville: Martin Luther King Jr Drive runs east–west a mile north of the downtown area, running from Georgia State Route 22 (Glynn Street) to Elbert Street.
 Montezuma: Montezuma boasts a Martin Luther King Jr. Drive, a residential street running for three blocks on the west side of town.
 Perry: Martin Luther King Drive is a semi-rural residential street running north south between US 41 and SR 224.  It continues south out of Perry as Elko Road.
 Savannah: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a major north–south thoroughfare on the west side of Savannah, running from River Street south to Exchange Street.  It was renamed from West Broad Street in 1991, and was significant as being the hub of Black-owned businesses serving Savannah. A memorial bust of Martin Luther King, Jr., which was approved by the King family, was officially unveiled at Martin Luther King, Jr. Park at Plant Riverside District in Savannah, Georgia on January 15, 2022. The memorial is located at the terminus of Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd., overlooking the Savannah River. 
 Social Circle Martin Luther King, Jr. is the name of the south-side section of Social Circle Highway.
 Sylvester: when Georgia State Route 256 enter into southeast Sylvester, it is co-designated East