[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of concentration and internment camps

om Russia, Italy, Serbia and Romania. Citizens deemed enemies of the state were displaced from their homes and sent to camps throughout the Austro-Hungarian Empire. In addition of  (internment camp) for civilians of enemy states, Austria-Hungary incarcerated over one million Allied prisoners of war.

Austria
 
 Braunau in Bohemia (today: Broumov in the Czech Republic), formed on 11. June 1915. Housed Serbian and Russian POWs and civilian internees, including underage Serbian children.
 Mauthausen, formed 22. September 1914. Housed Serbian and Italian POWs and Serbian civilian internees.
 Aschach an der Donau, Housed Serbian and Montenegrin POW officers and soldiers and civilian internees.
 Drosendorf internment camp
 Grossau internment camp
 Heinrichsgrün (today: Jindřichovice Czech Republic), formed beginning of June 1915, received first internees 17. June 1915. Housed Russian, Italian, Montenegrin and Serbian POWs and Montenegrin and Serbian civilian internees.
 Illmau internment camp - in the Waldviertel
 Katzenau - The largest internment camp in the territory of the monarchy, located on the right bank of the Danube near Linz, was used as an internment camp for civilians after Italy entered the war.
 Karlstein an der Thaya internment camp
 Kirchberg an der Wild internment camp - in the Zwettl district
 Markl internment camp - In Windigsteig in the Waldviertel region
 Neulengbach internment camp
 Sittmannshof internment camp - located near Loibes in Lower Austria's Waldviertel region between 1915 and 1916.
 Steinklamm internment camp - located in the municipality of Rabenstein an der Pielach in Lower Austria.
 Thalerhof internment camp - Between 1914 and 1917, around 30,000 people from Eastern Europe (mainly Ukrainians) were interned in the Thalerhof camp near Feldkirchen, south of Graz.

Bosnia and Herzegovina
 Doboj

Hungary

 Arad (today in Romania)
 Sopronnyék (today: Samersdorf, Austria), formed on 5. April 1915. Housed Serbian and Montenegrin POWs and civilian internees, including underage children.
 Boldogasszony (today: Frauerkirchen, Austria), formed in February 1915. Housed Russian, Italian, Romanian, Serbian and Montenegrin POWs and Serbian and Montenegrin civilian internees.
 Budapest
 Cegléd
 Csót
 Esztergom
 Győr
 Keczkemét
 Kenyérmező
 Nagymegyer (today Veľký Meder Slovakia)
 Nezsider - The Nezsider concentration camp in Hungary, about 17,000 internees, mostly from Serbia and Montenegro, were held throughout the war.
 Tápiósüly (today part of Sülysáp) - internment camp for civilians, including women and children, 45 km East of Budapest

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bosnian war

In a UN report, 381 out of 677 alleged camps have been corroborated and verified, involving all warring factions during the Bosnian War.

Bulgaria

World War I (Bulgaria)
During World War I, Bulgaria was part of the Central Powers with Germany, Austria Hungary and Turkey. The Bulgarians established their largest prison camps in Sofia as well as smaller working camps across the kingdom but also military prison camps in Bulgarian occupied Serbia.
 Dobritch (Bazargic)
 Gorno Panicherevo - Located near Stara Zagora, holding prisoners of war and Serbian civilian internees, including women, children, a French school teacher and 84 Orthodox priests (according to Red Cross inspection of 11 May 1917)
 Haskovo - This prison camp held both Serbian prisoners of war and civilian internees, including women, children, and priests.
 Orhanie (today called Botevgrad) held both prisoners of war and civilian internees, mostly Serbian but also Russian.
 Philippopolis - The camp was established on the site of a former cholera hospital and incarcerated approximately 5,250 Serbian, British, and French with a majority of Serbian civilians.
 Rakhovo (today Slovakia)
 Sliven - Sliven held approximately 19,900 Serbian, Romanian, Russian, British, and French prisoners, including sixteen Serbian Orthodox priests.
 Sofia - The Bulgarian army maintained three prison camps around the city, holding a total of 20,000 prisoners of war and civilian internees.
 Camp 1 - Mostly French prisoners
 Camp 2 - Mostly Serbian prisoners
 Camp 3 - Mostly Serbian prisoners with some Russians, Romanians and Italians

Bulgarian occupied Serbia
 Niš
 Struga (today North Macedonia) - In Bulgarian-occupied province of Monastir in southwestern Serbia.

Cambodia

The totalitarian communist Khmer Rouge régime established over 150 prisons for political opponents, of which Tuol Sleng is the best known. According to Ben Kiernan, "all but seven of the twenty thousand Tuol Sleng prisoners" were executed.

Canada

World War I (Canada)

Ukrainian Canadian internment

In World War I, 8,579 male "aliens of enemy nationality" were interned, including 5,954 Austro-Hungarians, including ethnic Ukrainians, Croats, and Serbs.  Many of these internees were used for forced labour in internment camps.