[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Debate on the monarchy in Canada

udrick, of the Macdonald-Laurier Institute: "We don't have fighter jets or ships for our military. We can't process passports. We have yearlong waitlists for critical medical procedures. We can't build anything. Maybe our constitutional architecture isn't what's keeping us in prolonged adolescence."

Former Prime Minister Stephen Harper argued, following Elizabeth II's funeral, that the monarchy is "not just the formal head of the country's institutions, but the embodiment of the lives of all the nation's families", making the monarch not just head of state, but head of a national family, and monarchy "performs its functions in a way that a presidency can barely dream of." He did, though, opine that the Canadian monarch has less impact on Canadians than does the British monarch on Britons, noting that the viceroys take the monarch's place in Canada and, therefore, how they are selected should be reconsidered, emphasizing that they not just have qualities of political non-partisanship and social diversity, but also understanding of the "constitutional nature of their position and [...] the wide responsibilities of such an office." Harper explained that his Advisory Committee on Vice-Regal Appointments had been conceived of as a beginning of a process of creating a more formal means of selecting governors general and lieutenant governors, beyond the sole judgment of the prime minister of the day.

Proposals for a solely Canadian monarch
The idea of an exclusively Canadian monarch has been poffered; Canadian monarchists have suggested that all Commonwealth realms should have their own resident monarchs. This figure could be descended from the House of Windsor; it was suggested in 2011 that Prince Harry become king of Canada. It has also been proposed that the Canadian monarch have a First Nations lineage, either as a hereditary monarchy or an elective monarchy, with a trilingual requirement in English, French, and a relevant Indigenous Canadian language. However, there has been no popular or official support for such a change.

Polls

Polls on the Canadian monarchy have been regularly conducted since the 1990s, typically coinciding with a royal tour or other major royal event. In 2008, Peter Boyce wrote that successive polls since the aforementioned decade showed an increasing disaffection with the monarchy, but also noted internal contradictions in specific poll results. Polls on the institution have been accused of using "inconsistent and sometimes ambiguous wording." Monarchists assert the use of the inaccurate adjective "British" in a poll question on the Canadian monarchy, or implications that the present Canadian head of state isn't Canadian, skews the results, while republicans say the same about the use of "sever" or "abolish". The polls sometimes ask about constitutionally impossible scenarios and consistently ignore both the constitutional requirements for a change to the Canadian monarchy and the existence of the provinces, which would also be affected by constitutional amendments that made Canada a republic. It has been further noted, and confirmed by polls, that Canadians are not well educated about the monarchy and its role. In 2002, the majority polled thought the prime minister was head of state, only 5 per cent knowing it was the Queen. Both republicans and monarchists in Canada have noted this fact in relation to polls on the monarchy.

1970s
When constitutional amendments were being considered in the 1960s, the role of the monarchy was not strenuously questioned, as it was deemed to be "no great priority in the present round of constitutional changes." This statement was reflected in the four opinion polls conducted in 1970, which showed that the monarchy was favoured by two-thirds of those questioned. The Canadian Institute of Public Opinion asked nationally: "Do you think Canada should continue to pay allegiance to the Queen, or do you think we should become a republic with an elected president?" To this, 50 per cent of respondents opted for retention of the status quo, 33 per cent favoured a republic, and the remainder declined to answer. Further, the answers differed by region: of the respondents who lived in Quebec, 46 per cent wished for a republic as against 23 per cent for monarchy, while, in Ontario, the monarchy was favoured well above the national average, and support was even higher in the western provinces. Older persons (over 50 years) were the strongest advocates for the monarchy than any other age group, although those in their 20s who answered the poll also gave their preference for the Crown. Similarly, another poll that year revealed that in Canada, exclusive of Quebec, the monarchy was of no issue to 37 per cent of the people polled and a further 41 per cent rated themselves as loyalists, although many of the older responders "recognised that youth had different ideas which might have an effect in the future."