[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2000 in New Zealand

Christopher Bands and Zara Clark – Cold (Deep Obsession)
 Best Cover: Shihad & Karl Kippenberger – The General Electric
Kimberley Renwick – Second Nature (Margaret Urlich)
Gideon Keith and Seven – Infinity (Deep Obsession)
 New Zealand Radio Programmer Award: Grant Hislop – (ZM / Hauraki Auckland)
Martin Good (Hits 89FM)
Rodger Clamp (More FM Auckland)

See: 2000 in music, New Zealand Top 50 Albums of 2000

Performing arts

 Benny Award presented by the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand to Doug Aston.

Radio and television
1 July: Public Broadcasting Fee finishes.  

See: 2000 in New Zealand television, 2000 in television, List of TVNZ television programming, :Category:Television in New Zealand, TV3 (New Zealand), :Category:New Zealand television shows, Public broadcasting in New Zealand

Film
Jubilee
Stickmen
The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring
The Price of Milk

See: :Category:2000 film awards, 2000 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:2000 films

Internet
See: NZ Internet History

Sport
 See: 2000 in sports, :Category:2000 in sports

Athletics
Mark Hutchinson wins his third national title in the men's marathon, clocking 2:24:58 on 29 October in Auckland, while Melissa Moon claims her first in the women's championship (2:45:42).

Basketball
 The NBL was won by the Auckland Stars who beat the Nelson Giants, 95–78 in the final.
 The Women’s NBL was won by the Otago Breakers, who beat Waikato in the final, 75-69
 The Tall Blacks lost all five pool games at the Olympic Men's tournament, then beat Angola in the classification game to finish 11th out of 12 teams.
 The Tall Ferns lost all five pool games at the Olympic Women's tournament, then beat Senegal in the classification game to finish 11th out of 12 teams.

Cricket
New Zealand cricket team
The State Championship was won by the Northern Districts Knights

Golf
 New Zealand Open, :Category:New Zealand golfers in overseas tournaments.

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup: Yulestar
 Auckland Trotting Cup: Flight South

Thoroughbred racing

Netball
Silver Ferns
National Bank Cup

Olympic Games

 New Zealand sends a team of 151 competitors.
 The medal tally is considered very disappointing and sparks a review of high-performance sports training programmes.

Paralympics

 New Zealand sends a team of 43 competitors.

Rugby league

 The inaugural Bartercard Cup was won by the Canterbury Bulls who defeated the Otahuhu Leopards 38–24 in the grand final.
 The Auckland Warriors finished 13th of 14 teams in the NRL. The club was under severe financial pressure until purchased by Eric Watson after the season had ended and rebranded as the New Zealand Warriors.
27 April, New Zealand lost to Australia 0–52.
New Zealand competed in the 2000 Rugby League World Cup, losing to Australia 12–40 in the final.

Rugby union
:Category:Rugby union in New Zealand, Super 12, National Provincial Championship, :Category:All Blacks, Bledisloe Cup, Tri Nations Series, Ranfurly Shield

Shooting
Ballinger Belt – John Whiteman (Upper Hutt)

Soccer
 The New Zealand National Soccer League was relaunched as a winter competition with 10 teams and finals playoffs. The winner was Napier City Rovers.
 New Zealand placed second to Australia at the OFC Nations Cup tournament held in Tahiti
 The Chatham Cup is won by Napier City Rovers who beat Central United 4–1 in the final.

Births

January–June
 4 January – Veronica Wall, rower
 9 January – Olivia McTaggart, pole vaulter
 28 January – Zac Reid, swimmer
 30 January – Benee, singer-songwriter
 1 February – Llew Johnson, cricketer
 7 February – Nadia Olla, association footballer
 16 February – Matthew Palmer, association footballer
 21 March – Max Chu, cricketer
 24 March – Ben Lockrose, cricketer
 1 May – Elijah Just, association footballer
 5 May – Hannah Blake, association footballer
 28 May – Risi Pouri-Lane, rugby sevens player
 29 May – Chloe McMillan, freestyle skier
 8 June – Jarrod McKay, cricketer
 21 June – Dylan Brown, rugby league player
 23 June – Starford To'a, rugby league player

July–December
 10 July – Max Mata, association footballer
 26 July – Thomasin McKenzie, actor
 29 July – Marcus Armstrong, motor racing driver
 2 August – Madeline Stewart, motor racing driver
 27 August – Shylah Waikai, boxer
 8 September – Spencer Leniu, rugby league player
 21 September – Vengeance of Rain. Thoroughbred racehorse
 27 September – Liberato Cacace, association footballer
 5 October – Glamour Puss, Thoroughbred racehorse
 13 October – Amelia Kerr, cricketer
 21 October – Starcraft, Thoroughbred racehorse
 26 October – Cut The Cake, Thoroughbred racehorse
 12 December – Imogen Ayris, pole vaulter
 20 December – Kyle Chen, boxer
 29 December – Bernadette Doyle, water polo player
 30 December – Tayla Alexander, singer

Deaths