[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# StandWithUs

012.

In May 2019, SWU placed a billboard advertisement on a main Israeli highway in opposition to ads put up by Breaking the Silence. The Breaking the Silence ads targeted tourists visiting Israel to attend Eurovision, and juxtaposed an image of an Israeli beach with the West Bank security barrier.

In February 2022, SWU partnered with JewBelong to launch a billboard campaign against antisemitism in Toronto. In November 2022, SWU launched a campaign against the Albanese government's decision to retract recognition of West Jerusalem as the Israeli capital. The group placed an advertisement in The Australian urging readers to email Prime Minister Anthony Albanese and Foreign Affairs Minister Penny Wong to reconsider the decision.

Protests and rallies 
In September 2007, SWU sponsored a protest against Columbia University, which had invited Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to speak as part of its World Leaders Forum. SWU Campus Director Dani Klein said that inviting Ahmadinejad went "above and beyond the issues of free speech" and that giving him a platform was "honoring him". Columbia President Lee Bollinger defended the decision to invite Ahmadinejad as giving the students a chance to hear an adversary's views.

In January 2009, following Israeli air strikes on Gaza, SWU co-organized at least a dozen pro-Israel rallies throughout the United States. In April, the group organized protests against the Durban II conference in Geneva, which it claimed were anti-Israel. A small group rallied in New York and SWU sent 15 delegates to the conference itself. Three French students donned clown costumes and heckled Ahmadinejad during his speech. According to Rothstein, the clown image was supposed to illustrate the absurdity of having countries that violate human rights at the event. 

In November 2016, to protest the resolutions passed by UNESCO which denied Jewish and Christian connections to Jerusalem, SWU erected a massive Pinocchio effigy near the United Nations headquarters in New York City. Rothstein expressed concerns that the resolutions not only disregard the historical Jewish roots in Jerusalem but also deprecate and belittle Judaism itself.

In April 2021, SWU organized a protest outside the French Consulate in Los Angeles demanding justice for Sarah Halimi after the man who killed her was acquitted.

Caterpillar shareholder resolution (2005)

Four Roman Catholic orders of nuns and the pro-Palestinian group Jewish Voice for Peace planned in 2005 to introduce a resolution at a Caterpillar shareholder meeting. The resolution asked for an investigation into whether Israel's use of the company's bulldozer to destroy Palestinian homes conformed with the company's code of business conduct. In response, SWU urged its members to buy Caterpillar stock and to write letters of support to the company. SWU representatives also planned to attend the shareholder meeting and speak out against the resolution. SWU and other Jewish organizations said that Israel was being unfairly singled out.

J Street (2009) 

In October 2009, SWU campaigned against a conference organized by J Street. In emails, phone calls, and faxes to members of Congress, SWU denounced J Street as "Jewish Stalinists", terrorist sympathizers, and "the surrender lobby". The organization distributed literature accusing J Street of endorsing "anti-Israel, anti-Jewish narratives" and of demonizing Jewish settlers in the occupied territories. J Street's president Jeremy Ben-Ami responded that SWU was engaged in "thuggish smear tactics". The campaign was not perceived to be effective in discouraging policymakers from attending, given the conference's greater-than-expected turnout, with the attendees including several members of Congressmen and National Security Advisor General James Jones.

SWU has said that its objection to J Street is based on its support for efforts that demonize Israel, such as the United Nations Goldstone Report, and its advocacy for specific policies that Israeli voters democratically rejected, rather than solely on its criticism of the Israeli government's policies.

Disrupting Jewish Voice for Peace meeting (2010) 

On November 14, Robin Dubner, Michael Harris, and eight other SWU activists disrupted a local Jewish Voice for Peace (JVP) meeting in Berkeley. They heckled the speakers and prevented the meeting from taking place. One activist pepper-sprayed two JVP members but said she was "physically attacked". JVP members said the pepper-spraying was unprovoked. The SWU activists said that the action was in retaliation for heckling of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by JVP members the week before. Harris said they acted as individuals and not as part of an organized SWU action.

SJP amicus brief (2020)