[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Naruto: Ultimate Ninja

e game's Story Mode are now present as well. Additionally, movesets have been updated. Players can also select whether the characters use Japanese or English voices. Jiraiya and Naruto can use Rasengan, Kakashi can use Lightning Blade and Sasuke can use Chidori without the use of a secret technique.

While some characters retain their old techniques, others, such as Neji, have theirs upgraded. The game contains an original storyline involving moving up a haunted castle in the sky to the 100th floor (or 30 subfloors if playing the Hidden Mugenjo Mode.) Each floor has several "blank" rooms where the users place randomly generated scrolls to determine the type of action that will take place in the room. The scrolls include Battle (a player vs. CPU fight) and five mini game scrolls: Tree Climbing (Naruto dashes up a tree and dodges broken branches), Shadow Possession (Simon-style button pressing), Amusement (slot machines), Riddle (answer Naruto trivia) and Clone (the shell game where the player tries to follow the real clone). Non-blank rooms include Treasure Rooms, Healing Rooms and Drama rooms (where the story progresses and cut scenes take place). Other game modes include vs. CPU and ad hoc wireless battle mode where players can fight against a friend using game sharing (only one UMD, but two PSPs).

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Heroes 3, known as  in Japan, is the sixth installment in the Ultimate Ninja series and the third and final installment of both the Heroes series in the west and the Accel series in Japan, announced as an exclusive title for the PlayStation Portable. The game was released in Japan on December 10, 2009 and was released in North America on May 11, 2010. The game features of a roster of more than 50 characters, 48 of which are from the TV series Naruto Shippuden. The game features four-player local multiplayer battles, as well as Sasuke and the members of Team Hebi. It features a story arc designed by CyberConnect2 that is unique to this game, as well as a regular one that follows the Naruto Shippūden storyline and one that follows Sasuke's story. This was the last game released under the Ultimate Ninja Heroes moniker.

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja ImpactNaruto Shippūden: Ultimate Ninja Impact ( in Japan), is the sixth Naruto title for the PlayStation Portable. The game's storyline covers the Kazekage Rescue arc up to the Five Kage Summit Arc. The game features boss battles, an all new rush battle system, 1 vs 100 action, ad hoc multiplayer missions, and also features over 50 characters, 26 of which are playable. As a special gift at New York Comic Con 2011, the first 200 people that went to watch Naruto Shippuden the Movie: Bonds along with Naruto Japanese voice actress, Junko Takeuchi, received a free copy of the game. It is the last game in the series to be featured on the PSP, with no further releases due to the release of the PlayStation Vita, the successor system to the PSP.

Naruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm series

Naruto: Ultimate Ninja StormNaruto: Ultimate Ninja Storm, known in Japan as Naruto: Narutimate Storm ( ナルティメットストーム Naruto: Narutimetto Sutōmu?) is a fighting game developed by CyberConnect2 and published by Namco Bandai Games. The game was initially released as an exclusive for the PlayStation 3 in North America, Europe and Australia in November 2008 and in Japan on January 15, 2009. This is the first Naruto fighting game to feature a 3-dimensional fighting system as well as the first to be playable in high-definition.

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm 2, known in Japan as  was officially announced on December 20, 2009, for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. The game features more characters, stages and story-content than its predecessor, as well as being the first Naruto game to feature online multiplayer. It was released on October 15, 2010, in Europe, October 19, 2010 in North America, and October 21, 2010 in Japan.

Lars Alexandersson from the Tekken series also makes an appearance as a playable character. The design used for the game is the costume designed by Naruto creator Masashi Kishimoto for Tekken 6.

Naruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm GenerationsNaruto Shippuden: Ultimate Ninja Storm Generations, known in Japan as  was officially announced on June 18, 2011, for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. Unlike previous Storm games, the game's story mode features separate campaigns for several different characters, with cutscenes being newly-animated OVA's. It was released on February 23, 2012, in Japan, March 13, 2012 in North America, and March 30, 2012 in Europe. Generations is the only game in the Storm series to have not received a PC release.