[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Seven Second Summits

his blog, considered Mount Logan to be no more difficult technically than Denali, but much more difficult to approach. Denali's base camp, at  elevation, is regularly served by air, while climbers without the means to charter a plane must tow their supplies by sledge for over  to reach Mount Logan.

In South America, Ojos del Salado involves a short scramble while Aconcagua is just a walk. Horrell acknowledged that Ojos del Salado was more technically difficult, but considered Aconcagua a greater challenge because of physical demands. Aconcagua's base camp, at , is accessible by mule, but from that point on, climbers must carry all of their supplies to as many as three higher camps before the final ascent. By contrast, Ojos del Salado is accessible by four-wheel-drive vehicles up to ; from that point on, climbers need only carry supplies to a mountain hut at  before making their final push to the summit.

In Europe, Dykh-Tau is a considerably harder climb than Mount Elbrus. According to Horrell, the main route on Elbrus is "long and physically tiring, but it’s not technically difficult," while Dykh-Tau's "easiest is graded at Russian alpine 4B, which involves steep rock sections and 55 degree snow and ice slopes."

In Australasia, the continent's Second Summit on the Bass list, Mount Townsend, is more challenging than Mount Kosciuszko, but still just a walk-up. The normal route on the highest peak of the Messner list, Puncak Jaya, is technically difficult (UIAA grade V+). Puncak Mandala, however, is extremely challenging with respect to the approach route, which is arguably the more significant problem in climbing the New Guinea peaks. There have been perhaps only two successful approaches (and climbs) reported.

In Antarctica, Mount Vinson presents little difficulty beyond normal challenges of Antarctica (the guiding company Adventure Peaks rates the ascent at PD/AD on the Alpine scale), but Mount Tyree requires technical climbing, and it has been climbed by a total of fifteen people since its discovery.

See also 
 Seven Summits
 Seven Third Summits
 Volcanic Seven Summits
 Three Poles Challenge
 Explorers Grand Slam, also known as The Adventurers Grand Slam
 Eight-thousander

References

External links 
Peak Bagger
Climbing Carstensz Pyramid, Papua Indonesia

 
.02
Peak bagging