[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Asylum (1972 horror film)

Asylum (also known as House of Crazies in subsequent US releases) is a 1972 British anthology horror film made by Amicus Productions. The film was directed by Roy Ward Baker and produced by Milton Subotsky. Robert Bloch wrote the script, adapting four of his own short stories.

Baker had considerable experience as a director of horror films, having made Quatermass and the Pit and Scars of Dracula. Bloch had written the novel Psycho, on which the film directed by Alfred Hitchcock was based.

The film was shot in April 1972; it premièred in the UK on 6 July 1972, and in North America on 17 November 1972.

Plot (including cast list)

Framing story
Dr Martin arrives at a secluded asylum "for the incurably insane". He should begin there a new appointment as doctor, but gets first interviewed by the authoritarian warden Lionel Rutherford. Rutherford is in a wheelchair and blames this on an attack by a patient. He declares a lack of hope for any improvement in any of the patients.

As part of the interview, Rutherford challenges Martin to identify, from among the inmates, "Dr B. Starr", a former head of the asylum, who underwent a complete mental breakdown. Dr Martin is to interview one-by-one the few patients. If his deduction is correct, Rutherford will consider him qualified for the post.

On the upper floor, the attendant Max Reynolds admits Dr Martin through the security door to the inmates' solitary confinement cells, and leads him to every patient, offering for each a few friendly words of background, but no helpful information.

This story is loosely based on Bloch's short story, A Home Away from Home, first published in Alfred Hitchcock's Mystery Magazine and adapted for television on The Alfred Hitchcock Hour.

 Robert Powell – Dr Martin
 Patrick Magee – Lionel Rutherford
 Geoffrey Bayldon – Max Reynolds

"Frozen Fear"
Bonnie recounts the plot to murder Ruth, the wealthy and controlling wife of her lover Walter. Some moments before being killed, Ruth explains her recent infatuation for voodoo and its knowledge of forces "beyond life and death". When her husband hacks her body into pieces and hides the parts in a new freezer in the cellar, the dismembered limbs do not stop moving and begin to attack Walter, until finally killing him.

Bonnie reaches the house and is horrified upon finding her lover in the freezer, rather than the expected cadaver of Ruth. She, too, began to be attacked by the dismembered limbs. 

 Barbara Parkins – Bonnie
 Sylvia Syms – Ruth
 Richard Todd – Walter

"The Weird Tailor"
Bruno is found quietly sitting and sewing with empty hands in his room. He explains he is a tailor by trade, and recounts how poverty and impending eviction forced him to accept the unusual request of a Mr Smith, to produce an elaborate suit of clothing from a mysterious, scintillating fabric that must be sewn only after midnight.

He proceeds as instructed, hoping to settle his rent with the pricey order. When this is completed, he delivers it in person to Mr Smith. The man, however, is penniless, having spent all his fortune on the book with the instructions for the special suit.

In the resulting altercation, Bruno opens another door and discovers the dead body of Mr Smith's deceased son. Mr Smith explains that the magic suit will bring his son back to life, but he is shot by the horrified tailor in an accident. Fearing both the consequences and the appalling story, Bruno stumbles back home after picking up both the book and his unsold suit. He tells his wife to destroy it, but she instead uses it to adorn their store mannequin. The magic powers of the suit animate the mannequin, and it strangles Bruno.

This story had previously been adapted as an episode of the Boris Karloff-hosted television series Thriller ("The Weird Tailor", Season 2, Episode 4).

 Barry Morse – Bruno
 Peter Cushing – Mr Smith
 Ann Firbank – Anna
 John Franklyn-Robbins – Stebbins

"Lucy Comes To Stay"
Doctor Martin is introduced to Barbara, a pretty but distracted-looking girl in her early twenties. She asks if he is a lawyer, since she insists that the crimes that led her to be held in the asylum were not committed by her, but instead Lucy.

In her story, Barbara is being taken care of by Miss Higgins, a home care nurse paid for by her brother, George. When Barbara is left alone in the house, her friend Lucy appears and urges her to escape. Lucy is a bad influence on Barbara, suggesting that George wants to have her committed so that he can gain possession of her house, and later killing both him and Miss Higgins to facilitate Barbara's escape.

Back in the asylum, Barbara once again claims her innocence. However, Lucy is revealed to be made up by Barbara, as she appears over Barbara's image in the mirror, and the segment ends with Barbara laughing maniacally.

 Charlotte Rampling – Barbara
 Britt Ekland – Lucy
 James Villiers – George
 Megs Jenkins – Miss Higgins