[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sustainable Development Strategy in Canada

als such as steel, aluminum, copper, glass and some plastics, can be recovered. Obsolete computer equipment that is properly pre-treated: i.e., toxic components removed, and disassembled can promote the conservation of natural resources and prevent hazardous substances from entering the environment.

Procurement

Greener procurement means choosing products and services that have less impact on the environment than their traditional counterparts. Greener procurement incorporates environmental considerations into decisions in addition to the conventional criteria of price and quality.  In support of Sustainable Development the organization should develop and publish a 'Sustainable Development Procurement Guidelines and Procedures'. When it comes to purchasing products or services, referral to these guidelines would help make the organization become a leader in environmentally responsible purchasing.

Considerations for Sustainable Development purchasing are policies and procedures that incorporate the 3Rs when determining purchases.
Reduce: Do I really need it? Can I reduce the quantity required?
Reuse: Can I find a surplus item? Can I upgrade an existing item?
Recycle: Can the products be recycled? Does it contain recycled material?

Bear in mind that while recycling is good, a reduction is best. The ultimate green procurement is the avoidance of the purchase altogether.  However, we recommend: Buy efficient products; Reduce packaging waste; Consolidate service contracts; and Overcome cost barriers.

Identifying environmentally preferable products and services
Life Cycle Management (LCM): LCM is a process for evaluating the effects that a product has on the environment over its entire life span.
Environmental Choice Program: An Environment Canada program designed to help consumers choose greener products and services. If the product/service meets the established criteria, in addition to meeting or exceeding any applicable safety and performance standards, the company may then use the EcoLogoTM in their marketing and promotional campaigns.
EnerGuide: This is the official Government of Canada mark associated with the labeling and rating of the energy consumption or energy efficiency of specific products. EnerGuideTM labeling exists for appliances, heating and cooling equipment, houses and vehicles.
Energy Star: Energy Star is an international symbol that identifies products that are the most energy-efficient on the market. In Canada, Energy Star includes several product categories: office equipment; appliances; heating, ventilating and cooling equipment; consumer electronics; lighting; signage and commercial and industrial equipment.

Traveling
The organization should encourage all business travelers to choose accommodations that are environmentally preferable.  The PWGSC Accommodation and Car Rental Directory, includes two distinct environmental certification ratings to help make informed choices based not only on price and location but also on environmental ratings. The Directory displays the Green Leaf and Green Key ratings, which are attributed to establishments by Terra Choice Environmental Services Inc. or the Hotel Association Canada respectively.

Rechargeable batteries

Ongoing technological advances in rechargeable batteries and battery chargers, means most single-use alkaline batteries can largely be replaced with higher capacity, environmentally preferable, rechargeable Nickel-Metal Hydride (NiMH) batteries.  Rechargeable batteries will outperform the best alkaline single-use batteries in high-drain appliances such as digital cameras.  Rechargeable batteries may not last as long as alkaline batteries on a single charge in low drain (e.g. radio), medium drain (e.g. MD player), and pulse drain devices (e.g. photoflash); but NiMH batteries can be reused over several hundred times while alkaline batteries can be used only once. NiMH rechargeable batteries do not have what is commonly referred to as 'memory effect' so they can be recharged at any time. The main environmental concerns of batteries are the harmful materials they contain, such as Mercury (Hg), Cadmium (Cd) and Lead (Pb).  Batteries containing these materials need to be carefully disposed of to avoid the harmful effects on human health and the environment. Canadians buy over 150 million batteries per year. It takes less energy to recharge a battery than to produce a new one. Using metal recovered from batteries consumes 75 percent less energy and 46 percent less energy than extracting it from primary sources.

Fleet management

The subject of sustainable transportation has several areas to review.

Fuels