[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Khomeinism

December 22, 1907 to attack merchants and loot stores.

He was called the "Islamic movement's first martyr in contemporary Iran", and honored to have an expressway named after him and postage stamps issued for him (the only figure of the Constitutional Revolution to be so honored).

Fada'ian-e Islam

Fada'iyan-e Islam (1946-1955) was a Shia fundamentalist terrorist group that killed a number of important people, and at least one source (Sohrab Behdad) credits the group and Navvab Safavi with influence on the Islamic Revolution.
According to Encyclopaedia Iranica,
"there are important similarities between much of the Fedāʾīān's basic views and certain principles and actions of the Islamic Republic of Iran: the Fedāʾīān and Ayatollah Khomeini were in accord on issues such as the role of clerics", (who should be judges, educators and moral guides to the people); of "morality and ethics", (where sharia law should be fully applied, prohibiting all forms of immoral behavior, and all non-Islamic laws abolished); the place of the poor (to be raised up), "the rights of women and religious minorities", (to be kept down), and "attitudes toward foreign powers" (dangerous conspirators to be kept out).

Sayyid Qutb

In his 1964 manifesto (Milestones) Egyptian Islamist and jihadist ideologue Sayyid Qutb expressed some of the same  ideas as Khomeini  in his 1969 work Islamic Government, namely an extremely high regard for the powers of Sharia law, and a belief that a unprovoked aggressive hatred of Islam and Muslims by Non-Muslims has led to suffering and destruction,  (sometimes called the "War on Islam").

Qutb preached  that the West has a centuries-long "enmity toward Islam" and a "well-thought-out scheme ... to demolish the structure of Muslim society", but at the same time knows its "civilization is unable to present any healthy values for the guidance of mankind"; Khomeini preached that  Western unbelievers want "to keep us backward, to keep us in our present miserable state so they can exploit our riches ..."

Qutb considered Sharia a branch of "that universal law which governs the entire universe ... as accurate and true as any of the laws known as the `laws of nature`", physics, biology, etc. Better than that, applying sharia law would bring "harmony between human life and the universe", results otherwise "postponed for the next life", i.e. heaven. (Although the results of sharia would not reach the perfection found "in the Hereafter.") Khomeini doesn't compare Sharia to heaven but does say  
The explanation for why these laws are not in effect is that "in order to make the Muslims, especially the intellectuals and the younger generation, deviate from the path of Islam, foreign agents have constantly insinuated that Islam has nothing to offer, that Islam consists of a few ordinances concerning menstruation and parturition ..."

Qutb's works enjoyed remarkable popularity in Iran both before and after the revolution as they were translated by Iranian Islamists into Persian. Prominent figures such as current Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and his brother Muhammad Ali Khamenei, Aḥmad Aram, Hadi Khosroshahi, etc. translated Qutb's works.  In 1984, the Islamic Republic of Iran under Khomeini honoured Qutb's "martyrdom" by issuing an iconic postage stamp showing him behind bars.

Gharbzadegi

In 1962, Jalal Al-e-Ahmad clandestinely published a book or pamphlet called  Occidentosis (Gharbzadegi): A Plague from the West. It "spearheaded" the search by Western educated/secular Iranians (a group typically immune from calls by the Islamic clergy for repentance) for "Islamic roots", combining a call for a return to Islam, with a "strong Marxist flavor" and an analysis of society "through a class perspective."

At least one historian (Ervand Abrahamian) speculates Al-e-Ahmad may have been an influence on Khomeini's turning away from traditional Shi'i thought towards populism, class struggle and revolution.
Fighting Gharbzadegi became part of the ideology of the 1979 Iranian Revolution—the emphasis on nationalization of industry, "self-sufficiency" in economics, independence in all areas of life from both the  Western (and Soviet) world. He was also one of the main influences of the later Islamic Republic president Ahmadinejad. The Islamic Republic issued a postage stamp honoring Al-e-Ahmad in 1981.

Al-e-Ahmad, who was from a deeply religious family but had had a Western education and been a member of the Tudeh (Communist) party, argued that Iran was intoxicated or infatuated (zadegi) with  Western (gharb) technology, culture, products, and so had become a victim of the West's "toxins" or disease. The adoption and imitation of Western models and Western criteria in education, the arts, and culture led to the loss of Iranian cultural identity, and a transformation of Iran into a passive market for Western goods and a pawn in Western geopolitics.