[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Channel 1 (Israel)

Channel 1 (, HaArutz HaRishon, lit. The First Channel, sometimes called 1 ערוץ, Arutz Ahat) was one of the oldest television channels in Israel (with only the Israeli Educational Television being older) and one of five terrestrial channels in the country (along with Channel 2, Channel 10, Channel 33 and the Knesset Channel).

Run by the Israel Broadcasting Authority, it started broadcasting on 2 May 1968, and was largely funded through a television licence, though there were some adverts. With the abolition of Israel Broadcasting Authority and the establishment of the Israeli Public Broadcasting Corporation, Channel 1 closed down on 14 May 2017 and was replaced a few days later with Kan 11.

History

The law creating the Israel Broadcasting Authority was passed by the Knesset on 6 June 1965. From 1966, detailed planning to build the channel started with assistance from CBS vice-president Joe Stern started, with the television channel starting broadcasts on 2 May 1968.

The establishment of television, originally planned for the 1970s, was felt following the Six-Day War, and it was explained that through television broadcasts it was possible to improve Israeli information to the Arab countries and the residents of the territories.

The station's first broadcast was a live broadcast of the IDF parade on Independence Day, which was held in May 1968, in Jerusalem. The broadcast frequency assigned to the station was the same frequency as Israel Educational Television, therefore the two stations have since shared the broadcast hours on the channel.

After several one-off broadcasts, in August 1968 regular test broadcasts began, initially three evenings a week, which were later expanded to four. During this period, one hour in Arabic and two hours in Hebrew were broadcast every day. The station broadcast in black and white, despite the fact that during this period there were already stations in a few parts of the world that already broadcast in color.

On 1 August of the same year, the first edition of Mabat laHadashot (A Glance at the News) was broadcast, this program was broadcast on Channel 1 until 9 May 2017, and for many years was presented by the host Haim Yavin, nicknamed "Mr. TV". In the same year, on 13 August 1968, the channel also broadcast for the first time the news bulletin in Arabic, presented by Gloria Stewart.

In the first year of broadcasting, Israeli television operated as an independent unit within the framework of an "establishment team" headed by Prof. Eliyahu Katz from the Department of Communication at the Hebrew University, and several art and media people participated in it, including the artist Ada Hamayrit (Schwartz). The first broadcasts of Israeli television were defined as trial broadcasts. Katz was actually the first director of Israeli television. After that, Israeli television merged with the state radio station, Kol Yisrael, which was already operating within the framework of the Broadcasting Authority (which was founded about three years before).

In 1969, there was a public uproar surrounding television broadcasts on Shabbat, when the Broadcasting Authority's plenum decided to expand the daily broadcast hours and switch from broadcasting four days a week to the entire week, including Fridays and Saturdays, beginning in November of that year. As part of the negotiations for the formation of the government after the elections to the Seventh Knesset held in October of that year, the representatives of the religious parties demanded that the broadcasts planned for Saturday night should be frozen. In the first week of November, when the daily broadcasts began, a commotion broke out over the issue. In the end, Prime Minister Golda Meir decided to temporarily respond to the demand of the religious, and freeze the opening of the broadcasts on Shabbat night. On Friday of that week, in the afternoon, two lawyers, Yehuda Ressler and Adi Kaplan, addressed the High Court of Justice. The judge on duty Zvi Berenzon issued a conditional order and the broadcasts started already that evening.

Since Channel 1 was broadcast on the same frequency as Educational Television, its broadcast times were limited. The channel began its broadcasts at 17:30. When the first hour was dedicated to children's programs, between 18:30 and 20:00 in the evening for broadcasts in Arabic (some claim that their purpose was propaganda), followed by four hours of television broadcasts for adults between 20:00 and midnight.