[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of Public and International Affairs

o students at GSPIA.
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Master of Public Health (MPH)
MPIA or MID & Master of Business Administration (MBA)
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Master of Science in Information Science (MSIS)
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Juris Doctor (JD)
MPA, MPIA, or MID & Master of Social Work (MSW)

Certificate programs

Certificates from the University Center for International Studies (UCIS) can usually be obtained without requiring additional credit hours, and demonstrate a focus in a particular field of study. The University Center for International Studies at the University of Pittsburgh is home to four internationally recognized area studies centers. Each one has been designated a National Resource Center by the United States Department of Education, certifying their status as leading centers of their kind in the United States. The University Center for International Studies offers Area Studies certificates in the following areas:
African Studies
Asian Studies
European Union Studies
Latin American Studies
West European Studies
East European Studies
Russian Studies

In a joint partnership between GSPIA and UCIS, students can also obtain a certificate in Global Studies. A certificate in Global Studies provides students with 'global competence.'  Global Studies certificate students choose one of the following six global issues concentrations and unite it with the study of a particular region and language:
Changing Identities in a Global World
Communication, Technology, and Society
Conflict and Conflict Resolution
Global Health
Global Economy and Global Governance
Sustainable Development

Rankings

 #2 in the number of NASPAA dissertation awards won by its doctoral students
 #4 top school for faculty scholarly productivity in the field of International Affairs and Development, (The Chronicle of Higher Education, 2007)
 #6 most innovative public service schools, (Best Value Schools, 2015)
 #19 worldwide for International Relations programs; #16 among US programs and #3 among public US universities (Foreign Policy, 2015)
 #38 nationally for Public Policy (U.S. News & World Report, 2020)
 #7 nationally for International Global Policy and Administration  (U.S. News & World Report, 2020)
 #18 nationally for Urban Policy (U.S. News & World Report, 2020)

GSPIA is one of only two schools to have two National Academy of Public Administration fellows elected in one year (William Dunn and Dean John Keeler). It is also one of nine schools to have produced at least two Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration presidents.

Research centers & institutes

The Graduate School of Public & International Affairs is home to several research institutes and centers.

The Ford Institute for Human Security  was established at the University of Pittsburgh as a result of an  endowment gift from  Ford Motor Company.  The mission of the Institute is to conduct research that focuses on transnational threats to the human rights of civilian populations, The Institute's function is to generate independent research, disseminate policy papers, and advocate nonpartisan policy proposals to domestic and international policymakers.
The Matthew B. Ridgway Center for International Security Studies is dedicated to educating the next generation of security analysts and to producing scholarship and impartial analysis that informs the options available to policymakers dealing with international and human security on a global scale.  The Ridgway research program  analyzes the security dynamics of the 21st century global environment, concentrating on rapidly evolving and emerging threats.
The Center for Metropolitan Studies connects the academic programs at GSPIA with state and local governments, federal agencies, regional governance institutions, and nonprofit organizations in the United States to address real time problems they are confronting. The Center for Metropolitan Studies houses CONNECT, an organization that promotes cooperation and collaboration between the City of Pittsburgh and the municipalities that comprise Pittsburgh's urban core.
The Johnson Institute for Responsible Leadership provides students, faculty and the community at large with opportunities to engage in disciplined reflections and rigorous inquiry on issues of ethics and accountability that are of particular interest to the public and nonprofit sectors.
Center for Disaster Management provides a school-wide locus to support research, education, and training projects that focus on extreme events. Its goal  is to develop a coherent approach for research and analysis on policy issues related to disaster risk reduction and management that cross interorganizational, interdisciplinary, and interjurisdictional boundaries.

Special programs