[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Noh-Varr

would otherwise be crushing forces. Noh-Varr can also scale even the smoothest surfaces, including vertical walls, glass windows, and ceilings. Noh is also capable of escape velocity aerial travel unaided by boost propulsion under his own power, he can also emit energy blasts from his hands at will.

When needed, he can digest any organic substance without adverse effects. As a result, he can eat rotting or poisonous food as well as non-food stuffs (e.g., cardboard, paper, etc.). He uses this ability to recover from wounds or extreme stress.

Noh-Varr's saliva contains nano-active properties that infects the bodies & minds of those it touches. This causes hallucinations and allows Noh-Varr a degree of psyche-control. His fingernails can grow into a deadly crystalline spike. Noh-Varr can insert this nail into an opponent and leave it to explode, killing the target as well as causing extensive damage to the surrounding area or break off & fling them at an adversary as a ranged attack. They also have toxic effects depending upon Noh-Varr's inclination. Marvel Boy also seems capable of flight under his own power, as well as possessing self-sustenance. being able to survive in space without need of physical nourishment or comforts.

Marvel Boy later showcased hand emitted concussion blasts of an unknown energy type while battling Vox Supremes' gene patterned drones.

In Dark Avengers Annual #1, Noh-Varr makes contact with his people and is given a pair of Nega-Bands of his own along with a new costume and entirely new abilities. Such as technopathy, apparatus conjuration, teleportation, computerized holographic interact and the like. Plus a number of in-universe Band functions pertaining to flight, physical enhancement and energy manipulation. They are later taken away after his last mission with the New Avengers for betraying the prime universes Supreme Intelligence by Ronan the Accuser.

Noh-Varr also has access to a wide variety of advanced Kree technology, including high-tech weaponry such as self-replicating grenades, plasma guns, shapeshifting armbands called Nega-Gauntlets which turn into razor blades, hand cannons channelling varied energy types and can initiate trans-matter displacement with other gauntlet wearers. Along with imagination powered space ships and a "pocket battlefield" that can simulate unique combat environments for the user by adjusting local physics.

Noh-Varr is adept at the sciences of interdimensional & extra-dimensional travel. He can construct and operate devices to view and traverse the timestream and alternate dimensions.

Reception