[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Todd Grantham

times, in 2010 the Bulldogs ranked 23rd nationally in total defense and 36th in scoring defense (22.1 points allowed per game). His defense also forced 26 takeaways, over twice as many as Georgia had in 2009 (12), and helped them move from 118th nationally in 2009 to 19th in 2010 in turnover margin.

Georgia's defense under Grantham finished the 2011 season ranked 5th nationally in total defense, 10th in pass defense and 11th in rush defense. They also finished 2nd in the SEC in sacks (34), tackles for loss (94) and turnovers forced (29). In 2012, despite falling to 32nd nationally in total defense, the unit was revered as one of the top in the country as the team finished the season 12–2, winning the Eastern Division of the SEC. Grantham's defense had some  of the top talent in the country with playmakers at every position including linebackers Jarvis Jones and Alec Ogletree, defensive linemen John Jenkins and Kwame Geathers, cornerback Sanders Commings, and All-American free safety Bacarri Rambo. Jones was Grantham's star player and was once again a consensus All-American in 2012, finishing the regular season leading the nation in tackles for loss, and 3rd in sacks.

Grantham is perhaps most famous for giving University of Florida kicker, Chas Henry, the "choke" sign as Henry lined up for the winning kick in the 2010 Florida-Georgia game.   Grantham also was shown on TV in a confrontation with Vanderbilt coach James Franklin after the 2011 Vandy game. He later acknowledged that his actions embarrassed the university and were "unfortunate". Neither coach apologized to the other.

Under him Georgia defense finished No. 45 in the nation in the 2013–2014 season. It was the lowest the Bulldogs finished during Grantham's four-year tenure.

Louisville Cardinals
In 2014 Grantham was hired by Bobby Petrino to be his defensive coordinator at the University of Louisville. He was given a five-year guaranteed contract worth $1 million per year.

Mississippi State Bulldogs 
In 2017 Grantham was hired by Dan Mullen to be the defensive coordinator at Mississippi State University. He was given a multi year deal, with financial details not disclosed.  Ironically, Grantham's predecessor at Mississippi State, Peter Sirmon, was hired to be defensive coordinator at the University of Louisville.

Florida Gators 
On November 30, 2017, Mullen officially hired Grantham to be his defensive coordinator at Florida. Grantham had previously served as Mullen's defensive coordinator at Mississippi State during the 2017 season. In his first year at Florida, the Gators finished 28th in total defense nationally and 5th in the SEC. In February 2019, the Cincinnati Bengals zeroed in on Grantham to be their next defensive coordinator. Grantham ultimately rejected the Bengals' offer and decided to stay at Florida. Following his decision, Grantham received a contract extension and pay raise which made him one of the highest paid assistant coaches in college football. On November 7, 2021, Todd Grantham was let go by head coach Dan Mullen.

Alabama 
In February 2022, Grantham agreed to joined Nick Saban's staff at Alabama as a defensive analyst.

References

External links

 Florida profile
 Louisville profile

1966 births
Living people
Cleveland Browns coaches
Dallas Cowboys coaches
Florida Gators football coaches
Georgia Bulldogs football coaches
Houston Texans coaches
Indianapolis Colts coaches
Louisville Cardinals football coaches
Michigan State Spartans football coaches
Mississippi State Bulldogs football coaches
National Football League defensive coordinators
Virginia Tech Hokies football coaches
People from Pulaski, Virginia