[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Whiteshell Provincial Park

with Rennie. Provincial Road 309 connects Provincial Road 307 at White Lake with Lone Island Lake and Big Whiteshell Lake. 

Park vehicle permits are typically required year-round in Manitoba Provincial Parks. Permits are available at all campgrounds and district offices, or can be purchased online.

The population in the park increases significantly in the summer. Many of these seasonal residents own cottages or cabins built on land leased from the Crown. The word 'cottaging' is used to describe staying at these seasonal residences. Visitors to the park who are not interested in camping can choose to rent a cottage or cabin or stay in a lodge or resort.

The Province operates ten serviced campgrounds in the park May through October. Reservations for these sites must be made through the Manitoba Parks Reservation Service. Fees vary depending on facilities and services provided.

Summer

 Boating – Boat launches are accessible at a variety of lakes and many resorts offer boat rentals. 
 Canoeing and kayaking – Up to 325 km of canoe routes are located within the park. Paddlers on the Caddy Lake Canoe Route pass through tunnels in a wall of rock that were created when the railways came through this area more than a century ago. 
 Sailing and boardsailing – Falcon Lake and West Hawk Lake maintain sailing clubs.
 Fishing – There are a dozen species of fish that will provide fishing enjoyment. 
 Swimming – Numerous public beaches permit swimming and many lakeside cottages allow swimming at the shoreline area.
 Hiking – Trails range from short 1.5 km routes to the more challenging 60 km Mantario Trail, connecting Caddy Lake with Block 2 of Big Whiteshell Lake. Part of the Trans-Canada Trail is contained in the park, although construction is incomplete. 
 Cycling – A 4.2 km loop is available at Betula Lake on Provincial Road 307 and a 9 km trail at Big Whiteshell Lake on Provincial Road 309. The South Whiteshell Trail is a multi-use trail system that accommodates cyclists. The trail connects Falcon Lake to Caddy Lake and will be approximately 29 kilometres in length.

Winter
 Icefishing 
 Snowmobiling – Over 200 km of marked and groomed snowmobiling trails offer winter recreation.
 Snowshoeing – In winter, this snow allows for snowshoeing on the trail systems and on the frozen lakes.

North Whiteshell

The northern portion of the park may be accessed by road from the west via PR 307 at Seven Sisters Falls or Highway 44 at Rennie. Pointe du Bois can be reached by road via PR 313.

Provincial campgrounds located in the North Whiteshell are Otter Falls, Nutimik Lake, Betula Lake, White Lake, Big Whiteshell Lake and Brereton Lake.

Whiteshell Natural History Museum 

The Whiteshell Natural History Museum, opened in 1960 and located in a log building, features mounted wildlife displays of local animals. Other displays include the boreal forest, Canadian Indigenous peoples, petroforms, sturgeon and the Winnipeg River. The museum is located on PR 307 at Nutimik Lake. It has been closed since 2018.

Alfred Hole Goose Sanctuary
The Alfred Hole Goose Sanctuary and Interpretive Centre is located at PTH 44, slightly east of Rennie. The sanctuary protects nesting Canada geese each spring. The interpretive centre provides information about the biology of the geese and the history of the sanctuary, as well as an observation gallery for the lake and interpretive programs.

Whiteshell Trappers Museum
The Whiteshell Trappers Museum is located on the grounds of the Alfred Hole Goose Sanctuary.  Built in 1997, the museum resembles a fur trapper's cabin.  Interpreters discuss the history of fur trapping, trapping techniques, and local wildlife.

South Whiteshell

The park may be accessed from the south side via exits on the Trans-Canada Highway (Hwy 1), where visitors may enter near Falcon Lake on the western side or West Hawk Lake on the east. The main park entrance is located at Falcon Lake, immediately south of the Trans-Canada Highway. Falcon Lake has two provincially operated campgrounds, a beach, golf course, ski resort, riding stables and many other tourist services. It is the west end of Manitoba Provincial Road 301 which runs east through Faloma, Toniata, and Star Lake to the community of West Hawk Lake.

Provincial campgrounds in the southern portion of the park are Caddy Lake, Falcon Beach, Falcon Lakeshore and West Hawk Lake.

West Hawk Lake, the deepest lake in the province, was formed by a meteorite, and is a popular spot for scuba diving and ice diving.

West Hawk Museum
Located at West Hawk Lake, the West Hawk Museum features exhibits about the area's geology, area gold mining, and the formation of the lake from the impact of meteorite that formed the West Hawk crater.