[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Peter Ordeshook

Peter Carl Ordeshook (born May 21, 1942) is an American political scientist. He is the Mary Stillman Harkness Professor of Political Science at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, California.

He held faculty positions at Carnegie Mellon University (1968–1982) and the University of Texas at Austin (1982–1987), where he served as the Frank C. Erwin Jr. Centennial Chair in Government. He was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University from 1975 to 1976, and he was the president of the Public Choice Society from 1986 to 1988. He has been a professor at Caltech since 1987. He has authored influential papers and books, such as "A Theory of the Calculus of Voting" (with William H. Riker) and "Game Theory and Political Theory".  He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

Early life and education 
Peter Ordeshook was born in Chelsea, Massachusetts, May 21, 1942, the son of Mary Romanowicz and Peter Ordeshook whose parents had emigrated from Poland and Ukraine respectively in 1907. His Ukrainian side of the family came from Kamin-Kashyrskyi of Volyn area in Ukraine. He attended Chelsea High School.

Odershook graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1964 with a Bachelor of Science degree in economics, politics, and engineering. He enrolled for graduate studies at the University of Rochester and received his Ph.D. in Political Science in 1969.

Academic career

Research 
Ordeshook's research spans a broad spectrum in political science, covering areas as diverse as positive political theory/applications of game theory to politics, political economy, political behavior (in particular voting behavior), political institutions and political engineering, American politics, international relations, and comparative politics, employing mathematical modeling, experimental design, and empirical research methods.

Formal Theory in Political Science 
Ordeshook was one of the pioneers who introduced formal mathematical models into political science, and has been highly influential in the field.

Experimental and Empirical Research 
Experimental political science employs controlled experiments to study political phenomena, test hypotheses, and understand causal relationships. Ordeshook’s contribution to experimental research is exemplified by his collaborative work with Richard McKelvey. McKelvey and Ordeshook were early developers of laboratory experiments that showed, among other findings, how people can use relatively simple pieces of information to make complex political decisions. Specifically, they examined when uninformed voters can use cues from polls and endorsements to cast the same votes they would have cast if they were more informed. One experiment focused on whether these cues could lead otherwise uninformed voters to have a thought like “if that many voters are voting for the [rightist candidate], he can’t be too liberal” and use that fact to figure out how they would vote if they knew more about the issues (McKelvey and Ordeshook 1985). Political economist Thomas Palfrey describes their main finding as follows:

“Perhaps the most striking experiment… only a few of the voters in the experiments knew where the candidates located... they proved that this information alone is sufficient to reveal enough to voters that even uninformed voters behave optimally – i.e., as if they were fully informed.”

McKelvey and Ordeshook’s experiments showed an unexpected range of conditions under which (a) uninformed voters vote competently and (b) election outcomes are identical to what they would have been if all voters were sufficiently informed. These findings prompted a reconsideration of how voters use information to make decisions.

Ordeshook's contributions extend beyond his influential theoretical and experimental work. He has also emphasized the importance of empirical testing and validation of formal theories through rigorous analysis of real world data and has made significant contributions to empirical research. For example, Ordeshook and Zeng (1997) tested hypotheses generated from rational voter models, in particular the expected utility models of voting (Downs 1957, Riker and Ordeshook 1968), in the context of three-candidate presidential elections. These models posit that turnout and candidate choice decisions are influenced by, among other factors, the voter's consideration of the potential benefit of the decision weighted by the probability that the benefit would be realized. Ordeshook and Zeng found empirical evidence that expected utility calculations add little to our understanding of the decision to vote, but such strategic considerations significantly influence candidate choice decisions, especially among voters who favor a minor party candidate.

Constitutional Design and Comparative Politics