[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Brazilian Marine Corps

The Brazilian Marine Corps (CFN; ), is the land combat branch of the Brazilian Navy.
The Corps is specialised in amphibious warfare.

Mission 
Deployed nationwide, along the coast, in the riverine regions of Amazon and in the Pantanal, in peacetime it provides for the security of Naval installations and aids isolated populations through civic action programs in the Naval Districts. Abroad, it provides security for the Embassies of Brazil in Algeria, in Paraguay, in Haiti and in Bolivia. It has participated in all of the armed conflicts in the Military history of Brazil, foreign and domestic.

The badge consists of a fouled anchor superimposed over a pair of crossed rifles. It is worn on the collar points of the dress and service uniforms and on the corps Garrison Cap (Gorro de Fita).

History

The Royal Brigade of the Navy 
The Brazilian Marines trace their origin to 1808 when the troops of the Royal Brigade of the Navy (the Portuguese Marine Corps) arrived in Brazil (then a Portuguese colony) when Mary I of Portugal and her son Prince Regent John (later King John VI of Portugal) relocated themselves to the Portuguese South American territory during the Napoleonic Wars in Europe.

The baptism of fire: the conquest of Cayenne 
In retaliation for the invasion of Portugal, prince regent, Dom João ordered the invasion of French Guiana, whose capital, Cayenne, was captured on January 14, 1809.

Historical campaigns 

After Brazilian independence the force received many names and underwent various reorganisations. It was involved in several wars and campaigns: the War of the Independence of Brazil,  conflicts in the River Plate basin, and the Paraguayan War.  During the latter the Corps won distinction in both the Battle of Riachuelo and in the taking of Humaitá.

United Nations service 
The CFN if has participated in the humanitarian actions promoted by UN in such diverse theatres of operation as Bosnia, Honduras, Mozambique, Rwanda, Angola, East Timor and currently in Haiti (MINUSTAH).

The Corps today

Staff and mission 
With about 15,000 men, all volunteers, professionals in combat on land, air and sea, its mission is to guarantee the projection of the naval power on land, by means of landings from Navy ships and helicopters. The Corps is an integral part of the Navy, encompassing about one third of its manpower. Ranks are naval instead of Army, with the exception of Privates, who are called Soldados (Soldiers).

In the case of Brazil this is a complex mission, since the country has a territory of about 8,5 million km² (3.28 million sq. miles), a coast of more than  with many oceanic islands, and a navigable waterways network of approximately .  This last one includes the Brazilian Amazon.  To cover climates and natural landscapes so diversified as Pampas of Rio Grande do Sul, pantanal of Mato Grosso do Sul, deserts of the Northeast region and  Amazon rainforest, demands a training of the highest standards, agility and versatility.  Therefore, there are units trained in demolition techniques, special operations, combat in forests, mountain and ice, and helicopter-transported operations.

Trained as a Fast Deployment Unit, recently, with the sending of Brazilian military observers, also integrating the Peacekeeping Forces of the United Nations, the Marines have made their presence in distinctive areas of conflict as El Salvador, Bosnia, Angola, Moçambique, Ruanda, Peru, Ecuador, East Timor and currently Haiti.

On March 30, 2014 security forces in Rio de Janeiro occupied since the dawn of that day, the set of Shantytown Tide in the North Zone of Rio. Region is being prepared to receive the Pacifying Police Unit (UPP), Brazilian Marine Corps will provide support with 21 armored vehicles and 500 men.

Organization
The Corps headquarters is located in Fortaleza de São José, Ilha das Cobras, Rio de Janeiro.