[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Taiwan Province, People's Republic of China

The borders between Kinmen and Matsu and rest of Fujian Province are never denoted as provincial borders let alone international.

The official databases of PRC do not show any internal divisions of Taiwan, all of them showing "data not yet available" (this no longer applies to Hong Kong and Macau).

As of 2018, PRC official map service Tianditu treats all six special municipalities as prefecture-level cities, all three provincial cities as county-level cities directly administered by the province, and all fourteen county-administered cities as subdistricts under each individual county's jurisdiction.

Politics

Legislative representation
Although Taiwan Province is not under PRC control, thirteen delegates are elected to represent Taiwan Province to the National People's Congress.

The election of these delegates for Taiwan Province is done in accordance with the Decision (from time to time made) of the relevant Session of relevant National People's Congress of the PRC on the number of deputies to the National People's Congress and the election of the deputies. For example, in 2002 that Decision was as follows:

Having regard to the relevant Decision, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress adopts a "Plan for the Consultative Election of Deputies of Taiwan Province to the National People's Congress". The Plan typically provides that "the deputies will be elected in Beijing through consultation from among representatives sent by Taiwan compatriots in these provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government and in the Chinese People's Liberation Army."

In the case of the 2002 election, the Standing Committee noted that there were more than 36,000 "Taiwan compatriots" in the 31 provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government and the central Party, government and army institutions. It was decided that 122 representatives would participate in the conference for election through consultation. The number of representatives was allocated on the basis of the geographic distribution of Taiwan compatriots on the mainland and the standing committees of the people's congresses of the provinces, autonomous regions, and municipalities directly under the Central Government were responsible for making arrangements for the election of the representatives through consultation. The Standing Committee's Plan also provided that the election should be "conducted in a democratic manner".

After the latest election at the 13th National People's Congress, 13 of the Taiwan representatives for the National People's Congress are:
 Cai Peihui ()
 Ceng Liqun ()
 Chen Jun (), Amis
 Chen Yunying (), born in Taipei
 Fu Zhiguan ()
 Huang Zhixian (), born in Mainland China to a mother from Tainan
 Liang Zhiqiang (), born in Mainland China to parents from Miaoli County
 Liao Haiying ()
 Lin Qing (), born in Taipei
 Xu Pei ()
 Zhang Xiaodong ()
 Zhang Xiong ()
 Zou Zhenqiu ()

Nomenclatures for the ROC government used by PRC

Since the PRC does not recognise the ROC as legitimate, PRC government and media refers to some ROC government offices and institutions using generic description which does not imply endorsement of the ROC's claim to be a legitimate government of either Taiwan or China. The precise replacements used are not officially designated, so the politically designated names for Taiwan have small variations across different source from within the PRC.

Since 21 July 2021, RTHK in Hong Kong has also imposed the same restrictions on its staff to prevent them from implying Taiwan as an independent state. 

For some cases, where the name does not significantly imply sovereignty, the name remains the same, such as for the Mainland Affairs Council, county and mayor.

Government bodies 
 Government as the Taiwan authorities
 Presidential Office Building as the Taiwan leader's office building
 Executive Yuan as the executive body
 Legislative Yuan as the legislative body
 Ministry of Economic Affairs as the economic affairs authority
 Ministry of Health and Welfare as the health and welfare authority
 Ministry of the Interior as the interior authority
 Ministry of Justice as the justice authority
 Ministry of Transportation and Communications as the transportation and communications authority
 Central Election Commission as the election commission
 Central Weather Bureau as the weather and earthquake monitoring agency