[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Timeline of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict in 2006

trip, deploying a large number of tanks, APCs and troops in order to rescue the soldier captured in the attack three days before that.
June 29: Israeli troops detain one third of the Palestinian government and altogether 64 members of the Palestinian Legislative Council, who are Hamas members.

July

July summary: 177 Palestinians killed by Israel security forces (1–15 July: 97 in the Palestinian Authority territories);
12 July: An Israeli air strike destroys the Palestinian Foreign Ministry Building in Gaza City. An Israeli brigade enters the central Gaza Strip via Kissufim crossing, aiming at temporarily bisecting it. Simultaneously, the Israel Air Force targets a meeting of Hamas operational wing commanders in an apartment building in Gaza City. One Hamas leader, seven members of his family and one neighbour are killed. Top Hamas leaders Mohammed Deif and Abu Anas al-Ghandour, who Israeli officials claim were heavily involved in the kidnapping of Cpl. Gilad Shalit, are moderately wounded. Fourteen additional Palestinian militants are killed in other incidents in the Gaza Strip.
14 July: Hamas militants launch 5 qassam rockets at the Israeli town of Sderot, causing local electrical malfunctions. Israeli ground forces pull out of the central Gaza Strip, after several days of fighting in which about 30 Hamas militants were killed. Israeli forces remain in Gaza airport near Rafah, to thwart the delivery of kidnapped soldier Gilad Shalit into Egypt. About 1,500 Palestinians cross the Gaza-Egypt border after Palestinian militants attack Egyptian policemen stationed at Rafah border terminal, blowing a hole in the wall near it.
15 July: Two Hamas militants killed in two Israeli air strikes in the Gaza Strip, one of them on a house in Gaza City.
16 July: Three Palestinian militants are killed in an Israeli airstrike, soon after Israeli forces re-entered the Gaza Strip.
17 July: Hamas militants launch ten Qassam rockets against Sderot and Ashkelon, causing damage in residential areas but no casualties. Israel Air Force strikes kill five militants and one civilian in the Gaza Strip. Israel Air Force strikes the Palestinian Foreign Ministry for a second time in a week, wounding 5 people.
19 July: At least nine Palestinians have been killed in fresh Israeli operations in Gaza and the West Bank.
28 July: The mutilated body of Dr. Danny Yaakovi, an Israeli physician, is found in the West Bank.
30 July: The United Nations compound in Gaza City is stormed and ransacked by Palestinians protesting the 2006 Israel-Lebanon crisis. Members of the Islamic Jihad militant group threw stones and fired assault rifles. Eight vehicles were damaged and five people were wounded.

August
 10 August: An Italian tourist is stabbed to death by a Palestinian affiliated with Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the Old City of Jerusalem.
 August 19: An Israeli citizen is shot and killed by a Palestinian in Bkaot in the Bikaa region in Israel.

November
  23 November: Fatma Omar An-Najar detonated explosives she was wearing on a belt and injured several Israeli soldiers near Beit Lahia and the Jabalia Camp

See also
2006 Franco–Italian–Spanish Middle East Peace Plan

Notes

External links
 Casualties of War
Palestinian terrorism since September 2000 (from Israel's Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
List of victims (from Israel's Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
Fatalities From B'Tselem

2006 in Israel
2006 in the Palestinian territories
Israeli-Palestinian conflict
2006
2006
2006
Terrorist incidents in Israel in 2006
2006