[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Madinat al-Hareer

e free trade zone. A causeway linking northern Kuwait to Kuwait City is named Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah Causeway . By using the causeway, driving time from Kuwait City to northern Kuwait is cut to only 15 minutes, instead of at least one-and-a-half hours normally taking to go around Kuwait Bay.

Kuwaiti Government approved a decree in June 2014 establishing an entity that is responsible for developing Silk City and Boubyan Island. Also, Kuwait and China signed a collaboration agreement for developing Silk City and its economic belt. In the final masterplan of Silk City, approved on June 3, 2014, previous proposals were discarded and newer designs were created. As one of the city's economic languages, Chinese will be included alongside Arabic and English.

Four sections are tentatively set to be included in the city.

Proposed skyscraper

One of the project's main proposed attractions is the Burj Mubarak Al Kabir which would stand at  tall in order to reflect the Arabian folk tale collection One Thousand and One Arabian Nights. Skyscrapers do not normally exceed 80 floors. Although the Mubarak al-Kabir Tower would have a greater number of floors, the elevators would have to be double-deckers due to the amount of space taken up by elevators. Due to its immense height, the building is vulnerable to high winds. To maintain stability in the face of these winds, the proposed design includes three interlocking towers, each twisted 45 degrees to support the structure. Moreover, there would be vertical ailerons running the entire length of the building on each edge. As these ailerons were positioned, the winds would be redirected so as to minimize structural noise. Linking the neighborhoods will be several four-story town squares.

See also
 Al Mutlaa City
 Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah Causeway
 Mubarak Al Kabeer Port
 Kuwait National Cultural District
 Sabah Al Ahmad Sea City

References

External links
 New Kuwait

Belt and Road Initiative
Areas of Kuwait
Geography of Kuwait
Foreign relations of Kuwait
Foreign relations of China
Chinese investment abroad
Iraq–Kuwait relations