[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Joseph R. Knowland

Joseph Russell Knowland (August 5, 1873 –  February 1, 1966) was an American politician and newspaper publisher. He served as a member of the United States House of Representatives from California and was owner, editor and publisher of the Oakland Tribune. He was the father of United States Senator William F. Knowland.

Early life
Knowland was born in Alameda, California on August 5, 1873, the son of Joseph Knowland (1833–1912) and Hannah Bailey Russell (1832–1921). His siblings included two sisters, Sadie (1864–1905) and Lucille (1870–1926), and a brother, Hollis, who died in infancy. Knowland attended Alameda Park Street Primary School and Hopkins Academy, and graduated from the University of the Pacific in 1895.

Start of career
After college, Knowland joined his father's wholesale lumber and shipping business. His business career proved successful, and ventures in which Knowland participated included: Gardiner Mill Company (president); Kennedy Mine & Milling Company (director); Alameda National Bank (director); and Union Savings Bank of Oakland (director).

He was also active in several fraternal and civic organizations, to include the Freemasons, Shriners, Elks, Modern Woodmen of America, Native Sons of the Golden West, and California Landmarks League. Knowland's memberships also included the California Centennials Council, California Historical Society, California Chamber of Commerce, California State Automobile Association, Oakland Chamber of Commerce, Oakland Community Chest, Mills College Board of Trustees, Oakland National Horse Show, and Athens Athletic Club.

Political career

California Assembly
Knowland joined the Alameda Good Government Club in early 1895. In 1896, he was appointed to the Alameda Library Board of Trustees. In 1898, he was a successful Republican candidate  for the California State Assembly. He was reelected in 1900, and served from 1899 to 1903. During his Assembly career, Knowland chaired the Assembly committee that investigated the corruption in the San Francisco police. His efforts resulted in passage of a law prohibiting the human trafficking of Chinese women.

California Senate
In 1902, Knowland was elected to the California State Senate. He served until resigning in order to take the seat in the United States House of Representatives to which he had been elected in 1904. During Knowland's Senate term, he was chairman of the body's committee on banking.

Member of Congress
In 1904, Knowland was elected to Congress in a special election, filling the vacancy caused by the resignation of Victor H. Metcalf. He was reelected to five full terms and served from September 24, 1904, to March 3, 1915. His district included the U.S. Army's Benicia Arsenal and the U.S. Naval Shipyard at Mare Island, so Knowland had a keen interest in the military. As a congressman, he worked to obtain approval for construction of Navy capital ships in California and for a two-ocean fleet. In addition, Knowland advocated for American ships to use the Panama Canal toll free.

Knowland sought to succeed George C. Perkins in the U.S. Senate. In 1914, he won the Republican primary over Samuel M. Shortridge. However, he was unsuccessful in the general election, a three-way race with Francis J. Heney of the Progressive Party and the winner, James D. Phelan, Democrat.

The Oakland Tribune
Knowland became owner, editor, president and publisher of The Oakland Tribune on 3 November 1915. He wrote, "It is perfectly understood that what it [the Tribune] does, rather than what it promises, will determine the true measure of its worth; and with this understanding, the Tribune, under its new control, girds to its work." Many years and court battles with Hermina Peralta Dargie (widow of owner William E. Dargie) passed before Knowland had full control of the Tribune. Knowland built the Tribune Tower, a city landmark at 13th and Franklin Streets. He had a great interest in restoring the California Missions. This had begun in 1903, with Mission San Antonio De Padua. He was a historical advisor during the 1927 California State Park Survey.

In 1932, Knowland went to Washington and persuaded President Herbert Hoover and the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to advance $62 million for the completion of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge. He created, with Bruno Albert Forsterer and Joseph Blum, the Franklin Investment Company in 1936 (later the Franklin Credit Union). In 1937, he attained the status of 33rd Degree Mason, Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite. Knowland was a member of the Finance Committee of the Golden Gate International Exposition of 1939–1940. In 1941, he authored California: A Landmark History. He was the political mentor of Earl Warren; from assistant Oakland City Attorney to Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court.