[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Asian Americans

panese and African American descent
Peter Som, fashion designer
Anna Sui, fashion designer
Vivienne Tam, fashion designer
Chrissy Teigen, model, TV host
Alexander Wang, fashion designer
Vera Wang, fashion designer
Jason Wu, fashion designer
Luly Yang, fashion designer
Prabal Gurung, fashion designer

Culinary
 David Chang, founder of the Momofuku restaurant group and in multiple television shows 
 Joyce Chen, popularized northern-style Chinese cuisine in the United States
 Cecilia Chiang (江孫芸), founder of the Mandarin Restaurant. Chiang's son, Philip Chiang, is the co-founder of restaurant chain P. F. Chang's China Bistro
 Roy Choi, creator of the gourmet Korean taco truck, Kogi
Cristeta Comerford, White House Executive Chef, won with Bobby Flay in an Iron Chef America challenge
 Soleil Ho, chef, food writer, host of podcast "The Racist Sandwich", and restaurant critic
 Eddie Huang, chef and author of Fresh Off the Boat
 Madhur Jaffrey, James Beard award-winning food and travel writer, and television personality
 Padma Lakshmi, cookbook author and host of Top Chef and Host of "Taste the Nation with Padma Lakshmi"
 Francis Lam, host of The Splendid Table and food journalist
 Emily Kim, creator and host of popular YouTube channel Maangchi, teaching Korean cooking
 Melissa Miranda, James Beard Award semifinalist chef of Filipino restaurant Musang in Seattle
 Niki Nakayama, chef and owner of Michelin-starred n/naka restaurant
 Mutsuko Soma, James Beard Award semifinalist chef specializing in handmade soba, owner of Kamonegi in Seattle
 Jet Tila, celebrity chef and restaurateur and guest on “Cutthroat Kitchen”
 Roy Yamaguchi, owner of Roy's Restaurants
 Martin Yan, chef and food writer, hosted his award-winning PBS-TV cooking show Yan Can Cook since 1982
 Jennifer Yee, award-winning, James Beard, nominated pastry chef
 Molly Yeh, cookbook author and blogger

Law

Preeta D. Bansal, Solicitor General for the State of New York (1999–2002).
Norman Bay, U.S. Attorney for the District of New Mexico (2000–2002), and the first Chinese-American to hold such a U.S. Attorney position.
Morgan Chu, prominent litigator and former Managing Partner of Irell & Manella.
Viet D. Dinh, United States Assistant Attorney General and a key drafter of what became the USA PATRIOT Act.
Heather Fong, chief of police of San Francisco Police Department, and the first Asian American woman to head a major metropolitan police department.
Noel Francisco, 47th Solicitor General of the United States
Judge.James C. Ho, lawyer, Juris Doctor of Texas general judge on Texas appeal & for Texas judge weddings permition
Robert K. Hur, current U.S. Attorney for the District of Maryland.
Todd Kim, first Solicitor General for the District of Columbia.
Harold Hongju Koh, dean of Yale Law School (July 1, 2004 – March 23, 2009).
Arsalan Iftikhar, international human rights lawyer, founder of TheMuslimGuy
Lance Ito, judge in the OJ Simpson trial.
Yuri Kochiyama, civil rights activist.
Fred Korematsu, prominent resister of Japanese American internment.
Carol Lam, U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California (2002–2007)
David Lat, attorney and blogger for the sites "Underneath Their Robes" and "Above the Law."
William F. Lee, co-managing partner of the international law firm of WilmerHale.
Jessie K. Liu, current U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia
Dale Minami, attorney who helped reverse Fred Korematsu's criminal conviction.
Paul Tanaka, former mayor of Gardena, California and undersheriff of the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.
Rachel Paulose, U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota. She is the first Indian American woman, the youngest attorney, and the first woman in Minnesota to hold this post.
Simon Tam, author, activist, and founder of The Slants; litigant in Matal v. Tam.
Mary Tape, desegregation activist who fought for Chinese-Americans' access to education, notably in the case Tape v. Hurley in 1885.
Frank H. Wu, distinguished professor and chancellor & dean of UC Hastings; dean of Wayne State University Law School.
Bruce Yamashita, attorney and U.S. Marine Corps officer who worked to expose racial discrimination within the Corps.
Debra Wong Yang, U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California, and the first Asian American female to serve as a U.S. Attorney.
Minoru Yasui, World War II-era lawyer who fought the legality of the incarceration of Japanese Americans during the war. Posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2015.

Literature