[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Islamic University of Gaza

The Islamic University of Gaza (), also known as IUG and IU Gaza, is an independent Palestinian university established in 1978 in Gaza City. It was the first higher education institution to be established in Gaza Strip. The university has eleven faculties capable of awarding BA, BSc, MA, MSc, MD, PhD, diplomas and higher diplomas, in addition to twenty research centers and institutes and the affiliated Turkish-Palestinian Friendship Hospital.

The Islamic University of Gaza is a member of twelve regional and international associations and networks of higher education, including the International Association of Universities (IAU), Mediterranean Universities Union (UNIMED), Association of Arab Universities (AAU), Federation of the Universities of the Islamic World (FUIW), Black Sea and Eastern Mediterranean Academic Network (BSEMAN), and the Global University Network for Innovation-GUNi.

Large parts of the Islamic University of Gaza were damaged by air strikes during the 2008–2009 Gaza war, the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, and the 2023 Israel–Hamas war.

History 

No universities or higher education institutions existed in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip until 1972. Before then, Palestinian high school graduates sought higher education abroad, mostly in Egyptian and Jordanian universities. However, the restrictions on student movements after the Israeli occupation of West Bank and Gaza Strip in 1967, the declining economic conditions, and the increasing limitations on the admission of Palestinian students to Arab universities changed this situation. As such, local initiatives led by local elders and social and nationalist leaders sought to establish national higher education institutions in the occupied territories, often building on already existing schools and colleges.

Sheikh Mohammad Awwad, then head of the Gaza Chapter of the Azhari Institute, led the Islamic University's founding committee. On 12 April 1978, the committee issued a decree to establish the university, which was composed of three faculties: Sharia, Usool-Deen, and Arabic Language (which later evolved into the Faculty of Arts). The university was later inaugurated in November 1978 as an independent, nonprofit, gender-segregated university, which was also the first higher education institution in the Gaza Strip. The Faculty of Education was founded in 1980, while the Faculties of Commerce and Arts were founded the following year. The Faculties of Nursing and Engineering were founded in 1993. In 2005, the Faculty of Information Technology was founded, followed by the Faculty of Medicine in 2006. 

The Islamic University was subjected to the different Israeli restrictions against Palestinian universities, which the Palestinians perceived as centres of political struggle and nation-building. The establishment of the Faculty of Nursing, intended in 1986, was denied by Israeli authorities until 1993. Building permits were stalled and limited. Also, similar to other universities, the Islamic University was subjected to severe restrictions on academic freedom such as limitations of staff movement and Military Order 854. It was also issued with a temporary license that required annual renewal, and denied tax exemptions.

Campus 
{
  "type": "FeatureCollection",
  "features": [
    {
      "type": "Feature",
      "properties": {},
      "geometry": {
        "type": "Point",
        "coordinates": [
          34.439735,
          31.513428
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}

The Islamic University of Gaza is considered a large university (uniRank enrollment range: 15,000-19,999 students). The main campus is located in Gaza City, with branch campuses in Khan Yunis in the southern Gaza Strip and Al Zahra in the middle of Gaza Strip. The total area of the three campuses is 325817 square meters. The Al Zahra campus is home to the Faculty of Medicine and the Turkish-Palestinian Friendship Hospital.

Academics
The Islamic University of Gaza is home to eleven faculties:

Faculty of Arts  
The faculty was established in 1978 as the Arabic Language Department, which later expanded into the Faculty of Arts. It comprises over 40 academics and professors in six departments: Arabic Language, English language, Geography, Journalism and Media, Social Services, and History & Archaeology. Through these departments, the faculty awards Bachelor degrees in 13 different majors including Arabic language and literature, English language/literature, English/translation, History & Archaeology, Journalism, Public relations, and social services. It awards a Master of Arts degrees in six majors, including Arabic language, English language/linguistics and translation, Journalism, History, Geography, and Social Services. The faculty also awards PhD degree in Arabic Language.