[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Economic history of China (1949–present)

cross-regional transportation to improve accessibility to, and develop of, China's interior regions. In March 2004, Premier Wen Jiabao announced The Rise of the Central Regions during his delivery of the Annual Report of the State Council. This initiative was added to the Politburo's agenda in 2006.

On January 14, 2009, as confirmed by the World Bank the NBS published the revised figures for 2007 financial year in which growth happened at 13 percent instead of 11.9 percent (provisional figures). China's gross domestic product stood at US$3.4 trillion while Germany's GDP was US$3.3 trillion for 2007. This made China the world's third largest economy by gross domestic product. Based on these figures, in 2007 China recorded its fastest growth since 1994 when the GDP grew by 13.1 percent.

In response to the Global financial crisis of 2008–2009, China launched its Economic Stimulus Plan. China's response both helped stabilize the global economy and also provided an opportunity for China to retool its own infrastructure. Although China was significantly affected by the  crisis due to the export oriented nature of the economy which depends heavily upon international trade, by nearly all accounts its stimulus was hugely successful. Continued economic growth during the crisis increased China's confidence in its model of development and convinced elites that the global balance of power was shifting and China increased its standing as a responsible global actor during the crisis.

In 2013, China became a middle-income country.

State ownership of the economy, which had been increasing since Hu Jintao's administration began in 2003, increased further after the global financial crisis. During the Xi Jinping era, the Chinese government continues to use SOEs to serve non-market objectives and CCP control of SOEs has increased while taking some limited steps towards market liberalization, such as increasing mixed ownership of SOEs. Although China has promoted its national champion companies since the Jiang Zemin administration, it has done so particularly strongly since 2017, especially in the technology sector.

Since 2015, the CCP has issued several industrial plans designed to emphasize high-tech innovation and digital development. These industrial plans include Made in China 2025, the "Action Outline for Promoting the Development of Big Data", and the "Three-Year Action Plan to Promote the Development of a New Generation of Artificial Intelligence Industry". China's Thirteenth and Fourteenth Five-Year Plans have also emphasized high-tech and innovative development.

By 2020, China became the largest trading partner of more than 120 countries. At the end of that year, China signed major free trade agreements with the European Union as well as fifteen different Asia-Pacific countries.

China's was the only major world economy to experience GDP growth in 2020, when its GDP increased by 2.3%. In 2021, China's GDP growth reached 8.1% (its highest in a decade) and its trade surplus reached an all-time high $687.5 billion.

The China–United States trade war begun under US president Donald Trump resulted in increased economic ties between China and the European Union, largely resulting from resulting shifts in commodity flows.

See also

 Chinese economic reform
 Economy of China
 Globalization in China
 Historical GDP of China
 History of banking in China
 History of agriculture in China
 Regional Policy in China
 Grasping the large, letting go of the small

References

 
Contemporary history by country