[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Hunter Strother

rded his amusing letters home to the Martinsburg Gazette, where they acquired a devoted following. Strother returned to the United States in the spring of 1843, unable to continue to Greece and Turkey because of his father's financial reverses and the lack of work for expatriate Americans in Europe.

His father rebuilt the family's hotel in 1844–46, so it could serve 300–400 guests, including artists as well as politicians and society people, who could travel to Berkeley Springs on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (which reached Cumberland, Maryland, in 1844). David Strother owned a cottage at Berkeley Springs and assisted at the fashionable hotel during the summer season, but traveled in the off-season. At first, he went to Baltimore, where he was able to sell some paintings with the help of his cousin John Pendleton Kennedy. Strother continued to draw and paint portraits, and in the spring of 1845 went to New York, where he learned woodcut illustration under the direction of John G. Chapman, and the publishing business first at the S.G. Goodrich publishing factory, and later by illustrating a life of Gen. Winfield Scott and a reissue of one of Kennedy's books (Swallow Barn). With Gouverneur Kemble, he helped organize the Century Club for sketch artists.

By 1848, Strother was publishing landscapes and other scenes of his native state, then of other areas of America. He visited the historic sites of southeastern Virginia, including Williamsburg, Jamestown, and Yorktown, and saw the area as decayed, unlike the commercially expanding area in which he had been raised. In 1851 Strother bought a home, Norborne Hall, for his young family in Martinsburg, which became his winter home until the Civil War. Strother published in a variety of places before winning fame as both author and illustrator of a series of humorous travelogues which appeared in Harper's Monthly magazine. Commencing in 1853 and using the Pen name "Porte Crayon," these articles included The Virginia Canaan (1853), Virginia Illustrated (1854–1855), North Carolina Illustrated (1857), A Winter in the South (1857–1858) and A Summer in New England (1860–1861).

After John Brown's Raid, Harper's Monthly commissioned the 43-year-old Strother to write and illustrate an article or series. Harper's Ferry was near his home, and he soon published an article about the flaming destruction of the armory and successful capture of the raiders by Virginia forces led by Lt. J. E. B. Stuart. Strother later published articles about the trial (during which his uncle served as prosecutor and at which a friend presided) and even sketched a death image of John Brown. Unlike more partisan writers, but like many future West Virginians, Strother abhorred the fanaticism of both the abolitionists and the Virginia militia.

American Civil War
Having been raised in Martinsburg and with a sister married to the chief civil engineer of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (of crucial strategic importance to the Union and often a target of Confederate raiders), Strother supported the Union, as did his father and his mentor Gouveneur Kemble, although all five of his aunts' husbands supported the Confederacy. Though he hoped to remain neutral as a war correspondent and his native Berkeley County leaned toward the Confederacy (sending no delegates to the Wheeling Convention and raising 5 companies of Confederate volunteers, against two raised by Unionists), in June 1861 Strother volunteered as a topographer due to his detailed knowledge of the Shenandoah Valley.

By March 1862 as West Virginia continued its drive toward statehood, Strother received a commission as captain in the Union Army and was assigned to assist General Nathaniel Banks in the Valley Campaign. In June 1862, he accepted a commission as Lt. Col. of the 3rd West Virginia Cavalry, and was the topographer on General Pope's staff during the Battle of Cedar Mountain and the Second Battle of Manassas. During the Antietam Campaign, Strother served on General McClellan's staff until that officer was relieved in November 1862. Strother then returned to the staff of General Banks, again seeing action at the Battle of Port Richie in Louisiana. During the Gettysburg Campaign, he was back to Washington, unassigned, but promoted to Colonel of his regiment (which he never commanded in the field).

Strother continued to document his wartime experiences in a detailed journal, some of which Harper's Monthly published after the war as "Personal Recollections of the War." His articles won praise for their objective viewpoint and humor.