[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bernie Farber

trated by, and become largely directed by, Grant Bristow, an undercover agent of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS).  In August 1994, a report by the Toronto Sun exposed CSIS domestic spying including Bristow's undercover role in Heritage Front, effectively putting an end to any plot.

Pride controversy
Farber, who is not gay, was mocked by columnist Antonia Zerbisias in 2009 for wearing a "Nobody knows I'm gay" T-shirt (sold as a fundraiser by a Jewish LGBTQ group) while marching in Toronto's Pride parade as a protest against the inclusion of Queers Against Israeli Apartheid in the march. The Canadian Jewish Congress filed a complaint with the Toronto Star against Zerbisias "outing" Farber. The newspaper's public editor ruled that Zerbisias' comments "fell short of the Star's standards of fairness, accuracy and civility," but subsequently modified her assessment and criticized Farber and the CJC since, in their complaint, they did not "think to tell me that [Farber], along with dozens of others who marched with the Kulanu group, had worn a T-shirt that made its own ironic quip. That's context I sure wish I had known" and conceded that Zerbisias' comment "was intended as sarcastic irony, stock in trade for this columnist and blogger."

Electoral record
Farber was on leave from the CJC's successor, the Canadian Council for Israel and Jewish Advocacy during his candidacy as the Ontario Liberal Party's nominee in the 2011 Ontario election in the riding of Thornhill. Farber received 40% support but lost to Progressive Conservative Peter Shurman by 2,500 votes.

Gemini Power Corporation
From 2012 to 2015, Farber was the Senior Vice President for Gemini Power Corporation, working in partnership with First Nations to help develop sustainable business economies.

Awards
In 1992, Farber was awarded the 125th Anniversary of the Confederation of Canada Medal. The commemorative medal was awarded to 40,000 Canadians for their contributions to community and country., 
Mr Farber has also received the Special Commendation Award from the Venerable Order of St. Johns and is a recipient of Canada's Sovereign Medal https://podcastaddict.com/episode/73407213
Farber also received the Charles "Chuck" Zaionz Award for Jewish Communal Service in December 2012 as well as the Queens Diamond Jubilee Medal.

References

1951 births
Living people
Carleton University alumni
Jewish Canadian activists
Writers from Ottawa
Canadian Zionists
Ontario Liberal Party candidates in Ontario provincial elections
Canadian people of Polish-Jewish descent
Canadian Jewish Congress
Canadian columnists
Jewish Canadian journalists