[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of Jeeves characters

daughter, Florence Craye, and a son, Edwin Craye. Lord Worplesdon is also the guardian of Zenobia "Nobby" Hopwood. He is a former employer of Jeeves, and later returns to Jeeves for advice. When stirred by a strong emotion, Worplesdon has a tendency to start shouting "What? What? What?" repeatedly.

He was nearly Agatha Gregson's first husband, though Agatha broke the engagement after he was thrown out of a Covent Garden ball and taken to Vine Street Police Station. After gaining the title Lord Worplesdon, he becomes her second husband and Bertie's Uncle Percy. He once chased the fifteen-year-old Bertie "for five miles across difficult terrain" with a hunting crop, after finding him smoking one of his special cigars. Worplesdon is later amused by the memory and gives one of his cigars to Bertie.

Lord Worplesdon was mentioned in the short story "Jeeves Takes Charge", in which it is stated that he was once thrown out of a music hall with Bertie Wooster's Uncle Willoughby. It is also said in this story that he sat down to breakfast one morning, cried "Eggs! Eggs! Damn all eggs!", and ran out of his house, "never again to return to the bosom of his family" – this incident is never referenced again, however. He later appears in Joy in the Morning, in which he wants to have a clandestine meeting with an American businessman, Chichester Clam. In the same novel, Nobby Hopwood obtains her guardian's permission to marry Boko Fittleworth.

An early version of the character appeared in the Reggie Pepper story, "Disentangling Old Percy". In this story, his first name is not given, though the younger of his two sons is named Percy (in the British edition of the story).

See also

 List of P. G. Wodehouse characters in the Jeeves stories, a categorized outline of characters
 List of P. G. Wodehouse locations, a list of locations including those in the Jeeves stories
 List of Jeeves and Wooster characters, a list of characters in the television series

References
Notes

Sources
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Lists of literary characters
Lists of minor fictional characters
Jeeves