[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe

Nicholas Purcell, 13th Baron of Loughmoe (1651 – 4 March 1722) was the son of James Purcell of Loughmoe and the maternal nephew of James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormonde.

A member of the King's Privy Council, Purcell was the right-hand man to Patrick Sarsfield, Earl of Lucan. In 1687 Nicholas Purcell raised a troop of horse to support King James II — they were called the "Yellow Horse," probably from the colour of the Regiment's cornets, as was customary for the period. Nicholas fought at the Battle of the Boyne and at the Battle of Aughrim, and was a signatory to the Treaty of Limerick. He did not flee to Europe after Limerick but remained in Ireland to fight for the rights of Roman Catholics.

The Marquis de Ruvigny notes that Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe was made Baron Loughmore by King James II in 1690. While there is little other evidence to confirm the creation of this peerage, it would enter the ranks of those titles created by the King while in exile.

Early years
Born sometime in 1651, Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe Castle was the first son of Colonel James Purcell (1609–1652), 12th Baron of Loughmoe Castle, and Elizabeth Butler, daughter of Thomas Butler, Viscount Thurles, and Elizabeth, Lady Thurles and sister of James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormonde. The May 1652 Act of Settlement saw Nicholas' father, Colonel James Purcell, a Roman Catholic, lose the Tipperary lands the family had held since 1198. The Colonel was set not to be compensated with land in Connaught, however, as his fortunate marriage to the sister of the Duke of Ormonde enabled a powerful contact who ensured the allocation of some property. The allocation of land did not occur without difficulty however. On 13 September 1652, Colonel James Purcell, Baron of Loughmoe died and was buried in the Holy Cross Abbey. Between 1652 and 1656, his widow lost and regained her lands in Galway no fewer than four times .

With the Restoration of King Charles II in 1660, the family's fortunes improved. Elizabeth Purcell returned to Loughmoe and again enjoyed the jointure of £300 a year she had received before her removal. The young Baron Nicholas would have been eight or nine at this time and it was probably the first time he had seen his ancestral home. About this time, Elizabeth Purcell married Colonel John Fitzpatrick at Loughmoe; her children were present at the wedding .

By King's Order in a letter dated circa 31 October 1661 the Duke of Ormonde, Baron Nicholas' maternal uncle, was appointed guardian of the young Baron. It would appear that the majority of work in respect to the recovery and management of the Baron's estate fell to Colonel Fitzpatrick who discharged his duty with scrupulous fidelity. Under the Down Survey of 1663 all of the historically Purcell lands, a total of  were granted to Baron Nicholas. These lands ran from Holy Cross to Templemore, and included the castles of Loughmoe, Rathelty, Dovea, Ballinahow, Lisheentagirt, Beakstown, Brownestown and Rorodstown. The total value of the property in 1640 was £4,340.

Again, between 1666 and 1686 little is known of the life of Baron Nicholas. This is a significant period of his life, from age 15 to 35. It is known that Baron Nicholas was tutored privately at Loughmoe and spent a considerable part of their day horse riding. Sometime in this period Baron Nicholas married the Honourable Rose Trevor, daughter of Viscount Dungannon .

Military beginnings 
With a strong history of loyalty to the Catholic cause, Nicholas Purcell was commissioned Captain on 12 February 1686 in the army enrolled by Lord Tyrconnell to uphold the cause of King James II. In May 1686 he was admitted as a member to the King's Privy Council of Ireland, he was 35. It was at this time in 1686 that King James II confirmed the title of Baron of Loughmoe to Colonel Nicholas.

Nicholas Purcell married Ellis Browne sometime around 1688; she was 20 years his junior. Ellis Browne was the daughter of Sir Valentine Browne who had a high command in the army of King James II and was created Baron Castlerosse and Viscount Kenmare by the King. In 1689 Col. Nicholas Purcell represented the County of Tipperary in the Parliament in Dublin.

Why he was there we are not certain but on 1 May 1689, accompanying His Majesty King James II from Brest, Col. Nicholas Purcell arrived home to Ireland. At this time Col. Purcell participated in the siege of Derry and an incident there provides an insight into the horsemanship and great courage of Col. Nicholas Purcell. A garrison of William's troops lay entrenched by or near a strand. The garrison fired at the horses of the oncoming Jacobite soldiers and were successful in downing many. Those who did succeed in reaching the defences found themselves confronted by "a dry bank of seven-foot high at the waterside", which most of them quickly decided was impracticable for cavalry.