[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nicolas Schöffer

Nicolas Schöffer (; 6 September 1912 — 8 January 1992) was a Hungarian-born French cybernetic artist. Schöffer was born in Kalocsa, Hungary and resided in Paris from 1936 until his death in Montmartre in 1992.

He built his artworks on cybernetic theories of control and feedback primarily based on the ideas of Norbert Wiener. Wiener's work suggested to Schöffer an artistic process in terms of the circular causality of feedback loops that he used on a wide range of art genres. His career spans painting, sculpture, architecture, urbanism, film, theatre, television and music. The quest for dematerialisation of the artwork and the pursuit of movement and dynamics became the central themes of his work. He worked with the immaterial media space, time, light, sound and climate that he called the five topologies.

He liberated art genres from their spatial and temporal constraints by creating never-ending sound structures that can be heard all over the cybernetic city of the future and by designing SCAM1, an automobile sculpture.

Schöffer declared the socialization of art as an important goal. According to his ideas, art as a cultural asset should be available equally to everyone without any limitation. The playful and spectacular aspects of his works served the goal of gaining the attention of the audience and involving the viewer through participation in the creative processes. In order to make art universally available, he explored the possibilities of serial production.

Life and career 

Schöffer was born in Kalocsa in the south of Hungary. The archdiocese of the town looks back on a thousand-year-old Catholic tradition.

The parents had a great influence on his development. The mother was a violinist and took care of the musical education of the child. He received piano lessons from the age of seven and his mother also encouraged him to draw. The father was a lawyer.

After completing elementary school, Schöffer continued to study with the Jesuits, despite his Jewish descent. This duality of religious education led to an openness towards other religious attitudes that is expressed by his idea of a universal religion in the cybernetic city of the future.

It is thanks to the influence of his father, who doubted that one can make a living as an artist, that Schöffer left his hometown to study law at the Faculty of Law of the Royal Hungarian Pázmány Péter University in Budapest. After receiving his doctor title in law, he studied at the Academy of Fine Arts without completing this study in Hungary. In 1932 he took part in the Winter Exhibition of the National Salon in Budapest. It was his only public appearance before the war in Hungary.

In 1936 he left Hungary and settled in Paris. After arriving in Paris, Schöffer continued his studies in the atelier Fernand Sabatté at the École Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts. In 1937 he participated in the Salon d'Automne and in 1938 in the Salon des Indépendants.

The Exposition Internationale des Arts et Techniques dans la Vie Moderne (International Exposition of Art and Technology in Modern Life) in 1937 had a decisive influence on Schöffer's career. The main attraction of the international exhibition, the Palace of Discoveries in the west wing of the Grand Palais aroused Schöffer's interest in scientific research and technical innovations. He began to gather information and read about current scientific and technical developments. It was thanks to this interest that, just over a decade later, he came across Norbert Wiener's book about cybernetic principles that would radically change his views on art and induce an abrupt change in his artistic practice.

On 14 June 1940, Wehrmacht units marched into the seemingly deserted Paris without a fight. Schöffer fled to southern France and spent the time in the Aveyron area until his return after the liberation of Paris. During this period he met his first wife, Marie Rose Marguerite Orlhac. He married her on February 22, 1945 in Capdenac.

After the war Schöffer returned to Paris. He lived with his first wife at 12 rue de Paris in Clichy. The wife's antique shop provided a livelihood. Between 1945 and 1949 Schöffer experimented with painting and graphics until he came across Norbert Wiener's book.

Schöffer lived in the Villa des Arts from 1954, first on the fourth floor and later on the ground floor.
La Villa des Arts was built on a site separated from the Montmartre Cemetery. In 1890, King Louis XV had a series of 67 studios built here for artists using the metal materials dismantled from the Universal Exhibition. The stairs of the old Gare Saint Lazare have been reused here.