[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Burmese invasions of Assam

ter of Bagakonwar Tipam Raja and sister of Swargadeo Jogeshwar Singha) was sent to the king of Burma with 50 elephants and dowry.  The Burmese army left Assam in April 1817. Soon after, Badan Chandra was assassinated.  Ruchinath marched against Chandrakanta Singha and made Purandhar Singha the king.

Second Burmese invasion
Bodawpaya, on hearing this news, sent an army of 30,000 under the command of Kiamingi (Ala Mingi Borgohain) and guided by Patalang Senapati (Momai Barua).   This army was met by an army led by Jaganath Dhekial Phukan on February 15, 1819, at Phulpanisiga, near Janji.  The Burmese army was defeated with a loss of about 300 soldiers and retreated a short distance.  The Assam army, instead of pursuing the defeated Burmese, returned to the Ahom capital Jorhat leading to much confusion and panic.  Failing to instill confidence, Ruchinath Burhagohain and Purandar Singha sailed down to Guwahati, and the Burmese army was able to occupy the capital two days later.

Chandrakanta was reinstated as the king on March 9, 1819, followed by execution of the Ahom officials who had supported Ruchinath Burhagohain; and in the middle of April 1819 Kiamingi left for Burma leaving Mingimaha Tilwa in charge.  Under Tilwa's orders, Patalang pursued Ruchinath, engaged his forces in Nagaon and finally pushed him beyond Assam chokey.  Patalang was made the Borbarua and the Burmese contingent returned to Burma on January 27, 1820.  To express his gratitude to Bodawpaya, Chandrakanta Singha sent a princess, Upama Aideo, along with officials and attendants.

Nevertheless, Chandrakanta's attitude toward the Burmese changed soon after.  Patalang, who was originally a Kachari, persuaded the king to shake off Burmese allegiance and had a fort constructed at Jaypur (Dighalighat).

Third Burmese invasion
In 1819, Bagyidaw became the king of Burma and decided to annex Assam. He sent Mingimaha Tilwa to Assam in  February 1821.  Patalang Borbarua was killed and Chandrakanta Singha fled to Guwahati.  Mingimaha killed a number of Ahom officials and installed Punyadhar (Jogeshwar Singha), a brother of Hemo Aideo, as the king.

Chandrakanta Singha's response
Chandrakanta Singha made his camp at Guwahati and lead his campaign against the Burmese with Maharaja Ranjit Singh's help. Maharaja of Punjab sent a force of more than 10,000 ferocious Sikh soldiers in support of Ahom King against Burma.
Purandar, who was unable to raise an army in the British territory, raised one in Bhutan under Robert Bruce, but this force was dispersed by Chandrakanta's Sikh forces in May 1821.  A large force, deputed by Tilwa, advanced against Chandrakanta (September 1821), who retreated to Assam Chokey and then to the British territories.  Unlike Purandar, Chandrakanta was able to raise a force mainly of Sikhs soldiers, and he retook Assam Chokey (October 1821) and Guwahati (December 1821) and pitched his camp at Mahgarh, near Jorhat, on March 15, 1822. The commander of the Sikh soldiers, Chataniya Singh of Lahore was killed although the Sikhs routed the Burmese hordes.

Bagyidaw, on hearing of the Assam situation, sent in a 20,000 strong contingent under Mingi Maha Bandula who attacked and defeated the forces of Chandrakanta in April 1822.  Chandrakanta fell back to Guwahati, and finally to Assam chaki, where he encountered Mingimaha Tilwa in June 1822.  He was defeated and had to further retreat into the British territory.  After this victory, the Burmese declared Mingimaha Tilwa the Raja of Assam and brought an end to the sovereign Ahom rule in Assam.

Direct Burmese rule
The defeat of Chandrakanta at Assam Chokey brought the Burmese face-to-face with the British in the Brahmaputra valley.  Tilwa demanded the British hand over the fugitive king, and threatened to enter British territory to seize him, with about 7,000 troops at Assam Chokey and 1,000 more at Guwahati under Bandula.  Nevertheless, the Burmese troops faced logistics issues, and as a result Bandula left Guwahati, leaving Tilwa at Guwahati with only 1,000 troops.  At this juncture, the Chandrakanta Singha was invited by the Burmese to come back and rule.  Chandrakanta abandoned his Baruas and Phukan's and surrendered to Tilwa at Assam Chokey.  When he reached Jorhat, he was seized and imprisoned instead.