[Source: PubMed]

11. Characterization and Management of Headache after Mild Traumatic Brain
Injury.

Lucas S.

In: Kobeissy FH(1), editor. Brain Neurotrauma: Molecular, Neuropsychological, 
and Rehabilitation Aspects. Boca Raton (FL): CRC Press/Taylor & Francis; 2015. 
Chapter 13.
Frontiers in Neuroengineering.

Author information:
(1)Psychoproteomics and Nanotechnology Research Center Department of Psychiatry 
University of Florida Gainsville, Florida, USA

In the United States, approximately 1.7 million traumatic brain injuries (TBI) 
requiring medical attention occur each year. Seventy-five percent of these cases 
are classified as mild TBI and post traumatic headache (PTH) is the most common 
physical symptom after injury. PTH is classified as a secondary headache 
disorder in the International Classification of Headache Disorders (ICHD-3) 
criteria for headache classification. In recent large, prospective clinical 
studies after moderate to severe TBI, prevalence can be close to half of the 
injured population. Cumulative incidence and prevalence have reported to be even 
higher after mild TBI. A significant risk factor for PTH was found to be a 
pre-injury history of headache. The most common headache phenotype using ICHD-3 
criteria for primary headache disorders was migraine/probable migraine in over 
50% of those with headache, followed by tension-type headache. Though the 
treatment of PTH is largely empiric, one approach to treatment decisions is to 
use primary headache characterization of the PTH and treat according to 
recommendations for that headache. Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) has become 
an extremely important global health issue in the past several years. 
Considerable attention and interest has focused on several populations 
susceptible to mTBI: soldiers deployed in war zones, professional athletes and 
youth involved in school sports activity, and civilians engaged in frequent 
activities of daily living who may be involved in motor vehicle accidents, 
falls, or assaults among other injuries. In the United States, estimates for 1.7 
million civilian TBIs occurring each year are for those requiring medical 
attention. The outcomes of known cases resulted in 53,000 deaths, and 275,000 
hospitalizations for nonfatal TBI (Faul et al., 2010). It is estimated that 43% 
of Americans live with disability 1 year after hospitalization and 3.2 million 
live with residual disability (Corrigan et al., 2010). It has been documented 
that around 75% of TBI is classified as mTBI, and because many of these events 
do not lead to immediate medical attention, the scope of the problem is likely 
underestimated. The etiology of mTBI is likely to be different in different age 
groups. For example, falls are the most common cause of mTBI in children 0 to 4 
years old and in adults older than age 75 (Coronado et al., 2011). Civilian 
deaths have declined in the past decade, likely from industry improvements in 
protection of occupants with air bags and seat belts in motor vehicles, 
protective helmet design for use in sports activities and two- or three-wheeled 
vehicle use, and other public health driven protective measures. The most common 
etiology of the additional TBI burden in military personnel in recent Middle 
East conflicts (Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom) is 
exposure to combat-related explosions (Eskridge et al., 2012) with approximately 
80% of mTBI secondary to blast exposure (Hoge et al., 2008). Injury to military 
personnel reported by the Congressional Research Service show a total of 253,330 
TBI cases between January 1, 2000, and August 20, 2012, with 194,561 mild, 
42,083 moderate, and 6,476 severe or penetrating with 10,210 not classifiable 
(Fischer, 2013).

© 2015 by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

PMID: 26269882