[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Kentucky in the American Civil War

is guerrilla policy, which included public execution of four guerrillas for the death of each unarmed Union citizen, caused the most controversy. After a falling out with Governor Thomas E. Bramlette, Burbridge was dismissed in February 1865. Confederates remembered him as the "Butcher of Kentucky".

It is important to take note that due to the Emancipation Proclamation, the severity of Martial Law under Burbridge and the enlistment of Kentucky slaves into Union regiments (Kentucky had the 2nd largest African American Union enlistment only behind Louisiana) Union support among native Kentuckians greatly diminished by war's end.  This is documented in Louisville by a prominent Washington DC journalist, Whitelaw Reid who accompanied Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase for a tour of the south from May 1, 1865, to May 1, 1866 .
Reid observed in 1865  “At Louisville a pleasant dinner party enabled us to meet the last collection of men from the midst of a Rebel community. At that time there was more loyalty in Nashville than in Louisville, and about as much in Charleston as in either. For the first and only time on the trip, save while we were under the Spanish flag, slaves waited on us at dinner. They were the last any of us were ever to see on American soil.”  This sentiment is also evident in the daily violence between Louisville citizens and the Union soldiers mustering out of the city to their home states during this period in what was known as the “war after the war” throughout the state.

Order of battle for Union forces in Kentucky
 Data is from Tabular Statements Showing the Names of Commanders of Army Corps, Divisions and Brigades, United States Army, During the War of 1861 to 1865, compiled from the data on record in the office of the Quartermaster General of the Army, Gen. C. McKeever, 1887.

1862–1863
 The forces in Kentucky at times also included the Army of the Ohio under Maj. Gen. Don Carlos Buell, the Army of the Tennessee under Maj. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant, and the Army of the Cumberland under Maj. Gen. William Rosecrans. Part of the Army of Kentucky eventually became the Reserve Corps of the Army of the Cumberland, while the rest was rolled into the XXIII Corps in the Department of Ohio under Maj. Gen. John G. Foster.

Granger's command also included garrisons at Lexington, Danville, Falmouth, Nicholasville, and Frankfort, Kentucky

Manson's force consisted of what was left of the command under Maj. Gen. William "Bull" Nelson who had been defeated at the Battle of Richmond.

1863–1864
 The forces in Kentucky at times also included three additional brigades of the 1st division, the brigades 2nd, 3rd, and 4th divisions of the XXIII Corps which were in the field near two divisions of the IX Corps, and a part of the cavalry division of the Department of Ohio under Maj. Gen. George Stoneman.
 Curiously, the official records refer to Boyle's command as the "District of Western Kentucky", although it included all of Kentucky except Western Kentucky, which was assigned to the District of Columbus

The District of Columbus became the District of Western Kentucky, and the troops from the XVI Corps were replaced with troops from the XXIII Corps.

1864–1865
 The forces in Kentucky at times also included the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th divisions of the XXIII Corps, under the command of Maj. Gen. John M. Schofield, assigned to Sherman's forces for the Atlanta Campaign.

See also
 Civil War Museum (Bardstown)
 Confederate States of America – animated map of state secession and confederacy
 History of Kentucky
 History of slavery in Kentucky
 List of American Civil War monuments in Kentucky
 List of Kentucky Union Civil War units
 List of Kentucky Confederate Civil War units
 List of Kentucky's American Civil War generals
 Timeline of Kentucky in the American Civil War

Kentucky's adjacent states in the American Civil War
 Illinois in the American Civil War
 Indiana in the American Civil War
 Missouri in the American Civil War
 Ohio in the American Civil War
 Tennessee in the American Civil War
 Virginia in the American Civil War
 West Virginia in the American Civil War

Western Theater of the American Civil War
 Louisville, Kentucky, in the American Civil War
 Lexington, Kentucky, in the American Civil War
 Timeline of Kentucky history
 Border states (American Civil War)
 Battle of Belmont
 Battle of Perryville
 Battle of Cynthiana

Notes

References

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Smith, John David. "Whither Kentucky Civil War and Reconstruction Scholarship?." Register of the Kentucky Historical Society 112.2 (2014): 223–247. online

Further reading