[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orlando Metcalfe Poe

crossings, poor or non-existent roads and the extensive swamps of southern Georgia would have fatally slowed Sherman's force had not Poe's skills as leader of the bridge, road and pontoon building units kept the army moving. He also continued to supervise destruction of Confederate infrastructure. 

Breveted to colonel after the fall of Savannah, Poe continued as Sherman's chief engineer in the war's concluding Carolinas Campaign as Sherman headed northwards from Savannah to link up with Grant and the Army of the Potomac in Virginia and to cut another swath through South and North Carolina. When the war ended Poe was breveted to Brigadier General in the regular army.

Postbellum career

In Summer 1865 Poe became the Lighthouse Board's chief engineer; in 1870 he was promoted to the position of Chief Engineer of the Upper Great Lakes 11th Lighthouse District. In this capacity, he designed eight "Poe style lighthouses" and oversaw construction of several.  Poe was named District Engineer for the Eleventh Lighthouse District, Those lights are New Presque Isle Light (1870) on Lake Huron, Lake Michigan's South Manitou Island Light (1872), Grosse Point Light (1873) in Evanston, Illinois, Lake Superior's Au Sable Light (1874), Racine, Wisconsin's Wind Point Light (1880); Outer Island Light (1874) in the Apostle Islands, Little Sable Point Light (1874) on Lake Michigan, Manistique, Michigan's Seul Choix Light (1895) and Spectacle Reef Light.

As Superintending Engineer, he designed a unique lighthouse — in terms of location, construction materials, methods, hardships and costs — at the Spectacle Reef Light on Lake Huron.  That light has been described as "the best specimen of monolithic stone masonry in the United States", and "one of the greatest engineering feats on the Great Lakes." Poe solved the logistics problem of building a lighthouse on the remote Stannard Rock in Lake Superior with the proposal to use all the costly apparatus and machinery used to build the Spectacle Reef Light. The exposed crib of the Stannard Rock Light is rated in the top ten engineering feats in the United States.  Many of these lights were of Italianate architecture, a chief example being that of the Grosse Point Light.

From 1873 through 1883 Poe served as engineering Aide-de-camp on the staff of William T. Sherman, who was then commanding general of the U.S. Army. In 1883 he was made Superintending Engineer of improvement of rivers and harbors on Lakes Superior and Huron, where he helped to develop the St. Marys Falls Canal.  Many consider his crowning achievement to be the design and implementation of the first Poe Lock in the American Soo Locks in Sault Ste. Marie, as it was instrumental in making possible the shipping industry, including steel craft freighters, in the upper Great Lakes. Consequently, it was pivotal to the creation of the basic steel industry in the United States. Poe's creation was dismantled in the early 1960s with a larger, more modern lock being built on the same site. This new passageway was renamed the Poe Lock and serves the largest of the Great Lakes freighters to this day.

Death and legacy
Poe died in Detroit on October 2, 1895, of an infection following an on-duty accident at the "Soo Locks," and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery. Poe Reef and the Poe Reef Light in Lake Huron bear his name.

See also

History of the modern steel industry
List of American Civil War generals (Union)

References
Notes

Bibliography
 Roosevelt, Theodore. The Winning of the West from the Alleghenies to the Mississippi, 1777 - 1783, volume II, 6. ISO-8859-1.
 Taylor, Paul, "Orlando M. Poe: Sherman's Right Hand Man" in North & South, vol. 10, no. 6 (June 2008).
 Trudeau, Noah Andre. "Southern Storm: Sherman's March to the Sea" Harper Collins, (2008).

Further reading
Evans, David, Sherman's Horsemen: Union Cavalry Operations in the Atlanta Campaign (Indiana University Press, 1996). ; .
.
 Putnam, George R. Lighthouses and Lightships of the United States, (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1933), pp. 44, 156.
Staff (October 3, 1895) Obituary of Orlando M. Poe  The New York Times
Taylor, Paul. Orlando M. Poe: Civil War General and Great Lakes Engineer. Kent, Ohio: Kent State Univ. Press, 2009. .

External links

Bush, Bryan S. (Civil War historian/author), "Brevet Brig. General Orlando Metcalfe Poe".