[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Expo 2015

h
 Oxfam International
 Save the Children
 Venerable Factory of the Duomo of Milan
 WAA-AMIA/CONAF
 World Wide Fund for Nature

International organizations
 CERN
 European Union
 United Nations

Companies
 China Corporate United Pavilion
 Coca-Cola
 Joomoo
 New Holland Agriculture
 Vanke

Agreements

In preparation for Expo 2015, the City of Milan signed coordination agreements with other cities in Italy and Europe focusing on tourism, culture and infrastructure. Agreements were also signed with other countries for the development of projects associated with food and education.

Partners

Official partners
 Alitalia, Etihad Airways: airlines
 BolognaFiere: operations
 Came: automation, management and access control of visitors
 Cisco: IP network and solutions
 Coca-Cola: soft drinks
 Eni: sustainability initiatives in African countries
 Eutelsat: satellite
 Excelsior Milano: T-shirts and gadgets
 Ferrero SpA: confectionery specialties
 Franciacorta DOCG: sparking wine
 Fiera Milano: operations
 Illy: Italian coffee
 Huiyuan Juice: fruit juice
 McDonald's: fast food
 MSC: cruises
 OVS Industry: T-shirts and gadgets
 Technogym: wellness and sport
 Trenitalia: rail carrier
 Sicily: Regione Siciliana managing the Bio-Mediterraneum Cluster

Media partners
 Canon: photography
 Rai: television

Global partners
 Accenture: system integration
 Allianz: visitor assistance
 CNH Industrial: agriculture
 Enel: smart energy and lighting
 Fiat-Chrysler: sustainable mobility
 Finmeccanica (Selex ES): Safe City and Main Operation Centre
 Intesa Sanpaolo: banking
 Samsung: entertainment
 Telecom Italia: integrated connectivity and services

Premium partners
 Coop: food distribution

Other partners
 Algida (Unilever): gelato
 Birrificio Angelo Poretti: beer
 Eataly: Italian food
 Gewiss: lighting
 Granarolo: milk products
 Lavazza: coffee
 Martini: drinks
 San Pellegrino: mineral water
 Swatch: official timekeeper

Controversy

Expo 2015's opening on May 1 was met with protests by a black bloc of anti-austerity activists, with police using tear gas. Although Vatican City invested €3 million in its pavilion before Pope Francis' election, he said that it was good for the church to be involved in causes which fight hunger and promote clean energy but too much money was wasted on the Expo by the Vatican.

Food
Several unusual (or unique) food choices were offered during the exposition, some normally not permitted in Italy. At Zimbabwe's pavilion, visitors could try burgers made from crocodile, zebra or python (named "crocoburger", "zebraburger" and "savanaburger" by their creator, consul Georges El Badaoui). The pavilion's food was some of the expo's most innovative and extravagant. At the Japanese pavilion during the expo, European regulations were relaxed and it was possible to taste sashimi from pufferfish (fugu). In the Future Food District were packs of canned insects, common in Southeast Asia but prohibited in the European Union. Italian chef Massimo Bottura and international colleagues created the Refettorio Ambrosiano, a gourmet soup kitchen using waste food from the fair.

Verybello.it
verybello.it was the Italian website for the Expo 2015. The website was launched in January 2015. Its early version has attracted criticism for omitting Sicily from the map of Italy, and for having only the Italian language version present. Website design and name have also been criticized.

The website, as accessed in late March 2015, had an English version, and an expanded map including Sicily.

Sport
World Cup Expo, a football tournament of mixed teams composed of workers from individual pavilions (or clusters), was held during the event.

Mascot
The mascot was Foody, a salad-like character, inspired by the work of Giuseppe Arcimboldo and is composed of eleven different foods, each of which forms a separate mascot, including Chicca the pomegranate. It was designed by Disney Italia.

Pavilions

See also
Jellyfish Barge
Nemo’s Garden (Noli)

References

External links

  
 Official website of the BIE
 European Patent Office
 News on Expo 2015 and on the city of Milan
 EXPO 2015 İzmir Film
 Presentation at the BIE of the Expo 2015 candidature 19 December 2006
 ExpoMuseum's Expo 2015 Page 
 
 BLOG Expo 2015 Milano – News & Expo History
 Rai Expo official multilanguage site, a library of about 1000 videos exploring and explaining "Expo di Milano 2015" theme 
 Photo gallery made by a UNESCO photographer
 Colombia Pavillon Video and Photo gallery
 Website
 A screenshot of the early version of the site, omitting Sicily

2015 in Europe
2015 in Italy
2010s in Milan
World's fairs in Milan
Tourist attractions in Milan