[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of burial places of founders of religious traditions

Nabawi ("The Mosque of the Prophet") in Medina, Saudi Arabia. The tomb lays within the confines of the Hujra ("Noble Chamber"), what used to be his and his wife Aisha's house. It only adjoined the mosque until Caliph al-Walid I ordered to incorporate it during the mosque's expansion under his reign.

Traditionally, Islam has had a rich history of the veneration of relics, especially of those attributed to Muhammad. There exists historical evidence that some of the earliest Muslims practised the veneration of relics, and the practice continued to remain popular in many parts of the Sunni Islamic world until the eighteenth-century, when the reform movements of Salafism and Wahhabism began to staunchly condemn such practices due to their linking it with the sin of shirk (idolatry). As a result of the influence of these perspectives, some contemporary Muslims influenced by these ideologies have rejected the traditional practice of relic-veneration altogether. The most genuine prophetic relics are believed to be those housed in Istanbul's Topkapı Palace, in a section known as Hirkai Serif Odasi (Chamber of the Holy Mantle).

The traditional Sunni attitude towards relics is concisely summarized in the words of the fourteenth-century hadith master Al-Dhahabi, who passionately sermonized: "Ahmad ibn Hanbal was asked about touching the Prophet's grave and kissing it and he saw nothing wrong with it. His son 'Abd Allāh related this from him. If it is asked: 'Why did the Prophet's Companions not do this?' We reply: 'Because they saw him with their very eyes when he was alive, enjoyed his presence directly, kissed his very hand, nearly fought each other over the remnants of his ablution water, shared his purified hair on the day of the Greater Pilgrimage, and even if he spat it would virtually not fall except into someone's hand so that he could pass it over his face. Since we have not had the tremendous fortune of sharing this, we throw ourselves on his grave as a mark of commitment, reverence, and acceptance, even to kiss it. Do you not see what Thābit al-Bunānī did when he kissed the hand of Anas ibn Malik and placed it on his face saying: 'This is the hand that touched the hand of the Messenger of God?' Muslims are not moved to these matters except by their extreme love for the Prophet, as they are ordered to love God and the Prophet more than their own lives."

The 17th-century French explorer Jean-Baptiste Tavernier wrote about his discussions with two treasurers of Constantinople, who described the standard, mantle and the seal. Two centuries later, Charles White wrote about the mantle, the standard, the beard, tooth, and footprint of Muhammad, the last of which he saw personally.

Judaism 

According to , the grave of Moses is in a valley across from Mount Peor, near Mount Nebo just east of the Jordan River, now in the kingdom of Jordan.

The Cave of the Patriarchs is located in the ancient city of Hebron. Jewish, Christian, and Islamic tradition holds that the compound encloses the burial place of four biblical couples: Adam and Eve; Abraham and Sarah; Isaac and Rebekah; Jacob and Leah. According to Midrashic sources, it also contains the head of Esau, the brother of Jacob.

Rachel's Tomb, the traditional burial site of the biblical matriarch Rachel, is located outside the Palestinian city of Bethlehem.

Scientology 
Upon his death, L. Ron Hubbard was cremated and his ashes were scattered in the Pacific Ocean.

Sikhism 

Gurdwara Kartarpur (meaning "The Abode of God") was established by Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism in 1522. A samadhi (according to Hindu tradition) lies in the gurdwara and a grave (according to Muslim traditions) lies on the premises as a reminder of this discord. The gurdwara is located in a small village named Kartarpur on the West bank of the Ravi River in Punjab, Pakistan.

Taoism 
According to Taoist legend, Laozi transmitted the Tao Te Ching at the request of a border guard before departing from China (i.e. from known civilization). He is believed to have lived out the rest of his days in communion with nature, and some Taoist traditions hold that he achieved immortality. Whether he underwent death or not is not made clear by all parts of the tradition, and if he did, it was in some remote area, far from civilization at that time.

Tenrikyo 
Tenrikyo considers the Foundress's Sanctuary in Tenri, Nara, Japan to be the site where Nakayama Miki "lives and works"; she died in 1887.

Zoroastrianism 
There is no consensus as to where Zoroaster, the founder of Zoroastrianism lived, much less where he died or what became of his remains. Most believe that he died in Balkh while he was praying. When he died, his entire body became a flame. Fire is a very important concept in Zoroastrianism.

See also 

 List of burial places of Abrahamic figures
 List of founders of religious traditions
 List of religious sites
 Pilgrimage
 Religious tourism

References