[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 192]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

was no need for any creature to suffer, in dying for man's use. If
people only knew and realized how much needless agony is inflicted on
these helpless creatures, in order to supply the daily demands of a vast
flesh-eating population, they would feel that, as a matter of fact, he
had been doing the human race a good turn as well as their more
friendless fellow-beings. It was impossible to imagine that men and
women would not suffer at the thought of causing suffering to the
helpless, if once they realized that suffering clearly. Men and women
were not devils! Theobald had always laughed at him for this part of his
work, but he felt now, at the close of his life, that he could dwell
upon that effort with more pleasure than on any other, although others
had won him far more applause, and this had often brought him contempt.
If only he could be sure that the discovery would not be wasted.

"It shall be our business to see that it is not," said Valeria, in a
voice tremulous with unshed tears.

The Professor heaved a sigh of relief, at this assurance.

"My earlier work is safe; what I have done in other directions, is
already a part of human knowledge and resource, but this is just the
sort of thing that might be so easily lost and forgotten. These
sufferings are hidden, and when people do not see a wrong, they do not
think of it; make them think, make them think!"

A week had gone by since the Professor's arrival at the Priory. He was
in great pain, but had intervals of respite. He liked, in those
intervals, to see his friends. They could scarcely believe that he was
dying, for he still seemed so full of interest in the affairs of life,
and spoke of the future as if he would be there to see it. One of the
most distressing interviews was with Mr. Fullerton, who could not be
persuaded that the invalid had but a short time to live. The old man
believed that death meant, beyond all question, annihilation of the
personality, and had absolutely no hope of meeting again.

"Don't be too sure, old friend," said the Professor; "don't be too sure
of anything, in this mysterious universe."

The weather kept warm and genial, and this was favourable to his
lingering among them a little longer. But his suffering, at times, was
so great that they could scarcely wish for this delay. Hadria used
always to play to him during some part of the afternoon. The robin had
become a constant visitor, and had found its way to the window of the
sick-room, where crumbs had been scattered on the sill. The Professor
took great pleasure in watching the little creature. Sometimes it would
come into the room and hop on to a chair or table, coquetting from perch
to perch, and looking at the invalid, with bright inquisitive eyes. The
crumbs were put out at a certain hour each morning, and the bird had
acquired the habit of arriving almost to the moment. If, by chance, the
crumbs had been forgotten, the robin would flutter ostentatiously before
the window, to remind his friends of their neglected duty.

During the last few days, Hadria had fancied that the Professor had
divined Valeria's secret, or that she had betrayed it.

There was a peculiar, reverent tenderness in his manner towards her,
that was even more marked than usual.

"Can't we save him? can't we save him, Hadria?" she used to cry
piteously, when they were alone. "Surely, surely there is some hope.
Science makes such professions; why doesn't it do something?"

"Ah, don't torture yourself with false hope, dear Valeria."

"The world is monstrous, life is unbearable," exclaimed Valeria, with a
despairing break in her voice.

But one afternoon, she came out of the sick-room with a less distraught
expression on her worn face, though her eyes shewed traces of tears.

The dying man used to speak often about his wife to Hadria. This had
been her room, and he almost fancied her presence about him.

"Do you know," he said, "I have found, of late, that many of my old
fixed ideas have been insidiously modifying. So many things that I used
to regard as preposterous have been borne in upon me, in a singular
fashion, as by no means so out of the question. I have had one or two
strange experiences and now a hope--I might say a faith--has settled
upon me of an undying element in our personality. I feel that we shall
meet again those we have loved here--some time or another."

"What a sting that would take from the agony of parting," cried Hadria.

"And, after all, is it less rational to suppose that there is some
survival of the Self, and that the wild, confused earthly experience is
an element of a spiritual evolutionary process, than to suppose that the
whole universe is chaotic and meaningless? For what we call mind exists,
and it must be contained in the sum-total of existence, or how could it
arise out of it? Therefore, some reasonable scheme appears more likely
than a reasonless one. And then there is that