[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Executive Office for Immigration Review

is represented by an Assistant Chief Counsel, often referred to as a "DHS attorney" or "trial attorney." Unlike criminal adjudications in Article III courts, litigants in removal proceedings do not have a constitutional right to counsel, except in narrow circumstances.

Board of Immigration Appeals 

The Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) is the body to whom litigants may appeal their decisions from immigration judges. Composed of 21 members appointed by the attorney general, BIA decisions are generally decided by panels of three of its members. Unlike courts of appeals in the state and federal systems, the BIA rarely holds oral arguments on appeals. Instead, the BIA conducts a "paper review" of the materials, before issuing a written decision. Though the BIA issues hundreds of decisions each year, it chooses a small number as "precedent decisions," which seek to provide guidance to immigration judges across the countries on the state of immigration law. After the BIA has decided a matter, it may choose to issue a final decision, remand to the immigration judge for further consideration, or refer the matter to the attorney general. The attorney general also may refer the case to him or herself and decide the case regardless of the decision of the BIA.

Office of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer 
The Office for the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer (OCAHO) oversees specialized immigration administrative law judges as provided for in the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and the Immigration Act of 1990. Unlike the immigration judges in the Office of the Chief Immigration Judge, who hear the merits of the immigration claims of litigants, the administrative law judges of the Chief Administrative Hearing Officer handle matters related to the employment of non-citizens unlawfully residing in the United States; other unfair employment practices; and documentation fraud seeking immigration relief.

Non-adjudicative components

General Counsel 
The Office of General Counsel (OGC) is the chief legal counsel of EOIR. The general counsel primarily provides legal guidance regarding precedential Board of Immigration Appeals and federal courts decisions and disseminates that information across EOIR. The Office of General Counsel also represents EOIR in federal court and responds to Freedom of Information Act requests directed at EOIR. The Office of General Counsel is also responsible for maintaining the standard for immigration attorneys nation-wide through its Attorney Discipline Program.

Office of Policy 
EOIR's Office of Policy (OP), created in 2017, is responsible for communications, data collection, and regulatory review. Unlike the Office of general counsel, the Office of Policy does not represent EOIR in legal proceedings; it provides training and instructions to effectuate the policy of the director.

Criticism and controversies 
The Attorney General's use of precedent decisions has been subject to criticism. Some commentators have argued that the use of the power, instead of settling doctrine, has departed from agency procedures and practices, adjudicated issues not relevant to a particular case, and disrupted the development of circuit law by adopting the minority view.  

EOIR has also been criticized for the significant backlog of immigration cases; as of December 2020, there are more than 1.2 million pending cases across the immigration courts. In 2018, the Department of Justice instituted case quotas for immigration judges, requiring each to complete 700 cases per year, a rate requiring each IJ to close more than two cases per day. The president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, stated that the policy was an "unprecedented act which compromises the integrity of the court."

In January 2021, the San Francisco Chronicle reported that the Executive Office for Immigration Review had failed to prevent or appropriately respond to multiple instances of sexual harassment by judges and supervisors. Tal Kopan, the reporter who broke the story, added later in an interview that more allegations not included in the story indicated that the problem was widespread and not an isolated occurrence.

A November 2019 report by the United States Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General found that "senior managers" involved in the hiring of Immigration Judges had used a system of "code words" to rate "the attractiveness" of female candidates. The report also found that this conduct "could give rise to claims of sexual harassment or claims of prohibited personnel practices."

See also
 Title 8 of the Code of Federal Regulations
 U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
 U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP)
 U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)
Board of Immigration Appeals

References