[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Tina Karol

o, the singers jointly performed the compositions "Vilna" and "Chervona Kalina" On April 22, Tina Karol performed at the opening of the exhibition "This is Ukraine: Defending Freedom", which is part of the official program of the Venice Biennale, where the singer sang the National Anthem of Ukraine.

On May 8, in Berlin, Tina Karol and Ukrainian Ambassador to Germany Andriy Melnyk took part in a commemorative flower-laying ceremony at the memorial in the Tiergarten on the occasion of the Day of Remembrance and Reconciliation, as well as the 77th anniversary of the liberation of Europe from National Socialism. The singer also sang the Ukrainian Anthem together with the Ukrainian community

On May 10, Tina Karol arrived in Tokyo (Japan) on the mission of a public ambassador, at the invitation of the Japanese businessman and philanthropist Hiroshi Mikitani . Karol performed as a special guest at a concert in support of Ukraine, which took place on May 14, as part of the Rakuten Girls Awards 2022   On May 15, the singer visited Hiroshima, where she met with the mayor of the city Kazumi Matsui, as well as with officials and diplomats of the country On May 19, within the framework of the 75th Cannes Film Festival, a charity evening was organized by the Golden Globe in support of the Ukrainian film industry Tina Karol became a special guest of the charity evening, the singer performed her Ukrainian-language song "Namalyuyu tobi zori".

On August 24, for the Independence Day of Ukraine, Tina Karol surprised Ukrainians by performing the National Anthem in a rather unusual format. As part of the VOGUE VOICES OF NATION project, the artist arranged a 4D performance and appeared in the form of a hologram.

In August Tina Karol became the voice of the collection of the Ukrainian brand Lever Couture, which was worked on by designer Lesya Verlinghieri and creative director of Lady Gaga singer Nicola Formichetti. Especially for the show, the performer created an electronic mini-album LELEKA, imbued with Ukrainian ethnicity and folklore. Tina Karol worked on new songs in collaboration with the American DJ Macro/Micro.

On September 16, Karol presented a new Ukrainian-language single “VILNI.NESKORENI”

On September 23, at a charity evening within the framework of the 77th UN General Assembly, which was held at the Metropolitan Opera in New York, which brought together many world political and business leaders, the presentation of the Olena Zelenska Foundation took place. During the event, Tina Karol and Julia Sanina performed "Vilna" 

On September 30, Tina Karol presented the English-language album "Scandal".  In September–October 2022, a North American tour was held in the cities of USA and Canada . In October, Tina Karol presented the English-language album "Scandal" at a concert in Los Angeles, USA  

December 31, 2022 Tina Karol took part in the main New Year's concert, which took place in Berlin, Germany at the foot of the Brandenburg Gate. Karol took the stage with the legendary German band Alphaville. Together they performed the group's famous hit "Forever Young". The concert took place in the open air and was broadcast live on German television.

Philanthropy 

The Tina Karol Charity Foundation «The Pole of Attraction» was founded on June 1, 2014, on Children's Day. It is a charity initiative of the singer, which aims to help children oncology departments of city and regional hospitals in all cities of Ukraine.

The Charitable Foundation «The Pole of Attraction» is not a fundraising organization and operates solely through funding from the singer herself: Tina Karol donates funds to the Foundation from solo concerts in the music halls.

Assistance is provided directly to the oncology department of the hospital in purchasing and providing the necessary equipment or medicines.

The list of cities is constantly expanding. Each new city that will be assisted and is currently awaiting the foundation's mission will be listed on the page of the foundation on the singer's website.

The list of assistance already provided is also being complemented and updated.

Tina Karol says:“There is only one and the most important motivation in my idea to create such a Foundation - it is care. Having experienced this, I understand how lonely parents and children who suffer from this terrible plague of the 21st century feel. I want to bring a little joy, warmth and care to their lives. The overriding goal of my initiative is to inspire people to do good deeds."
On June 7, 2015, in the end of the song project "Holos Krainy - 5", Tina Karol presented an apartment in Kyiv to the winner - her student Anton Kopytin, who was forced to leave Donetsk with his family due to the war in the East of Ukraine.