[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Itzik Manger

s and Thread Tailors' Union, who conspires to assassinate King Ahashverosh to win back Esther's affections. Combined with his 1937 play Hotzmakh's Shpiel, these three revival texts secured Manger his international reputation as "the master recloaker of the oldest and the newest literary traditions."

Leaving Poland
Manger never acquired Polish citizenship and was forced to leave the country in the light of legal difficulties, having been stripped of his Romanian citizenship and becoming stateless. Manger left for Paris in 1938, an exile from his creative homeland. However, Paris was not safe for long. In 1940, Manger fled to Marseilles, Tunis, Liverpool, and finally London, where he became a British citizen and remained unhappily for the next eleven years. In 1951 he arrived in the United States, where he met his future wife, Ghenya Nadir, the widow of writer Moyshe Nadir. The two lived in the Sea Gate neighbourhood of Brooklyn. Manger made a visit to Israel in 1958, and then a series of short visits there every few years in 1961, 1963, and 1965. An ailing Manger returned to Israel in 1966, where he remained in a sanatorium in Gedera until his death.

Acclaim in Israel and elsewhere
Manger achieved significant success in Israeli literary and theatrical circles when, in 1965, Dov Seltzer directed a highly popular production of Manger's Songs of the Megillah. The musical was a great success, setting a new record in Israeli theatre with its more than 400 performances. Prominent members of Israeli society, including politicians Levi Eshkol, Golda Meir, and Teddy Kollek, made highly publicised appearances at the performances. When he died in 1969, Manger was mourned as an Israeli national poet.

Romanian Jewish playwright Israil Bercovici adapted a collection of Manger's poems into a two-act stage piece, Mangheriada, which premiered 6 April 1968 at the Romanian State Jewish Theater in Bucharest.

Manger's poem "Oyfn veg shteyt a boym" ("On the Road Stands a Tree") has been set to music and has entered the repertoire of Yiddish song, for example as a 1951 hit for Leo Fuld.

Hertz Grosbard recited many of his works in so called "word concerts".

Itzik Manger Prize

Shortly before his death, the Itzik Manger Prize for outstanding Yiddish writing was established. The inaugural prize was given to Manger himself at a banquet on 31 October 1968. The banquet was attended by Golda Meir, then the prime minister of Israel, and by Zalman Shazar, then president. Subsequently, the prize was awarded annually until about 2000.

Books
  - lit.: Itzik Manger, Dark Gold, Poems, Yiddish and German, compiled, translated and with an afterword by Efrat Gal-Ed. Jüdischer Verlag im Suhrkamp Verlag, 2004. Second edition 2016, with additional, previously unpublished poems. With transliteration (romanisation) and CD ("Itzik Manger reading Itzik Manger", recordings from 1966).

References

External links
 

1901 births
1969 deaths
Yiddish-language poets
20th-century Romanian poets
 Writers from Chernivtsi
Israeli poets
Israeli people of Romanian-Jewish descent
Bukovina Jews
Yiddish-language playwrights
20th-century British poets
British male dramatists and playwrights
Romanian male poets
20th-century British male writers
Burials at Nahalat Yitzhak Cemetery