[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Armenian Americans

nitarian organization providing long-term programs focusing on human development. Armenia Fund raises millions of dollars every year for infrastructural development in Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh.

In 1992, Dr. Dickran Kouymjian of the California State University, Fresno, stated:

Armenian genocide

The official recognition of the Armenian genocide by the US federal government was seen one of the most vital steps in international and full recognition of the 1915–1923 events. Many Armenians think that the United States has the ability to force Turkey to recognize the past and pay Armenians and Armenia their reparations, that includes (for some) the return of the so-called Wilsonian Armenia to the Republic of Armenia.

Several official US documents describe the events as "genocide" (1975, 1984, 1996); President Ronald Reagan also described the events as "genocide" in a speech on 22 April 1981. On 4 March 2010, the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs recognized the massacres of 1915 as "genocide". Also, 49 of the 50 US states have made individual proclamations recognizing the events of 1915 to 1923 as genocide.

Armenian Americans gather in multiple towns and cities every year on 24 April for the recognition of the Armenian genocide. The largest of such gatherings occurs in the Los Angeles area. The Armenian National Institute lists 30 Armenian Genocide memorials in the United States; the oldest one is Montebello Genocide Memorial, which was completed in 1965. Khachkars across America were erected in honor of the 1.5 million victims of the Genocide. Recently, the Armenian Heritage Park was opened in Boston, MA.
In 2021, the United States formally recognized the Armenian genocide.

2023 Azerbaijani offensive in Nagorno-Karabakh

Between 19 to 20 September 2023, the Azerbaijani military launched a large-scale attack on the majority Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, which led to a mass exodus of about 80% of the region's population. In Los Angeles, members of the Armenian community used a trailer truck to block a major freeway for several hours to draw attention to the situation in Nagorno-Karabakh on 19 September, causing major traffic jams. In this event and several other protests around the same time, they called on US president Joe Biden to withdraw support and impose sanctions against Azerbaijan, and provide humanitarian aid to Nagorno-Karabakh. Actress Kim Kardashian, who is of Armenian descent, called on US President Joe Biden "to stop another Armenian genocide" on social media.

Notable people

Armenians in the United States have attained success and prominence in diverse areas, including business, politics, entertainment, sciences, sports, and the arts.

Arts and entertainment 

Rouben Mamoulian was a film and theater director, and also known as co-producer of the first feature film (Becky Sharp, 1935) to use the three-strip Technicolor process. Sev Ohanian is a film screenwriter and producer of Searching, Fruitvale Station, and Run.

Armenian Americans have found a lot of success in the field of entertainment. Singer Cher (born Cherilyn Sarkisian). The metal band System of a Down is composed of four Armenian members of the diaspora: Serj Tankian, Daron Malakian, Shavo Odadjian, and John Dolmayan. Composer Alan Hovhaness, born to an Armenian father and a Scottish-American mother, "wrote more than 400 pieces, among them 67 symphonies of varying quality". Sebu Simonian, one of two founders of the band Capital Cities, is Lebanese Armenian. Ross Bagdasarian Sr. (known by the moniker David Seville) created Alvin and the Chipmunks. In 1959, at the First Grammys, he won 2 awards: Best Recording for Children and Best Comedy Performance. Mike Conners (born Krekor Ohanian) is the actor who starred in the long-running TV series Mannix, for which he earned a Golden Globe award in 1970. His acting career spanned over 6 decades.

Numerous Armenian musicians have been successful in American pop culture. Los Angeles is considered one of the main centers of Armenian music production of the last decades. Armenian-born singers that have lived or live in the United States include rock singer pop singers Harout Pamboukjian and Armenchik.

Andrea Martin, comedian and film and television actor, best known as a regular on the Canadian television comedy show SCTV, and as Aunt Voula in My Big Fat Greek Wedding and My Big Fat Greek Wedding 2, is from a paternal and maternal, Armenian-American family.

Reality TV show star Kim Kardashian is a controversial figure among Armenians. Her father, Robert Kardashian, was an attorney in the O. J. Simpson murder case, and her sisters, Khloe Kardashian and Kourtney Kardashian, and brother Rob Kardashian are also reality television stars.

Literature