[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Character education

ch a response). This was accomplished with the help of volunteer epilepsy patients, who needed electrodes implanted deep in their brain for evaluation and treatment anyway. Similarly to these tests, a 2013 study found that the choice to sum or subtract can be predicted before the subject reports it.

Evolutionary psychology, a new science, emerged in the 1990s to focus on explaining human behavior against the backdrop of Darwinian processes. This science considers how the biological forces of genetics and neurotransmissions in the brain influence unconscious strategies and conscious and proposes that these features of biology have developed through evolution processes. In this view, the cognitive programs of the human brain are adaptations. They exist because this behavior in our ancestors enabled them to survive and reproduce these same traits in their descendants, thereby equipping us with solutions to problems that our ancestors faced during our species' evolutionary history. Ethical topics addressed include altruistic behaviors, deceptive or harmful behaviors, an innate sense of fairness or unfairness, feelings of kindness or love, self-sacrifice, feelings related to competitiveness and moral punishment or retribution, and moral "cheating" or hypocrisy.

Issues and controversies

Scientific studies
The largest federal study, to-date, a 2010 report released under the auspices of the U.S. Department of Education found that the vast majority of character education programs have failed to prove their effectiveness, producing no improvements in student behavior or academic performance. Previous and current research on the subject fails to find one peer-reviewed study demonstrating any scientifically validated need for or result from character education programs. Typically, support is attested to by referring to "correlations" (e.g., grades, number of disciplinary referrals, subjective opinion, etc.).

Functional and ideological problems 
1) An assumption that "character" is deficient in some or all children

2)  Lack of agreement on what constitutes effectiveness 

3) Lack of evidence that it does what it claims

4) A conflict between what good character is and the way that character education proposes to teach it

5) Differing standards in methods and objectives. Differing standards for assessing need and evaluating results. Some attempts have been made.

6) Supportive "studies" that overwhelmingly rely on subjective feedback (usually surveys) from vested participants

7) Programs instituted towards ideological and/or religious ends

8) The pervasive problem of confusing morality with social conformity

9) There are few if any common goals among character education programs. The dissensions in the list of values among character education programs, itself, constitutes a major criticism that there is anything to character education that is either fundamental or universally relevant to students or society.

10) It might be said that there is agreement in as much as what values do not find inclusion on lists of core values. Not found, even though they are fundamental to the success of modern democratic societies, are such noted values as independence, inventiveness, curiosity, critical thinking, skepticism, and even moderation. "Take chances, make mistakes, get messy!" the famous saying by Ms. Frizzle on the much celebrated TV show, The Magic School Bus, embodies values that would be antithetical to those found on today's character education lists.

See also 
 Lawrence Kohlberg's stages of moral development
 Journal of Moral Education
 Moral character
 Moral development
 Moral emotions
 Moral enhancement
 Moral psychology
 Moral reasoning
 Social cognitive theory of morality
 Values education

References
Notes

Further reading
 Arthur, J. (2003). Education with Character, New York: Routledge Falmer

United States educational programs