[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Private pension

nte and the Private Altersvorsorge. They all follow the strategy of the German government to reduce state-guaranteed pensions. These plans are offered by insurance firms and are subject to approval by the German Pension Authority. Only approved pension plans qualify for the beneficial tax treatment.

Germany's pension plans are hybrid defined-benefit plans with a minimum guaranteed outcome and a market-based outcome that depends on the performance of the underlying investments. These plans are flexible in investment strategy as long as they meet the expectations set by the government to receive beneficial tax treatment. All plans have tax-exemption from capital gains tax and dividend income tax during the accumulation phase of the plan.

Riester Rente is designated for low-income earners and families who pay German income and wage taxes, employees who contribute to Public Retirement Insurance, civil servants, and more. It is necessary to contribute at least 60 euros per year to get government subsidies. In order to gain maximal government support, the participant is required to paid at least 4% of his/her annual income. It is possible to save at most 2,100 euros per year. The amount of government subsidies is between 154 euros and 300 euros depending on fulfilling some conditions. This plan is regulated by the German Government. The participant has to be at least 60 years old to draw money back. All money you contribute to the pension system is guaranteed. Due to this guarantee the Riester Rente is restricted to invest in secure, low-return investments.

Rürup Rente, named after Bert Rürup, is primarily designated for people with high tax burden, but everyone can take part in. There are no government subsidies. However, income tax relief is provided on contributions to this plan, in addition to the tax relief is connected with this plan. Rürup Rente provides a lifelong pension which is guaranteed. The pension payment cannot start before reaching the age of 62.

Private Altersvorsorge is designated for everybody that prefers flexibility payout. It has less tax-advantages in return for minimal government restrictions. It must be held at least 12 years and be paid out after the age of 62 in order to claim the tax benefits on the payout. Flexible plans can be paid out as a lump-sum (all at once) or as a lifelong income. The funds in the contract can also be inherited. The money can be withdrawn anytime before the age of 62 but will incur full capital gains taxation if done so.

Private pensions in France 
There are two occupational mandatory supplementary plans – ARRCO (Association des régimes de retraites complémentaires) for executive workers and AGIRC (Association genérale des institutions de retraite des cadres) for non-executive workers where employees and employers have to contribute. If the participant do not contribute all the time, their pension rates are lower. The benefits can be paid out from the age of 60, usually as annuities.

Next, there are two voluntary pensions schemes – Funded occupational pension plan – PERCO (Plan d’épargne retraite) and Individual retirement savings plan - PERP (Plan d’épargne retraite populaire).

In PERCO, employers have to offer several investment funds to employees with different portfolios. Employees can save at most one quarter of their gross annual salary. For employers, it is compulsory to contribute, but the minimum amount is not established. The maximum amount saved in a year horizon is 5,149 euros in total of employer's and employee's contributions. It is not possible use the money before retirement. Contributions made by employees subject to income tax, but return of investment and retirement benefits not.

PERP is form of individual pension contributions which provides additional income in a retirement. The conditions of frequency and amount depend on pension insurance plan. Insurer is obliged to guarantee progressive increase of minimal level of benefits. Usually, benefits are paid out as annuities, but lump sum is also possible. Participating in PERP has also a tax benefit, because amount of money deposit to this scheme is tax-deductible up to 10% of your last year income.

References 

Pensions