[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Siege of Madrid

8, the siege of Madrid tightened and its population suffered increasingly from a lack of food, warm clothes and arms and ammunition. However, Franco had by now given up on the idea of another frontal assault on the city but was happy to constrict the siege gradually and to continue to bomb the city.

By the spring of 1939, after the collapse of the Republican forces on other fronts, the Republican cause in Madrid was clearly doomed, which created a bitter division within Republican ranks. On one side was the socialist Prime Minister Juan Negrín, some other government ministers and the Communist Party, who wanted to fight to the end. They were opposed by the Republican Colonel Segismundo Casado and others, who wanted to negotiate the surrender of Madrid to spare Republican supporters the worst of the Nationalist retribution. On 5 March, Casado's men arrested communist officers in Madrid, stripped them of their powers, deposed Negrín and established the National Defence Council (Consejo Nacional de Defensa) to negotiate a peace deal with Franco. The next day, the communist leaders and Negrín fled Spain from Elda, but the communist troops settled around Madrid rejected the authority of the Council and entered Madrid on the 7th. There were some days of fighting in the streets between communist and non-communist troops, which ended with the defeat of the communists and the execution of their leader, Luis Barceló.

That left Casado free to try to negotiate terms with Franco. However, the Nationalist leader insisted that unconditional surrender was all that he would accept. On 26 March, Franco ordered a general advance into Madrid, and on the 27th, the Republican front collapsed, many of whose troops surrendered or simply threw away their weapons and started for home. On 28 March, Madrid finally fell to Franco's forces. In spite of Casado's efforts at negotiation, many of the Republican defenders of Madrid were among the almost 200,000 people who were executed or died during imprisonment by Franco's regime between 1939 and 1943.

In literature 
The Siege of Madrid became a mythic subject in the popular imagination during the Spanish Civil War. The besieged capital of Spain, with the enemy so close, yet unable to take the city for years on end, became the subject of songs, such as Los Emboscados – a version of Si me quieres escribir, and poems like this one by renowned poet Rafael Alberti, Madrid, corazón de España, which begins thus:

See also 

 List of Spanish Republican military equipment of the Spanish Civil War
 Gómez Ulla Military Hospital
Los Emboscados
List of Spanish Nationalist military equipment of the Spanish Civil War
Condor Legion

References

Bibliography 

 Chris Bishop, Ian C. Drury. Battles of the Twentieth Century, Hamlyn 1989.
 
 
 Geoffrey Cox, Defence of Madrid, Victor Gollancz, 1937 (reprinted 2006 review )
 
 José Luis Barceló, Madrid 1938: diario de un niño en guerra, Sepha 2012.

External links 
Spartacus Educational article on the siege
Short summary of the battle 
Madrid siglos XIX y XX (Article on life in Madrid during the siege, by the students of the Faculty of Geography and History of the Universidad Complutense of Madrid) 
Madrid Under Fire 1936–1939. A set on Flickr
Madrid corazón de España; poem in honour of the Defence of Madrid by Rafael Alberti

Battles of the Spanish Civil War
History of Madrid
Sieges involving Spain
1930s in Spain
1930s conflicts
Urban warfare
Mass murder in 1936
1930s in Madrid
Sieges of the late modern period
Battles in the Community of Madrid