[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Baker

g (about 9 weeks) followed by advanced infantry training to prepare the draftees for combat. Then the 91st would become an active army infantry division to be deployed to whatever theater of war the army selected for them. In the parlance of soldiers this is called,"The infinite wisdom of the army."

In 2000, the final uniformed elements of the US Army left the Presidio of San Francisco and Fort Baker, a subpost of the Presidio. The 91st Division (Training Support), an Army Reserve unit, moved its headquarters from Fort Baker to Parks Reserve Forces Training Area, in Dublin, California.

Current activities 
Many of the military-built buildings still stand, and current institutions in the area include Coast Guard Station Golden Gate, a motor lifeboat station, the Travis Marina (an Air Force Morale, Welfare and Recreation facility) and Presidio Yacht Club and the Bay Area Discovery Museum. A sustainability and climate change focused think-tank, The Institute at the Golden Gate, has its offices at Fort Baker ().

Cavallo Point conference center

In January 2005, an agreement was reached by the city of Sausalito and the National Park Service with developers for a retreat and conference center. Construction began in October 2006. Thirteen historic lodging buildings and seven historic commons buildings are being renovated; thirteen new lodging buildings are being built, as well. It is due to open in May 2008. It will have  of indoor space and  of outdoor event space, for events of 10 to 250 guests, a restaurant seating 100 people ("Murray Circle"), and an  full-service spa. The 142-room resort will be run by Passport Resorts, which also runs the Post Ranch Inn in Big Sur. The property is undergoing LEED accreditation for its reuse of existing buildings and green designs.

The resort at Cavallo Point is open and hosts guests.

In popular culture

The site is the home to both Starfleet Headquarters and Starfleet Academy in the Star Trek universe.
This site was also used as the Finish Line of The Amazing Race 2.
Featured in the third Dirty Harry film, The Enforcer, for a scene featuring a demonstration of a LAWS rocket.
This was used as the Escape from Alcatraz Triathlon Finish Line from 1989 through 1993*

See also
Mission blue butterfly habitat conservation
Fort Cronkhite

References

Further reading 
 Ft. Baker - Greening Case Study
 Final Environmental Impact Statement and Fort Baker Plan, EPA's Federal Register Environmental Documents, June 22, 2000.
 Fort Baker Official Brochure
 Fort Baker Parade Ground Walk: Innovations in Army Life self-guided tour
 Marin Headlands/Fort Baker Map

External links
 National Park Service website for Fort Baker
 Website for Cavallo Point, "The Lodge at the Golden Gate"
 Bay Area Discovery Museum
 Institute at the Golden Gate non profit site

Baker
Golden Gate National Recreation Area
Buildings and structures in Marin County, California
Sausalito, California
Closed installations of the United States Army
Military facilities in the San Francisco Bay Area
United States Coast Guard stations
Historic district contributing properties in California
Baker
Tourist attractions in Marin County, California
National Register of Historic Places in Marin County, California