[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nuclear safety in the United States

," the tsunami and associated earthquakes were more powerful than the plant was designed to accommodate, and the accident is directly due to the tsunami overflowing the too-low seawall. Since then, the possibility of unforeseen beyond design basis events has been a major concern for plant operators.

Whistleblowers

There have been a number of nuclear whistleblowers, often nuclear engineers, who have identified safety concerns at nuclear power plants in the United States. In 1976 Gregory Minor, Richard Hubbard, and Dale Bridenbaugh "blew the whistle" on safety problems at nuclear power plants in the United States. The three nuclear engineers (GE Three) gained the attention of journalists and their disclosures about the threats of nuclear power had a significant impact. George Galatis was a senior nuclear engineer who reported safety problems at the Millstone 1 Nuclear Power Plant, relating to reactor refueling procedures, in 1995. Other nuclear whistleblowers include Arnold Gundersen and David Lochbaum.

Assessments of risks
The NRC (and its predecessors) have over the decades produced three major analyses of the risks of nuclear power: a fourth, all-encompassing one (the State-of-the-Art Reactor Consequence Analyses, or SOARCA, study) is in generation now. The new study will be based on actual test results, on probabilistic risk assessment (PRA) methodology, and on the evaluated actions of government agencies.

The existing studies are:
 NUREG-1150 (1991)
 CRAC-II (1982) (based on WASH-1400 results)
 WASH-1400 (1975)
 WASH-740 (1957) (not PRA-based)

Reactor vendors now routinely calculate probabilistic risk assessments of their nuclear power plant designs. General Electric has recalculated maximum core damage frequencies per year per plant for its nuclear power plant designs:
BWR/4 — 1 × 10−5 (a typical plant)
BWR/6 — 1 × 10−6 (a typical plant)
ABWR — 2 × 10−7 (now operating in Japan)
ESBWR — 3 × 10−8 (submitted for Final Design Approval by NRC)

The proposed AP1000 has a maximum core damage frequency of  per plant per year.  The European Pressurized Reactor (EPR) has a maximum core damage frequency of  per plant per year.

According to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, 20 states in the USA have requested stocks of potassium iodide which the NRC suggests should be available for those living within  of a nuclear power plant in the unlikely event of a severe accident.  Radioactive iodine (radioiodine) is one of the products that can be released in a serious nuclear power plant accident. Potassium iodide (KI) is a non radioactive form of iodine that may be taken to reduce the amount of radioactive iodine absorbed by the body's thyroid gland. When taken before or shortly after a radiological exposure, potassium iodide blocks the thyroid glands ability to absorb radioactive iodine.  Potassium iodide should be taken by the public during an emergency only when directed by public health officials.

Accidents

Emergency Classifications
The NRC established a classification scale for nuclear power plant events to ensure consistency in the communications and emergency response.

Unusual Event—This is the lowest of the four emergency classifications.  This classification indicates that a small problem has occurred.  No release of radioactive material is expected and federal, state and county officials are notified.
Alert—Events are in process or have occurred which involve an actual or potential substantial degradation in the level of safety of the plant. Any releases of radioactive material from the plant are expected to be limited to a small fraction of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Protective Action Guide for Nuclear Incidents (PAGs)
Site Area Emergency—Involves events in process or which have occurred that result in actual or likely major failures of plant functions needed for protection of the public. Any releases of radioactive material are not expected to exceed the levels established by the EPA PAGs except near the site boundary.
General Emergency—The most serious emergency classification and indicates a serious problem.  A general emergency involves actual or imminent substantial core damage or melting of reactor fuel with the potential for loss of containment integrity.  Emergency sirens will be sounded and federal, state and county officials will act to ensure public safety.  Radioactive releases during a general emergency can reasonably be expected to exceed the EPA PAGs for more than the immediate site area.

Rocky Flats Plant