[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Westgate (Columbus, Ohio)

of the facility.

Westgate United Methodist Church is a medium-sized church located at 61 South Powell Avenue. It sits immediately north of West High school. Their mission is to help people to find their way back to God. They have been offering regular weekly services since their foundation in 1927.

Parkview United Methodist Church is centrally located just north of Westgate park. This church was very important in the plan for the neighborhood. This can be seen in the multiple streets that converge around it as well as in its prominent placement in relation to the park. It was constructed in 1941.

Events 
Summer Jam West is a free arts and music festival held annually in Westgate Park on the second Saturday in July. There are live bands, local art for sale, hand crafted items for sale, free face painting for the kids and a free art zone.  Summer Jam is open to all.  The focus is on bringing art and music to the Hilltop.

Hilltop Bean Dinner is an annual event held in late June where the Hilltop community congregates in Westgate park to share a meal. This event consists of music, art vendors, historic car shows, and most importantly the bean dinner. This event attracts many people from outside of the Westgate and greater Hilltop area as it is one of the primary annual events in the area.

The Westgate Home and Garden Tour is held on the second Saturday in June, from 2:00 – 6:00 PM.

The Westgate Farmers Market is held on the first and third Saturdays of each month, June through October, from 9:00 AM – 12:00 PM at the West Gate Masonic Lodge.

Education 

Westgate Alternative Elementary School is a public kindergarten-through-5th-grade elementary school located at 3080 Wicklow Road in Westgate. Its mission statement reads: "Each student is highly educated, prepared for leadership and service, and empowered for success as a citizen in a global community."  The school's standardized test performance ranks it 962nd among the 1596 Ohio public elementary schools and 7th among the 74 ranked elementary schools in the Columbus City School District.

Saint Mary Magdalene School is a private elementary school that teaches grades kindergarten through 8th. It was established in 1928 and has continually taught students since. The school consists of six buildings which are centrally located on a main campus. It is supported by the Ohio Catholic School Accreditation Association and the State of Ohio.

West High School is a public high school that teaches grades 9–12 and is located at 179 S Powell Ave, Columbus, OH. It shares the same mission statement as Westgate Alternative Elementary School. Their colors are buff and brown and their mascot is the cowboy. In 2014 the school was ranked 708th out of 756 high schools for standardized tests as its average reading score was 76.3. This is up from 2012 when the school was ranked 733rd and had an average reading test score of 69.5.

Residential 

Westgate is a very popular neighborhood for first time home buyers because of its location, aesthetic style, and low cost. In 2008 the average cost of a house in Westgate was 120,000 dollars. The majority of the residences in Westgate are single family houses that are owned by their occupants. The typical Westgate house is a cottage style with 2–3 bedrooms and is no taller than two stories. Most houses have either a brick or plaster facade as well as roofs with multiple peaks. This design helps to accentuate the homey feel of the neighborhood.  The uniqueness of each home in Westgate as well as the community's emphasis on façade and yard aesthetics has attracted residents who enjoy the freedom to use original and eclectic design styles.

Westgate has been described as "a nice neighborhood, with a family oriented atmosphere." Westgates residents are very diverse socially but tend to be middle class and young. Currently there is a new wave of people moving to Westgate who are in search of a Clintonville home at a cheap price. Westgate provides these home buyers the perfect option because each of its houses is unique and full of character. The main problem that residents face is the public school system. Both the elementary and high school in Westgate are ranked in the bottom half of public schools in Ohio. Due to this many families move out of Westgate when their kids become old enough to start attending school. The residents of Westgate are actively trying to improve their community as seen by their successful attempt in forming a neighborhood association. Westgate is a quaint, young, unique neighborhood that provides a multitude of benefits to its residents.

The Westgate Neighbors' Association is a non-profit community civic organization formed in February 2008. It is made up of residents in and around the Westgate neighborhood to improve livability in the neighborhood.

Gallery

References

External links