[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Vampire Earth

hey are eventually pinned down across from Evansville, IN, on the Ohio River. A general uprising in Evansville and throughout Kentucky sparks the attacking spirit in Southern Command soldiers and the remnants of the Legworm Clans. They make a final charge at the enemy lines and win the day. For now.

Winter Duty 
Southern Command has a new president, uninterested in holding the Evansville and Kentucky territory gained in the last book. Valentine organizes his own forces of former Quislings to provide support when the official troops march off. Almost immediately, a large group of Reapers takes over the Evansville power plant, but, with significant help from Duvalier and a squad of Bears, Valentine is able to kill the Kurian controlling them from the Owensboro bridge and retake the city. A convention of Kentucky clan leaders is interrupted by a bomb planted inside a legworm, tipping the scales in favor of opposition to the Kurians. Valentine worries that his own side planted the bomb to achieve just this result.
Valentine is then ordered to accompany wealthy cattle baron Bethany O'Coombe to look for her son, MIA in the long retreat across Kentucky. Along the way, one of the new avian-type Reapers warns the group that if Kentucky does not remain neutral, Kurian forces will exact a terrible retribution. They catch up to O'Coombe's son at a meeting of Kentucky clans, where he is providing what appears to be inept artillery advice; when this meeting is attacked by Kurian forces, it turns out this was a ruse to draw the Kurians into a devastating ambush. As Valentine returns to Evansville with the O'Coombes, a terrible snowstorm slows their progress, and they are attacked by a vicious strain of Ravies (zombies), called Woolies for the excessive hair growth of its victims. He captures a musical armored car, which is able to soothe or enrage the Ravies, and uses it to turn the Ravies on their Kurian creators. He is horrified to discover that his protege Frat is a Kurian agent, and has been travelling with them to spread the Woolly virus. Despite his obvious crimes, Valentine can't bring himself to execute Frat, and grants him amnesty.

March in Country 
The national best-selling "master of deception and tension" (Black Gate) returns to the Vampire Earth.... The race is on to claim the area between the Ohio River and Tennessee. What's left of the resistance is hiding out in the tangle of central Kentucky hills - leaving the powerful, well-organized Kurians the opportunity to fill the void.

Major David Valentine knows there's only one way for them to find help before the Kurians settle in: a desperate dash by hijacked rail, followed by a harrowing river journey.

Valentine unites friends old and new in the effort - but the Kurian Order won't easily yield the blood-soaked Kentucky soil.

Appalachian Overthrow 
The 10th book in the series, Appalachian Overthrow, focuses on Ahn-Kha's activities that were taking place at more-or-less the same time as the previous four novels, as it starts by reviewing escape and getaway chase from Xanadu. The Roc Hardcover first edition was released on April 2, 2013.

Baltic Gambit 

While out scouting in southern Indiana, Alessa Duvalier comes across a Kurian Conference being attended by every major military sect the Kurians have in the Midwest. Taking advantage of the strategic opportunity to cripple their enemy, Alessa and her warriors strike and achieve victory—only to discover an even greater threat to humanity.
 
Most of the world's resistance leaders and the Lifeweavers are gathering for a peace conference in Helsinki, Finland, and according to the intelligence materials Alessa recovered during her raid, the Kurians have already inserted an agent among the delegates.
 
Valentine is chosen to be head of security for the Army of Kentucky representatives—and Alessa ignores his order to stay behind. Thrust into a lethal intrigue that threatens the entire peace process, she learns that the Kurian agent may be the least of her concerns.

Awards 
Way of the Wolf
2004 Compton Crook Award (Baltimore Science Fiction Society)
2004 Darrell Award (Memphis Science Fiction Association)

References 

Science fiction book series
Fantasy novel series
Alien invasions in novels
American fantasy novel series
Novels set in Haiti
American post-apocalyptic novels
Fiction set in 2065