[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Canadian Ski Instructors' Alliance

(CADS), the Canadian Association of Nordic Ski Instructors (CANSI), the Canadian Ski Guide Association (CSGA), or the Canadian Freestyle Ski Association (CFSA). Instructors who are members of multiple partner organizations can only obtain the 10 education credits once as the offer is non-cumulative.

This fourth and final level of certification, Level 4, can only be delivered by senior course conductors and evaluators, who themselves hold a Level 4 certification.

Training and certification programs are also available for senior instructors (Levels 3 & 4) who wish to partake in the delivery of CSIA certification courses as course conductors and evaluators.

Membership

Regular member
Most ski instructors are regular members of the CSIA. They may work in any ski resort across Canada, the United States, Australia, and the countries of Europe.

Associate member
Ski instructors holding certifications from other certifying bodies, such as the PESA in Quebec, may apply to become associate members in order to pursue further certification with the CSIA.

25-Year member
The CSIA offers a merit certification for ski instructors' that were part of the organization for twenty-five or more consecutive years. The celebrated members are normally awarded a "25 year member" pin, as well as a certificate, recognizing their efforts in the field.

Affiliate member
Affiliate members are mostly ski instructors who are certified by the International Ski Instructors' Alliance (ISIA).

Governing board
The governing board of the CSIA is made up of six individuals who represent the regional boards in Canada. 

For the 2022–2023 season, the board members include:
Gunars Kazaks (CSIA 4 CC), Secretary and National Representative of Ontario
Jamie Lou Morneau (CSIA 2, ACA Entry Level Trained) National Representative of Central
Paul Sauvé (CSIA 4, CSCF 2), National Representative of British Columbia
Antoine Tétreault Paquin (CSIA Level 4, ACA Development Level Trained), Vice-Chair and National Representative of Quebec
Colin Borrow (CSIA 4, CSCF 2), Chair and National Representative of Alberta
Nathan Reece (CSIA 4, CSCF 1), Treasurer and National Representative of Atlantic
Perry Schmunk (CSIA 4), Managing Director (non-voting)

Regional Board Of Directors
The regional boards of the Canadian Ski Instructors' Alliance are as follows:
The regional board of British Columbia is made up of eleven members of the CSIA;
The regional board of the Atlantic region includes representatives from Prince Edward Island, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, and Nova Scotia;
The regional board of Quebec is made up of ten members, who are elected every few years;
The regional board of Ontario is made up of up to 9 members, ;
The regional board of the Central region is made up of ski instructors representing Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and Northwestern Ontario;
The regional committee of Alberta includes eight ski instructors.

National helmet use policy

Helmets have been shown to reduce the incidence of severe head injuries. Since 2014, the CSIA requires that a helmet be worn by all course conductors on duty as well as those in uniform. Additionally, course participants are required to wear a helmet for the freeride/snowpark and GS modules.

Associated organizations
 Canadian Association of Snowboard Instructors
 Canadian Ski Coaches Federation
 Canadian Adaptive Snowsports
 Ontario Track 3 - Ski Association
 Canadian Association of Nordic Ski Instructors
 International Ski Instructors' Alliance

References

External links
Canadian Ski Instructors' Alliance
Canadian Ski Instructors' Alliance - Quebec
Canadian Ski Instructors' Alliance - Ontario

Skiing organizations
Professional associations based in Canada
Sports professional associations