[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kurt Sutter

and Billy Gierhart. The first season also featured The Shield star Jay Karnes as a recurring special guest star playing ATF Agent Joshua Kohn. This is a trend that continued in later seasons with the majority of the main cast of The Shield appearing in later episodes in a variety of different roles.

Sutter remained showrunner and executive producer for the series' second season in 2009. He wrote the season premiere "Albification", co-wrote the episode "Eureka" with Brett Conrad, co-wrote the episode "Gilead" with co-producer Chris Collins, co-wrote the episode "Potlatch" with Misha Green, co-wrote the teleplay for the episode "Service" with co-executive producer Jack LoGiudice from a story by Brady Dahl and Cory Udica, co-wrote the episode "The Culling" with consulting producer Dave Erickson, and wrote and directed the season finale "Na Trioblóidí". The second season featured The Shield star Kenny Johnson as a special guest star playing a club member named Kozik.

Sutter returned as showrunner and executive producer for the third season in 2010. He wrote the season premiere "SO", co-wrote the episode "Oiled" with Erickson, now a co-executive producer, co-wrote the episode "Home" with Liz Sagal, series' star Katey Sagal's sister and his sister-in-law. He co-wrote the episode "Widening Gyre" with co-producer Regina Corrado and the episode "Lochan Mor" with Erickson and Liz Sagal. He wrote the story for the episode "Turas"; the teleplay was co-written by Collins (now a producer) and Dahl. He co-wrote the episode "Firinne" with Vaunn Wilmott and the episode "Bainne" with Corrado and Erickson. He wrote the story for the episode "June Wedding"; Collins wrote the teleplay. He reprised the role of Otto in the season finale, titled "NS", which he also directed and co-wrote with Erickson. Johnson returned as Kozik in the third season. He would go on to produce seven seasons of Sons. The show concluded airing in December 2014.

In 2010, DreamWorks picked up Sutter's film script, Southpaw, and Eminem was eyed for the lead role. The film was dropped by DreamWorks in 2011, and was later picked up by MGM and Columbia Pictures. Antoine Fuqua directed the film, and Jake Gyllenhaal replaced Eminem in the lead. Rachel McAdams, Rita Ora, 50 Cent, and Forest Whitaker also appeared in the film. Southpaw was released on July 24, 2015, by The Weinstein Company.

In 2014, it was announced Sutter had begun developing The Bastard Executioner, a new series for FX, The series was ordered to pilot on December 12, 2014. Katey Sagal, Lee Jones, and Stephen Moyer signed on to join the cast of the pilot. On May 22, 2015, the pilot was ordered to series with a 10-episode launch to premiere on September 15, 2015, on FX. The series was cancelled after one season. He went on to create the Sons of Anarchy spinoff Mayans M.C. In October 2019, Sutter was fired from FX after multiple complaints were lodged against him about his "abrasive" and "unprofessional" behavior. Sutter appeared in the 2021 science fiction film Chaos Walking, his first feature film acting role.

Projects in development
Sutter is currently developing a six-issue comic book miniseries with Boom! Studios entitled Lucas Stand. The first issue was released on June 1, 2016. He also worked on a comic book called Sisters of Sorrow; the book was launched at the 2016 San Diego Comic-Con.

In May 2021, it was announced that Sutter would direct a horror film titled This Beast for Netflix. In November 2021, it was announced that he would create a western series titled The Abandons for Netflix.

Influences 
Sutter has stated he's had multiple influences in his writing style, including William Shakespeare, specifically his play Hamlet. He based the characters of Sons of Anarchy on Hamlet. Other cultural influences include Mad Magazine, Hanna-Barbera cartoons, and the television show Hill Street Blues, among others.

Personal life
Sutter moved to Los Angeles in 2000. Sutter married actress Katey Sagal in a private ceremony on October 2, 2004, at their home in Los Feliz, California. Their first child, daughter Esme Louise, was born January 10, 2007. Esme was carried by a surrogate mother.

Sutter is an animal rights activist, and is vegan. He is also a motorcycle enthusiast.

Filmography

Film

Television

Actor

Producer

Writer

Director

See also
Outlaw Empires

References

External links

Sutter Ink Blog

Interview with Kurt Sutter

Living people
American male screenwriters
American male television actors
American television directors
American television writers
People from Rahway, New Jersey
Roselle Catholic High School alumni
Male actors from New Jersey
Showrunners
American male television writers
1960 births
The Shield
Sons of Anarchy
Screenwriters from New Jersey
Northern Illinois University alumni
Rutgers University alumni
American people of Norwegian descent
People from Los Feliz, Los Angeles
Television producers from New Jersey