[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Herbert Ihlefeld

led the Geschwader since the death in combat of Oberst Walter Oesau on 11 May 1944. On 14 July 1944, Ihlefeld claimed a North American P-51 Mustang and a Spitfire shot down. He was credited with his next victories on 25 July, claiming the destruction of an Avro Lancaster heavy bomber and a Spitfire.

Operation Bodenplatte
Ihlefeld participated and led JG 1 in Operation Bodenplatte, the failed attempt to cripple Allied air forces in the Low Countries. The objective of Bodenplatte was to gain air superiority during the stagnant stage of the Battle of the Bulge and dates back to meeting held on 16 September 1944. That day, Hitler informed General der Flieger (Lieutenant General) Werner Kreipe, acting Chief of the General Staff of the Luftwaffe, about the planned offensive. Ihlefeld probably learned of this operation on 5 December 1944. Luftwaffenkommando West (Air Command West) had ordered every wing commander of all the Jagdgeschwaders destined to participate in the operation to attend a meeting at the headquarters of II. Jagdkorps (2nd Fighter Corps) at Flammersfeld near Koblenz. At the time, Ihlefeld was faced with a very challenging leadership situation. Prior to the operation, JG 1 had lost the commander of I. Gruppe, Hauptmann Hans Ehlers who was killed in action on 27 December, and the commander of III. Gruppe, Hauptmann Erich Woitke who had been killed in action on 24 December. The commander of II. Gruppe, Hauptmann Hermann Staiger, had landed his combat damaged aircraft at Frankfurt and had not yet returned to his unit. On the early afternoon of 31 December 1944, Ihlefeld summoned his three new Gruppenkommandeure to Twente for the mission briefing. The new I. Gruppe commander was Hauptmann Georg Hackbarth, II. Gruppe was led by Oberleutnant Fritz Wegner and III. Gruppe was now headed by Hauptmann Harald Moldenhauer.

On 1 January 1945, the Geschwaderstab and I. Gruppe, both based at Twente, took off at 08:10 and joined up with and III. Gruppe, based at Rheine, which had taken off at 8:15. Their designated targets were the airfields at Maldegem and Ursel. The formation was led by four Junkers Ju 88 night fighters from Nachtjagdgeschwader 1 (NJG 1—1st Night Fighter Wing); they were the pathfinders for the single-engined fighters. The formation of 20 Focke Wulf Fw 190 A-8s and 30 Bf 109 G-14s, flying at an altitude of , headed west. As the flight approached The Hague, they came under heavy and precise German anti-artillery fire. The German anti-artillery units had not been informed of the Luftwaffe operation. Several aircraft were hit, including the aircraft of Ihlefeld who had to make a forced landing near Rotterdam. II. Gruppe, based at Drope, between Lengerich and Bawinkel, had also taken off at 08:15 and headed for the airfield at Ghent/Sint-Denijs-Westrem. JG 1 continued with their mission without Ihlefeld leading the decisive phase of the attack. The result of the attack can be described as Pyrrhic victory at best. JG 1 claimed the destruction of around 60 enemy aircraft, of which 54 were destroyed on the ground, for the loss of 25 pilots and 29 aircraft.

Following Operation Bodenplatte, JG 1 was relocated to the Eastern Front. During the relocation, I. Gruppe faced RAF fighters over Hengelo-Twente on 14 January 1945. JG 1 lost 12 pilots with 7 being killed, 3 wounded and 2 missing. Spitfires shot down the entire 1. and 2. Staffeln of JG 1 at Twente Airport as they took off, for the loss of two. Ihlefeld threatened to court martial Major Günther Capito, the new commander of I. Gruppe, for such a disastrous loss but was unable to during the transferring to the Eastern Front. By 19 January, the Geschwaderstab and all three Gruppen had reached their new airfields. The Geschwaderstab, I. and II. Gruppe were then based in East Prussia, with I. Gruppe in Jürgenfelde, present-day Judino in Kaliningrad Oblast, and II. Gruppe in Insterburg, present-day Chernyakhovsk in Russia, while III. Gruppe was sent to Schröttersburg, present-day Płock, located on the Vistula river approximately  northwest of Warsaw.

Flying the He 162 and end of war