[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of South African slang words

"to farm".
 boer maak 'n plan – "farmer makes a plan" is an expression used to refer to a creative solution, often low-cost and rather innovative.
 boererate – a number of local home remedies that are super effective and cheap. May also be applied to DIY projects.
 boerewors – a very popular mixed-meat spiced sausage in South Africa. In Afrikaans, literally "farmer's sausage", used as a mainstream word in South African English.
 boerewors roll/boerie roll – the South African equivalent of the hot dog, using the boerewors with an onion relish in a hot dog bun
boggerol/bugger-all – Anglicism with identical meaning (absolutely nothing), usually succeeding the words "sweet blou/blue" to emphasize the "nothingness" of the topic.
 boland – refers to the geographic region north of Cape Town. See Boland.
bollie – lit "to poop". Of unknown origin, it is the Afrikaans equivalent of "poop". Due to the fact that it's the most child-friendly description of defecation.
 bokkie – (diminutive of bok, literally meaning "little buck" or "doe") a popular term of endearment, comparable to "sweetheart", "honey", etc. Another meaning for the word bokkie (or bokbaardjie) is for a style of beard which is short (often pointy) and stylish and often surrounds just the mouth and chin in a circle (Goatee). Based on the Afrikaans word bok (lit. "buck", as well as goat). 
 boom – marijuana (literally tree)
 bosberaad – strategy meeting held in a rural setting
 bossies, or bosbefok – crazy, whacko, mad. Also a term for one who has shell shock. Refers to the time of the South African Border War where soldiers spent time in the bush ("bos/bosse") and would return home suffering battle flash-backs (Post-traumatic stress disorder).
 braai – a barbecue, to barbecue (from braaivleis – grilled meat), used as a mainstream word in South African English. Specifically to grill meat on an open fire. As a noun, it is also the literal area/object used for the grilling of the meat (in that case, the barbecue grill and stand) as well as the social gathering around it.
 braaivleis – same as braai
 braaibroodjies – toasted sandwiches that are grilled over an open flame on a braai. Usually served as a side-dish to braaivleis.
 brak – mongrel dog, can also refer to brackish water
 branna – short for "brandewyn" (lit. "brandy")
 broekie – panties or ladies underwear. From Afrikaans: broek, meaning "trousers/briefs". Common usage: "Don't get your broekies in a knot" which means "Calm down".
 broekie lace – ornate ironwork found on Victorian buildings (lit. 'pantie lace'), the tie that you find on board shorts
 bro/bra/bru/boet/boetie – a close male friend and a term of affection used by one male to another. All words are variations of the word "broer" in Afrikaans meaning "brother". Boetie (Pronounced 'Boet – tea') specifically means little brother in Afrikaans because of the "ie" diminutive suffix. You could say, "Hey bro, howzit" or "Thanks a million bro for lending me your car". When you refer to another male as bro is it because you consider that person to be such a good friend he is like a brother, a family member. Bro can also be used for strangers but only also if you wish to show a welcoming and friendly attitude towards them or when you want to deescalate tension in a friendly way as in "Chill out bro". However you would certainly not walk around calling every man you see, bro, because in South Africa the term is not used as loosely as it is in the US for example. 
 bring-en-braai/bring-and-braai – guests bring their own food and drink (usually pre-prepared, except for the meat) to the braai. Traditions surrounding the event usually stipulate that any left-over food and drinks are left behind with the hosts of the party as a parting gift, unless the food was pre-prepared in a personal container.
 bromponie – lit. "a noisy pony", refers to a scooter motorcycle, because a full-size motorcycle is often referred to as an "ysterperd" (iron horse), considering a pony is much smaller than a horse.
brommer -  lit. "a noise maker" refers to a noisy fly, more specifically to the genus Morellia (which is much larger than its cousin, the common housefly).
 buk – duck your head down quickly, as in "Buk when you go in the door; it's really low."
 bucks – from the English word meaning (antelope) it refers to money (currency), although borrowed from the American term of the same meaning, coincidentally there are two types of bucks featured on the coins of the South African Rand (Springbok on the R1 and Kudu on the R2). Not to be confused with the "Bokke" (Springbokke/Springbucks).