[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lake Natoma

an Aquatic Center right on Lake Natoma that belongs to the California State University Sacramento (CSUS). This is where CSUS holds some of their aquatic classes, such as skiing and wind surfing.

Bike path 
A bike path follows along the East Trail and West Trail of Nimbus Dam that lines Lake Natoma.

Dirt trails 
Six miles of dirt trail lead to Nimbus Flat and Willow Creek. There are also dirt trails on both sides of Lake Natoma; one is six miles and other is nine miles.

Nimbus Fish Hatchery 

Under Nimbus Dam and Lake Natoma lies the Nimbus Fish Hatchery, operated by the California Department of Fish and Games, that was built in 1955 by the U.S Bureau of Reclamation. The California Department of Fish and Games operates a visitor center here. The hatchery replicates spawning environments by creating a fish ladder that guides salmon and steelheads to spawn. For recreational fishing in the northern and Central California bodies of water, the hatchery produces 4 million Chinook salmon and over 400,000 Steelhead trout per year.

Folsom Powerhouse State Historic Park 

On the south bank of Lake Natoma lies the old Folsom Powerhouse State Historic Park, located in the City of Folsom at the intersection of Riley and Scott Streets. In 1895, Folsom Powerhouse became the first powerhouse to generate electricity for the city of Sacramento.[clarification needed] The facility, which included the powerhouse and a dam, operated until 1952 when construction of the modern Folsom Dam hydroelectric facility was completed. The new Folsom Dam rendered the old Folsom Powerhouse obsolete. The old dam that had been used in conjunction with the historic Folsom Powerhouse was removed during construction of the modern Folsom Dam facility.[clarification needed] During its operation (1895-1952) the powerhouse delivered 11,000 volts of electricity over 22 miles to Sacramento. The historic site is listed in the National Register of Historic Places. There is a visitor center where the public can learn more about the history of the park.

Animals 
Native animals known to live here are the mule deer, coyote, bobcat, mountain lion, quail, bald and golden eagle, heron, egret, western pond turtle, and California horned lizard. A few common fish in Lake Natoma are catfish and carp. Aquatic animals in Lake Natoma are usually tolerant of warm water and low oxygen level water. Other fish found here are bass, bluegill, and green sunfish. Right under Nimbus Dam are steelheads, Chinook salmon, American shad, and Pacific lampreys. Bald eagles and golden eagles can be found around Folsom Lake and Lake Natoma for nesting; about six bald eagles and two golden eagles are observed annually. Both are protected under the Federal Bald Eagle Protection Act of 1940.

Environmental issues

Mercury 
Fish at Lake Natoma were found to have high levels of mercury in their tissue. A sample of 22 fish showed that mercury levels had approached or exceed guidelines set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, which is set at 3 microgram Hg/g wet weight. Since there were too few samples, it is not known for sure if mercury is randomly distributed throughout Lake Natoma. Concentration of mercury increases as sizes of fish increase, usually because of bioaccumulation. Factors include length, weight, and age. For example, predators at the top of the food chain, such as large bass mouth, spotted bass, and white catfish, usually have higher concentrations.

The California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA) has developed a safe eating advisory for Lake Natoma, based on levels of mercury found in fish caught here.

See also 
 List of dams and reservoirs in California
 List of lakes in California

External links 
 Nimbus Dam fact sheet - United States Bureau of Reclamation

References

Further reading
Saiki, M.K. (2004). Summary of total mercury concentrations in fillets of selected sport fishes collected during 2000-2003 from Lake Natoma, Sacramento County, California [Data Series 103]. Reston, VA: U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey.

Natoma
Natoma
American River (California)
Central Valley Project
Parks in the San Joaquin Valley
Rowing venues in the United States
Natoma