[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# History of Harringay (1880–present)

In 1912, when Arsenal Football Team was seeking to relocate from Woolwich, Harringay was one of three sites, along with Battersea and Highbury, shortlisted for the team's new ground. The proposed site in Harringay was presumably where the stadium and arena were built in the 1920s and 1930s.

Cinemas

In its days as an entertainment centre for London, Harringay in North London also provided more locally directed entertainment in the shape of four cinemas. The earliest was opened in 1910 and was operating as a cinema until January 2003.

Harringay was also home to a film studio operated by George Merino and British Animated Productions, which produced the first British technicolour cartoon, Bubble & Squeak (A series of five cartoons about Bubble, a taxi driver, and Squeak, his sentient car, who get into various silly adventures together.)

Other
Harringay saw the birth of one of the UK's best known wine stores when Majestic Wine opened their first store in Colina Mews, Harringay, in 1981.

Transport and communications history
There is little doubt that the history of transport communications through Harringay had a decisive effect on shaping it today.

Roadways
In Roman times, a great roadway to the north was established (see Early history). This roadway endured as a great communication passage to the north and brought much activity through the heart of the area. It also acted as the rough dividing line for land ownership, establishing Harringay's position on the edge of manorial and subsequently borough boundaries.

During the early 1960s, Harringay was the location for ground-breaking pedestrian control arrangements instituted by the then Transport Minister Ernest Marples.

Rail

Great Northern Railway
In the mid nineteenth century, the arrival of the Great Northern Railway (GNR) divided Harringay from the rest of its ancient borough.  The subsequent arrival of the Tottenham and Hampstead Junction Railway (THJR) almost defined its present-day southern boundary. Harringay's development in the late 19th century was of a markedly different nature than that which occurred to the west of the GNR and so the south of the THJR.

The GNR opened through the area in 1850 when Hornsey was the first stop after London. The station was re-sited in 1866, when the old lines became sidings. In response to the growing development in the area, Harringay station was opened on 2 May 1885.

Tottenham & Hampstead Junction Railway
The Tottenham & Hampstead Junction Railway, running east–west towards the south of the area, opened in 1880. Harringay Green Lanes railway station was originally named just 'Green Lanes'. Two years later it was renamed to 'Harringay Park, Green Lanes'. In June 1951 the name changed to 'Harringay Park' and in October 1958 it became 'Harringay Stadium'. Then in May 1990 the name was again changed to reflect the closure of the stadium; the name chosen this time was 'Harringay East'. The station got its present name a year later in May 1991.

Palace Gates Line
The short-lived Palace Gates Line running just to the north of Harringay operated from 1878 to 1963. It ran from Liverpool Street through Seven Sisters, West Green, Wood Green (Palace Gates) and North to Hertford.

Great Northern & City Railway
The Great Northern & City Railway was first planned in 1891 to bring commuters into the heart of the city at Moorgate. The Great Northern Railway Company took an obvious interest in the project from the start. They put onerous conditions on the use of Finsbury Park, gained Parliamentary powers to forbid extension of the proposed line north of the station, and eventually managed to get it bottled up in a tube station underneath the mainline one.

The line was eventually opened in 1904 running from Moorgate to Finsbury Park. A few years after the formation of London Transport, the line was transferred to the Northern line for operational purposes, then being called the "Northern City Line". When the Victoria line was built, the Great Northern & City Railway services were cut back to Drayton Park, and the tube station at Finsbury Park was rebuilt to allow cross-platform interchange between the Victoria and Piccadilly lines. In March 1970 it was renamed again, to the "Northern line - Highbury Branch". Eventually London Underground closed the branch in 1975 and transferred ownership to British Rail, who installed new connections to the main line south of Finsbury Park. Finally the route has taken on its original intended purpose of providing a City terminus for suburban services, now run from Moorgate to Hertford, Welwyn, and Letchworth.