[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Maricopa County Community College District

The Maricopa County Community College District (MCCCD), also known as Maricopa Community Colleges, is a public community college district in Maricopa County, Arizona. Headquartered in Tempe, MCCCD is among the largest community college districts in the United States, serving more than 100,000 students each year in the Phoenix metropolitan area.

The programs offered at MCCCD include those leading to a two-year associate degree, and occupational certificates, as well as online classes, and dual enrollment programs. The cost of tuition for Maricopa County residents is $85 per credit hour, as of the 2022–23 academic year.

History 
The Phoenix Union High School District established Phoenix Junior College (now Phoenix College) in 1920 as the first community college in the state of Arizona. In 1960, the state legislature provided for junior college districts in Arizona. The Maricopa County Junior College District was established in 1962 by the approval of county voters, with the new system acquiring Phoenix Junior College.

The system established branch campuses of Phoenix Junior College in the nearby suburbs of Glendale and Mesa; these would subsequently become independent campuses within the system.

 Maricopa County Junior College Northwest Campus (now Glendale Community College) in 1965;
 Maricopa County Junior College Southeast Campus (now Mesa Community College) in 1965.

Other campuses were established in the following years:

 Maricopa Technical College (now part of GateWay Community College) in 1968;
 Scottsdale Community College in 1969;
 Rio Salado Community College in 1978;
 South Mountain Community College in 1980;
 the Northeast Valley Education Center (now Paradise Valley Community College) in 1985;
 the Chandler/Gilbert Education Center (now Chandler-Gilbert Community College) in 1985;
 Estrella Mountain Community College in 1990;
 Southwest Skill Center (now part of GateWay Community College) in 2000;
 the Red Mountain campus part of Mesa Community College in 2001;
 Glendale Community College North in 2008;
 Paradise Valley Community College at Black Mountain in 2009.

In 1971, the "Junior College" portion of the name was changed to "Community College".

The State Board of Directors for Community Colleges of Arizona presided over the entire statewide community college system until June 2002, when the Arizona Legislature reduced its powers and duties and transferred most oversight to individual community college districts.

In 2010, the various nursing programs at each of the Maricopa Community Colleges coalesced under one standard curriculum and program consortium: "MaricopaNursing.

On January 8, 2013 MCCCD migrates students and faculty from a Blackboard Inc. solution to the Instructure Canvas learning management system. Rio Salado college continues to use its custom implementation of Microsoft Sharepoint, RioLearn.

In September 2016, the Maricopa Skill Center which has three campuses including Buckeye & 12th St, 29th Ave & Bell, and 75th Ave & Peoria are folded into the Gateway Community College brand. The merger of brands is due in part by "shrinking appropriations from the state since 2007, [requiring] more aggressive, intentional actions have taken place to bring the two institutions more in line with one another.".

In March 2017, MCCCD moves from a standardized, stepped-compensation system for its staff to a range-based system based on performance. The new system is slated for implementation in July 2017.
 
In Feb 2018, the MCCCD governing board eliminates the meet-and-confer program which was used as a form of bargaining for employee benefits and compensation, among other purposes. This change resulted in controversy among some MCCCD staff and faculty. This change has resulted in controversy among members of the community including faculty and students.

In Feb 2018, Football ceases to be a funded sport at the MCCCD colleges due to lack of available budget.

In June 2018 it is revealed a Human Resources project to harmonize the technology behind the way staff are paid has resulted in thousands of underpay-overpay errors over the course of 6 months. This problem resulted in a unanimous vote of no-confidence by the faculty senate at each of the MCCCD colleges.

Colleges

Maricopa Corporate College
Founded in 2013, the corporate college provides consultative services to businesses, and continuing education to professionals, and will oversee district entrepreneurial activities and initiatives, such as the business incubator on the GateWay Community College campus. It functions independently of the 10 Maricopa community colleges and two skill centers, while drawing on their faculty and facility resources when appropriate.