[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# De Oratore

peaking, with your jokes, or mocking many examples from laws, consults of the Senate and from everyday speeches.
You raised fun and happiness in the audience: I cannot see what has civil right to do with that.
You used your extraordinary power of eloquence, with your great sense of humour and grace.

Antonius further critiques Crassus
Considering the allegation that the young do not learn oratory, despite, in your opinion, it is so easy, and watching those who boast to be a master of oratory, claiming that it is very difficult,
you are contradictory, because you say it is an easy discipline, while you admit it is still not this way, but it will become such one day.
Second, you say it is full of satisfaction: on the contrary everyone will let to you this pleasure and prefer to learn by heart the Teucer of Pacuvius than the leges Manilianae.
Third, as for your love for the country, do not you realise that the ancient laws are lapsed by themselves for oldness or repealed by new ones?
Fourth, you claim that, thanks to the civil right, honest men can be educated, because laws promise prices to virtues and punishments to crimes. I have always thought that, instead, virtue can be communicated to men, by education and persuasion and not by threatens, violence or terror.
As for me, Crassus, let me treat trials, without having learnt civil right: I have never felt such a failure in the civil action, that I brought before the courts.
For ordinary and everyday situations, cannot we have a generic knowledge?
Cannot we be taught about civil right, in so far as we feel not stranger in our country?
Should a court action deal with a practical case, then we would obliged to learn a discipline so difficult and complicate; likewise, we should act in the same way, should we have a skilled knowledge of laws or opinions of experts of laws, provided that we have not already studied them by young.

Fundamentals of rhetorics according to Antonius
Shall I conclude that the knowledge of civil right is not at all useful for the orator?
Absolutely not: no discipline is useless, particularly for who has to use arguments of eloquence with abundance.
But the notions that an orator needs are so many, that I am afraid he would be lost, wasting his energy in too many studies.
Who can deny that an orator needs the gesture and the elegance of Roscius, when acting in the court?
Nonetheless, nobody would advice the young who study oratory to act like an actor.
Is there anything more important for an orator than his voice?
Nonetheless, no practising orator would be advised by me to care about this voice like the Greek and the tragic actors, who repeat for years exercise of declamation, while seating; then, every day, they lay down and lift their voice steadily and, after having made their speech, they sit down and they recall it by the most sharp tone to the lowest, like they were entering again into themselves.
But of all this gesture, we can learn a summary knowledge, without a systematic method and, apart gesture and voice that cannot be improvised nor taken by others in a moment, any notion of right can be gained by experts or by the books.
Thus, in Greece, the most excellent orators, as they are not skilled in right, are helped by expert of right, the pragmatikoi.
The Romans behave much better, claiming that law and right were guaranteed by persons of authority and fame.

Old age does not require study of law
As for the old age, that you claim relieved by loneliness, thanks to the knowledge of civil right, who knows that a large sum of money will relieve it as well?
Roscius loves to repeat that the more he will go on with the age the more he will slow down the accompaniment of a flute-player and will make more moderate his chanted parts.
If he, who is bound by rhythm and meter, finds out a device to allow himself a bit of a rest in the old age, the easier will be for us not only to slow down the rhythm, but to change it completely.
You, Crassus, certainly know how many and how various are the way of speaking,.
Nonetheless, your present quietness and solemn eloquence is not at all less pleasant than your powerful energy and tension of your past.
Many orators, such as Scipio and Laelius, which gained all results with a single tone, just a little bit elevated, without forcing their lungs or screaming like Servius Galba.
Do you fear that you home will no longer be frequented by citizens?
On the contrary I am waiting the loneliness of the old age like a quiet harbour: I think that free time is the sweetest comfort of the old age