[Source: PubMed]

67. Vaccines (Basel). 2022 Jan 26;10(2):194. doi: 10.3390/vaccines10020194.

Assessing Inequities in COVID-19 Vaccine Roll-Out Strategy Programs: A 
Cross-Country Study Using a Machine Learning Approach.

Kazemi M(1), Bragazzi NL(1), Kong JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Africa-Canada Artificial Intelligence and Data Innovation Consortium 
(ACADIC), Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Faculty of Science, York 
University, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada.

After the start of the COVID-19 pandemic and its spread across the world, 
countries have adopted containment measures to stop its transmission, limit 
fatalities, and relieve hospitals from straining and overwhelming conditions 
imposed by the virus. Many countries implemented social distancing and lockdown 
strategies that negatively impacted their economies and the psychological 
wellbeing of their citizens, even though they contributed to saving lives. 
Recently approved and available, COVID-19 vaccines can provide a really viable 
and sustainable option for controlling the pandemic. However, their uptake 
represents a global challenge due to vaccine hesitancy and 
logistic-organizational hurdles that have made its distribution stagnant in 
several developed countries despite several appeals by the media, policy- and 
decision-makers, and community leaders. Vaccine distribution is also a concern 
in developing countries, where there is a scarcity of doses. The objective of 
the present study was to set up a metric to assess vaccination uptake and 
identify national socio-economic factors influencing this indicator. We 
conducted a cross-country study. We first estimated the vaccination uptake rate 
across countries by fitting a logistic model to reported daily case numbers. 
Using the uptake rate, we estimated the vaccine roll-out index. Next, we used 
Random Forest, an "off-the-shelf" machine learning algorithm, to study the 
association between vaccination uptake rate and socio-economic factors. We found 
that the mean vaccine roll-out index is 0.016 (standard deviation 0.016), with a 
range between 0.0001 (Haiti) and 0.0829 (Mongolia). The top four factors 
associated with the vaccine roll-out index are the median per capita income, 
human development index, percentage of individuals who have used the internet in 
the last three months, and health expenditure per capita. The still-ongoing 
COVID-19 pandemic has shed light on the disparity in vaccine adoption across 
low- and high-income countries, which represents a global public health 
challenge. We must pave the way for universal access to vaccines and other 
approved treatments, regardless of demographic structures and underlying health 
conditions. Income disparity remains, instead, an important cause of vaccine 
inequity, which restricts the functioning of the global vaccine allocation 
framework and, thus, the ending of the pandemic. Stronger mechanisms are needed 
to foster countries' political willingness to promote vaccine and drug access 
equity in a globalized society where future pandemics and other global health 
crises can be anticipated.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines10020194
PMCID: PMC8879459
PMID: 35214653

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.