[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jorge Volpi

ons, as well as complex systems of interrelations, making them similar to the "novelas totalizantes" of the 1960s. He is the only major writer of this kind of novel in Spanish and has been "accused" of not being Latin American enough for his distinctive style and subject matter. Volpi disputes this.

His first notable work were the "novelas de crack" publishing in the 1990s in which he rejected the then dominant "literature light" and focused less on the language and more on the actions of the characters. He felt literature light trivialized the link between literature and knowledge. This novels, which  include La paz de los sepulcros, El tempermento meloncólico and Sanar tu piel amarga were writing during the Carlos Salinas de Gortari administration, when Mexican politics and economy were under great strain. This influence remains in his work as he still focuses on developing his characters before he starts the novel. Even though these sketches change, it allows Volpi to "know" them and a few important features to help describe them briefly, like a first impression in real life.

Volpi has stated that "The novels I like to read and the ones I try to write are those that consider fiction as a vehicle of knowledge." He believes that "a novel is a form of exploring the world." His novels show great effort to research an area of knowledge to incorporate this into the story, with the main characters often also involved in the discovery of knowledge. In A pesar del oscuro silencio, the main character is researching the tragic life of Jorge Cuesta, a Mexican vanguard poet and essayist of the 1920s and 1930s. Similarly, the protagonist in Tribuna del escandolo also engages in biographical research, but in this case to solve a double murder. In El temperamento melancolico, Volpi psychologically analyzes the idea of human temperament, exploring group dynamics and the effects of individual actions. The story here is of a German film director making his last film in Mexico, with Volpi focuses on the ten Mexican actors and their roles in the film. In La tejedora de sombras, the subject matter is the psychoanalysis of Carl Jung. Memorial del engaño is about the financial crisis of 2008 and the revelation that much of the world economic order was due to communist spies. Volpi's best known work, En busca de Klingsor, is the first of a trilogy that not only traces the development of scientific knowledge of the latter 20th century, but also aligns it to the political and social thought of the same era. He begins in the first book with relatively theory and quantum mechanics questioning much of how we see existence, (developed inside the search for Hitler's chief scientific advisor just after World War II), It is followed by El fin de la locura set from the May 1968 demonstrations in Paris to the Fall of the Berlin Wall. No será la Tierra is about the end of communist ideal in the 20th century.

For Volpi, literature is to satisfy his curiosity and search for knowledge, including knowledge about himself, preferring to use first-person narrators. For Volpi, the novel is a vehicle for knowledge about identity in action, placing readers in a position to observe the how human behavior works. He generally writes about identity as a mixture of character, temperament and will. His stories are often experiments to place certain temperaments together to analyze their interactions. However, knowledge in Volpi's novels is a search rather than explaining what is already known and it is never complete, generally related to the concept of identity and human behavior.

References

External links

More information on Jorge Volpi
'In search of Klingsor' Information
An interview with Jorge Volpi in Literal, Latin American Voices
Maestoso, a short story (full text), at The Short Story Project

1968 births
Academic staff of the National Autonomous University of Mexico
20th-century Mexican lawyers
Mexican people of Italian descent
Mexican novelists
Mexican male writers
Male novelists
Living people
Writers from Mexico City
National Autonomous University of Mexico alumni
University of Salamanca alumni
Academic staff of Universidad de las Américas Puebla