[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Derick Brassard

Derick Brassard (born September 22, 1987) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre who is currently an unrestricted free agent. He most recently played for the Ottawa Senators of the National Hockey League. He previously played in the NHL for the Columbus Blue Jackets, New York Rangers, Pittsburgh Penguins, Florida Panthers, Colorado Avalanche, New York Islanders, Arizona Coyotes, Philadelphia Flyers and the Edmonton Oilers. The Blue Jackets selected him in the first round, sixth overall, of the 2006 NHL Entry Draft.

Born and raised in Hull, Quebec, Brassard grew up attending ice hockey games at the Robert Guertin Centre. He began ice skating at the age of five and played minor ice hockey for the Gatineau L'Intrépide. The Drummondville Voltigeurs of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) selected Brassard 18th overall in 2003, and he joined the team as a rookie in the 2004–05 season. After recording 25 goals and 76 points, Brassard received both the Michel Bergeron Trophy and RDS Cup at the end of his rookie season. He doubled his offensive production the next season and received the Michael Bossy Trophy for the top prospect in the QMJHL. Brassard missed most of his final junior ice hockey season after suffering a shoulder subluxation during a preseason game.

Brassard spent most of the  season in the American Hockey League with the Syracuse Crunch, save for a brief stint in the NHL in January and February. The following season, he was one of several rookies to make the Blue Jackets' opening night roster. Brassard missed large parts of the  and  seasons with injuries, but he broke out offensively in . The next two seasons were hindered by clashes with coach Scott Arniel and the 2012–13 NHL lockout, and Brassard was traded to the Rangers at the 2013 trading deadline. Brassard reached the Stanley Cup playoffs all four seasons he was with the Rangers, including their loss to the Los Angeles Kings in the 2014 Stanley Cup Finals.

The Rangers traded Brassard to the Senators before the  season, where he struggled with coach Guy Boucher's frequent offensive line adjustments. He found more difficulties in Pittsburgh due to injuries and limited playing time on the lower lines. By 2019, Brassard had become an NHL journeyman: the Penguins traded him to the Florida Panthers, who flipped him to the Avalanche three weeks later. He spent a year apiece with the Islanders and Coyotes before joining the Flyers for the  season. Brassard's trade deadline move to the Oilers made him one of nine NHL players to dress for 10 or more teams in his career.

Brassard returned to the Ottawa Senators on a professional tryout for the  season. After a solid showing in training camp, he was awarded a one year contract. On March 2, 2023, Brassard played in his 1,000th NHL game.

Early life 
Brassard was born on September 22, 1987, in Hull, Quebec, to Suzanne and Pierre Brassard. His father was a star junior ice hockey player for the Pembroke Lumber Kings of the Central Junior Hockey League and was selected by the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League (NHL) in the 1976 NHL Entry Draft. Pierre was cut from the team after training camp, however, and did not play in the NHL. Brassard began ice skating at the age of five, and he took up hockey shortly after that. He was raised near the Robert Guertin Centre and would often attend ice hockey games held there. Brassard played minor ice hockey with the Gatineau L'Intrépide; during the 2003–04 season, he scored 19 goals and 64 points in 32 games.

Playing career

Junior 
The Drummondville Voltigeurs of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) selected Brassard in the second round, 18th overall, of the 2003 draft. He played in only 10 games during the 2003–04 season, spending most of the time with the Gatineau L'Intrépide, but recorded one assist in those 10 games. He also appeared in seven postseason games but did not record a point in any of them. The following season he joined Drummondville in full, and by the end of November, Brassard led the Voltigeurs with 11 goals and 25 points, including five power play goals, and he was named the QMJHL Offensive Player of the Week for the week ending November 29. He was named the QMJHL Rookie of the Month for December 2004 after recording four goals and 15 points in 10 games, including two power play goals and three game-winners. Brassard took home the honour again the next month when he recorded three goals and 11 assists in 13 games, including a four-assist game against the Quebec Remparts on January 25. Brassard finished his first full QMJHL season with 25 goals and 76 points in 69 regular season games, as well as one goal and six points in six playoff games. He was awarded both the Michel Bergeron Trophy for the offensive rookie of the year and the RDS Cup for the Rookie of the Year, and he was named to the QMJHL All-Rookie Team.