[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Timeline of the North Korean nuclear program

by any agreement reached at the talks." North Korea expelled nuclear inspectors from the country and also informed the IAEA that they would resume their nuclear weapons program.
25 April: North Korea says it has reactivated its nuclear facilities.
25 May: North Korea tests its second nuclear device.

2012
April: North Korea prepares to test its third nuclear device.
13 April: North Korea's launch of its Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 satellite, which fails shortly after launching. It was intended to mark the centenary of Kim Il Sung's 100th birthday, and was designed to estimate crop yields and collect weather data, as well as assess the country's forest coverage and natural resources.
12 December: North Korea's launch of its Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 Unit 2 satellite that is meant to replace the failed Kwangmyŏngsŏng-3 satellite, and became the 10th space power that is capable of putting satellites in orbit using its own launch vehicles. The launch came during the period when the DPRK was commemorating the first anniversary of the death of former leader Kim Jong-il and just before the first South Korean domestic launch of a satellite and the South Korean presidential election on 19 December 2012.

2013
5 February: South Korea's President warned that North Korea could be planning "multiple nuclear tests at two places or more".
12 February: North Korea tests its third nuclear device.
March–April: North Korea crisis (2013)

2015
20 May: North Korea claims to have nuclear weapons capable of hitting the United States.
December: In early December, North Korea leader Kim Jong-un claimed that the country was prepared to detonate a hydrogen bomb, however significant doubts surround the claim.

2016
6 January: North Korea conducts its fourth nuclear test. Although the government claims it to be its first hydrogen bomb, the claim was met with significant skepticism.
6 July: A high-level DPRK Government spokesman's statement was made defining a more precise meaning of "denuclearization", as covering the whole Korean peninsula and its vicinity, signaling a willingness to continue negotiations on the topic.
9 September: North Korea conducts its fifth underground nuclear test. With an estimate yield of over 10kt, it would make it the most powerful North Korean nuclear test thus far.
26 October: United States Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said during a speech that persuading North Korea to abandon its  program is "probably a lost cause" since, to North Korea, it was "their ticket to survival" and any discussions about ending their nuclear ambitions would be a "non-starter".

2017
6 March: North Korea launched four ballistic missiles, three of which landed 200 miles off Japan's coastline. Supreme leader Kim Jong-un promised that the country will eventually have nuclear-armed, intercontinental ballistic missiles that can reach the continental United States, thus challenging the Trump Administration of the United States to review its policy options, including preemptive strikes or further isolation of the North Korean economy.
 15 April: at the yearly major public holiday Day of the Sun, North Korea staged a massive military parade to commemorate the 105th birth anniversary of Kim Il-sung, the country's founder and grandfather of current leader, Kim Jong-un. The parade took place amid hot speculation in the United States, Japan, and South Korea that the country would look to also potentially test a sixth nuclear device, which it did not do.
 3 September: At 3:31 AM UTC, the United States Geological Survey reported that it had detected a magnitude 6.3 earthquake in North Korea near the Punggye-ri Nuclear Test Site. Given the shallow depth of the quake and its proximity to North Korea's primary nuclear weapons testing facility, experts concluded that the country had conducted a sixth nuclear weapon test (2017 North Korean nuclear test). North Korea claimed that they had tested a hydrogen bomb capable of being mounted on an ICBM. The independent seismic monitoring agency NORSAR initially estimated that the blast had a yield of around 120 kilotons but subsequently revised to  based on a tremor of 6.1M

2018
 20 April: Kim Jong Un announces he would immediately suspend nuclear and missile testing and shut down the Punggye-ri site that was used for six earlier nuclear tests.
31 October: South Korea's National Intelligence Service conducts first ever inspection of North Korea's nuclear program and recommends international experts accept North Korea's invitation for an international inspection.

2019