[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 163]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

must be careful; there is much at stake," she said.

He began to plead, eloquently and skilfully. He knew exactly what
arguments would tell best with her. The imps and the other selves
engaged in a free fight.

"No; I must not listen; it is too dangerous. If it were not for my
mother, I should not care for anything, but as it is, I must risk
nothing. I have already risked too much."

"There would be no danger," he argued. "Trust to me. I have something to
lose too. It is of no use to bring the whole dead stupid weight of the
world on our heads. There is no sense in lying down under a heap of
rubbish, to be crushed. Let us go our way and leave other people to go
theirs."

"Easier said than done."

"Oh no; the world must be treated as one would treat a maniac who
brandished a razor in one's face. Direct defiance argues folly worse
than his."

"Of course, but all this subterfuge and deceit is hateful."

"Not if one considers the facts of the case. The maniac-world insists
upon uniformity and obedience, especially in that department of life
where uniformity is impossible. You don't suppose that it is ever
_really_ attained by any human being who deserves the name? Never! We
all wear the livery of our master and live our own lives not the less."

"Ah, I doubt that," said Hadria. "I think the livery affects us all,
right through to the bones and marrow. What young clergyman was it who
told me that as soon as he put on his canonicals, he felt a different
man, mind, heart, and personality?"

"Well, _your_ livery has never made you, Hadria, and that is all I care
for."

"Indeed, I am not so sure."

"It has not turned you out a Mrs. Jordan or a Mrs. Walker, for
instance."

"To the great regret of my well-wishers."

"To the great regret of your inferiors. There is nothing that people
regret so bitterly as superiority to themselves." Hadria laughed.

"I am always afraid of the gratifying argument based on the assumption
of superiority; one is apt to be brought down a peg, if ever one
indulges in it."

"I can't see that much vanity is implied in claiming superiority to the
common idiot of commerce," said the Professor, with a shrug.

"He is in the family," Hadria reminded him.

"The human family; yes, confound him!" They laughed, and the Professor,
after a pause, continued his pleading.

"It only needs a little courage, Hadria. My love, my dear one, don't
shake your head."

He came forward and sat down on the seat beside her, bending towards her
persuasively.

"Promise me to come to town on Friday, Hadria--promise me, dearest."

"But if--oh, how I hate all the duplicity that this involves! It creates
wretched situations, whichever way one turns. I never realized into what
a labyrinth it would lead one. I should like to speak out and be honest
about it."

"And your mother?"

"Oh, I know of course----" Hadria set her teeth. "It drives me mad, all
this!"

"Oh, Hadria! And you don't count _me_ then?"

"Obviously I count you. But one's whole life becomes a lie."

"That is surely schoolgirl's reasoning. Strange that you should be
guilty of it! Is one's life a lie because one makes so bold as to keep
one's own counsel? Must one take the world into one's confidence, or
stand condemned as a liar? Oh, Hadria, this is childish!"

"Yes, I am getting weak-minded, I know," she said feverishly. "I resent
being forced to resort to this sort of thing when I am doing nothing
wrong, according to my own belief. Why should I be forced to behave as
if I _were_ sinning against my conscience?"

"So you may say; that is your grievance, not your fault. But, after all,
compromise is necessary in _everything_, and the best way is to make the
compromise lightly and with a shrug of the shoulders, and then you find
that life becomes fairly manageable and often extremely pleasant."

"Yes, I suppose you are right." Hadria was picking the petals off a
buttercup one by one, and when she had destroyed one golden corolla, she
attacked another.

"Fate _is_ ironical!" she exclaimed. "Never in my life did I feel more
essentially frank and open-hearted than I feel now."

The Professor laughed.

"My impulse is to indulge in that sort of bluff, boisterous honesty
which forms so charming a feature of our national character. Is it not
disastrous?"

"It _is_ a little inopportune," Theobald admitted with a chuckle.

"Oh, it is no laughing matter! It amounts to a monomania. I long to take
Mrs. Walker aside and say 'Hi! look here, Mrs. Walker, I just want to
mention to you----' and so on; and Mrs. Jordan inspires me with a still
more fatal impulse of frankness. If only for the fun of the thing, I
long to do it."

"You are quite mad, Hadria!" exclaimed the Professor, laughing.

"Oh, no," she said, "only bewildered. I want desperately to be bluff and
outspoken, but I suppose I must dissemble. I long painfully to be like
'truthful James,' but I must