[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cally (Blake's 7)

n Avon, who, amazingly, seems to return the interest, given his distrust of other people. It's a shame that Cally's part would be watered down in future stories - especially in Season Two, where she's mostly stuck glum-faced behind the teleport controls - but here at least, she gets a strong debut."

In a more scholarly analysis, Camille Bacon-Smith writes, "In the Blake's 7 character Cally, who can never experience the telepathic presence of another because her people are dead and the humans cannot communicate on her level, the loneliness of many women who feel that they give understanding but receive nothing back to nurture their sense of belonging finds representation." Bacon-Smith identifies further a contrast between Mr. Spock and Cally, noting how unlike Spock, "the telepathic alien Cally on Blake's 7 could send thoughts but could only receive those sent by another telepath. Separated from her own people, Cally could communicate with others at the level of the mind, but she could never receive communication in return. Whereas for Spock telepathy diminished the solitude of the alien, for Cally telepathy only made her alien solitude more acute. Bacon-Smith goes on to argue that while "Mr. Spock represents the positive value of an understanding merged with the other, Cally represents the tragedy when comprehension of the totality of the other is forever denied." Bacon-Smith's assertion is just an opinion: there is nothing to specifically say that other crew members have not developed the skills to communicate with her telepathically, for example there are scenes where Avon appears to communicate telepathically with her.

Audio drama
In the Blake's 7 Productions audio drama series Blake's 7: The Early Years three Callys appear in the story Blood and Earth: Ariane (played by Amy Humphreys), Jorden (played by Barbara Joslyn), with Jan Chappell playing an elder relative, "Cally Secundus" (the second Cally ever to be born on Auron).

Two more Callys, Katrina (nicknamed "Skate", played by Susannah Doyle) and her twin sister Merrin (played by Natalie Walter), feature in the B7 Productions audio drama Flag and Flame.

References

Further reading

External links
"Cally (Character) from "Blake's 7" (1978) ," The Internet Movie Database
Blake's 7 Productions' Blake's 7 - The Early Years: Cally

Blake's 7
Fictional telepaths
Television characters introduced in 1978
Fictional revolutionaries
Science fiction television characters