[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Japanese destroyer Momi (1944)

sh. From there, they steamed to Manila, the Philippines, on 22–24 December and then to Cam Ranh Bay in occupied French Indochina and Cape St. Jacques on 25–28 December. From there the pair escorted the ex-Italian reefer ship Ikutagawa Maru from Cape St. Jacques to Manila, arriving on 4 January 1945.

The following day the trio attempted to leave Manila for Indochina despite the presence of a nearby Allied convoy headed towards Lingayen Gulf. The two destroyers were spotted by American aircraft as heading directly for their convoy, so the Ikutagawa Maru may have already separated herself from her escorts by this time, and the three ships comprising the convoy's escort attempted to intercept them. The American destroyer  led the two Australian ships, the frigate  and the sloop  towards the Japanese ships. The destroyer's radar picked up the Japanese convoy at 15:48 at a range of  and her lookouts spotted the ships two minutes later. Bennion then slowed to the frigate's best speed of  to allow her to catch up. Not long afterwards, the Allied ships were spotted in their turn by the Japanese who promptly reversed course back towards Manila. They opened fire at a range of  at 15:57 and began making a smoke screen. Bennion replied a minute later and Gascoyne opened fire at 16:03, but it fell about a nautical mile short of the Japanese ships. The American ship increased her speed at 16:11 in an attempt to close the range and opened fire again at 16:24 at  distance. The range had decreased to  by 16:36 and the ship's captain ordered rapid and continuous fire a minute later. The American destroyer reversed course at 16:40 when the ship's captain was informed that nearby American escort carriers Task Group 77.2 had launched an airstrike of 16 torpedo bombers and 19 fighters. By this time, Bennion was  from its convoy and had expended 349 five-inch rounds without scoring a single hit. Momi was hit by a torpedo and blew up with the loss of all hands at . The ship was stricken from the navy list on 10 March.

Citations

Bibliography

 

 

Matsu-class destroyers
Ships built by Yokosuka Naval Arsenal
1944 ships
World War II destroyers of Japan
Destroyers sunk by aircraft
Warships lost with all hands
Maritime incidents in January 1945
Ships sunk by US aircraft