[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# HMNB Devonport

a 'marine industries hub'. By 2016 the northern section of the South Yard was being redeveloped in phases, from east to west, with a marketing strategy focused on 'the development of marine industries and the high growth area of marine science and technology'. The area has been renamed Oceansgate. 

Phase 1 (east of the 18th-century dockyard wall) was completed in 2018; Phase 2 (immediately to the west) was completed in 2021. These areas, containing new-build offices and business units, have been designated an Enterprise Zone (and are not part of the Freeport). Phase 3, the westernmost area extending to the waterfront, encompasses three 18th-century dry docks and several listed buildings; it was being offered for sale on a lease of up to 295 years. As of 2022 this area has been incorporated into the Freeport plan.

Devonport Naval Heritage Centre, a volunteer-run maritime museum, is currently housed within two listed buildings in the Oceansgate area of the yard.

MOD

The majority of the South Yard site remains in Ministry of Defence (MOD) ownership. All land to the south of 'Oceansgate' (with the exception of the area which is owned by Princess Yachts) is currently retained by the MOD, with No. 4 Slip having been recently refurbished for use with landing craft. Largely used by MOD contractors, it remains a closed site and subject to security restrictions.

Freeport
As approved by the government in December 2022, the South Yard is now one of the three 'freezones' of the Plymouth and South Devon Freeport. Freeport status provides certain tax advantages for businesses based there. The South Yard Freeport zone includes all the land owned by the MOD and Princess Yachts, and most of the land leased to Plymouth City Council as 'Oceansgate'.

The Freeport's business plan envisages the South Yard being focused on marine and defence sector development, and at the same time 'forming the centrepiece of the Freeport’s Innovation Hotbed'. Proposed developments include expansion of Oceansgate beyond its current footprint, construction of a new factory for Princess Yachts and the building of a new Innovation Centre and 'Mobility Hub' (described elsewhere as a 'huge multi-storey car park'). (Development of the Innovation Centre will require 'relocating' the Naval Heritage Centre.) Eventually it is hoped that the Freeport with its tax advantages will enable 'defence and other contractors to invest and bring back into productive and sustainable use dormant waterfront spaces [...] which, for the time being, must remain "behind the wire" [i.e. within the MOD restricted area]'.

History

Overview

From its original 17th-century site, around No.1 Dock in what is now called the South Yard, the dockyard expanded in stages (first to the south and then progressively northwards) over the next two-and-a-half centuries. Key periods in the geographical  development of the yard included:
The building of Plymouth Dock and Yard (1692-1698).
The building of Morice Ordnance Yard (1719-1720) alongside the dockyard to the north (this became part of the dockyard during the Second World War).
The Great Rebuilding (1760-1790) which saw the dockyard expand to the south.
The building of Keyham Steam Yard (1844-1865) to the north of the Morice Yard.
The building of the Keyham Extension (1896-1907) which more than doubled the size of the Keyham yard.
Post-war appropriation of adjacent land (1950s) with bomb-damaged streets were brought within the dockyard perimeter to allow for future expansion.
The reclamation of Weston Mill Lake (1972-1979), now the northernmost part of the base.

Origins

In 1689 Prince William of Orange became William III and almost immediately he required the building of a new dry dock west of Portsmouth, 'for cruisers only' (to support the cruiser squadrons that patrolled the western approaches to the English Channel). Edmund Dummer, Surveyor of the Navy, travelled the West Country searching for an area where the dock could be built. Once he had settled on Plymouth, it took the rest of the year for the Admiralty to decide between two possible locations; eventually, in preference to Cattewater, they settled on a site on the Hamoaze (a section of the River Tamar) in the parish of Stoke Damerel. On 30 December 1690, a contract was let for a dock to be built; having selected the location, Dummer was given responsibility for designing and building it. 

Then the project began to grow: first the King requested a larger dock (suitable for first-rate ships, as well as cruisers), then the Navy required a basin to protect the dock entrance; and finally, in July 1692, the Admiralty resolved that 'where the new dock is now building' a full Royal Navy Dockyard should be established, with 'buildings erected therein as well for the accommodation of the officers of the Navy that shall be appointed there, as for storehouses and other services'. This was the start of Plymouth (later Devonport) Royal Dockyard.