[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Romanov impostors

and in 1997.
 Eleonora Kruger, lived with George Zhudin and died in a Bulgarian village in 1954. 
 Natalya Bilikhodze, appeared in 1995 and went to Russia in 2000 to "claim the Romanov fortune." 
 Nadezhda Vasilyeva, appeared in the 1920s in Russia and died there in a Kazan psychiatric ward in 1971.

Alexei impostors
Several men who claimed to be Tsarevich Alexei Nikolaevich of Russia.
 Vasily Filatov, whose claim came from Astrakhan, Russia, shortly before his death in 1988.
 Eugene Nicolaievich Ivanoff, whose claim emerged from Poland in 1927.
 George Zhudin (????–1930), lived with Eleonora Kruger and died in a Bulgarian village;
 Alexander Savin, who was arrested by the OGPU (Russian Secret Police) in 1928
 Heino Tammet, who died in 1977 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
 Michael Goleniewski, a CIA agent who in 1959 claimed to be the Tsarevich.
 Author, Michael Gray, (an alias adopted by a Northern Irish teacher) claimed in his book Blood Relative that the Tsarevich escaped with the Dowager Empress aboard the warship HMS Marlborough in 1919 and later assumed the name Nikolai Chebotarev. In the book, Gray claims he is the son of the Tsarevich and Princess Marina, Duchess of Kent, and they had secretly married in the late 1940s.

Olga, Tatiana, and Maria impostors
 Marga Boodts claimed to have been Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia. 
 Granny Alina claimed to have been Grand Duchess Maria Nikolaevna of Russia.
 Larissa Tudor was claimed to have been Grand Duchess Tatiana Nikolaevna due to an apparent physical resemblance
Alexis Brimeyer claimed his grandmother, Ceclava Czapska, was Grand Duchess Maria Nikolaevna of Russia.
Maddess Aiort claimed to have been the Grand Duchess Tatiana Nikolaevna of Russia.
Michelle Anches claimed to have been the Grand Duchess Tatiana Nikolaevna of Russia.

Other impostors
 Anatoly Ionov claims to be Anastasia's son.
Suzanna Catharina de Graaff was a Dutch woman who claimed to be the fifth daughter of Nicholas and Alexandra, born in 1903 when Alexandra was reported to have had a "hysterical pregnancy". There are no official or private records of Alexandra giving birth to any child at this time.
 Michael Romanoff, actually a Lithuanian-born eccentric named Harry F. Gerguson, claimed for decades before his death in 1971 that he was the nephew of the last Tsar. Though his story and assumed name were discredited quickly, he continued to be a minor celebrity in Hollywood, where he operated the highly popular Romanoff's Restaurant.
 Caty Petersen is a Filipino woman who claims that her grandmother was Grand Duchess Anastasia. Her grandmother was named Tasia and claimed to have arrived in Manila in 1919, and to have had siblings named Maria and Alexei. She also said that they had to hide from Soviet Russia or else they would be "kill[ed]".

Notes