[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aitzaz Ahsan

s. He was re-elected as the member of the National Assembly for the third time from constituencies of Bahawalpur and Lahore. He retained his Lahore seat. Ahsan did not run in the Pakistan General elections of 2008 due to his involvement in the Lawyers' Movement for the restoration of deposed judges.

Ahsan was elected as the member of the Senate for the second time in the 2012 Pakistani Senate election on technocrat seat representing PPP. In 2013, Ahsan become opposition leader in the Senate. In 2015, he for the second time became opposition leader in the Senate.

In August 2018, Ahsan was nominated by the PPP as a candidate for the 2018 presidential election. On the polling day on 4 September 2018, he clinched 124 electoral votes behind Arif Alvi (352) and Fazal-ur-Rehman (184) in the election.

Law career
Professionally, Ahsan is a barrister by law and a senior advocate of the Supreme Court of Pakistan. He is the founder and senior partner of Aitzaz Ahsan & Associates. He has served as President of Supreme Court Bar Association of Pakistan. Ahsan has represented several high-profile Pakistani personalities including three Prime ministers of Pakistan in various cases such as Nawaz Sharif, Benazir Bhutto and Yousaf Raza Gillani and former President of Pakistan Asif Ali Zardari. He also fought the case of gang rape survivor, Mukhtar Mai. 

He is known for representing and leading the lawyers campaign to reinstate former Chief Justice of Pakistan Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. In 2008, Ahsan was awarded the Asian Human Rights Defender Award by the Hong Kong-based Asian Human Rights Commission in recognition. Ahsan was arrested following the Pakistani state of emergency, 2007. After initially being kept in Adiyala jail, he was moved to house arrest in Lahore for four months. He was released in March 2008. Ahsan is also a noted human rights activist in Pakistan.

Books

Ahsan is the author of the book The Indus Saga and the Making of Pakistan and its Urdu translation, Sindh Sagar Aur Qyam-e-Pakistan which presents the cultural history of Pakistan and argues that the Indus region is a distinct entity from the rest of India and constitutes a nation.

He has also co-authored the book Divided by Democracy with Lord Meghnad Desai of the London School of Economics.

References

Living people
1945 births
20th-century Pakistani lawyers
Pakistani Marxists
Pakistani democracy activists
Pakistani barristers
Pakistani prisoners and detainees
Pakistani MNAs 1988–1990
Pakistani MNAs 1990–1993
Pakistani MNAs 2002–2007
Pakistan People's Party MNAs
Interior ministers of Pakistan
Aitchison College alumni
Alumni of Downing College, Cambridge
Alumni of the Inns of Court School of Law
Members of Gray's Inn
Government College University, Lahore alumni
People from Murree
Articles containing video clips
Pakistani senators (14th Parliament)
Leaders of the House for the Senate of Pakistan
Provincial ministers of Punjab
Federal ministers of Pakistan
Presidents of the Supreme Court Bar Association of Pakistan
21st-century Pakistani lawyers
People from Lahore