[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Das Kapital, Volume I

absolute dependence of the working class upon the capitalist class, capital, along with its commonplace Sancho Panza, rebels against the sacred law of supply and demand and tries to check its inconvenient action by forcible means and state interference.

Part Eight: So-called Primitive Accumulation

Chapter 26: The Secret of Primitive Accumulation 
In order to understand the desire for and techniques utilized by the bourgeoisie to accumulate capital before the rise of capitalism itself, one must look to the notion of primitive accumulation as the main impetus for this drastic change in history. Primitive accumulation refers to the essential lucrative method employed by the capitalist class that brought about the transition in to the capitalist mode of production following the end of the feudal system. Marx states that the means of production and a bare level of subsistence must be stripped from the common producer to allow for this to take place. The means of production refers to the tools or processes used to create a product or provide a service.

Chapter 27: Expropriation of the Agricultural Population From the Land 
The central process for and secret behind primitive accumulation involved the expropriation of agricultural lands and any form of wealth from the population of commoners by the capitalists which typically was characterized by brutal and violent struggles between the two opposing classes. Since the peasantry was not subjected to the laws of feudalism any longer, they were ultimately freed from their lords and the land to assimilate into this new mode of production as a wage labourer. As a result, every freed proletariat had only their labour power to sell to the bourgeoisie to meet their needs to simply survive. Marx refers to the Inclosure Act 1489, the Inclosure Act 1533 and the Poor Relief Act 1601.

Chapter 28: Bloody Legislation Against the Expropriated, from the End of the 15th Century. Forcing Down of Wages by Acts of Parliament 
The integration process into this new mode of production came at a cost to the proletariat since the strenuous demands of finding alternative work proved to be too much of a burden for most. As a result, the working class often initially resorted to thievery and begging to meet their needs under this new form of human existence. To make matters worse, harsh legislation seen in England and France declared these individuals to be vagabonds and rogues subject to the laws of the state. Furthermore, the working class also suffered due to legislative measures taken in England to keep working wages astonishingly low while the cost of living rose. In particular, Marx refers to the Vagabonds Act of 1530, the Act for Punishment of Sturdy Vagabonds and Beggars 1536, the Vagabonds Act 1547, the Vagabonds Act 1572, the Poor Act 1575, the Vagabonds Act 1597 and the Vagabonds Act 1603 which was only repealed by the Vagrants Act 1713. Marx also recounts wage fixing legislation, including the Statute of Labourers 1351, the Statute of Apprentices (which was extended to weavers by King James I), the Journeymen Tailors, London Act 1720, the Silk Manufacturers Act 1772 and the Colliers (Scotland) Act 1799.

Chapter 29: Genesis of the Capitalist Farmer 
The origin of the capitalists in England spawned out of the "great landed proprietors" who reaped the benefits of the surplus value made from the expropriated land they had acquired at practically no cost. The progressive fall of the value of precious metals and money brought more profit to the capitalist farmers as the wage labourers beneath them were forced to accept lower wages. It comes as no surprise that the class of capitalist farmers in England became enormously wealthy given the circumstances of the time.