[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Va'etchanan

ight, then God will extinguish their lights. For  says, "Only take heed to yourself," and then "Keep your soul diligently." This explains , "For if you shall diligently keep." The Midrash thus taught that "if you keep" (God's commandments), then "you shall be kept" (and your souls shall be guarded).

A Baraita deduced from the words "you shall make them known to your children, and your children's children" in  that if a parent teaches a child Torah, Scripture ascribes merit as though the parent had taught the child, the child's children, and so on, until the end of all time. Rabbi Joshua ben Levi taught that if a parent teaches a child (or some say a grandchild) Torah, Scripture accounts it as if the parent had received the Torah at Mount Sinai, as  says, "And you shall make them known to your children and your children's children," and immediately thereafter,  says, "The day that you stood before the Lord your God in Horeb." Rabbi Hiyya bar Abba once found Rabbi Joshua ben Levi, who had hurriedly thrown a cloth upon his head, taking his child (or some say grandchild) to the synagogue to study. When Rabbi Hiyya asked Rabbi Joshua what was going on, Rabbi Joshua replied that it was no small thing that the words "you shall make them known to your children and your children's children" are immediately followed by the words "The day that you stood before the Lord your God in Horeb." From then on, Rabbi Hiyya bar Abba did not eat breakfast before revising the previous day's lesson with his child (or some say grandchild) and adding another verse. And Rabbah son of Rav Huna did not eat breakfast until he took his child (or some say grandchild) to school.

A Baraita deduced from the proximity of the words "And you shall make them known to your children and your children's children" in  to the words "The day on which you stood before the Lord your God in Horeb" in  that just as at Mount Sinai, the Israelites stood in dread, fear, trembling, and quaking, so when one teaches Torah to one's child, one should do so in dread, fear, trembling, and quaking.

The Rabbis related Jacob's dream in  to Sinai. The "ladder" symbolizes Mount Sinai. That the ladder is "set upon (, mutzav) the earth" recalls , which says, "And they stood (, vayityatzvu) at the nether part of the mount." The words of , "and the top of it reached to heaven," echo those of , "And the mountain burned with fire to the heart of heaven." "And behold the angels of God" alludes to Moses and Aaron. "Ascending" parallels  "And Moses went up to God." "And descending" parallels  "And Moses went down from the mount." And the words "and, behold, the Lord stood beside him" in  parallel the words of  "And the Lord came down upon Mount Sinai."

Rabbi Johanan counted ten instances in which Scripture refers to the death of Moses (including one in the parashah), teaching that God did not finally seal the harsh decree until God declared it to Moses. Rabbi Johanan cited these ten references to the death of Moses: (1)  "But I must die in this land; I shall not cross the Jordan"; (2)  "The Lord said to Moses: ‘Behold, your days approach that you must die'"; (3)  "[E]ven now, while I am still alive in your midst, you have been defiant toward the Lord; and how much more after my death"; (4)  "For I know that after my death, you will act wickedly and turn away from the path that I enjoined upon you"; (5)  "And die in the mount that you are about to ascend, and shall be gathered to your kin, as your brother Aaron died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his kin"; (6)  "This is the blessing with which Moses, the man of God, bade the Israelites farewell before his death"; (7)  "So Moses the servant of the Lord died there in the land of Moab, at the command of the Lord"; (8)  "Moses was 120 years old when he died"; (9)  "Now it came to pass after the death of Moses"; and (10)  "Moses My servant is dead." Rabbi Johanan taught that ten times it was decreed that Moses should not enter the Land of Israel, but the harsh decree was not finally sealed until God revealed it to him and declared (as reported in ): "It is My decree that you should not pass over."