[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Religion in Nicaragua

ers openly identified with Miskito Contra forces operating from Honduras. Most Pentecostal leaders, reflecting the conservative attitudes of the United States denominations with which they were affiliated, were neutral toward the Sandinistas but generally adopted a public stance that was apolitical.

Suspecting that the States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and Christian conservatives in the United States were promoting evangelical activity in Nicaragua to undercut their government, Sandinista authorities monitored and tried to intimidate certain Pentecostals. The expansion of the Protestant population actually accelerated under Sandinista rule. During the first five years of Sandinista government, the number of evangelical churches (largely Pentecostal) had doubled to 3,000.

After the Sandinista revolution

The time the Sandinistas left power in 1990, church/state relations were considerably smoother than they had been in the early 1980s and mid-1980s, in part because the Contra war, which intensified conflict over religion, was winding down. Some of the radicalized Catholics who had supported the Sandinistas in the years since the 1970s remained loyal to them, but their influence outside the Sandinista movement and a few religious think tanks was limited. The number of active CEBs plunged in the early 1980s and never recovered, in part because the bishops had systematically restricted the church based activities of pro-Sandinista clergy. In the 2018 protests, Catholic and Protestant clergy mainly supported the anti-government protesters and played a significant role. 

The Pentecostal churches continued their rapid growth among the poor. By the early 1990s, the Pentecostal minority was large enough to cause some observers, aware of the recent role of Christian conservatives in United States politics, to speculate about the influence of Pentecostals in future Nicaraguan elections.

2020s
A market research firm carried out a survey in 2019 which showed that the percentage of evangelical Protestants was increasing, while the percentage of Catholics was decreasing. The survey found that Catholics made up 43% of the population, evangelical Protestants 41%, and unaffiliated religious believers 14%. The other 2% were made up of Jehovah’s Witnesses, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Moravian Lutheran Church, Jews, Muslims, and nonbelievers.

Religious freedom 
The constitution provides for freedom of belief, religion, and worship; it declares that Nicaragua has no state religion, but it also empowers government controlled, community-level organizations called Family Committees to promote "Christian values" at a community level.

Religious groups may register with the government through a process similar to that which is used by NGOs; the Catholic Church does not need to register.  Registration allows organizations to enter legal contracts and provides some tax exemptions. 

The government requires that primary school education follows the government’s “Christian, Socialist, and Solidarity” principles. The government’s 2021-2026 human development policy recognizes religious activities as part of the country’s cultural traditions. The law establishes education in the country as secular but recognizes the right of private schools to be religiously oriented. 

In 2022, Christian Solidarity Worldwide published findings showing that religious believers faced harassment and detention as part of a wider crackdown on civil liberties.

In 2023, the country was scored 2 out of 4 for religious freedom.  In the same year, the country was ranked as the 50th most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.

Statistics

See also

Religion in Latin America
Buddhism in Nicaragua
Islam in Nicaragua
Catholic Church in Nicaragua
Jewish Nicaraguan

Notes

References