[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# HMS Acasta (H09)

d again at Devonport between 20 December and 5 January 1940. The ship was then transferred to the Western Approaches and escorted a total of 22 convoys through April 1940. On 31 January 1940, she helped to escort the light cruiser  into Plymouth on her return from her battle with the heavy cruiser .

After the German invasion of Norway on 9 April, Acasta was transferred to the Home Fleet. On 13 April, the ship joined the escort of Convoy NP1, on passage to Norway with troops for the planned landings at Narvik, but the convoy was diverted to Harstad. During 9–15 May, she escorted the badly damaged light cruiser  to the Clyde for repairs after she struck a rock. On 31 May, the ship and the destroyers , ,  and  escorted the aircraft carriers  and  from the Clyde to the Norwegian coast to carry out air operations in support of the evacuation of Allied forces from Norway in Operation Alphabet. Acasta remained with the carriers' escort throughout early June.

Ardent and Acasta escorted Glorious back to Scapa Flow on 8 June. En route, the three ships were spotted by Scharnhorst and Gneisenau at 15:46, which changed course to investigate. They were not spotted by the British until shortly after 16:00 and Ardent was ordered to identify the German ships while the other ships remained on course. She turned back to rejoin them before the Germans opened fire at 16:27 and was engaged by the  secondary armament, mostly by Scharnhorst, while both ships fired at Glorious with their main batteries. Acasta remained with the carrier and began making smoke after the Germans opened fire, even opening fire herself although her guns lacked the range to reach the battleships. The destroyer was struck not long after she began laying smoke, but it had little effect. After the carrier was hit multiple times and began to list, Acasta left her and closed with the battleships to shorten the range for a torpedo attack. Now more visible to the battleships, she began to be hit more regularly. The first attack was unsuccessful, but one of the four torpedoes from the second attack blew a  hole in Scharnhorsts hull at 17:34, flooding and disabling her starboard engine room. Acasta was then reduced to a blazing wreck and her captain, C. E. Glasfurd, ordered her crew to abandon ship. One of the gun crews delayed long enough to fire a shot that struck one of the Scharnhorsts main guns, but inflicted nothing more than shrapnel damage. The destroyer sank stern first around 18:20. Most of her crew died from exposure before the Norwegian merchant ship  rescued two survivors from Acasta three days later, along with 36 men from Glorious. One of the men from Acasta later died of his wounds. All of the men saved by Borgund were set ashore at Tórshavn in the Faroe Islands on 13 June. Eight officers and 153 ratings were lost with Acasta or died of their wounds afterwards.

Footnotes

References

External links
 HMS Acasta at World War II Database
 HMS Acasta - Site dedicated to remembering those who served aboard HMS Acasta H09.
 Scharnhorst - The History - an excellent summary of the battle leading to Acastas sinking.
 Scharnhorst - Operation "Juno" - technical specs and pictures of HMS Acasta.
 Glarac Association - remembering those lost with HMS Acasta, with complete CWGC casualty list.
 HMS Acasta (Clydebuilt Ships Database)

 

A- and B-class destroyers
1929 ships
World War II destroyers of the United Kingdom
World War II shipwrecks in the Norwegian Sea
Maritime incidents in June 1940
Ships built on the River Clyde