[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# W. Walter Menninger

ts in the 1970s and 1980s. He served as editor of the Bulletin of the Menninger Clinic for more than ten years until 2014.

He has specific interests in psychoanalysis, forensic psychiatry and administrative psychiatry. He was called as an expert witness at the competency hearing of Sara Jane Moore.

He served on the U.S. National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence and was a consultant to the Federal Bureau of Prisons. He was a member of the board of trustees of the National Committee for the Prevention of Child Abuse (now PCA America).  He is on the board of directors for the Police Foundation, a nonprofit organization that works to enhance policing techniques. In 1982, he testified before the Kansas legislature in support of the establishment of the guilty but mentally ill legal verdict.

Menninger is president of the Tower Mental Health Foundation, which assists mental health organizations in Kansas.

Personal
Menninger met his wife Connie while attending Stanford University. They had six children together: Fritz, John, Eliza, Marian, Will, and David. Daughter Eliza Menninger became a psychiatrist affiliated with Harvard Medical School. Connie Menninger died in 2008.

Menninger was a member of the Boy Scouts of America National Health and Safety Committee. He served on the BSA Executive Board and is a recipient of the Distinguished Eagle Scout Award. He received the BSA Silver Buffalo Award in 2001.

Legacy and honors
Menninger has received honorary doctorates from Dominican University, Middlebury College, Washburn University, Ottawa University and Heidelberg College. He received the Distinguished Service Award from the American Psychiatric Association.

Popular culture
Menninger served as a consultant for the 2013 film adaptation of The Great Gatsby, which begins and ends in a sanatorium, based on the Menninger Clinic. As a nod to Menninger, the psychiatrist in the movie is named Walter Perkins.

Selected publications
 Menninger, W. W. (1976). Happiness Without Sex: And Other Things Too Good to Miss. Sheed Andrews and McMeel.
 Menninger, W. W. (ed.) (1987). Military Psychiatry: Learning from Experience. Menninger Foundation.
 Menninger, W. W. (ed.) (1996). Coping with Anxiety: Integrated Approaches to Treatment. J. Aronson.

Notes

External links
Search on W. Walter Menninger in Menninger Foundation Archives from Kansas State Historical Society

1931 births
Living people
American psychiatrists
Writers from Topeka, Kansas
Stanford University alumni
Weill Cornell Medical College alumni
American health care chief executives
Members of the National Academy of Medicine