[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leoluca Orlando

the Chamber of Deputies.

In 2011 launched The Network 2018, a re-foundation of The Network, and finally left IdV in 2013. Along Orlando, splinters from IdV notably included Fabio Giambrone, a former member of the Chamber of Deputies, and Niccolò Rinaldi, a former member of the European Parliament.

Re-election as mayor of Palermo and recent events 
In March 2012 he announced his candidacy for Mayor of Palermo as an independent in the May elections, after having unsuccessfully supported Rita Borsellino's mayoral bid in a controversial primary election won by his former protégé . In the first round, held on 5 May 2012, he was the most voted candidate with 48% of votes despite being only supported by his own Italy of Values and a number of minor left-wing parties (Federation of the Greens and Federation of the Left). He took part in the final round against second-placed Ferrandelli and on 21 May he won the runoff with 72% of the vote.

In May 2013 Orlando along other two leading IdV dissidents, Felice Belisario (former IdV floor leader in the Senate) and Carlo Costantini (regional councillor in Abruzzo), launched the 139 Movement (M139). The party's name was a reference to the 139 articles of the Constitution of Italy. In the 2017 Italian local elections in Palermo the M139 obtained 8.6% of the vote, enough to be the largest party of the fractured local centre-left coalition.

In the 2017 Italian local elections He was re-elected for a personal fifth term as mayor of Palermo, winning over 46% of votes in the first round, while the M139 obtained 8.6% of the vote, enough to be the largest party in the fractured local centre-left coalition.

In 2018 Orlando and his closest allies, notably including his deputy mayor Giambrone, joined the Democratic Party.

In June 2018, in defiance of orders from the Italian government,  Orlando stated that he would allow the Aquarius, bearing 629 migrants rescued off the coast of Libya, to dock in Palermo. He stated "Palermo in ancient Greek meant ‘complete port’. We have always welcomed rescue boats and vessels who saved lives at sea. We will not stop now."

In 2020, Orlando was nominated for the Four Freedoms Award, Freedom from Fear.

During the last mandate of Orlando, the city of Palermo got several national and international recognitions, mainly due to its renewed international visibility, that boosted the tourism sector:
- in 2015, several monuments of the town, the so called "Palermo Arab-Normand path and the Cathedrals of Cefalù and Monreale" were included in the Unesco world heritage
- in 2017 it was awarded Italian Capital of youth 
- in 2018 it was awarded Italian Capital of Culture 
- in 2019 Michelin awarded the town with three stars, as recognition of its touristic appeal.

Personal life 
Since 2000, he has been the President of the "Sicilian Renaissance Institute" a non-profit organization dealing with the promotion of economy and culture of lawfulness and Human rights.

In 2023 he established Fondazione Mosaico, a non-profit dedicated to promoting cultural understanding, tolerance, and human rights.

References

External links
 Official website of Leoluca Orlando

1947 births
Living people
Antimafia
Christian Democracy (Italy) politicians
20th-century Italian politicians
Politicians of Sicily
Italy of Values politicians
Democracy is Freedom – The Daisy politicians
21st-century Italian politicians
Academic staff of the University of Palermo
Mayors of Palermo
The Network (political party) politicians
Commanders Crosses of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany