[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of smoking bans

Smoking bans are public policies, including criminal laws and occupational safety and health regulations, which prohibit tobacco smoking in certain spaces. Laws pertaining to where people may smoke vary around the world. China and the United States, two out of five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, do not have a nationwide smoking ban covering all public indoor areas, while the remaining three members, France, Russia, and the United Kingdom, all have national laws prohibiting smoking in many indoor spaces.

Smoking bans by country

Albania

A law came into effect on 30 May 2007 restricting smoking in closed public areas and outlawing the advertisement of tobacco, although the measure was reportedly poorly enforced in the country until 2013. From 2013, law enforcement has been implemented, and smoking is strictly forbidden in closed public areas, including bars, pubs, restaurants etc. If any of these places are caught allowing a customer to smoke, they are fined €2,200 and the person smoking is fined €350.

Andorra
Since 2004, smoking is prohibited in government buildings, educational facilities, hospitals, enclosed sport facilities and buses. In 2010, an increase in restrictions at restaurants, bars, and workplaces was under discussion.

Andorra introduced a smoking ban in all public places on 13 December 2012. However, an exception was made for bars and restaurants, allowing special smoking rooms as long as they fulfill strict conditions: such as not serving food and drink. In 2014, Andorra joined France and Spain in banning smoking indoors, which resulted in the first smoke free ski season in Andorra.

In 2017, Andorra was one of the countries with the lowest mortality rate from cardiovascular disease, whose main causes include smoking.

Argentina

Since 1 June 2011 a smoking ban in all of Argentina prohibits smoking in workplaces, all public indoor areas, schools, hospitals, museums and libraries, theatres, and all public transport. However, smoking is still allowed in balconies, terraces and patios. The law also included the prohibiting of advertising and sponsoring of tobacco. The fine for breaking the law is equivalent to 250 to 1,000,000 packets of the most expensive cigarettes in the market.

Armenia

A law came into effect in March 2005 prohibiting smoking in hospitals, in cultural, educational and mental institutions, and on public transportation. On 1 March 2006, new rules came into effect requiring all public and private institutions, including bars and restaurants, to allow smoking only in special secluded areas. Absence of any legal sanctions against those who violate the smoking laws has made them completely ineffective. Tobacco advertising is prohibited in TV, radio and outdoor advertising. Other sources of advertising on newspapers, magazines of tobacco products is not fully restricted. Sponsorships are partially allowed in Armenia.

In 2012, Armenia had the third-highest rate of male cigarette smokers in the world. On 11 January 2017, the Eurasian Economic Commission said that starting mid-March 2017, graphic pictures would be implemented on the packaging of cigarettes in all Eurasian Economic Union member states.

An anti-smoking law was passed by the Armenian parliament in February 2020. It bans smoking while driving cars or buses and imposes a ban on tobacco advertising. The ban on smoking in cafes, restaurants and other public catering facilities has entered into force in March 2022. The ban on smoking in half-closed premises of public catering facilities will come into force in May 2024. Meanwhile, the ban on smoking in hotels came into force in May 2020.

Australia 

In Australia, smoking bans are determined on a state-by-state basis. In chronological order by state:

The first place smoking was banned in Victoria was in 1990 when Councillor John Huntley (a smoker) moved a motion to ban smoking in the Shire of Orbost offices.
The motion was carried and Orbost was the first public office that had a smoking ban.