[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Fakir Mohan Senapati

Fakir Mohan Senapati (Odia: ଫକୀର ମୋହନ ସେନାପତି; 13 January 1843 – 14 June 1918), often referred to  as Utkala Byasa Kabi (Odisha's Vyasa), was an Indian writer, poet, philosopher and social reformer. He played a leading role in establishing the distinct identity of Odia, a language mainly spoken in the Indian state of Odisha. Senapati is regarded as the father of Odia nationalism and modern Odia literature.

Early life and background
Born to Lakhmana Charana Senapati and Tulasi Devi Senapati in a middle class Khandayat family. When he was one and half year old his father died. After fourteen months his mother also died. Since childhood he was taken care of by his grand mother.

Senapati's uncle was jealous of young Fakir Mohan and did not allow his education. His weak health also contributed to him being a late learner. He paid towards his educational expenses by working as a child labourer.

Senapati dedicated his life to the progress of Odia language in the later 19th and early 20th century. He is called the father of Odia fiction. At his native place, school, colleges and universities are constructed in his memory like Fakir Mohan College and Fakir Mohan University.

Work

Novels
Mayadhar Mansingh had described Senapati as the Thomas Hardy of Odisha. Though he translated from Sanskrit, wrote poetry, and attempted many forms of literature, he is now known primarily as the father of modern Odia prose fiction. His four novels, written between 1897 and 1915, reflect the socio-cultural conditions of Odisha during the eighteenth and the beautiful boy centuries. While the three novels, Chha maana Atha Guntha, Mamu and Prayaschita explore the realities of social life in its multiple dimensions, 'Lachhama' is a historical romance dealing with the anarchical conditions of Odisha in the wake of Maratha invasions during the eighteenth century. Chha Maana Atha Guntha is the first Indian novel to deal with the exploitations of landless peasants by the feudal Lord. It was written much before the October revolution of Russia or much before the emerging of Marxist ideas in India. Fakir Mohan is also the writer of the first autobiography in Odia, "Atma Jeebana Charita" .

Short stories
His "Rebati" (1898) is widely recognized as the first Odia short story. It is the story of a young innocent girl whose desire for education is placed in the context of a conservative society in a backward Odisha village, which is hit by the killer epidemic cholera. His other stories are "Patent Medicine", "Daka Munshi", "Adharma Bitta" etc. His short stories are complied in books "galpa swalpa-1 and 2".

Poem
He wrote a long poem, Utkala Bhramanam, that first appeared in 1892. Literally meaning Tour of Odisha, this poem, in reality, is not a travelogue but a commentary on the state of affairs in the Odisha of that time, written in a satirical manner.

Family members
Senapati married Leelavati Devi in 1856 when he was aged thirteen. She died when he was 29 leaving behind a daughter. In summer 1871, he married Krushna Kumari Dei, who died in 1894 leaving behind a son and a daughter.

See also
 List of Indian writers

References

External links

 
 
 

1843 births
1918 deaths
People from Balasore
Odia-language writers
Odia-language poets
Odia novelists
Indian male novelists
Indian male short story writers
Indian social reformers
Novelists from Odisha
19th-century Indian novelists
20th-century Indian novelists
20th-century Indian short story writers
19th-century Indian short story writers
19th-century Indian male writers
20th-century Indian male writers
Poets from Odisha
19th-century Indian poets
20th-century Indian poets