[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hannes Trautloft

hter Wing). Lützow took command of Jagdgeschwader 3 (JG 3—3rd Fighter Wing), Adolf Galland was given command of Jagdgeschwader 26 "Schlageter" (JG 26—26th Fighter Wing), Werner Mölders was given command of JG 51, and Trautloft took over Jagdgeschwader 54 (JG 54—54th Fighter Wing) from Martin Mettig.

Command was transferred on 25 August and Trautloft was promoted to Major (major). At the time, JG 54 was based at Campagne-lès-Guines and also fighting against the RAF, either escorting bombers to England or flying combat air patrols. Trautloft claimed his first aerial victory with JG 54 that very same day. At 20:20, he claimed a Spitfire over the English Channel. Trautloft claimed two further aerial victories against the RAF, bringing his total to eight victories claimed during World War II. This includes a Hawker Hurricane shot down over Maidstone on 7 September, and a Spritfire claimed on 27 October over Ashford. On 15 September, the Luftwaffe embarked on an all-out attack against London which later dubbed the Battle of Britain Day. The next day, Trautloft met with his three group commanders at Campagne-lès-Guines, these were Hauptmann Hubertus von Bonin of I. Gruppe,  Hauptmann Dietrich Hrabak of II. Gruppe, and the acting Gruppenkommandeur of III. Gruppe, Oberleutnant Günther Scholz. The topics of discussion where the poor radio discipline and the concern regarding overclaiming of aerial victories. On 2 November, Trautloft's Bf 109s E-3 (Werknummer 724—factory number) was damaged by a squib load but he managed to land the aircraft safely. On 20 November, the Geschwaderstab began transferring to Germany for a period of rest and maintenance, arriving at Dortmund Airfield on 3 December. The unit stayed in Dortmund until 15 January 1941, when it was ordered to Le Mans Airfield in France. On 29 March, JG 53 was withdrawn from France and ordered to Graz-Thalerhof in preparation for the Balkans campaign.

The Geschwaderstab remained in Graz-Thalerhof until 14 April and relocated to Deta. The next day, the Geschwaderstab moved again, this time to Pančevo Airfield where it remained until 19 April. Following the capitulation of Yugoslavia JG 54 was ordered to Belgrade. Trautloft's Bf 109s E-3 (Werknummer 724) was again damaged on 22 April in a forced landing at Fünfkirchen, present-day Pécs, following engine failure. On 25 April, JG 54 was ordered to return to Germany, arriving at Airfield Stolp-Reitz in Pomerania, present-day Słupsk, on 3 May. The Geschwaderstab did not claim any aerial victories during the Balkans campaign.

Operation Barbarossa

At Stolp-Reitz, JG 54 upgraded their aircraft to the Bf 109 F-2. For the next four weeks, the pilots familiarized themselves with the new aircraft before on 15 June, the Geschwaderstab was ordered to Trakehnen in preparation for Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union. During the upcoming invasion, JG 54 would be deployed in the area of Army Group North, was subordinated to I. Fliegerkorps (1st Air Corps) and supported the 16th and 18th Army as well as the Panzer Group 4 in their strategic objective to reach Leningrad.

On 22 June, the day of the invasion, JG 54 was tasked with escorting German bombers from Kampfgeschwader 1, 76 and 77 (KG 1, KG 76 and KG 77—1st, 76th and 77th Bomber Wing) on their mission to bomb Soviet airfields near the Lithuanian border. On one of these missions, Trautloft claimed an Ilyushin DB-3 bomber shot down northwest of Marijampolė. The next day, he claimed a Tupolev SB bomber in the vicinity of Kussen in the Krasnoznamensky District. On 24 June, elements of JG 54 moved to Kaunas with the objective to achieve air supremacy over the combat area of Army Group North. Flying from Kaunas, Trautloft claimed two DB-3's, one on 24 June and another the next day. On 28 June, the Geschwaderstab was moved to Daugavpils, protecting the bridgehead on the eastern bank of the Daugava. On 30 June, the bridgehead came under heavy attack by Soviet bombers attacking German forces near the captured bridges over the Daugava. In defense of the bridgehead, Trautloft claimed two further DB-3's. That day, 1 Minno-torpednyy Aviatsionnyy (1 MTAP—1st minelaying and torpedo-bomber regiment) had dispatched 32 DB-3s which lost 15 aircraft in this engagement plus 10 further aircraft sustained combat damage.

On 27 July, Trautloft was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross () for 20 aerial victories claimed in World War II. The Geschwaderstab moved to Siversky on 7 September followed by I. and III. Gruppe a few days later. The airfield was located southwest of Leningrad and was equipped with hangars and buildings and JG 54 would be based there during the Siege of Leningrad. On 22 September, Trautloft visited the German front lines of the infantry and came under attack by strafing aircraft.