[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cybermorph

from third-person into first-person. Crashing into enemies and mountains damages the ship, while crashing into buildings either on front or reverse instantly destroys the T-Griffon. The player starts with two lives and more can be obtained by finding "X" icons, but the game is over if all are lost.

Development 
Cybermorph was developed by Attention to Detail (ATD), a British game developer co-founded in 1988 by University of Birmingham graduates Chris Gibbs, Fred Gill, Martin Green, Jon Steele and Jim Torjussen. The group had previously worked on the Amiga and Atari ST conversions of Super Sprint for Activision, Octan (1987) for ZX Spectrum, and Night Shift (1990). It was co-produced by John Skruch and Sean Patten of Atari Corporation. Patten also acted as co-level designer and co-tester along with Andrew Keim, Faran Thomason, Hans Jacobsen, Joe Sousa, Shimmy Brandes, Stuart Tilley, Ted Tahquechi, and testing manager Tom Gillen. Gill served as co-programmer alongside sub-contractor Brian Pollock, who also created the game's 3D engine and proprietary map editor. Gibbs, B.J. West, and Ian G. Harling were responsible for the artwork. The game's audio was handled by Tahquechi, Andrew Holtom, and composer David Lowe, whose wife also provided voicework for Skylar.

The ATD team were approached by their mentor Jon Dean for work on the Atari 2600 (VCS) and began production on a prototype but it was cancelled. Dean later approached the group in regards to the then-upcoming Konix Multisystem, working along with Flare Technology on the operating system, development tools to make development easy and attract third-party developers, and demos. One of the demos created by ATD for the Konix Multisystem was a flying carpet-esque 3D landscape, which was based on David Braben's Zarch (also known as Virus) and written from scratch in 11 days. It became the basis for Cybermorph, as Atari liked the demo and initially approached ATD to produce demos for the then-upcoming Atari Jaguar. The game entered production at the same time as Trevor McFur in the Crescent Galaxy.

When showcased in Atari's US offices, the game was in a basic state consisting of only the ship flying and a rudimentary terrain. Atari's testing department was tasked with designing levels and structures while ATD worked closely with them to laid down the terrain and enemies via Pollock's map editor in order to implement them into the game. The program would convert the map into a seed value for a fractal algorithm, which is entered along with color information and object positioning to generate the three-dimensional playfield. Sousa named two levels after his daughters by mixing up their letters to create new names. Patten stated that bringing the testing team to design the game resulted in a lot of work but felt that doing so resulted in making Cybermorph a "much better game in the long run". West was brought at the end of the production, creating artwork for both the cover art and ending sequence. West originally produced more elaborate animation sequences for the game's introduction and ending but were distilled into static images instead due to memory constrains.

Cybermorph makes use of various features within the Jaguar such as Z-buffering for multiple enemies of the game to various effects. Z-buffering is also used to handle drawing of all the objects and the planetary terrain. The game runs between 10 and 18 frames per second, displaying around 6,000 polygons on-screen. Gouraud shading is used as light source for the polygon models, while the system's Motorola 68000 is used to move objects in the game. Production proved challenging, as ATD were finishing the game while the hardware was being finalized. A hardware crash bug was also found due to the game, which required a workaround to integrate a fix into the Jaguar's final production run. Gill felt that the 68000 chip was a limiting factor, but ultimately liked working with the Jaguar's hardware due to its flexibility and has since retrospectively expressed being proud of Cybermorph.