[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006–2007 economic sanctions against the Palestinian National Authority

Economic sanctions and other measures were taken by Israel, the United States and other countries against the Palestinian National Authority (PA), including the suspension of international aid following the decisive victory for Hamas at the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) election on 25 January 2006.

On 18 February 2006, following the swearing in of the new PLC, Israel imposed sanctions on the PA, including the suspension of transfers to the PA of customs revenues Israel collected on the PA's behalf. The US sanctions prohibited all Hamas-related financial transactions. The Middle East Quartet called for a review of all assistance to any new government that was formed against its commitment to the principles of nonviolence, recognition of Israel, and acceptance of agreements previously entered into by the PA. After Hamas rejected the conditions, the international community suspended international aid to Palestinians, significantly damaging the Palestinian economy. On 17 June, a temporary international mechanism was created to channel aid to Palestinians bypassing the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority or aid funds were paid directly to the accounts of President Mahmoud Abbas.

After the formation by Abbas of an emergency government in June 2007, international aid to the Ramallah-based PA resumed, but the Hamas-led government in Gaza remained under boycott. The US and Israel lifted sanctions against the Abbas government.

After the 2006 elections
The Palestinian Authority legislative elections were held on 25 January 2006 and resulted in a decisive victory for Hamas.

On 30 January 2006, the Middle East Quartet — comprising the United States, Russia, United Nations, and European Union – issued a statement, saying that "It is the view of the Quartet that all members of a future Palestinian government must be committed to nonviolence, recognition of Israel, and acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the Roadmap," and concluded that it was inevitable that future assistance to any new government would be reviewed by donors against that government's commitment to those principles, which Hamas rejected. Although the Quartet formally did not call for sanctions and did not explicitly prohibit the provision of aid to the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority (PA), but rather called for aid to be 'reviewed' against the three principles, a combination of political pressure and US threats of sanctions against banks handling aid monies served to halt transfers to the PA.

On 1 February 2006, Israel announced that it will suspend transfers of customs revenues to the PA, and noted that future transfers will be put on hold while the issue was being reviewed. On 18 February, after the new PLC was sworn in, Israel imposed sanctions on the Palestinian Authority, including suspension of some $50 million in monthly PA customs revenues, and travel restrictions on Hamas members were imposed. Acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said that "It is clear that in light of the Hamas majority in the Palestinian Legislative Council and the instructions to form a new government that were given to the head of Hamas, the PA is - in practice - becoming a terrorist authority".

US Administration officials and some members of Congress warned Hamas leaders that the United States will no longer provide assistance to a Hamas-led PA government unless Hamas changes its charter to recognize Israel's right to exist and renounces the use of violence.

Israeli officials and Western diplomats said that US and Israel were discussing ways to destabilize the Palestinian government so that newly elected Hamas officials will fail and elections will be called again. The intention was to starve the PA of money and international connections. The approach was being discussed at the highest levels of the US State Department and the Israeli government. Israeli military officials discussed cutting Gaza off completely from the West Bank and making the Israeli-Gaza border an international one. Hamas Members of Parliament would be denied to travel freely between Gaza and West Bank.

Under the Hamas-led Government
After the Hamas-led First Haniyeh Government was sworn in on 29 March 2006, both the US and EU cut aid to the Palestinian Authority. Canada also suspended its aid.

On 12 April 2006, the US Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) formally determined that Hamas had property interest in transactions of the PA. Consequently, all unauthorized transactions with the PA were prohibited. The general prohibition on transactions, however, also caused difficulty in carrying out financial transaction with non-PA related individuals and entities, as financial institutions around the world took protective measures regarding the OFAC determination.