[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Duncan L. Hunter 2008 presidential campaign

ons in El Salvador. He described Reagan's El Salvador policy as successful in advancing freedom, and noted that as he spoke, the military of El Salvador was "fighting side by side with our guys (The United States military) in Iraq." He then referred to the Republican Party as "the Party of Freedom."

Following the debate, Hunter learned that parts of his congressional district were burning as a result of the California wildfires of October 2007. He immediately stalled campaigning for a short period to help his constituents with the recovery effort.
Hunter criticized those who connected the wildfires to the lack of resources because of the War in Iraq. He argued those conclusions were invalid because of San Diego's direct access to troops, helicopters and equipment. During an update with Neil Cavuto, Hunter remarked that those critics "have got to have some creative writers to somehow link these..."

In November 8, Hunter received the endorsement of the Missouri Republican Assembly (MRA). The assembly cited Hunter as a "true Republican" who shared their views.

San Diego selected Hunter as grand marshal for the city's Veterans Day parade. He considered this selection as an honor.

Hunter participated in the November 28, 2007 CNN/YouTube GOP Debate, and notably, received a question about the military's "Don't ask, don't tell" policy. The questioner, former Brig. Gen. Keith Kerr introduced himself as a homosexual and asked "...why you [Republican candidates] think that American men and women in uniform are not professional enough to serve with gays and lesbians?" Hunter thanked the general for his service and then argued that the sole issue was "unit cohesion," mirroring a statement from former Secretary of State Colin Powell. After the debate, Kerr was found to be a member of Hillary Clinton's Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transsexual Americans For Hillary Steering Committee. Because of this, CNN removed footage of the question from future telecasts. The next day, Hunter sent a letter to Hillary Clinton that read: "Dear Hillary Clinton, Regarding the "plant", retired Brig. Gen. Keith H. Kerr, that you sent to ask me the question at the CNN-YouTube debate last night in Florida. Send more!!! Merry Christmas, Duncan Hunter." The Hillary Clinton campaign did not respond to the letter.

In the December 8 American Research Group survey, excluding undecided voters, Hunter was statistically tied with Fred Thompson for fourth place in Nevada. In Michigan, Hunter was tied with Thompson and Ron Paul for fifth place at four percent, according to a WXYZ-TV poll. Los Angeles Times columnist Don Frederick pointed out that Hunter's support in the polls came almost entirely from Republican men, where he garnered 6% among that demographic in the publication's poll from December 2007. Among women, his support was nearly zero.

Hunter received the endorsement of former U.S. Senator Bob Smith of New Hampshire on December 21. In a letter to New Hampshire Republicans ahead of the first-in-nation New Hampshire Primary, Smith cited Hunter as the best candidate to carry the "Reagan Torch" and the most qualified candidate to protect conservative values.

Primary and caucus results 2008 

Hunter finished seventh in the January 3, 2008 Iowa Republican caucuses receiving only 0.5 percent (515 of the 100,593 votes cast) and no delegates. ABC News subsequently denied him an invitation to the January 5 Debate, because Hunter did not meet the five percent polling threshold necessary for participation. However, Hunter focused only minimally on Iowa, putting more resources into the first primary state of New Hampshire. Unlike the other GOP candidates, Hunter traveled to Wyoming for the January 5, 2008 Wyoming Republican County Conventions. The mainstream media largely ignored the event, and Hunter had campaigned in the state more than any other candidate. Hunter won one national delegate and one alternate delegate after finishing in third place in the caucus behind winner Mitt Romney and second place Fred Thompson. That same day, Hunter addressed the Nevada Republican Assembly at their Presidential Endorsing Convention. He won their endorsement after receiving a two-thirds majority of all votes cast the next day. At the first in the nation New Hampshire primary on January 8, Hunter finished in seventh place with only one percent of the vote.

Withdrawal
After finishing in last place in the Michigan Republican primary (receiving one percent), the Nevada Republican caucuses (two percent), and the South Carolina Republican primary (zero), Hunter dropped out of the race on January 19, 2008. In his withdrawal speech, delivered from the same Naval Base San Diego pier, where he announced his campaign in October 2006, Hunter thanked his supporters, expressed the amusement he and his family had had on the campaign trail and the influence he had on the debate within the party: