[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# France and the United Nations

hanged immensely since the end of WWII when UN structures were established. Multilateralism is now under the threat of power politics and France has been vocal about the need to fix this through reform of the UN. There are 3 main areas of reform France has proposed or supported over the last decade.

 France has called for reform of the UNSC, suggesting an expansion of the number of permanent seats on the UNSC to include the G4 countries (Germany, Brazil, India and Japan) as well as a greater presence of African member states in both permanent and non-permanent positions
 France proposed a governing of the use of veto power in the UN when concerning issues of mass atrocities. This initiative, which was started in 2013, is endorsed by over 100 countries as of November 2019.
 France supports Secretary-General António Guterres’ peacekeeping reform proposal which calls for better funding and better functioning of UN Peacekeeping Operations (PKO) so that they are more effective in achieving their aims.

EU vs France for UNSC seat 
In recent years, there have been calls, primarily from Germany, for France to give up its seat as a permanent member of the UNSC and be replaced with an EU seat (veto power included). Germany’s argument is that having a permanent EU seat on the Security Council would enable the European bloc to speak with one, the united voice at the international platform. Article 34 of the Treaty on the European Union states that member states must uphold the position of the Union at any international organizations, conferences or forums of the like in their actions, hence, Germany argues that if France truly was committed to the EU, this spot and the associated veto power should be Europeanised. These calls follow concerns for the future of Europe on the global stage following Brexit, which leaves Europe with just one seat on the council. The position of France, as well as other policy analysts in the EU, is that if Germany’s objective is truly to better represent Europe’s position on the global stage as they claim, this merged EU seat would be counterproductive. Instead, just as France has been advocating for (see: ) the addition of more permanent seats on the UNSC held by European countries would mean more collective voting power and input in important UN resolutions and debate. Given that France is the diplomatic power of the EU whilst Germany represents the economic capital of the EU – together they counter-balance each other. Such a Europeanisation of France’s diplomatic strength in holding this UNSC seat could offset this balance into the hands of Germany and throw off this Franco-German equilibrium which is at the core of European integration and peace. Thus, it is unlikely that France will cede its UNSC seat and veto power to the EU or that the UN will allow this, however it is plausible that France will continue to push for UN reform for Germany and the other G4 countries to join the ‘Big Five’ and become permanent, veto-power holding, members of the UNSC.

See also 
European Union and the United Nations
Nicolas de Rivière
Permanent Mission of France to the United Nations
Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs

References