[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gary Sturgess

Gary L. Sturgess  is an academic and former public servant from Sydney, Australia, whose current research is focused on the management of front line public services. He is Adjunct
Professor of Public Service Innovation with the School of Government and International Relations at Griffith University, in Brisbane, Australia.

From 2003 to 2011, he was Executive Director of the Serco Institute, a London-based think tank specialising in the design and management of public service markets. He was previously Cabinet Secretary in New South Wales, Australia, under Premier Nick Greiner, during which time he designed a number of major policy initiatives including Australia's first anti-corruption agency the NSW Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC).

From 2011 to 2022, he held the New South Wales Premier’s Chair in Public Service Delivery with the Australia and New Zealand School of Government (ANZSOG), based in Sydney, Australia.

Early years 
Sturgess grew up in Dalby, Queensland, a small town approximately 200 km inland from Brisbane.  He is the second of four sons of Lindsay and Joy Sturgess. He was educated at local state schools, and graduated in law from the University of Queensland.

Career 
He commenced his professional career in Brisbane working as an investment analyst for what was then one of Australia's largest mining companies, MIM Holdings Ltd. In 1980, he moved to Sydney to become the legal correspondent for the Australian news magazine The Bulletin, where he had a legal and civil liberties round.

In 1982, he was recruited by Jim Carlton, recently appointed as Federal Minister for Health, to serve as his private secretary. Following the fall of the Fraser government in March 1983, he joined the staff of the newly elected Leader of the New South Wales Opposition, Nick Greiner, as the Director of Research and Policy Development. In addition to policy development, he directed extensive research into corruption in the then NSW Government, contributing to a number of public inquiries and criminal prosecutions. His extensive filing database caused the then Leader of the Opposition and later Premier Bob Carr to refer to him as "Lord of the Files".

Upon the change of government in March 1988, he was appointed as Director-General of the NSW Cabinet Office in the Liberal-National Coalition government led by Premier Nick Greiner, to oversee the implementation of the reform agenda he had developed with Greiner. In the five years he served as Cabinet Secretary, Sturgess personally drove a number of major policy initiatives, including the establishment of Australia's first anti-corruption body, the Independent Commission Against Corruption, the corporatisation of government business enterprises, the so-called "new environmentalism" (including tradeable air, water and fishing permits), and some of the earliest work in Australia on the use of markets for the electricity sector.

From 1990, he was involved in the "new federalism" agenda, initiated by Prime Minister Bob Hawke and Premier Greiner. He led the team of NSW officials at a series of Special Premiers Conferences that produced new policies such as the National Competition Policy, the National Electricity Market, mutual recognition of state regulations, and, ultimately, the formation of the Council of Australian Governments.

He retired from public administration in late 1992, six months after the resignation of Greiner as Premier. From 1993 to 2000, Sturgess chaired a series of government inquiries - into business regulation, the governance of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, the financial management of the Australian Federal Police and the rationalisation of Australia's border controls, among other issues.

He also served on a number of public, private and not-for-profit boards, including the Australian Constitutional Centenary Foundation, the NSW Police Board and spent seven years as a non-executive director of the Serco Group PLC, a FTSE-100 public service company operating in Europe, North America and Asia-Pacific.

In 2000, Sturgess relocated to London, where he joined Serco as Adviser to the Board and then from January 2003, as Executive Director of the Serco Institute, whose purpose is "to foster the development of sustainable public service markets through an outward-facing programme of research and communication". In that capacity, he played a leading role in the establishment of the Public Services Strategy Board, the UK's first industry association representing the public service industry, underneath the umbrella of the Confederation of British Industry. He continued to serve as adviser to the Public Services Strategy Board until 2011.