[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# California mule deer

ke mountain lions, bobcats, and coyotes, does care for the fawns by teaching them how to forage and avoid dangers, key survival skills that they will carry into their adulthood.

The buck's antlers fall off in the winter, and commence growing once more in spring in anticipation of next autumn's rut.

Predation 
Bobcats, mountain lions, coyotes, and black bears are all common predators of California Mule Deer. The largest predator of the California Mule deer is the Mountain Lion. Occasionally, these predators will hunt large healthy deer; however, these predators most often prey on weak, sick, or young deer or scavenge remains of dead deer.

Disease and Parasites 
The California mule deer often falls victim to the woodtick, which is extremely common throughout its habitat. Additionally lungworms and the nasal botfly will enter and parasitize the deer's lungs and nasal passageways. Parasitic eye worms of the genus Thelisa or Thelazia have also been found parasitizing the deer.

Human interactions
Since prehistoric times, the Native American indigenous peoples of California are known to have hunted California mule deer.  Thus, since about 12,000 BCE, Gage suggests that human populations have served as a control to the numbers of California mule deer.

In the modern era, since European colonists and Euro-Americans settled in California, hunting pressure intensified as the human population expanded and hunting became an activity not just associated with food supply.  In addition, human population growth (through urban development) in California has consumed large amounts of natural habitat of the California mule deer starting in the late 19th century and continuing through the present.

References

External links

U.S. Forest Service treatment — Odocoileus hemionus (Mule Deer) — including subspecies californicus

Odocoileus
Endemic mammals of the United States
Endemic fauna of California
Fauna of the Sierra Nevada (United States)
Fauna of the California chaparral and woodlands
Natural history of the California Coast Ranges
Natural history of the Santa Monica Mountains
Pre-Columbian California cuisine
Fauna without expected TNC conservation status