[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# List of smoking bans

for restaurants to have separate smoking and non-smoking areas. Smoking is also prohibited in shopping centres but a loop-hole in the law allows smoking on the balconies of cafeterias in shopping centres. Enforcement of this law is the responsibility of the Slovak Business Inspection (SOI) service.

There is also a partial restriction upon outdoor smoking, especially around railways stations and bus termini, and close to the entrances of government buildings. Local police forces are responsible for enforcing these laws, although this has on occasion been lax, reportedly due to a mix of corruption and insufficiently clear legislative requirements.

Slovenia
On 22 June 2024, the Slovenian National Assembly approved a law prohibiting smoking in all indoor public and work places, effective 5 August 2024. Exempted from the ban are "open public areas, special smoking hotel rooms, special smoking areas in elderly care centres and jails, and special smoking chambers in bars and other work places.
The smoking chambers, which will have to meet strict technical standards, will however not be allowed to occupy more than 20% of an establishment." The law also raised the minimum age to purchase tobacco products from 15 to 18 and mandated that tobacco labels carry the telephone number of a quit-smoking hotline.

Solomon Islands
The Solomon Islands has a ban on smoking in many indoor public places, workplaces and public transport but allows smoking in designated areas in workplaces and boats.

South Africa

The South African government passed the first Tobacco Products Control Act in 1993 and started implementing the act in 1995. The act regulated smoking in public areas and prohibited tobacco sales to people under the age of 18. Some aspects of tobacco advertising were also regulated for example labelling. The 1993 act was not considered to be comprehensive enough and the Tobacco Products Control Amendment Act was passed in 1999. This act prohibits all advertising and promotion of tobacco products, including sponsorship and free distribution of tobacco products. The act also restricts smoking in public places, which includes workplaces, restaurants, bars, and public transport. The act does allow for designated smoking areas (no more than 25% of the total floor area). The act also stipulates penalties for transgressors of the law, and specifies the maximum permissible levels of tar and nicotine. The regulations were implemented in 2001.

The government proposed further amendments to the bill in 2007 that sought to deal with new practices designed to circumvent the Act. These amendments also aim to bring the current law into compliance with the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC). This framework has been ratified by the South African government.

The South African government has currently set the minimum legal age for smokers to 18.

South Korea

South Korea enforced strict smoking bans in public places since July 2013, with fines of ₩100,000 won on any spotted smoker and up to ₩5 million won on shop owners not following the law. It is illegal and strictly prohibited to smoke in all bars and restaurants, cafes, internet cafes, government buildings, kindergartens, schools, universities, hospitals, youth facilities, libraries, children's playgrounds, private academies, subway or train stations and their platforms and underground pathways, large buildings, theaters, department stores or shopping malls, large hotels and highway rest areas.

The strict bans came into force gradually beginning with a ban on places larger than 150 square meters in 2012, extended to 100 square meters in 2014, with a full-fledged complete nationwide ban on 1 January 2015.

Spain
Since 1 January 2006 Spain had a partial restriction upon smoking in most public places. Offices, schools, hospitals and public transportation were smoke-free, but restaurants and bars could create a "smokers' section" or allow smoking if they were small (under 100m2).

Since 2 January 2011 smoking has been restricted in every indoor public place, including restaurants, bars and cafes. Hotels may designate up to 30% of rooms for smoking; mental hospitals, jails and old people's residences may have public rooms where workers cannot enter. Outdoor smoking is also prohibited at childcare facilities, in children's playparks and around schools and hospital facilities.

Establishments can be closed by the authorities for repeatedly violating the smoke-free law, as happened for the first time on 10 February 2011 in Marbella.

Sri Lanka

In Sri Lanka, the National Authority on Tobacco and Alcohol Act No. 27 of 2006 restricts smoking in many indoor public spaces, such as government departments, schools, and hospitals. The law permits smoking in designated areas of airports, hotels, and restaurants, while smoking in public transportation is banned.

Suriname
Suriname has a smoking ban in place.

Sweden