[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Youth Service Corps

service or obtained the relevant exemptions. Graduates who are exempted from the service include those above the age of thirty and those with physical disability. During the service year, Corps members have the opportunity to learn the cultures of the state they serve in.

Objectives of the Program

The objectives of the National Youth Service Corps Program are clearly enumerated in Decree No.51 of 16 June 1993 as follows:
 To inculcate discipline in Nigerian youths by instilling in them a tradition of industry at work, and of patriotic and loyal service to Nigeria in any situation they may find themselves.
 To raise the moral tone of the Nigerian youths by giving them the opportunity to learn about higher ideals of national achievement, social and cultural improvement
 To develop in the Nigerian youths the attitudes of mind, acquired through shared experience and suitable training. which will make them more amenable to mobilisation in the national interest
 To enable Nigerian youths acquire the spirit of self reliance by encouraging them to develop skills for self employment
 To contribute to the accelerated growth of the national economy
 To develop common ties among the Nigerian youths and promote national unity and integration
 To remove prejudices, eliminate ignorance and confirm at first hand the many similarities among Nigerians of all ethnic groups
 To develop a sense of corporate existence and common destiny of the people of Nigeria.
 The equitable distribution of members of the service corps and the effective utilisation of their skills in area of national needs
 That as far as possible, youths are assigned to jobs in States other than their States of origin
 That such group of youths assigned to work together is as representative of Nigeria as far as possible
 That the Nigerian youths are exposed to the modes of living of the people in different parts of Nigeria
 That the Nigerian youths are encouraged to eschew religious intolerance by accommodating religious differences
 That members of the service corps are encouraged to seek at the end of their one-year national service, career employment all over Nigeria, thus promoting the free movement of labour
 That employers are induced partly through their experience with members of the service corps to employ more readily and on a permanent basis, qualified Nigerians, irrespective of their States of origin.

Criticisms
The program has been met with criticism from a large portion of the country and complaints from Corps members about their remuneration. A few youth carrying out the NYSC program have been killed in the regions where they were sent due to religious, ethnic or political violence.

Besides the issue of security, many have questioned the continued importance of the program and have called for a dialogue in this regard. Preemptive measures must be taken in order to avoid future incidents of violence. The integrity and nobility of the program must be upheld by addressing the aforementioned issues. Recently there was a call for the NYSC to be scrapped. The bill was sponsored by Hon Awaji-Inombek Abiante who listed insecurity in the country, incessant killing of corp members and inability of firms to retain corp members after service due to failing economy as some of the reasons why the NYSC should be scrapped. This call for the scrapping of NYSC has been met with mixed feelings. While some past leaders are against the scrapping of it because its gains overweigh its loses, some Nigerians feel the scheme has lost its use and should be scrapped to avoid endangering the lives of innocent Nigerians to insecurity and unnecessary one year stress.

References

External links

Government of Nigeria
Education in Nigeria
Youth organizations based in Nigeria