[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Foreign policy of the Ronald Reagan administration

of the Armenian people at the hands of the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1923.

Previously, the U.S. spent over a billion dollars in humanitarian relief funding for the crisis starting in 1918 and also recognized the Armenian "genocide" in a statement to the International Court of Justice in 1951.

Bitburg controversy
In 1985, Reagan visited Kolmeshohe cemetery in Bitburg to "honor of German soldiers killed in World War II". The Kolmeshohe cemetery included graves of 49 Nazi Waffen-SS soldiers. Reagan and West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl planned to lay a wreath in the cemetery "in a spirit of reconciliation, in a spirit of forty years of peace, in a spirit of economic and military compatibility." Reagan had declined to visit any concentration camps during the visit because he thought it would "send the wrong signal" to the German people and was "unnecessary".

This led to protest and condemnation by Jewish groups, veterans, Congress, and the Anti-Defamation League. Politicians, veterans, and Jewish demonstrators from the United States, France, Britain, West Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Israel, and other countries protested the Reagan's visit. Due to the Bitburg controversy, Reagan did end up visiting the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp during his trip. During the visit Reagan honored Anne Frank but also stated, "The evil world of Nazism turned all values upside down. Nevertheless, we can mourn the German war dead today as human beings, crushed by a vicious ideology."

Leading up to the visit, U.S. president Richard Nixon acknowledged Reagan's planned trip already caused "substantial domestic political damage", but he urged Reagan not to cancel or alter the itinerary, as it would "undermine Reagan's standing with the Western European allies and his ability to negotiate with the Soviets and in the Middle East, putting the credibility of future negotiations is at stake."

The New York Times reported in 1985, "White House aides have acknowledged that (Reagan's) Bitburg visit is probably the biggest fiasco of Mr. Reagan's Presidency." They described Reagan's decision to go through with the Bitburg visit was a "blunder", and one of the few times that Reagan lost a confrontation in the court of public opinion.

Ratification of the Convention on Genocide

In 1986, the U.S. ratified the United Nations Genocide Convention, 36 years after originally signing the treaty. The convention was created "in response to the Nazi atrocities against the Jews". The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and the textbook of Oxford University Human Rights explained the sudden ratification as a direct response to the Bitburg controversy and an attempt for Reagan to "make amends" for the visit.

This "gesture of concession to public outrage" was undermined by "a number of provisions immunizing the U.S. against the possibility of ever being charged with genocide." The U.S. ratification included so many treaty reservations "that the convention would not meaningfully bind the United States to much of anything" and the ratification was described as substantially "meaningless".

The vote to ratify the treaty in the Senate was 83 in favor, 11 against and 6 not voting. The U.S. was the 98th country to ratify the Genocide Convention.
The U.S. had previously refused to become a party from 1948 to 1985 because it was "nervous about its own record on race": U.S. Southern senators worried "that Jim Crow laws could constitute genocide under the Convention".

International Court of Justice Jurisdiction

On April 6, 1984, the United States attempted to modify its declaration accepting the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice, in order to exclude disputes involving Central America for a period of two years. Then on January 18, 1985, the United States notified the ICJ that it would no longer participate in the Nicaragua v. United States proceedings. On June 27, 1986, the ICJ ruled that U.S. support to the contras in Nicaragua was illegal, and demanded that the U.S. pay reparations to the Sandinistas. Reagan's State Department said "the United States rejected the Court's verdict, and said the ICJ was not equipped to judge complex international military issues."

Finally, and most significantly, on October 7, 1985, the United States terminated its acceptance of the ICJ's compulsory jurisdiction. The decision was critiqued by The New York Times as "damaging our foreign policy interests, undermining our legitimacy as a voice for morality, eroding the rule of law in international relations."

See also

Cold War
List of international presidential trips made by Ronald Reagan
Presidency of Ronald Reagan
Reagan Doctrine

Notes

References