[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Xavras Wyżryn

uotes printed on their T-shirts, because he does not know their real names and they look like twin brothers: "Another Horse Came Out, a Fiery Red One" (Revelation 6:4) and "The Sea Gave Up the Dead" (Revelation 20:13). Their fighting skills are exceptional and they are Xavras' most trusted soldiers.

Analysis 
One of the author's inspirations was the First Chechen War; Xavras's guerrillas fighting against Soviet forces resemble Chechens battling with the Russian Army. The novel was analyzed in the context of the nuclear weapon motif in literature. Other threads of the work that received literary commentaries concern, among others, national and religious symbolism, the morality of terrorism and the role of the media in shaping public opinion. The novel has also been described as historiosophic, concerned with the great man theory. Piotr Przytuła wrote that Xavras Wyżryn is a story about how pop culture appropriates and transforms historical figures.

The main character of the novel, Xavras Wyżryn, is a character referring to Polish 19th-century romantic national liberation traditions, but at the same time, a terrorist using nuclear weapons, described as "the ayatollah of [...] Catholic jihad".

Critics debate whether the story is patriotic or antipatriotic. As in the Chechen conflict, neither side holds a moral high ground since both commit horrible war crimes to reach their goals. After the September 11 attacks in 2001, a story about terrorists calling themselves "freedom fighters" gained much more meaning, and the book's dialogues on morals, ethics and freedom become deeper than ever.

References

External links
 "Stronice Dukaja" - Jacek Dukaj's official website, English version

Polish novels
1997 novels
Polish alternate history novels
Characters in written science fiction
Military science fiction novels
Polish science fiction novels
1997 science fiction novels
20th-century Polish novels
Novels set in the 1990s
Novels set in Poland
Novels set in Russia
Novels set in Ukraine
Nuclear war and weapons in popular culture
Novels about terrorism
Jacek Dukaj