[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dunsany Castle and Demesne

store parts of the castle, and some of the Dunsany properties in the demesne, the hamlet at Dunsany crossroads, and in Trim.

The family's other castle, the largest in Ireland but a ruin, Trim Castle, was transferred to the State in 1993, such a transfer having been refused in the late 19th century.

Castle structure
The castle is entered through a projecting porch and a lobby with a worked plaster ceiling, which contain military memorabilia.  Beyond are the central hallway, featuring the principal stairway and a vaulted ceiling, and a private secondary hall. The ground floor holds the grand dining room, with portraits of past family members, the former estate office, and a fine arts and crafts billiards room.  Also present in the historic castle core, off a spinal corridor ("the passage"), are the ancient kitchen and a more modern one, a bedroom suite, and other rooms. The corridor in turn connects to buildings on the castle's internal yard, with living spaces and the gallery of the artist Edward Plunkett, the late 20th Lord Dunsany.

On the first floor of the historic castle are the library, and drawing-room, which has Stapleton plasterwork from 1780. The library, which may have been worked on by James Shiel, is in the "Gothic Revival" style, with a "beehive" ceiling. Also on this floor is a secondary stairway (where a "priest's hole" for hiding Catholic priests formerly existed). The third floor holds ornate bedrooms, some with attached bathrooms, and the principal one also with a dressing room.  One of the bedrooms is reputedly haunted.

Demesne

Walls, entrances and lodges

The demesne is surrounded by a drystone wall, much of which was built during the Great Famine as a relief work.  The wall is interrupted by two formal entrances, on the Dublin Road, a farm entrance on the same road, and a closed entrance near the former railway line and the Skane River, on the Glane Road.

The former main gateway, nearest to Dunshaughlin, leads to a long avenue, which abruptly reveals the castle to arrivals.  Built in its current form around 1830, it is in the neo-Gothic style, with a tower lodge, mock porticullis, and two sets of white gates, for a carriage entrance and a footpath. It displays the coat of arms of the 14th Lord Dunsany, quartered with those of his two wives.  It is disused since around 1960, and its carriageway is grown-over.  The main entrance to the grounds today, opposite a medieval pilgrim cross near Dunsany crossroads, has the appearance of a Gothic ruin but is a sham.  It conceals a residential gatehouse lodge, and was originally built for arrivals smaller than carriages, such as horse-buggies and carts, and riding parties.  Just inside this gate is the former Steward's House, a sunken stone-built structure, and just to the west on the public road is an access road for the demesne farm.

A third gateway, at Dunsany Bridge, over the River Skane, had a lodge made of black limestone, the Black Lodge, which was vandalised in the 1980s.  It displayed the coat of arms of the 14th Lord Dunsany and may have been the work of James Shiel.  The road facing it is said to be haunted by a headless horseman at night.

Church of St Nicholas ("The Abbey")
The Church of St Nicholas (of Myra), known locally as the Abbey, was built in the 1440s on the site of an earlier church (standing in 1305). It is now a National Monument, with remnants of lofts and living quarters, and inside and around are tombs of family members and local residents, including the 20th Lord Dunsany. It fell out of use, perhaps damaged by Cromwellian forces, and a new church was built at Dunsany Crossroads, but it is still consecrated.  It was partly restored for the filming of the wedding scene from the film Braveheart in 1994, and a wedding Mass was celebrated there (with a temporary roof installed) in the early 2000s, with the Bishop of Meath.  A feature of the church was a highly-decorated font.

Walled garden
There is a walled garden, around  in size, which as of 2000, still produced fruit and vegetables for the estate. A cottage, historically occupied by the senior gardener, is built into the walls of the garden.  Nearby are working beehives.

Other structures
Also within the demesne are stone-built farm and stable yards, an ice-house and wells.  There is a home within the stable yard.  There is also at least one ruined cottage near the walls.

As mentioned, mounds on either side of the castle are believed to be motte sites; the 19th Lord Dunsany is buried on one of them.

In front of the castle is a lawn and a ha-ha protective ditch, beyond which estate farmland begins.  Passing under one of the roads is a sunken path by which staff could discreetly move from the walled farmyard complex to some of the fields.