[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sectarian violence in Pakistan

ke members in Afghanistan, its members are predominantly Deobandi rather than Salafi). It was responsible for the 4 March 2022 bombing of a Shia mosque in Peshawar which killed more than 60.
Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (Labbaik, for short) — a hardline political party and violent protest movement,  most of whose followers are Barelvi, which mobilises around perceived insults to the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. Starting around 2017, Labbaik has been responsible for inciting or conducting some of the worst sectarian and vigilante violence in Pakistan.  In particular the 3 December 2021 mob lynching of Priyantha Kumara, a Sri Lankan factory manager wrongly accused of blasphemy. While Labbaik does not represent Barelvi Islam, most of its followers are Barelvi.  Labaik has embraced an anti-Shia agenda, breaking with Barelvis’ history of shared ritual practice with Shias.  Among other activities, the group threatened Supreme Court judges with a “horrible end” if they overruled the Asia Bibi blasphemy sentence,  called for mutiny against army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa, who it declared a non-Muslim. A Labaik youth leader shot and wounded Interior Minister Ahsan Iqbal, during the July 2018 elections campaign,  which another Labaik leader justified on the grounds that Iqbal's  party (PML-N) had committed blasphemy.
Tehreek-e-Jafaria Pakistan (TeJP, Movement of Ja'fari (Ja'fari is the 12er Shia school of fiqh) — was a Shia political party founded in 1979 by Syed Arif Hussain Al Hussaini to  protect the interests of the Shiite minority and to spread the ideas of the leader of the Iranian Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Its origins are in Tehreek Nifaz Fiqah-e-Jafria (TNFJ). A splinter group, the Sipah-e-Muhammad Pakistan (SMP),  with a significant following in Jhang, emerged in 1994 as a prominent Shia terrorist outfit involved in anti-SSP campaigns, violence and target killings. TeJP was banned along with three terrorist organizations by the government of Pakistan on January 12, 2002, and again on  November 5, 2011.
Sipah-e-Muhammad Pakistan (SMP, Army of Muhammad) — is an Iranian supported Shia group that splintered off from TeJP; it has been involved in sectarian terrorist activity primarily in Pakistani Punjab. in the 1980 and 90s it , "engaged in tit-for-tat killings" with the SSP. The SMP was  proscribed by President Pervez Musharraf as a sectarian terrorist outfit on August 14, 2001.

Victims and causes

Barelvi Muslims

From 1986 to 2020 "more than 600 Barelvi leaders and activists" have been killed and "almost all" the major Sufi shrines, including Abdullah Shah Ghazi, Data Darbar, and Lal Shahbaz Qalandar, have come under attack.

In April 2006, the entire leadership of two prominent Barelvi outfits, the Sunni Tehreek and Jamaat Ahle Sunnat were killed in a bomb attack in Nishtar Park, in Pakistan's largest city and business hub Karachi.
On 12 June 2009, Sarfraz Ahmed Naeemi, a prominent Barelvi cleric and outspoken critic of the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan was killed in a suicide bombing.

Sufi shrines

Sufism, a mystical Islamic tradition, has a long history and a large popular following in Pakistan, where it is "followed by the Barelvi school of thought".
Orthodox Deobandis "perceive the Barelvi shrine culture as idolatrous" and Deobandi militants have targeted major Barelvi shrines. Between 2005 and 2010 hundreds of Barelvi sect members were killed in more than 70 suicide attacks at different religious shrines .  In two years, 2010 and 2011, 128 people were killed and 443 were injured in 22 attacks on (mostly Sufi) shrines and tombs of saints and religious people in Pakistan.

These shrines include
 the Data Darbar in Lahore where an July 2010 bombing killed at least 50 people injured 200 others;
 the Bari Imam tomb in Islamabad in 2005 where a bombing killed twenty people;
 the Shrine of Lal Shahbaz Qalandar in Sehwan in a November 2017 suicide attack where  a bombing killed at least 90 people and injured  over 300;
 Abdullah Shah Ghazi's tomb in Karachi was  attacked in 2010 by suicide bombers who  killed 10 and injured 50;
 the Khal Magasi in Balochistan, and Rahman Baba's tomb in Peshawar have also been attacked,

Perpetrators of these acts include Tehreek-e-Taliban-e-Pakistan (aka Pakistani Taliban, TTP), Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan (SSP), and Lashkar-e-Taiba.

Popular Sufi culture is centred on Thursday night gatherings at shrines and annual festivals which feature Sufi music and dance. Contemporary Islamic fundamentalists criticise its popular character, which in their view, deviates from the teachings and practice of the Prophet and his companions.

Deobandi Muslims

There have been assassinations or attempted assassinations of several Deobandi religious leaders.