[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kursk Nuclear Power Plant

The Kursk Nuclear Power Plant (Russian: Курская АЭС []) is a nuclear power plant located in western Russia on the bank of the Seym River about 40 kilometers west of the city of Kursk. The nearby town of Kurchatov was founded when construction of the plant began. The plant feeds the grid for Kursk Oblast and 19 other regions.

Planning and construction 
The decision to construct the Kursk NPP was made in the mid 1960s by Soviet authorities. This was followed by the beginning of on-site construction in 1971. The plant was intended to supply the growing energy demands of the quickly developing industrial complex of the Kursk Magnetic Anomaly (Stary-Oskol and Mikhaylovsk ore mining and processing factories and other manufacturing companies). The general designer of Kursk NPP was Atom energy project (Moscow); the general contractor - the Research and Development Institute of Power Engineering (Moscow); the research manager – was Kurchatov Institute. The construction was executed by the Department for the Construction of Kursk NPP (presently Kurskatomenergostroy Ltd.).

The structure of the Kursk I plant is almost identical to Chernobyl's structure having 2 first generation RBMK blocks followed by 2 second generation blocks. The 1991 American television movie Chernobyl: The Final Warning used the Kursk plant and the neighbouring town of Kurchatov to stand in for Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and Pripyat.

Specifications 
Kursk NPP is a one-circuit plant: the steam supplied to the turbines is produced inside the reactor by the boiling coolant (ordinary demineralized water circulating inside a circuit). For condensing the steam the plant uses water from a 21.5 sq m cooling pond.

Kursk NPP has four RBMK-1000 reactors (1000 MW each) and is building new ones. The 1st unit was launched in 1976, the 2nd in 1979, the 3rd in 1983 and the 4th in 1985. Kursk NPP is one of the three biggest NPPs and one of the four biggest electricity producers in Russia (along with Balakovo and Leningrad NPPs and Sayano-Shushink WPP).

Kursk NPP is an important part of the United Energy System of Russia. Its key consumer is the Center energy system covering 19 regions of the Central Federal District. Kursk NPP produces 52% of the total output of all electric power plants of Chernozemye (Black Earth Belt). It feeds 90% of the industry of Kursk region. It also supplies electricity to northern and north-eastern Ukraine.

As of Jan 1 2006 the plant had generated 560 billion kWh. Today Kursk NPP is the key energy supplier of Central Chernozemye, a region that produces 48% of iron ore, 13.5% of steel, 19% of ferrous metals, 9.6% of meat, 19.5% of sugar in Russia. The development of that region is largely credited to the Kursk NPP as it provides power, and a stable source of both employment and income for the communities around it.

Shutdown 
Although the Kursk I plant has been a major success for the local area, as the reactors age they begin to require much longer and more costly maintenance outages compared to modern reactor types with greater efficiency.

In 2015, Rosenergoatom proposed that the Kursk 1 RBMK would be shut down in 2023, followed by the unit 2 in 2027. The third and fourth units are scheduled to close in 2029 and 2031 respectively.

On December 19, 2021, exactly 45 years to the day since it began operation, Kursk I Unit 1 RBMK shut down. In total Kursk's four RBMK-1000 units have generated 987 billion kWh of electricity while simultaneously providing district heating to nearby towns and process heat to industry.

Kursk II VVER 

With the aging RBMK reactors reaching end of life, because of how heavily the surrounding area relies on this site,  a replacement was necessary. The new VVER-TOI reactor was chosen as this site would be the pioneering power station with this reactor type.

Civil construction began in 2017 with the excavation of an estimated 1.2 million cubic metres of soil, as part of the construction work on the two new units. More than 800,000m³ of sand and gravel mixture was laid at the base of the NPP II buildings and structures.

Formation of the sand and gravel coating of unit one was completed in October 2017, while the first concrete layer (concrete bedding) under the foundation plate was assembled in November 2017.

The first 16t reinforced concrete block was installed on the rebar of the lower foundation belt in December 2017. The foundation will comprise 105 reinforced concrete blocks with a total weight of 1,600t.

More than 16,000m³ of self-compacting concrete mix is proposed to be laid in the foundation slab of the reactor building, while the works are expected to be completed by June 2018.

The NPP construction works also included the engineering networks – steam pipelines, hot water supply pipelines for the construction base, and heating networks.