[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Non-intervention in the Spanish Civil War

During the Spanish Civil War, several countries followed a principle of non-intervention to avoid any potential escalation or possible expansion of the war to other states. That would result in the signing of the Non-Intervention Agreement in August 1936 and the setting up of the Non-Intervention Committee, which first met in September. Primarily arranged by the French and the British governments, the committee also included the Soviet Union, Fascist Italy, and Nazi Germany. Ultimately, the committee had the support of 27 states.

A plan to control materials coming into the country was put forward in early 1937, effectively subjecting the Spanish Republic to severe international isolation and a de facto economic embargo. The plan was mocked by German and Italian observers as amounting to decisive and immediate support for the Spanish Nationalist faction. The subject of foreign volunteers was also much discussed, with little result. Although agreements were signed late in the war, they were made outside the committee. Efforts to stem the flow of war materials to Spain were largely unsuccessful, with foreign involvement in the Spanish Civil War proving instrumental to its outcome. Germany, Italy and the Soviet Union consistently broke the Non-Intervention Agreement, and France occasionally did so. Britain remained largely faithful to the agreement.

Non-Intervention Agreement
Italy and Germany supported the Spanish Nationalists from the outset of the Spanish Civil War. The Soviet Union began supporting the Spanish Republicans four months later. Non-intervention and the Non-Intervention Agreement were proposed in a joint diplomatic initiative by the governments of France and the United Kingdom. Part of the policy of appeasement, it was aimed at preventing a proxy war from escalating into a European-wide conflict.

On 3 August 1936, Charles de Chambrun, the French ambassador to Italy, presented the French government's non-intervention plan, and Galeazzo Ciano promised to study it. The British, however, immediately accepted the plan in principle. The following day, the plan was put to Konstantin von Neurath, the foreign minister of Germany, by André François-Poncet. The German position was that such a declaration was not needed, but discussions could be held on preventing the spread of the war to the rest of Europe if the Soviet Union was present. It was mentioned at the meeting of the French with Neurath that both countries were already supplying the parties in the war, France the Republicans and Germany the Nationalists. A similar approach was made by the French to the Soviet Union. On 6 August, Ciano confirmed Italian support in principle. Despite a Pravda claim that 12,145,000 Rbls had already been sent by Soviet workers to Spain, the Soviet government similarly agreed in principle if Portugal was included and Germany and Italy stopped aid immediately.

On 7 August 1936, France unilaterally declared non-intervention. Draft declarations had been put to the German and Italian governments. Such a declaration had already been accepted by the United Kingdom, Belgium, the Netherlands, Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union, which renounced all traffic in war material, direct or indirect. The Portuguese foreign minister, Armindo Monteiro, was also asked to accept but held his hand. An ultimatum was put to Yvon Delbos by the British to halt French exports to Spain, or Britain would not be obliged to act under the Treaty of Locarno if Germany invaded. On 9 August, exports were duly suspended. However, collections for food, clothing and medical supplies to the Spanish Republicans continued. On 9 August, the Germans falsely informed the British that 'no war materials had been sent from Germany and none will'. During the blockade of the Strait of Gibraltar by the Spanish Republican Navy, one German Junkers was captured when it came down in Republican territory, which was explained as 'merely a transport aircraft'. Its release would be required before Germany signed the Non-Intervention Pact. Portugal accepted the pact on 13 August unless its border was threatened by the war.

There was popular support in both countries for the plan, but in the United Kingdom, the socialist Labour Party was strongly for it, the left in France wanted direct aid to the Republicans. The Labour Party would reject non-intervention in October 1937. The British Trades Union Congress (TUC) was split, but the leaders Walter Citrine and Ernest Bevin used their block votes to pass motions supporting non-intervention at the TUC Congress in September 1936, making non-intervention a TUC policy. Like Labour, between October 1936 and June 1937 and under pressure from the LSI and the International Federation of Trade Unions, Citrine, Bevin and the TUC repudiated non-intervention.