[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shahan Natalie

Shahan Natalie (; July 14, 1884 – April 19, 1983) was an Armenian writer and political activist who was the principal organizer of Operation Nemesis, a campaign of revenge against officials of the former Ottoman Empire who organized the Armenian genocide during World War I. Originally a member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, he later left the party over disagreements regarding its policy towards Turkey. Of his writings on Armenian national philosophy, his essay The Turks and Us is the best known. The main argument of Natalie's writings is that it is impossible for Armenians to come to any kind of understanding with Turks, whom he considered the chief enemy of Armenians, let alone cooperate with Turkey against the Soviet Union.

Early life
Shahan Natalie was born Hagop Der Hagopian () on July 14, 1884, in the village of Huseinig (now a part of Elazığ), in the Mamuret-ul-Aziz Vilayet, also known as the Kharberd Vilayet (modern day Elazığ Province), of the Ottoman Empire. He was the only son of a seven-member family, along with four sisters.

He received his primary education at a local Armenian school. His father, maternal uncle, and numerous other relatives were killed at the beginning of the 1895 Hamidian massacres. Hagop, then 11, was separated from his family and taken in by a neighboring Greek family, who hid him for three days. He was later reunited with the surviving members of his family. He found his mother mourning over his father's lifeless body, which they buried together. This left a deep impression on young Hagop.

He studied for a year at the Euphrates College in Kharberd. Along with other orphans, he was then sent to the St. James Orphanage in Constantinople. A wealthy Armenian rug merchant living in New York City sponsored him to study at the famed Berberian School, where he studied until 1900. He adopted the pen name Shahan in honor of the son of the school's founder and principal, Reteos Berberian.

In 1901, he returned to his native Huseinig, where for three years he was a teacher at the Armenian parochial school of the St. Varvara Church. In the meantime, he studied the provincial dialect of Kharberd, earning him special honor in Patriarch Matthew II Izmirlian's literary competition.

In 1904, he joined the Armenian Revolutionary Federation (ARF) in Kharberd and immigrated to the eastern United States, where he worked for three years as a laborer in a shoe factory in Watertown, Massachusetts.

In 1908, after the proclamation of the Ottoman Constitution, he returned to his home in Huseinig. His stay was short-lived, however, as the 1909 Adana massacre drove him into exile in America once again.

Education and political life

From 1910 to 1912, Natalie attended Boston University, where he studied English literature, philosophy, and theater as a special student. In 1912, he decided to return to his home in the Ottoman Empire, but on his way there, he was sent back to the U.S., as Greek authorities would not let him through, considering him a citizen of an enemy nation.

Back in the U.S., Natalie became active within the ranks of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation.  He was on the editorial staff of the party's Hairenik newspaper from 1915 to 1917, and was elected to the party's United States Central Committee.  Not happy with the way the ARF was evolving, he later resigned from the party. He became a United States citizen on March 23, 1915, and assumed "John Mahy" as his official name in 1923.

Relation with the ARF and Operation Nemesis

From September 27 to the end of October 1919, the Armenian Revolutionary Federation's 9th General Congress convened in Yerevan. Shahan Natalie participated as United States District delegate. Retribution against those who had been responsible for the genocide against the Armenians was one of the issues on the Congress's agenda. Shahan Natalie was appalled when some of the delegates expressed their opposition to  this policy. The opponents to retribution argued that the newly created Armenian Republic needed Turkey's friendship. Contrary to many of the Eastern Armenian delegates' vociferous objections, the ARF decided in favor of retaliation. It is generally assumed that the task force responsible for the execution of the retribution was organized at this meeting. Shahan Natalie was the primary motivator and planner of this small group. 

Under the most clandestine circumstances the work of eliminating the main perpetrators of the genocide was organized and the preliminary steps (surveillance, arms-gathering and transport, etc.) were carried out. The "black list" of perpetrators consisted of approximately 200 names. The perpetrators of the genocide against Armenians had moved to Berlin, Rome, Baku, Tbilisi and other cities. For Shahan Natalie, the primary target was Talaat Pasha, whom Shahan called "Number One". The mission was entrusted to Soghomon Tehlirian.