[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Peace Mala

s held at The Monastery Manchester in Gorton on 4 October 2010.  The festival was organised by Laura Daniels, Head Teacher of Woodheys Primary School in Sale Greater Manchester, one of the first accredited schools in the UK.  Daniels came on board as an educational ambassador for Peace Mala in 2008.

Recognising Achievement for Service to Wales
On 10 June 2010 the founder of Peace Mala was honoured with the Recognising Achievement for Service to Wales.  This award was first introduced by the Welsh Assembly Government in 2009. The 2010 Award for Promoting Tolerance was carefully selected to mark the 65th anniversary of the end of World War II and the liberation of the death camps in Auschwitz and elsewhere. Evans received this honour from the First Minister Carwyn Jones AM in recognition of her work with Peace Mala and her positive stand against all forms of inequality and intolerance.

Peace Mala units at Primary and Secondary level included in the new Religious Education Agreed Syllabus for Trafford Education Authority UK

On Wednesday 9 February 2011, the founder was invited to take part in a full day of meetings with Trafford Education Authority to discuss the inclusion of Peace Mala units at primary and secondary level for the new RE Agreed Syllabus.  This proved highly successful with ideas being shared between teachers and RE advisors including Steve Illingworth (Independent Educational Consultant and Education Link Officer to Salford SACRE) and Erica Pounce, School Improvement Partner and Link Advisor for Primary Education. Pounce reported that they had worked as a Collaborative with other Greater Manchester SACREs but had also developed a distinctive local flavour, which is where the Peace Mala Units would sit as an optional unit and as an example of a compelling learning experience.
The New RE syllabus for Trafford Education Authority, including units on Peace Mala, was launched on 24 March 2011.

Queen's Birthday Honours 
In the Queen's Birthday Honours for 2019, Pam Evans, founder of Peace Mala, received an MBE for services to the promotion of peace and interfaith understanding.

International Interfaith Liturgy for World Peace, Llandaff 2017
In July 2017 the Peace Mala International Interfaith Liturgy for World Peace took place at Llandaff Cathedral Wales. This major event took almost two years to organise and plan. The idea came to the founder after the Paris terrorist attacks on Friday 13 the November 2015. The founder felt urged to bring the Peace Mala community together and Llandaff Cathedral immediately sprang to mind as a venue for this. She also felt it was time to put the spotlight on the work being achieved by the children and young people in Peace Mala schools. The purpose would be to send out a message of love, friendship and peace to all people in our world. Representatives from sixteen religions, including three Christian Bishops, and supporters from across the UK and beyond attended and took part. These included dignitaries from Cardiff, Swansea, Neath Port Talbot and Greater Manchester and Peace Mala schools from across Wales, Greater Manchester and Yorkshire. The cathedral was filled to capacity and turned out to be the largest interfaith gathering for world peace that Wales had hosted.

Apostolic Blessing for Peace Mala from Pope Francis, September 2017
On 21 September 2017, Peace Mala celebrated the UN International Day of Peace at St Joseph's Catholic Cathedral in Swansea Wales UK. This was thanks to the invitation of Bishop Tom Burns of Menevia and the support of the Dean, Rev. Fr. Benedict Koledoye. Seven schools attended and took part in the Peace Mala Youth Liturgy for World Peace. Peace Mala linked up with One Day one Choir, a global peace initiative which uses the harmonious power of singing together to unite people around the world on Peace Day.

Peace Mala schools that could not be present at the event sang the Peace Mala Anthem, ‘One Light’ in their school assemblies across the UK. Lee Michael Walton, composer of the anthem, drove from London and back to accompany the children's singing on St Joseph's Cathedral organ. When it came to the final prayer and blessing from Bishop Tom, he surprised the congregation with an Apostolic Blessing from Pope Francis,

"His Holiness Pope Francis presents his good wishes to Pam Evans and to all those persons involved in Peace Mala and imparts to them the requested Apostolic Blessing upon their work for world peace and encourages them with his prayers."

Youth Liturgy for World Peace, St David's Church Neath 2018
Peace Mala worked with St David's Church in Neath to host a Youth Liturgy for World Peace on the UN International Day of Peace on 21 September 2018 . Peace Mala accredited schools and those working towards accreditation were joined by local dignitaries and 21 representatives from eleven different faiths.