[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# Augustus

n standing beside him...", adding that "his shoes [were] somewhat high-soled, to make him look taller than he really was". Scientific analysis of traces of paint found in his official statues shows that he most likely had light brown hair and eyes (his hair and eyes were depicted as the same color).

His official images were very tightly controlled and idealized, drawing from a tradition of Hellenistic portraiture rather than the tradition of realism in Roman portraiture. He first appeared on coins at the age of 19, and from about 29 BC "the explosion in the number of Augustan portraits attests a concerted propaganda campaign aimed at dominating all aspects of civil, religious, economic and military life with Augustus's person." The early images did indeed depict a young man, but although there were gradual changes his images remained youthful until he died in his seventies, by which time they had "a distanced air of ageless majesty", according to the classicist R. R. R. Smith. Among the best known of many surviving portraits are the Augustus of Prima Porta, the image on the Ara Pacis, and the Via Labicana Augustus, which depicts him in his role as pontifex maximus. Several cameo portraits include the Blacas Cameo and Gemma Augustea.

See also 

 Augustan and Julio-Claudian art
 Augustan literature (ancient Rome)
 Propaganda in Augustan Rome
 Bierzo Edict
 Gaius Maecenas
 Indo-Roman trade relations
 Julio-Claudian family tree
 List of Roman emperors
 Temple of Augustus

Notes

References

Sources

Ancient sources

Modern sources

Further reading

External links 

 Works by and about Augustus at Perseus Digital Library
 Gallery of the Ancient Art: August
 The Via Iulia Augusta: road built by the Romans; constructed on the orders of Augustus between the 13–12 B.C.
 Augustan Legionaries – Augustus's legions and legionaries
 Augustus – short biography at the BBC
 Brown, F. The Achievements of Augustus Caesar, Clio History Journal, 2009.
 "Augustus Caesar and the Pax Romana" – essay by Steven Kreis about Augustus's legacy
 "De Imperatoribus Romanis" (archived 17 March 2022) – article about Augustus at Garrett G. Fagan's online encyclopedia of Roman emperors
 Augustus – article by Andrew Selkirk

 
63 BC births
14 deaths
1st-century BC Roman augurs
1st-century BC Roman consuls
1st-century BC monarchs in Europe
1st-century Roman emperors
1st-century clergy
Ancient Roman adoptees
Ancient Roman military personnel
Burials at the Mausoleum of Augustus
Characters in Book VI of the Aeneid
Children of Julius Caesar
Deified Roman emperors
Founding monarchs
Julii Caesares
Julio-Claudian dynasty
People in the canonical gospels
Political spokespersons
Pontifices
Roman pharaohs
Shipwreck survivors
1st-century Romans
Octavii