[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Richie Farmer

easons to make an exception to the standards, adding, "I won't say there never will be another exception, but the likelihood of another is not great." Sportscaster Cris Collinsworth protested Newton's action because it honored the seniors before other program standouts like Kyle Macy and Rick Robey.

After the season, the four seniors participated in a 21-city barnstorming tour of the state, playing against a group of local players in each city. At the game in Farmer's hometown of Manchester, Farmer scored 107 points for the seniors' team before switching to the Clay County team for the remainder of the game, hitting an additional three-pointer for a total of 30. Pelphrey hit a three to give the seniors – without Farmer – a 179–176 lead with 25 seconds left in the game, and the three seniors triple-teamed Farmer to prevent him from getting a shot off to tie the game. Twenty percent of the proceeds from each game benefited local charities, and another twenty percent of the total proceeds from the tour was divided between the University of Kentucky Library Fund, Big Brothers Big Sisters, and AIDS Volunteers of Lexington.

Post-playing career
In August 1992, Antex Publishing of Lexington released Farmer's autobiography entitled Richie. In addition to the standard printing, the publisher offered a special edition of the book in which direct quotes from Farmer were rendered in blue type, similar to the words of Jesus in red letter editions of the Bible. Long-time Wildcats radio broadcaster Cawood Ledford wrote the book's foreword. By the end of October, the book had sold 30,000 copies, and a second printing from the publisher was ordered. Farmer participated in several book signings across the state, as well as filming television advertisements for local products and conducting speaking engagements for dental insurance provider Delta Dental to promote good oral health in his native eastern Kentucky.

Farmer continued taking classes at Kentucky with support from the Cawood Ledford Scholarship fund – designated to help University of Kentucky athletes who have exhausted their athletic eligibility finish their degrees – and in 1995, earned a Bachelor of Science degree with a double major in agricultural economics and agribusiness management. After graduation, he briefly worked in sports marketing in Lexington before returning to Manchester to join his father in the insurance business. In addition to selling insurance, Farmer also got his securities license to sell annuities, and eventually rose to become vice-president of Kentucky Financial Group.

On April 15, 1998, Farmer married Rebecca Ann Morgan. The couple had three sons – Richard III ("Trey") and Ryan, born on November 30 in 1996 and 1998, respectively, and Tate, born in 2001.

Farmer was inducted into the KHSAA Hall of Fame in 1998 and the Kentucky Athletic Hall of Fame in 2002. He was one of 88 inaugural members of the University of Kentucky Athletics Hall of Fame in 2005 and one of 16 inaugural members of the Kentucky High School Basketball Hall of Fame in 2012. "The Unforgettables" were honored on a limited edition collector's bottle of Maker's Mark bourbon in 2007.

Political career

First term as Commissioner of Agriculture
On January 28, 2003, Farmer announced he would seek the Republican nomination for Kentucky Agriculture Commissioner. In his announcement, he acknowledged that he had never operated a farm, but noted that he knew many farmers and held a degree in an agriculture-related field. Ellen Williams, chair of the state's Republican Party, said Farmer's candidacy would bring "star quality" to a down-ballot race (i.e. state offices other than governor and lieutenant governor). No Republican had been elected to any of those offices since 1967.