[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Sukhoi Su-30MKK

w-on TSIMSS-1 digital system.

Flight instruments
The two  MFI-9 colour LCD MFDs in the front cockpit and the MFI-9 and the  MFI-10 color LCD MFDs in the rear cockpit are replaced with four 158 mm x 211 mm MFI-10-5 LCD MFDs. The configuration of the new displays remains the same as that of Su-30MKK.

Optronics
One of the important avionic upgrades of Su-30MK2 is the incorporation of several electro-optical (optronics) pods, a capability that is added to earlier Su-30MKK during upgrades. Two types of Russian optronic pods are sold to China for Su-30MK2, but the open architecture and other advanced designs enabled the aircraft to carry domestic optronic pods as well. This capability of Su-30MK2 has been added to the original Su-30MKKs during the incremental upgrades. The Russian optronic pods included:
Optronic pod "Sapsan-E": Sapsan (peregrine falcon)-E targeting pod developed by the Ural Optical Machinery Plant weighs 250 kg, with length of 3 m and diameter of 0.39 m. Field of view is from +10 degrees to −15 degrees, and the system includes TV camera and laser designators. This system is designed to supplement the OEPS-30MK-E optronic system mounted in the nose of the aircraft.
M400 reconnaissance pod: M400 reconnaissance pod developed by the Canopy Design Bureau is a large pod mounted between two engines. In comparison to Sapsan-E targeting pod, there is different equipment in the M400 reconnaissance pod: TV/Thermographic cameras, optical camera and Side looking airborne radar. The side-looking radar has a maximum range in excess of 100 km with resolution of 2 metres, while the maximum range for both IR and TV cameras are in excess of 70 km. The resolution of the TV/IR camera is 0.3-metre and 0.4-metre for the optical camera. The system can also be used to detect the blind spot behind the aircraft to provide targeting information for rearward-firing air-to-air missiles, but this capability has not been utilized by the Chinese yet. The system is also capable of locking on sea targets.
Domestic Chinese optronics including FILAT and Blue Sky (navigation pod) can also be carried after modification of onboard system. Just like the incorporation of domestic Chinese electronic warfare pods such as BM/KG300G and KZ900 to Su-30MKK, such modification was neither part of the original deal nor the upgrade deal with Russians, instead, this was implemented indigenously by the Chinese themselves during the incremental upgrades. According to Chinese claims, the domestic upgrade of Su-30MKK/MK2 were much smoother and easier than that of earlier Su-27SK, thanks to the western MIL-STD-1553 standard Russian adopted for Su-30MKK series.

Airborne radar
In 2000, China placed an order of passive electronically scanned array radar named Sokol (Falcon), designed by Phazotron, while the radar was still under development, it is reported that China had either partially funded or joined the development, but this can not be confirmed. All twenty units were delivered in 2004 after the development completed at the end of 2003, and the radars are installed on the Su-30MK2. The maximum range, average and peak power of Sokol radar remain the same as that of Zhuk-MSE radar on Su-30MKK, but the maximum number of targets it can simultaneously track actually decreased by 40%, from the original 20 to 12. However, the number of targets it can simultaneously engage is increased to six from the original four, thus fully utilizing the capability of the SUV-VEP subsystem of the onboard fire control system. The diameter of the antenna array is increased to 980 mm from the 960 mm of Zhuk-MS/MSE. The scan sector of the radar is 170 degrees and the elevation of the scan is from −40 degrees to +56 degrees. The radar has three receivers and a gain of 37 dB. When used against surface targets like a destroyer, the maximum range is doubled to 300 km, same as that of American AN/APG-68. There is not any confirmation for any follow-on orders of Sokol radar and unlike the capability optronic pod, this radar capability is not known to be added to the earlier Su-30MKKs during the incremental upgrades.