[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moshe Sanbar

rldwide based on a wide public survey. Its comprehensive findings served as a basis for a series of articles printed in The Economic Quarterly. 

In 1956 he became deputy director of the institute under Guttman. From 1957 to 1962 he was also a member of faculty in the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.

Ministry of Finance
In 1958 Sanbar entered the civil service, working at the Ministry of Finance as founding director of the research division of the Income Directorate (1958–59) and appointed as a professional deputy director of the directorate (1960–63). He was involved in ministry's work concerning taxation and headed many of the governmental committees on these matters, including the 1962 devaluation. Sanbar continued to research on division income and apply it to his professional work, among other things in his capacity from 1962 to 1966 as coordinator of the government's commission for national income division.

During these years Sanbar was involved with financial legislation and headed multiple government committees of financial concern. He was also a government representative in various boards of directors of government corporations such as Mekorot, also serving for several years chairman of the finance committee for El Al and in 1967 the founding chairman of the Israel Sports Betting Board in charge of the national football pool.

Following the appointment of Levi Eshkol as prime minister and Pinhas Sapir as minister of finance, Sanbar was appointed as the chief financial advisor to the Ministry and several months later, as Director of Budgeting. His approach consisted of a four-year budget planning consistent with long-term development plans for each sector of the economy. On this issue, he was asked to advise the United Nations and tasked by them to write the manual book “Budget and Planning”. His main influence over the budgeting process was by including an annual estimate on the effects of the budget proposal on various income groups. Furthermore, he chaired the governmental Efficiency Commission aimed at improving the public service in both quality and production. At the same time, Sanbar also led the governmental Automation Commission, formulating a plan on automation and computerization in the civil service. In his capacity as chief financial advisor to the Ministry of Finance, he was among the initiators of the 1966 recession policy.

Through his work in the Ministry of Finance Sanbar promoted the development of industry and science, replacing governmental loans with research grants and by establishing the first scientific complexes nearby university campuses. In addition, he encouraged the ability and means for exporting knowledge and services.

Throughout the 1960s, Sanbar was responsible for the government's policy on wages, extending beyond the civil service and in concern with all sectors of the economy. As worker strikes became frequent from 1963 to 1965, Sanbar and Oded Messer (director general of the Ministry of Labor) were arbitrators in all labor disputes.

At the request of Prime Minister Levi Eshkol, following the Six-Day War he oversaw the economic policies concerning the Palestinians in the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip, as well as the development of unified Jerusalem: the development of the Western Wall, rehabilitation of the Jewish Quarter in the Old City of Jerusalem, creation of a green belt surrounding the Walls of Jerusalem and creating feasible connecting routes to Zion Gate and to Mt. Scopus.

Sanbar left his post as director of budgeting in April 1968 and as chief financial advisor to the Ministry three months later. As result of the World Economic Conference held in Jerusalem, he complied with requests of Prime Minister Eshkol and foreign investors to serve as vice chairperson of the newsly founded Israel Corporation and in charge of its investment policy.

Chairman of the Industrial Development Bank
In 1968, Minister of Finance Ze'ev Sherf appointed Sanbar as deputy chairman of the Industrial Development Bank, later to be formally appointed as chairperson in 1970 following the passing of chairman Yeshayahu Foerder. In February 1971 he was also made chairman of the government company for financing industries, as part of an intended merger with the bank-owned investment company. Between 1968 and 1971, the bank had given out greater development loans given since it was established in 1957. The bank's business cycle had also shown significant growth, from 330 million Israeli pound in 1968 to more than 600 million in 1971.

Acting Minister of Trade and Industry