[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mubadala Investment Company

Mubadala Investment Company PJSC (), or simply Mubadala, is an Emirati state-owned holding company that acts as one of the sovereign wealth funds of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. The company was established in 2017 when then-named Mubadala Development Company (now Mamoura Diversified Global Holding) and the International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) merged.

History
Established in 1984, the International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) was created to advance Abu Dhabi’s natural petroleum wealth for the development of the emirate. Mubadala Development Company followed in 2002 to further diversify the economy. In June 2016, it was announced that Mubadala Development Company would merge with the International Petroleum Investment Company. In 2017, ownership of both MDC and IPIC was transferred to a newly-created parent company, Mubadala Investment Company. The company is a wholly-owned investment vehicle of the government of Abu Dhabi, and Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan, vice-president and deputy prime minister of the United Arab Emirates, is a chairman in the company.

Investments and ventures
Mubadala has a ventures unit called Mubadala Ventures. Mubadala has invested in logistics software startup Turvo, Alphabet-owned self-driving technology company Waymo, Reliance Jio Platforms, UK life sciences company Envision, and Telegram. Mubadala is a parent company of GlobalFoundries, a semiconductor foundry company.

The company owns stakes in numerous companies, including a 6.9 percent share in AMD, and a 7.5 percent share in the Carlyle Group. In 2021, Mubadala purchased a 2.6% stake in En+ Group, a manufacturer of green aluminum, from Polina Yumasheva, the former wife of Russian businessman Oleg Deripaska. The same year, Mubadala purchased MetrôRio, the company that holds the operations for the Rio de Janeiro metro, from Invepar.

In 2016, Mubadala became the biggest external shareholder at Investcorp, after acquiring 20% stakes in the Bahraini firm. In 2023, a former UK minister, Gerry Grimstone was criticized for conducting and not declaring 13 meetings with Mubadala and Khaldoon al-Mubarak, after acquiring the role as an adviser and the chair of planned climate fund at Investcorp. In March 2021, Grimstone finalized a deal between the UK and Mubadala, allowing it to oversee investment of around £10 billion in the UK from the UAE. A senior research officer at Transparency International UK, Rose Whiffen said if a minister is working for a firm and meeting its shareholder several times while in office, it should be declared or assessed before approval.

A unit of the company, Mubadala Capital, invested €50 million in the Novalpina Capital private equity fund of €1 billion, which bought the NSO Group in 2019. Reports revealed that the UAE targeted human rights activists, journalists, and Princess Haya using the Pegasus spyware, during the same time. Mubadala Capital got a seat on Novalpina’s committee of largest investors. 

In May 2022, Mubadala Investment Company signed a preliminary agreement with French utility Engie for the development of a digital platform to charge electric vehicles in the UAE and across the Middle East. The two companies would also explore areas related to sustainable mobility.

In May 2023, Mubadala agreed to buy a majority stake in a New York–based Fortress Investment Group from Japan’s SoftBank Group. The $3 billion takeover was intended to be closed in the first quarter of 2024. However, the deal that would give Mubadala 70% stakes in Fortress was being scrutinized by the U.S. national security officers. The deal, which raised concerns for the US over the UAE's ties with China, was being closely reviewed by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the US (Cfius).

Mubadala Technology

The company's Advanced Technology Investment Company (ATIC) in 2008, is an investment company in the high-technology sector. ATIC owns the semiconductor foundry companies GlobalFoundries, and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing (which later merged with GlobalFoundries). ATIC has invested in Calxeda, a start-up company for producing ARM architecture–based computers for the server market. In 2011, ATIC announced investments of $5.5 billion to expand chip manufacturing in Singapore, Dresden, and New York. It also announced a $6–$8 billion computer chip factory in Abu Dhabi  for completion in 2012. The company supports research initiatives in Khalifa University, UAE University, American University of Sharjah, Masdar Institute and New York University Abu Dhabi. In 2014, ATIC became Mubadala Technology.

Mubadala Energy 
Mubadala Energy (formerly Mubadala Petroleum) plans to expand into LNG, blue hydrogen, and carbon capture. Mubadala Energy works in eleven markets and employs over 500 people.

Notes

References

External links
 Mubadala Investment Company
 ATIC official website
 Mubadala Investment Company SWFI Profile