[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stainton Beck

Stainton Beck is a watercourse in Cumbria, England. Its upper reaches are known as St. Sunday's Beck.

Course
The source of the stream is close to the  contour on the western flank of Lambrigg Fell, near the source of Killington Beck, which is on the opposite side of the summit. It is known as St. Sunday's Beck, and flows southwards, passing through an area of woodland called Hutton Park Plantation before turning to the east. Hutton Park is on the right bank, before it turns southwards again. It is crossed by the A684 road at Latterhowe Bridge and then by a minor road. Crakehall Gill and Millrigg Gill combine before joining St Sunday's Beck on the left bank, and the stream flows to the east of the small village of New Hutton.

As it approaches the hamlet of Millholme, it once powered Millholme Mill, and is crossed by Ewbank  Lane at Millholme Bridge. The houses are to the south of the bridge. It turns to the west and is crossed by the B6254 road at St Sunday's Bridge, where it turns to the south-west. The grade II* listed Blease Hall is located on the right bank. It dates from the early 1600s and was built for Robert Bateman. Beehive Beck flows southwards from Fisher Tarn Reservoir, and joins on the left bank, as St Sunday's Beck turns to the south. It briefly turns to the west at the hamlet of Halfpenny, where there is a ford. A weir and sluices channelled water to a mill, and the A65 road crosses both the tail leat and the main channel at Mill Bridge. The road to Stainton runs along the right bank, but loops away from it at Mill Cottage and Mill House.

As it approaches Stainton, its name changes to Stainton Beck. A single span packhorse bridge crosses the beck. It dates from the 17th century and is built of coursed limestone rubble with rough limestone coping blocks. Between the parapets, it is  wide. A minor road crosses the beck just before it reaches Stainton Aqueduct, constructed by the engineer John Fletcher in 1818 for the opening of the northern section of the Lancaster Canal. The single arch is made of limestone, and has curved retaining walls. The structure was badly damaged by storms in December 2015, when flood water washed away its apron,  causing the canal towpath above to collapse, as well as damaging the southern portal and the wing walls. Restoration cost £2.2 million, of which £1.5 million came from the Heritage Lottery Fund. Other grants came from the Rural Payments Agency, South Lakeland District Council, Cumbria County Council and Kendal Town Council. The three-year repair project was delayed by high river levels during the winters of 2018 and 2019. New concrete wing walls were built, and the stonework was repaired using as much of the original stone as possible, with some new stone where this was not possible.

Just below the aqueduct, the beck is crossed by a minor road, carried by a bridge constructed in the 17th century or possibly the early 18th century. It has a single segmental arch and long sloping parapets. Tom Beck joins on the left bank, the A590 road crosses, and Catch Water joins on the right bank. At the hamlet of Deepthwaite, a two-arched bridge crosses the beck. Its core probably dates from the 17th century, but it was rebuilt and widened in the early 1890s. The B6385 road crosses at Rowell Bridge, and on its upstream side, there was a tramway bridge, where the Gatebeck Tramway crossed on its way from Gatebeck gunpowder works on the Peasey Beck to Milnthorpe railway station. The tramway was horse-drawn, and closed in 1936. Ackenthwaite and Milnthorpe the Peasey Beck joins Stainton Beck on its left bank, with the combined flows becoming the River Bela.

Beehive Beck
Beehive Beck, the main tributary of Stainton Beck, rises just below the  contour on Hay Fell. Within a short distance, it enters Fisher Tarn Reservoir, which was built under powers contained in the Kendal Corporation Act 1894. George E Deacon was the engineer for the works, which were completed in 1896. The dam is around  high, and there is a central overflow section, consisting of three semi-circular sluice openings with mock medieval turrets on either side. A small machinery house is located at the foot of the overflow channel, which has a date stone showing October 1896. The reservoir is still owned by United Utilities, but is no longer used for domestic water supply.

Beehive Beck continues from the foot of the dam, and passes under the old Kendal to Sedbergh road. It descends quite quickly, and is then crossed by the new route between the two towns, the A684 road. A minor road runs along the east bank of the stream, past Holme Park. The road crosses the beck twice before arriving at Beehive Bridge, on the B6254 road. Strickley Bridge is just a little further to the east, where Strickley Beck passes under the same road, before joining Beehive Beck on its left bank. By the time it joins Stainton Beck on its right bank, it has descended to below the  contour.