[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Employment Standards Act of British Columbia

ess it would be the same as the statement given in the last pay period.

Part IV: Hours of Work and Overtime

Employees are to receive a 30-minute meal break at least once every 5 hours. This break is to be unpaid, unless the employee is required to work or to be available for work during the break.

With regard to minimum daily hours:
For employees not scheduled to work, or scheduled for less than 8 hours, they are entitled to a minimum 2 hours of pay, whether or not work is performed.
For employees scheduled to work more than 8 hours, they are entitled to a minimum of 4 hours of pay, whether or not work is performed.
If work is suspended for reasons beyond the employer's control, the employee is entitled to the greater of 2 hours or the actual time worked.
There are some exceptions: (i) if the employee is unfit to work, or (ii) if the employee fails to comply with the Workers Compensation Act.

With regard to the maximum hours of work before overtime applies:
Overtime rates apply where the employer requires or allows the employee to work more than 8 hours a day or 40 hours per week.

An employer must allow an employee at least 32 consecutive hours free from work each week or pay 1.5 times the regular wage rate for the time worked during that 32-hour period. An employee is also entitled to have 8 hours off between shifts unless required to work because of an emergency.

Part V: Statutory Holidays

The following are statutory holidays in British Columbia:
New Year's Day, Good Friday, Victoria Day, Canada Day, BC Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day.

An employee is entitled to statutory holiday pay if they have been employed for at least 30 consecutive days and has worked or earned wages for at least 15 of 30 calendar days before the holiday.

Part VI: Leaves and Jury Duty

Pregnancy Leave: Unpaid leave for employees giving birth to a child

The length of the leave depends on when the request is made, and whether there are any complications with the pregnancy. 
If leave is requested while the employee is pregnant, they are entitled to up to 17 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave. This leave cannot begin more than 11 weeks before the expected birth date and not later than the actual birth date. It cannot end earlier than 6 weeks after the actual birth date (unless less than 17 weeks is being taken) or later than 17 weeks after the actual birth.
If leave is requested after birth or termination of the pregnancy, the employee is entitled to 6 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave beginning on the date of the birth or the termination of the pregnancy.
An extension can be requested for up to an additional 6 weeks if the employee is unable to return to work for reasons related to the birth or termination of the pregnancy.

Parental Leave: Unpaid leave for natural or adoptive parents of a child

The length and timing of the leave depends on the relationship of the employee to the child.

For birth parents:
If the birth mother has taken pregnancy leave, she is entitled to 35 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave
If the birth mother did not take pregnancy leave, she is entitled to 37 weeks of unpaid leave
Leave must begin after the child's birth and no later than 52 weeks after the actual birth date
Birth fathers are entitled to up to 37 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave

For adoptive parents:
Are entitled to up to 37 consecutive weeks of unpaid leave. This leave must begin within 52 weeks after the child is placed with the parent
Marital status does not matter - so it includes same sex and common law partners
An extension can be requested. Leave can be extended by 5 additional weeks in the event a child has a physical, psychological, or emotional condition requiring an additional period of parental care
Additional time has to begin immediately after the previous leave

There is a maximum of 52 weeks of unpaid leave.

In addition, there are a few other types of leave that are outlined in the Act, including family responsibility leave, compassionate care leave, reservists' leave, and bereavement leave.

Part VII: Annual Vacation

Employees are entitled to annual vacation. If an employee has been with the same employer for 12 consecutive months, they are entitled to 2 weeks per year. If the employee has been with the employer for 5 consecutive years, they are entitled to 3 weeks per year.

Part VIII: Termination of Employment

The amount of notice or pay in lieu of notice than an employee is entitled to depends on their length of service with their employer.
For service less than 3 months, no severance pay is required
For service between 3 and 12 months, 1 week of severance is required
For service between 12 months and 3 years, 2 weeks of severance are required
For service of 3 years or more, the amount of severance is calculated on the basis of 1 week per year of service, to a maximum of 8 weeks.