[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2006 state of emergency in the Philippines

n Hero, Army Captain Ruben Guinolbay, were ordered investigated and detained.

Eventually, 25 Scout Rangers officers were arrested but were charged only on August 2, 2006, after several months in detention.  Also charged were several Marine officers allegedly involved in the Fort Bonifacio incident.

Those charged were Brigadier General Danilo Lim, Lieutenant Colonels Nestor Flordeliza and Edmundo Malabanjot; Majors Jason Aquino, and Jose Leomar Doctolero; Captains James Sababan, Montano Almodovar, Joey Fontiveros, Ruben Guinolbay, Isagani Criste, William Upano, Dante Langkit, Allan Aurino, and Frederick Sales; and First Lieutenants Ervin Divinagracia, Jacon Cordero, Homer Estolas, Sandro Sereno and Richiemel Caballes of the Philippine Army Scout Rangers.  The indicted Marine officers are Major General Renato Miranda, Medal of Valor awardees Col. Ariel Querubin, Lt. Col. Custodio Parcon; Colonels Orlando de Leon, Januario Caringal and Armando Bañez; Lieutenant Colonels Valentin Hizon, Romulo Gualdrapa, and Achilles Segumalian; Maj. Francisco Domingo Fernandez; and 1Lt. Belinda Ferrer.

The pretrial investigation panel formed by the Armed Forces of the Philippines, conducted by the Judge Advocate General's Office and headed by Col. Al Pereras recommended the dismissal of the charge of mutiny but the retention of charges for conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman for a few of the detained officers.  All charges against Capt. Guinolbay were recommended dismissed.  The same however, was  overturned by Chief of Staff Hermogenes Esperon, allegedly upon the recommendation of the Staff Judge Advocate, even as Marine Lt. Cols Valentin Hizon and Romulo Gualdrapa were dropped as accused by Gen. Esperon's exercise of discretion.

See also
Hello Garci scandal
Oakwood mutiny
Martial Law in the Philippines
Proclamation No. 55
People Power Revolution

References

External links
Office of the Press Secretary Online: PGMA declares a State of National Emergency
The Daily Tribune: Without Fear or Favor 
The Official Website of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of the Philippines – CBCP online
BBC: Emergency declared in Philippines
INQ7: Arroyo declares state of emergency
Guardian: State of emergency in Philippines
IFEX: Media targeted under state of emergency - IFEX

Conflicts in 2006
Emergency laws in the Philippines
State of emergency in the Philippines
Philippines
Presidency of Gloria Macapagal Arroyo
February 2006 events in Asia
March 2006 events in the Philippines