[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Richard Guarasci

Richard Guarasci (born January 14, 1946) was the 18th president of Wagner College in Staten Island, New York. He took office on June 1, 2002  and, as of July 1, 2016, was the college's longest-serving president. He held the rank of professor of political science and taught in the areas of democracy, citizenship and American diversity. Following Guarasci's retirement on June 30, 2019, he became Wagner College's third president emeritus.

Guarasci was appointed Wagner College's provost and vice president for academic affairs in February 1997. Before coming to Wagner, he was dean of Hobart College, part of Hobart and William Smith Colleges, in Geneva, New York and, earlier, a dean and faculty member at St. Lawrence University in Canton, New York.

Background

Education 
Born in 1946, Richard Guarasci graduated in 1963 from Cardinal Farley Military Academy in Rhinebeck, New York. He earned his Bachelor of Science degree in economics, with a minor in philosophy, from Fordham University in the Bronx, New York, in 1967; his Master of Arts degree in economics from Indiana University Bloomington in 1969; and his Ph.D. in political science from I.U. Bloomington in 1972.

Personal life 
Richard Guarasci was born and raised in the Flatbush neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York. In 1968, he married his high school sweetheart, Carin Marie Tomasuolo, who pursued a career in education, earning her doctorate from Columbia University Teachers College. They have two children. Bridget L. Guarasci, an anthropologist at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, is married to attorney Mani S. Potnuru; they have a daughter, Zoe Amala Guarasci Potnuru. Patrick Guarasci, founder of the political consultancy G Strategies in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is married to musician Hannah Gabriela “Gabby” Banuelos.

Wagner College career

Wagner Plan for the Practical Liberal Arts 
Richard Guarasci's first project upon becoming Wagner College's provost in 1997 was to work with faculty on a reconfiguration of the curriculum, which was called the Wagner Plan for the Practical Liberal Arts. The Wagner Plan still forms the core of Wagner College's unique approach to undergraduate education. The Wagner Plan has three key elements: (1) A freshman “learning community” (often abbreviated FYP, for first-year program) consists of a pair of classes from different disciplines, taught by two professors, with a third course called a “reflective tutorial” emphasizing writing. The FYP also includes a variety of “experiential learning” opportunities — sometimes field trips, sometimes community work projects. (2) An intermediate learning community (or ILC) consists of a pair of complementary courses from different disciplines taught by a two-professor team. (3) The senior learning community (or SLC) for graduating students in each department consists of a capstone course, a senior thesis or project, and a certain number of hours invested in either community work or an internship.

Port Richmond Partnership 
In 2009, President Richard Guarasci initiated a partnership between Wagner College and a variety of businesses, schools, churches and community organizations in the Staten Island community of Port Richmond, a high-needs black and Hispanic neighborhood about 3 miles from the college campus. The mission of the Port Richmond Partnership is to encourage sustainable relationships among members of the Port Richmond and Wagner College communities to enhance student learning and raise civic awareness, while also supporting collaborations that address significant challenges and establish measurable impacts in five high need areas: arts, education, health, economic development and immigration.

A project separate from but very closely connected to the Port Richmond Partnership is called 30,000 Degrees, indicating the additional number of 4-year college degrees the project hopes to generate among Staten Island residents over a 10-year period. The project, spearheaded in 2015 by Richard Guarasci, is a partnership between Wagner College and the other two institutions of higher learning on Staten Island, St. John's University and the College of Staten Island, a City University of New York affiliate. 30,000 Degrees focuses upon college readiness programs embedded in Staten Island public schools, beginning with high schools and extending later to intermediate and elementary schools. One of these college-readiness programs is the Port Richmond Partnership Leadership Academy. As part of the PRPLA program, cohorts live and study on the Wagner College campus each summer, and competitive scholarships are available to participants.

Building the endowment and the campus 
When Richard Guarasci first joined the Wagner College community, in 1997, the college's endowment was valued at $4 million. In January 2018, when Guarasci announced his plan to retire the following year, the endowment's value stood at $98.7 million.