[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Valley Heights railway station

) operated on Austral stays. These sashes alternate with multi light fixed sashes. The bulk of the window frames had been removed for repair and reinstatement. Some windows have also been removed at the western portion of the roundhouse, in association with the construction of the lean to additions.

Machine workshop (1973)
The workshop is constructed in timber and clad in corrugated iron wall and roof sheeting. Sited to the rear of bay 1 of the Roundhouse as an annex, the rail line and track has been extended into the workshop allowing access to rolling stock for repair. The workshop also features a single storey concrete element at the rear and southern side, currently used as a tool store. This is to become a welding bay. The workshop houses machinery used for the restoration of exhibits, e.g. lathes, drills, gantry crane, mills and grinders etc.

Members' room / meal room
The members' room is located to the rear of Bay 5. Like most of the 1960s lean to additions, the room is clad externally in corrugated sheeting and also features timber framed vertically proportioned and double hung hopper windows. Internally the room is clad in hard board sheeting with plasterboard ceiling. Examination of the fabric of the room suggests a further extension to the rear though the dating of this further addition is unknown. The room is used largely as a meeting and meal room for members, with full kitchen facilities installed.

Members' locker room / toilet
The walls and roofing of the shower and toilet are clad in fibro sheeting, with a timber structure supporting the roof cladding. The walls and roofing of the locker room are clad in hard board sheeting, some of which is hanging down exposing insulation. The area is currently used for storage of ladders and other materials.

Passageway
The walls and roofing of the corridor are clad in corrugated iron, with timber structure supporting the roof cladding. The area is currently used as a store; however the space was originally constructed as an external access from the rear of the roundhouse on the south side of the site. The timber door is extant however unused.

Former charwoman's office / District locomotive engineer's (DLE) office (1913)
External: The former office building has recently been restored and now accommodates the museum displays. It is constructed of an Oregon timber frame, supported by brick piers and with A gable roof clad in corrugated steel sheeting. It is rectangular in shape and features simple bargeboards and timber framed louvered ventilation window to the gable ends. A skillion roofed corrugated steel verandah supported on steel round posts covers the front of the building over a concrete slab. The front elevation is fenestrated by three identical timber doors with fanlight. The windows on the rear elevation are also timber framed with a box frame hardwood sill.

Internal: The office maintains its original layout of three rooms that originally were separate but now are connected to each other by door openings. The internal features include tongue and grooved hardwood floor with carpet finish, timber weatherboard wall cladding to full wall height with a splayed and chamfered profile, simple timber skirting and timber board ceiling linings. Security bars are fixed to the interiors of the windows in order to ensure the safety of the collections. Metal picture rails are fixed to the walls for the exhibition of the picture collections. The light fittings are modern pendant style.

Former amenities building (, extended 1960)
The building is constructed of rusticated weatherboard with a hipped, corrugated steel roof. Originally rectangular, the building now forms a U-shape with wings and a courtyard. Double-hung windows with multi-pane fenestration are generally vertically proportioned (some in groups) and the frames are timber box frame type with hardwood sills. The main entry is via a projecting skillion roofed partially enclosed porch with original timber framed and glass panelled doors. A brick chimney is the only feature of the roofscape. A metal picket fence separates the courtyard from the track, which is used for the visitors' locomotive experience within the yard.

Internal: Internally the walls and ceilings are lined with plasterboard panels with Oregon timber architraves and skirtings. The floors are concrete with linoleum and carpet finish. The internal doors are later fabric and are made of lightweight hollow core panels with timber frame. The amenities building consists of five rooms, used in the current facility as a library, museum shop for the sale of books, souvenirs and ephemera, a general storage room, a refreshments room, model railway room and one room is used for local Historical Society displays. The building has been adapted and extended from the former amenities facility which was a much smaller building incorporating a locker room, meal room and office facilities.