[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Playtech

ongoing involvement Ader claimed might have hindered Playtech's U.S. market ambitions.

In April 2020, Playtech appointed non-executive director Claire Milne as interim chairman after former chair Alan Jackson indicated his intention to step down following the company's 2020 annual general meeting.

On May 29, 2020, Playtech agreed to pay £3.5 million to responsible gambling charities following the suicide of 25-year-old Chris Bruney, a customer at the company's TitanBet and Winner gambling sites who lost over £119,000 in the five days prior to his death, during which time he was issued multiple bonuses by managers of the sites’ VIP programs. The UK Gambling Commission had planned to impose a £3.5 million penalty on Playtech subsidiary PT Entertainment Services after identifying “serious systemic failings in the way PTES managed its social responsibility and anti-money laundering processes” but the company surrendered its UK licenses before the penalty could be imposed. Following media reports of the controversy, Playtech agreed to pay the £3.5 million and chairperson Claire Milne promised to personally apologize to Bruney's family.

In August 2020, Playtech began offering online casino games via Bet365’s New Jersey-licensed website, marking the company's debut in the US regulated online gambling market.

In August 2020 Playtech confirmed that it was exploring a potential sale of trading technology division to TradeTech.

As part of its divestment of its casual and mobile game sectors, Playtech announced it had sold YoYo Games to Opera Software in January 2021 for .

On 11 October 2021, Playtech announced the partnership with Holland Casino for the development of their online casino environment.

On 18 October 2021, Aristocrat Leisure announced that it had made an offer to acquire Playtech for US$3.7 billion.

Operations
Virtue Fusion is Playtech's bingo platform. The platform, which was acquired in 2010, has been enhanced by the purchase of ECM Systems in 2016.

iPoker is Playtech's poker platform. It was implemented in the UK by casino game designer Geoff Hall, inventor of Blackjack Switch and currently has more than 60 members of staff. The network works using a skin-based system. This simply means that each site on the network has its own skin of the underlying poker interface; the lobby, table layout and design are all exactly the same. However, each site can apply its own colour scheme and branding. Most importantly in order to maintain the liquidity needed to operate a successful poker network, each of these skins shares the same player pool. As of April 2014 the network had 30 active skins.

Playtech BGT Sports, a majority-owned subsidiary of Playtech, provides sports betting software and technology to bookmakers. It was formed through the 2016 acquisition of Best Gaming Technology GmbH, which was then merged with Playtech's existing sports businesses. As of 2016, its software powers approximately 27,000 self-service betting terminals for operators such as Ladbrokes, Paddy Power, and OPAP.

In April 2022, Playtech announced a TV game content and production partnership with Entains British betting and gambling company Ladbrokes.

In April 2022, Playtech announced a content agreement with online igaming software provider CT gaming, allowing the release of the company’s content via the Playtech Open Platform.

Notes

External links
Official website

Online poker companies
Online gambling companies of the Isle of Man
Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange
Gambling companies established in 1999
1999 establishments in British Overseas Territories