[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Maging Sino Ka Man (2006 TV series)

muel. He was denied recognition but still felt complete. Eli proposes marriage to Jackie and he was shot by his secret enemy, bringing his life on the line. Eli sought enlightenment in the spirit world, thanks to Dadoods and found a new energy to live again, after a long-fought battle against death.

Finale of Book 1: A Nail-Biting Ending
Corazon decides to drop by the hospital to pay Eli a visit, and Gloria notices her, happy that her sister shows a hint of concern for her beloved son. Corazon then haughtily says that she's at the hospital not because of concern, but to watch Eli slowly die. This infuriates Gloria, and without a moment's hesitation, she slaps her older sister on the face, enraged at the words Corazon said.
At home ill luck masquerading as infatuation welcomes Corazon, as Tomas greets her, asking for her whereabouts, and eventually tells her that he's been waiting for her the whole night. He then shows her around the house, and Corazon notices the flowers all over the place, with Tomas proudly saying that they're all from him. He then shows her an expensive-looking necklace, which he places around her neck choking her. He again is overcome by a sadistic fit of jealousy and beats Corazon up.
Meanwhile, Eli goes back to the fountain with Dadoods, and tells Dadoods that inexplicably, he's always taken to that certain place. Dadoods explains that it's the only place that listens to him, and Eli asks that if the place really listens to him, then why isn't he brought back to Jackie's arms, to end her suffering. Dadoods explains that he can end her suffering by letting go of his hold on Jackie! Eli says no, and Dadoods explains that he's slowly losing grip in this world, as he's unable to see Pong anymore. Dadoods then tells Eli how much he loves them.
Eli reminisces on his own life, and it seems as if he's saying goodbye to Jackie. At the fountain, he's engulfed by light, breathing a prayer to God, and plunges himself to the fountain. At the hospital, Jackie is faithfully keeping vigil over Eli, crying and hoping that the love of her life will miraculously be brought back to life. And it seems as if all hope is lost, as Eli loses his pulse. Jackie throws herself over Eli in tears, praying that Eli won't be taken away from her. She then feels Eli's heart beating, and he suddenly comes back to life, much to Jackie's joy.
On another part of the country, a seedy lady, together with a mysterious girl, meets up with Samuel, and gazes at the photo of Eli. Who is this person, and what role will she play in Eli's life? Soon, a wedding invitation reaches Tomas and Corazon, but Tomas prohibits Corazon from going, as she looks defeatedly at the invitation, all battered and bloodied at Tomas' own hand.
It's a joyous moment as Eli's family minus Corazon, as well as Jackie's mother, all gather for Eli and Jackie's wedding ceremony. Celine silently mouths "I love you," to JB, while Eli and Jackie exchange their wedding vows. Afterwards, a mysterious lady in black approaches the newlyweds, wishing them good luck. A confused Eli asks her who she is, but she only gives a cryptic reply: he'll meet her soon enough. 
Maging Sino Ka Man consists of four lives, four hearts and four people in search of happiness in a complicated world. Everyone is ready to gamble it all...but of course all for love.

Episode Guide

Book 2

Theme song
The series theme song is also entitled Maging Sino Ka Man, which is composed by Rey Valera. The song was previously recorded by both Sharon Cuneta and Rey Valera, while the TV series theme was performed by Erik Santos. The same song would later be used in Juan dela Cruz (2013), another ABS-CBN drama series; for the said series, Martin Nievera was selected to sing the theme song.

Awards and recognitions and in entertainment
In the 2007 USTv Students' Choice Awards on Television by the University of Santo Tomas, the phenomenal soap won as the Best Drama Series while John Lloyd Cruz and Bea Alonzo won the Best Actor and Best Actress awards, respectively. While in 
the 2007 PMPC Star Awards, the same soap won as the Best Primetime Drama Series while John Lloyd Cruz won the Best Drama Actor award. In the 2007 Anak TV Seal Awards, the series won as one of The Country's 10 Most Well-Liked TV Programs.

See also
List of dramas of ABS-CBN
List of shows previously aired by ABS-CBN
List of Maging Sino Ka Man episodes

References

External links
 Maging Sino Ka Man Video clips - Blog
 Maging Sino Ka Man Video Blog
 Vice Ganda Website
 Maging Sino Ka Man (film) at the Internet Movie Database
 

ABS-CBN drama series
2006 Philippine television series debuts
2007 Philippine television series endings
2000s Philippine television series
Television series by Star Creatives
Philippine melodrama television series
Philippine romance television series
Filipino-language television shows
Television shows set in the Philippines