[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edward Flannery

including Hebrew Union College Jewish Institute of Religion, Cincinnati and Seton Hall University. He received the prestigious Nicholas and Hedy Munk International Brotherhood Award of the Canadian Council of Christians and Jews and many other signs of esteem from Christian and Jewish Organizations.

Flannery believes the vast majority of even well-educated Christians have been relatively ignorant of what has happened to the Jews throughout history and the culpable involvement of many facets of the Church. Apart from a few recent publications, there is little about anti-Semitism in Christian history books or social studies. The author states that, by comparison, the Jews themselves are largely and acutely aware of their painful history and physical and verbal attacks in the press.

Flannery also was one of the 53 authors to respond to Simon Wiesenthal's book The Sunflower.

Legacy

After his death, tributes to his achievements came from Rabbi A. James Rudin, Father John Hotchkin, Director of the NCCB Secretariat for Ecumenical and Interreligious Affairs, and Eugene J. Fisher, who succeeded him as Director for Catholic-Jewish Relations for the Bishops' Conference.

Speaking at a Mass of Thanksgiving on the occasion of the priest's 50th anniversary of ordination, in 1987, Msgr. George G. Higgins of the Department of Theology of the Catholic University of America, said Father Flannery had been called by God to break new ground, "to address the anguish of the Jews and this, of course, long before the overwhelming majority of his fellow Christians had given so much as a second thought to the Holocaust."

During Flanny's 60th anniversary celebration of his ordination in 1997, the National Director of the Anti-Defamation League, Abraham Foxman, said: "His [Flannery] magnificent spirit, his emphatic heart, his great mind walk with prophets and kings and all those who ennoble the world with their courage and character."

ADL Director of Interfaith Affairs, Rabbi Leon Klenicki, said: "I know Edward’s limitless energy for dialogue and friendship. He is a person of God, sharing his spirituality with all of us. God bless him." Cardinal William Henry Keeler said: "He was an early and effective pioneer in encouraging Catholics in the United States on how best to implement Nostra Aetate, the Second Vatican Council's charter for fostering positive Catholic-Jewish relationships."

Rabbi A. James Rudin, National Interreligious Affairs Director of the American Jewish Committee, (who termed Father Flannery "one of this century's spiritual giants"), said "during Father Flannery's long and distinguished career, he helped build human bridges of mutual respect and understanding between Roman Catholics and Jews. His advice and guidance were always treasured and his articulate voice and writings stirred both Catholics and Jews. The AJC has lost a beloved colleague and friend. He shattered negative caricatures and stereotypes that had existed for centuries. Father Flannery was an unrelenting foe of all forms of anti-Semitism and was a strong supporter of the State of Israel."

References

Further reading
Flannery, Edward H. The Anguish of the Jews: Twenty-Three Centuries of Antisemitism, first published 1965; latest edition Paulist Press 2004.

External links
 Father Edward H. Flannery papers - a collection of the professional papers and interests of Edward H. Flannery, Field Archives & Special Collections Center, Seton Hall University Libraries
 Rev. Edward Flannery: Jewish-Christian Dialogue, on Vimeo

1912 births
St. Charles College alumni
Scholars of antisemitism
Clergy from Providence, Rhode Island
Recipients of the Benemerenti medal
1998 deaths
20th-century American Roman Catholic priests