[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Krško Nuclear Power Plant

as is the usual practice for nuclear power stations. Onsite dry storage is planned to be built to take the plant to its revised end-of-life date of 2043. Low level waste is stored at the power station and secondary repositories.

French company Framatome won a contract to upgrade the plant in 2021.

June 2008 incident 
After a coolant leak on June 4, 2008, the European Commission set off an EU wide alarm through the European Community Urgent Radiological Information Exchange (ECURIE). The power plant was safely shut down to the hot zero power mode after a small leak in the cooling circuit. The leak was immediately located and treated. According to the Slovenian Nuclear Safety Administration (the country's nuclear watchdog agency), no radioactive release into the environment occurred and none is expected. The event did not affect employees, the nearby population, or the environment. Slovenian authorities immediately alerted the proper international institutions, including the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and ECURIE. The EU then notified (through ECURIE) the remaining EU member states, issuing an EU-wide alert. Several news agencies around the world then reported on the incident. According to Greenpeace such an EU-wide alert is very unusual. Surprisingly, the Croatian authorities were not directly informed about the incident, although Croatia is a participant in the ECURIE system. Many Croatians heard the news first through foreign media and expatriates, although Krško is located a mere 15 km from the Croatian border.

According to Nuclear Expertise groups, national entities within the European union, such as the ASN in France, this incident was wrongly reported to ECURIE. ECURIE, when receiving a notification, has an obligation to forward it to all parties. In this particular situation, the notification turned out to be useless (i.e., a false alarm). This type of incident (a small leakage on primary pumps) is a relatively common occurrence in nuclear power plants.

Possible second reactor
On March 28, 2022, the Prime Minister of Croatia, Andrej Plenković, stated that he supports the expansion of the nuclear power plant, while depending on Slovenia. On 2 November 2022, Slovenian Prime Minister Robert Golob said there will be a referendum to get public approval for a second reactor at Krško, once a reactor technology was selected. A construction decision would be made by 2027.

See also

Nuclear energy in Slovenia
List of commercial nuclear reactors § Slovenia
Energy in Slovenia

References

External links

 Website of the operating company
 Krško by Nucleartourist.com
 ICJT.org
 Stability of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant

Nuclear Power Plant
Nuclear power stations in Slovenia
Nuclear power stations using pressurized water reactors
1983 establishments in Slovenia