[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Blockade of Wonsan

he batteries located near the city of Wonsan. Neither ship was struck, but Brinkley Bass received some shrapnel. March 20 marked the beginning of a four-day attack on the blockade by North Korean artillery. On May 21 USS Osprey was taken under fire by enemy shore batteries while searching for mines.

Using shore-based spotters, Osprey silenced three batteries and suffered no damage. Brinkley Bass and  silenced a battery at Kalmagak on March 22. USS Wiltsie received fire from the batteries east of Kalmagak on March 23 and, together with Brinkley Bass, responded with counter-battery fire to silence the enemy guns. During the following day Brinkley Bass was struck again with one round from Ho-do Pan-do, wounding five men, one seriously, and causing damage to the ship's radio and electronics. On March 28  was fired on from Ho-do Pan-do, shots straddled the ship but evasive maneuvers prevented probable hits. Burlington responded with 123 rounds of her own and caused a small forest fire.

April 1952 
 experienced an explosion in her depth charge starboard detonator locker on April 1, while bombarding Ho-do Pan-do, but suffered no casualties. Wiltsie, USS McGinty, and  were also in action. ,  and  received enemy fire near Wonsan on April 2 and again suffered no damage or casualties. The same day USS Wiltsie received ten near misses from shore batteries east of Kalmagak while providing fire support for Condor. Wiltsie was attacked a few more times within the next several days but they were all inconclusive contacts.

In the Wonsan area on April 10, TF-77 carried out a coordinated strike using the guns of  and . , to the north of Ho-do Pan-do, received 30 rounds of enemy fire at a range of  with fall of shot  from the ship but without damaging her. The incident was taken as evidence that the North Koreans were beginning to use fire control more regularly. On April 11, Wiltsie and McGinty were taken under fire by Wonsan shore batteries. Both ships conducted maneuvers in separate areas and delivered counter battery fire.

Silverstein,  and  fired suppression fire against the batteries on Ho-do Pan-do. McGinty was straddled by enemy shore batteries as she moved near Wonsan on April 17. McGinty and  replied with counter fire and the enemy guns were destroyed. USS Cabildo was attacked again from shore batteries on April 29 from Ho-do Pan-do. Three near misses straddled the ship and one direct hit caused minor damage to structure and electrical wiring, wounding two.

On the same day, USS Silverstein and USS Maddox were covering the withdrawal of two friendly sampans from Umi-do, when suddenly enemy batteries opened fire. The sampans received the first salvos, around 30 total so Silverstein and Maddox returned the fire and suppressed the batteries. Aircraft from USS Valley Forge were also called in to provide close air support. Silverstein received 110 rounds of estimated 105 millimeter batteries though she was not damaged, Maddox received two rounds. There were no allied casualties in the action.

 attacked a shore battery the following day and on April 28 Silverstein and  received fire from Ho-do Pan-do. With South Korean small craft, the allied ships bombarded the opposing battery and laid a smoke screen while other nearby ships withdrew. Conserver received ten rounds of estimated 122-millimeter fire. On May 7, USS Waxbill was fired on by twelve rounds but apparently did not return fire and on May 10, while sweeping Wonsan Harbor,  and  received ten rounds of enemy fire from Kalmagak.

Also that day, Maddox and  attacked North Korean railroad targets, scoring many hits. Two railroad cars were damaged along with two buildings. Batteries on Kalmagak fired ten rounds of 76-millimeter fire at the sweepers, the nearest one landing 100 yards from the ship. Counter fire by Maddox scored two more hits. On the next day, Maddox, Laffey,  and , received 206 rounds of 75- and 155-millimeter fire and an hour-long engagement.

North Koreans were using hidden guns which were difficult to locate but were believed to have been fired from Han-do Pan-do, Hapchin-ni and Kalamagak. Return fire destroyed three enemy gun positions and Herbert J. Thomas was hit once, causing little damage and no casualties. On May 17, TG-95.2 reported that an interrogation of seven prisoners, captured off Ho-do Pan-do the day before, revealed that the enemy were planning an attack on Yodo in the near future. Troops were being concentrated in two locations on He-do Pan-do and were going to use about eighty fishing sampans for transport. Ten days later on May 27, shore batteries at Wonsan fought against USS Cabildo and Ozbourn. In a typical duel the American ships bombarded the coast and were not damaged. The day after USS Ozbourn accepted the surrender of two North Koreans soldiers.