[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# World Series of Birding

The World Series of Birding is an annual birding competition organised by the New Jersey Audubon Society since 1984. Participating teams compete to identify the greatest number of bird species by sight or sound in a 24-hour period. The event is run as a way of drawing attention to birding as a sport, the migration of birds, and as a fundraiser for conservation efforts. The event is primarily run within New Jersey however some parts of the competition are run internationally over the internet. 

There are three levels of competition, each designed to accommodate teams of differing ages and expertise. 

 Bird Conservation Challenge (Level I): teams of 3–6 members, all at least 18 years of age. This is the primary competitive event of the World Series of Birding. Teams are required to create a webpage introducing their team, their cause, and give information about how people may pledge to the team.
 New Jersey Audubon Ambassador Challenge (Level II): teams of any size and age. Intended for teams competing for fun and as a means to raise funds for the New Jersey Audubon Society. 
 Zeiss Youth Birding Challenge (Level III): teams of 3–6 members, all of age 6–8. Intended to engage school children in competitive birding. This challenge is split into 4 divisions based on school grade and different rules apply for each division.

Awards 

There are a series of awards offered for the Level I and Level III challenges. They each support different achievements and ways of competing. There are no awards for the Level II challenge as this is a non-competitive challenge intended for fun and raising money for the New Jersey Audubon Society.

The awards for the Level I challenge are only eligible for teams with all members above 19 years of age and can be won by teams competing from any area of New Jersey. The awards are as follows:

 Urner-Stone Cup - 1st place. Presented to the team with the highest overall number of species.
 Stone Award - 2nd place. Presented to the team with the second-highest overall number of species.
 Stearns Award - 3rd place. Presented to the team with the third-highest overall number of species.
 Big Stay Award. Presented to the team with the highest number of species identified from a single location.
 Wakefern Food Corp./ShopRite LGA Award. Presented to the team with the highest species "par" for a single county. The team's total is compared to a set "par" value, and the team with the highest percentage of the "par" wins the award.
 Cape May County Award. Presented to the team with the highest total species within Cape May County.
 Cape Island Cup. Presented to the team with the highest total species south of the Cape May Canal.
 Carbon Footprint Challenge. Presented to the team with the highest total species with zero carbon footprint (i.e. the team travels by foot, bicycle, rowing, etc.)

The awards for the Level III challenge are given based on division, which is based on school grade. They are as follows:

 Zeiss Youth Division A Challenge. Presented to the team with the highest total species within Elementary School Grades 1 through 5.
 Zeiss Youth Division B Challenge. Presented to the team with the highest total species within Middle School Grades 6 through 8. 
 Zeiss Youth Division C - Peter Dunne Future Leaders in Birding Award. Presented to the team with the highest total species within High School Grades 9 through 12. 
 Zeiss Youth Division D - Carbon Free Kids Award. Presented to the team with the highest total species in Grades 6 through 12 with zero carbon footprint.

No award offered in the World Series of Birding involves a cash prize. The competition is primarily intended as an awareness and fundraising event for bird conservation.

History 

The idea for the World Series of Birding came from Pete Dunne, one of America's foremost authors on birding and natural history, and currently the director of the Cape May Bird Observatory. The first World Series of Birding was held on May 19, 1984, and the winning team included Dunne, David Sibley (author of the renowned The Sibley Guide to Birds), the late Pete Bacinski (former director of NJ Audubon's Owl Haven Nature Center and Sandy Hook Bird Observatory), Bill Boyle (author of A Guide to Bird Finding in New Jersey), and the legendary Roger Tory Peterson (inventor of the modern field guide) and was sponsored by Bird Watcher's Digest. Their total included 201 species, including a fork-tailed flycatcher—a tropical species rarely seen anywhere in the United States, let alone New Jersey.