[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# January 1973

in
Died: Abdul Qaiyum Ansari, 67, Indian Muslim and independence activist who had campaigned to prevent the division of British India into two nations. In 1947, the predominantly Muslim areas became the nation of Pakistan while the Hindu areas became the Dominion of India.

January 19, 1973 (Friday)

George Bush, the former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations and future President of the United States, was appointed Chair of the Republican National Committee, replacing Bob Dole, U.S. Senator for Kansas.
Born: 
Michèle Gavazzi, Uruguayan-born Canadian writer of French language children's literature, known for her series of books for girls; in Montevideo
Kiyanu Kim, South Korean-born American songwriter; in Seoul
Died: 
Annie Buller, 77, Canadian labor union organizer and co-founder (in 1921) of the Communist Party of Canada
Max Adrian, 69, Northern Irish stage, film and television actor

January 20, 1973 (Saturday)

Amílcar Cabral, the leader of the fight for the independence of the African colonies of Portuguese Guinea from Portugal, was shot and killed by two former members of his organization.  In 1956, Cabral had been one of the co-founders of the Partido Africano para a Independência da Guiné e Cabo Verde (PAIGC) and its leader since 1963, guiding the operations from the republic (and former French colony) of Guinea.  He was in front of his house in the Guinean capital of Conakry when he was assassinated. Guinea-Bissau would proclaim its independence eight months later under Cabral's successor, his younger brother Luís Cabral.
The government of the Soviet Union made official its "education tax" on emigrants, a higher fee for legally moving away out of the country.  The Bulletin of the Supreme Soviet published the decree made on August 3, 1972, by President of the Presidium Nikolai V. Podgorny.  Based on a theory that the Soviet government had provided free education for citizens, the "tax" was based upon the level of education as well as length of employment and averaged an additional 8,000 Soviet rubles (officially, $10,000 in U.S. dollars), an amount that represented the total gross earnings over five years for an engineer or physician. 

U.S. President Richard Nixon was inaugurated for his second term. In his inaugural address, Nixon began by saying that before he started his term, "America was bleak in spirit, depressed by the prospect of seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive conflict at home", but that "As we meet here today, we stand on the threshold of a new era of peace in the world", and asked "How shall we use that peace?"  Paraphrasing a line used in John F. Kennedy's 1961 inaugural speech, Nixon said "In our own lives, let each of us ask now just what will government do for me, but what can I do for myself?"
Boxer Romeo Anaya of Mexico defeated WBA champion Enrique Pinder of Panama in Panama City to win the world bantamweight championship. 
Born: Queen Mathilde of Belgium, wife of King Philippe and Queen Consort since 2013; as Mathilde d'Udekem d'Acoz in Uccle.

January 21, 1973 (Sunday)
Aeroflot Flight 6263, carrying 39 passengers and crew, crashed in snow while making its approach to the Perm International Airport in the Soviet Union's Russian SFSR, its final scheduled destination after departing from Kazan on a flight that had originated in Krasnodar.  While only four people died from the impact of the crash of the Antonov An-24B in rugged terrain near Petukhovo,  from Perm, the 35 survivors froze to death in  while awaiting rescue.