[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Großer Arber

arian Forest. The characteristic bird species of this region include the meadow pipit, alpine accentor, water pipit, ring ouzel and wheatear. To the north in the direction of Lam there is farmer-managed, selection cutting forest (Plenterwald), in the south towards Bodenmais is state forest.

Climate

Overview 
Großer Arber has a subarctic climate (Köppen Dfc) bordering on humid continental climate (Köppen Dfb).
The summit region of the Great Arber has an average of 160 days of frost and 150 days of snow cover per year. Because of late and early frosts, the vegetation period lasts little more than 100 days. The July temperature in the highest areas is 11 degrees. Of the approximately 1950 mm of annual precipitation, 40% falls as snow.

The lowest recorded temperature of -26.4 °C was measured on January 12, 1987. The highest temperature of 30.3 °C was measured on July 27, 1983. The highest snow cover was measured on April 2, 1988, when it reached 372 cm. The weather station operated here since November 1982.

Arbermandl 
In winter, the east wind together with ice snow forms the so-called Arbermandl. The mountain pines and mountain spruces of the Great Arber freeze into bizarre and often comical-looking shapes. Cameraman Martin Lippl made a film about it in 1985. The recordings were made somewhat accidentally during a short break of sunshine during a blizzard. Elfie Pertramer later underscored these recordings with a mystical poem. Under the title Voices from the Magic Forest the film will be broadcast at the beginning of each year on Bavarian television in the programme Zwischen Spessart und Karwendel.

History
Since the 19th century, the Großer Arber and the extended woodlands down to Bayerisch Eisenstein with several former forest glassworks were owned by the princely House of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen. They procured the estate of the master glassworker, Hafenbrädl, in Böhmisch Eisenstein, later Markt Eisenstein, today Železná Ruda, and, in 1872, the estates in Bayerisch Eisenstein. In 1884, a wooden mountain hut was built by the Bavarian Forest Club. In 1903, the first hut was built on the summit. The current shingle-covered one was built in 1936 and extended in 1985.

As early as 1939, large parts of the area were put under protection, in order to save its uniqueness.  
During the Cold War, a military radar station was built at the top which is still in operation albeit at reduced level - see below.

Arber Chapel and Arber parish fair 

A little to the northwest and a few metres below the summit of the Great Arber stands the little Arber chapel dedicated to Saint Bartholomew the Apostle. The first chapel there was built in 1806 by the glassworks owner, Baron von Hafenbrädl. Since then the building has been renovated four times; the present one was built in 2015.

On the occasion of the centenary of the chapel's construction, Abbot Willibald Adam of Metten Abbey celebrated a mountain mass for the first time in the presence of 2,000 people on St. Bartholomew's Day in 1906. On 29 August 1965, the priest of Arber, Josef Kufner, celebrated another mass here, thus founding the first actual Arber parish fair (Arberkirchweih). Since then it has been celebrated every year on the penultimate Sunday in August. After  mass, people meet for lunch in the Arber Hut; afterwards, folk singers and musicians give  performances.

Radar site 

Two buildings owned by the German Air Force together with their radomes are situated on the summit. The site was built during the Cold War, in the face of vehement protests by conservationists, close to the border with Czechoslovakia in order to monitor air traffic in the Eastern Bloc. The facility entered service in 1983, originally with two radar antennas. In 1996, it was converted and equipped with a large-capacity RRP 117 radar. Since then, the second tower has contained the transmitting and receiving antennas for radio communications. The Great Arber Air Defence Base is operated as part of the Integrated NATO Air Defence System.

Sport and leisure

Hiking trails 
A footpath runs from Bodenmais to the top of the mountain. It begins at the walkers' car park of Rissloch and climbs up past the Riesloch Falls. The descent may be made past the Little Arber, past the waterfalls and ending back at the start. In addition, there are two tours - the Eight Thousanders Tour ("8-1000er Tour") and the Twelve Thousanders Tour ("12-1000er Tour") - which are hiking trails that include an ascent of the mountain along the E6 European long distance path as part of a walk that take in eight or twelve 1,000-metre-high mountains respectively.

Arberland Mountain Run 
On 10 June 2017 the Arberland Mountain Run took place, which also included the 2017 German Mountain Running Championships. 346 runners reached the finish line of the 13.8-kilometre course with a difference in altitude of 887 metres.