[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Huguenots in South Africa

AWB
Juan Theron, South African-born cricketer who has played both for the South African national cricket team and the United States national cricket team
Charlize Theron, Hollywood actress
Totius (Jakob Daniël du Toit) – poet
Constand Viljoen ("Villion"), former leader of the South African Freedom Front (1994–2001) and SADF general
Gerrit Viljoen
H.D Viljoen (Former Inspector General SADF)
Marais Viljoen
Paul Visagie, athlete and direct descendant of General Piet Joubert

Various French-language first names have also gained popularity amongst Afrikaners, examples being Francois, Jacques, Pierre, Charles, Jean-Pierre, Chantelle and Eugene.

Some Afrikaans writers have Huguenot surnames, and were involved in setting up the Society of Real Afrikaners.

The wine industry in South Africa was greatly influenced by the Huguenots, many of whose families had owned vineyards in France. Many of the farms in the Western Cape province in South Africa still bear French names, such as Haute Cabrière, La Petite Provence, La Bourgogne, La Motte, La Bri, La Borie, La Chataigne and La Roche.

See also
 Huguenot
 Huguenot Monument
 Huguenot Memorial Building
 History of Cape Colony
 Protestantism in South Africa
 White South Africans

References

Notes

Further reading
 Lugan, Bernard (1996). Ces Francais Qui Ont Fait L'Afrique Du Sud ("The French People Who Made South Africa"). Bartillat. .
 Weiss, M. Charles (1854). History of the French Protestant Refugees, from the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes to our own days. (Translated from the French by Henry William Herbert) New York: Stringer & Townsend.
 Memory and Identity: The Huguenots in France and the Atlantic Diaspora, Bertrand Van Ruymbeke & Randy J. Sparks, Published 2003 Univ of South Carolina Press, .
 The Huguenots of South Africa 1688–1988, Pieter Coertzen & Charles Fensham, Published 1988 Tafelberg, .
 .

External links
 The Huguenot Society of South Africa

Huguenot families
 Du Preez Family
 Roux Family
 Viljoen Family

History of South Africa
Ethnic groups in South Africa
 
French-South African culture
Lists of South African people
Dutch Cape Colony
Religion in the Dutch Empire
History of the Dutch East India Company