[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry

by Air Marshal M. Matheswaran (retd.), Indian Air Force.
 International Migration and Diaspora Taskforce; Headed by Alwyn Didar Singh, former Indian civil servant.
 Land Reforms and Policy Taskforce; Headed by R V Kanoria, Kanoria Chemicals
 Edtech Taskforce; Headed by Divya Gokulnath.

Initiatives

Millennium Alliance
FICCI's Millennium alliance aims at supporting and scaling-up low-cost, innovative solutions. It is a joint initiative of FICCI, Department of Science & Technology, Government of India and the United States Agency for International Development. It was launched during July 2012 as an inclusive platform for social impact funds, venture capitalists, corporate foundations, early investors, and donors to support and scale innovative solutions for base of the pyramid populations in India and around the world.

Invest India
Invest India is a public-private partnership between Government and FICCI. A joint venture between FICCI (51% equity), Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (India) (34%) and State Governments of India (0.5% equity each), Invest India was given a clearance by the Indian cabinet during September 2009 to set up under Section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956. The initiative aims at speedy implementation of foreign investment projects in India and improving the climate for domestic investments.

Services

ATA Carnet
FICCI is India's sole national issuing & guaranteeing association for ATA Carnets ATA Carnets are used by TV / Film crews, journalists, engineers, musicians and industry for temporary moving equipment across borders. FICCI issues and endorses carnets, guarantees the payment of duties and taxes to customs (both domestic and foreign) authorities

Notable alumni

Uday Shankar (2020–2021) 
Dr Sangita Reddy (2019–2020) 
Krishna Kumar Birla (1974–75)
Hari Shankar Singhania (1979–80)
R. P. Goenka (1986–87)
Chirayu Amin (2000–01)
Rajeev Chandrasekhar (2007–08)
Rajan Mittal (2009–10)
Amit Mitra, noted economist and the current Finance Minister of the Indian state of West Bengal was Secretary General, FICCI during 1994–2011. 
Naina Lal Kidwai is the Past President, FICCI. She is the first Indian woman to graduate from Harvard Business School. and currently is the Group General Manager and Country Head of HSBC India.

See also
 Confederation of Indian Industry
 NASSCOM
 ASSOCHAM
 GFTI- Global Federation for trade and industry-Founder and Chairman- Shanmukha Sai Kolachala

References

External links
 Home page of FICCI
 FICCI Blog
 FICCI Official Video Channel on Veblr.com

1927 establishments in India
Trade associations based in India
Chambers of commerce in India
Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises
Non-profit organisations based in India
Organisations based in Delhi
Organizations established in 1927