[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Latin American involvement in international peacekeeping

and an engineer unit, respectively), to the Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) which has acted as third-party peace-observers in the Sinai desert on the border between Egypt and Israel since 1982 (although this particular mission was mandated by the Camp David accords, and is not a UN effort).

Recent involvement in UN peacekeeping and peace-observing efforts
 UN Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO, Middle East) 1948-date: observers from Argentina and Chile.
 UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) 1949-date: observers from Chile and Uruguay.
 UN Observer Mission in Central America (ONUCA) 1990-1992: observers came from Brazil (21), Colombia (12), Ecuador (21), and Venezuela (14). Venezuela contributed a battalion (approximately 800 men) during Contra demobilization, and Argentina provided four patrol craft and 30 naval personnel for ONUCA's Gulf of Fonseca operation.
 UN Iraq-Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM) 1991-2003 : observers from Argentina (7), Uruguay (8) and Venezuela (7), as well as a helicopter unit from Chile (50 personnel).
 UN Angola Verification Mission (UNAVEM II) 1991-date: observers from Argentina (7), Brazil (6).
 UN Observer Mission in El Salvador (ONUSAL) 1991-date: Police trainers and observers came from Chile, Mexico and Guyana, while military observers were provided by Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela; Argentina sent military medical officers.
 UN Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) 1991-date: Argentina, El Salvador, Honduras, Uruguay, Mexico, Peru, Venezuela, Honduras.
 UN Transitional Authority in Cambodia (UNTAC) 1992-1993: Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Brazil, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Venezuela.
 UN Protection Force, Croatia (UNPROFOR) 1992-1995: observers from Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. Argentina has sent a battalion plus support units for a total of over 900 personnel.
 UN Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) 1992-1995: military medical personnel from Argentina.
 UN Mission in Haiti (UNMIH), 1993–1996: Argentina, Guatemala, Honduras
 UN Angola Verification Mission III (UNAVEM III), 1995–1997  Brazil: 739 troops; 20 military observers; 14 civilian police
 UN Verification Mission in Guatemala (MINUGUA) 1997: Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Uruguay and Venezuela
 UN Civilian Police Mission in Haiti (MIPONUH), 1997–2000: Argentina
 UN Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC) 1999-date: Bolivia, Guatemala, Paraguay, Peru, 
 UN Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) 2000-date Brazil, Guatemala, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay 
 UN Support in East Timor (UNMISET), 2002-2005: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Uruguay
 UN Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) 2003–present: Bolivia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Paraguay, Peru
 UN Operation in Côte d'Ivoire (UNOCI) 2004–present. Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay
 UN Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) 2004–present: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay 
 UN Mission in the Sudan (UNMIS) 2005–present: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay,
 United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA), Mexico

The Argentine experience
Argentina has in the past few years been one of the most consistent supporters of UN peacekeeping (as well as the UN/coalition effort in the Gulf War). This involvement is due in large measure to a deliberate policy by the Alfonsín and Menem administrations to get their nation, and its military institutions, involved in this type of extra-Hemispheric UN mission. The Argentine effort also reflects the fact that UN peacekeeping is now part of their formal role statement (Canada takes a similar approach). The Argentine army defines its basic mission, similar to that of most armies, as the defense of state sovereignty by providing a credible deterrent against a hypothetical adversary. But they also have several secondary missions, the first of which is participation in international peace missions (other secondary missions include assistance in case of natural disasters and support in the struggle against narco-subversion). An important influence is Spain, which, like Argentina, has made a difficult transition from authoritarian rule to democracy, and whose military institutions have also assumed a major role in UN peacekeeping in recent years, most notably in Central America. The contacts between Spanish and Latin American officers have increased through these UN peacekeeping missions, with mutual reinforcement concerning the value of such missions for their militaries.