[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Takamagahara

Ueno Village, Gunma Prefecture 
The place was traditionally known as a small cave, but it was discovered to be much longer and deeper in 1929. The cave was named after what was believed to be the dwelling place of the Yamainu. Some places inside have been named as Takamagahara and Ama-no-Yasugawara.

 Taga County, Ibaraki Prefecture 
According to the theory proposed by Hakusei Arai, kanji in ancient times were representing pronunciation of the Japanese language, and the original meaning of the kanji does not match the meaning of the words they are describing. Therefore, the words expressed from them only explained pronunciation not the actual meanings. In Koshitsu (古史通), Hakuseki interpreted Takamagahara in hiragana instead of kanji and compared it to Taga Country in Hitachi Province. Also, he suggests that places called “Takaama-no-Ura” and “Takaama-no-Hara” in Hitachi Province are originated from Takamagahara.

 Iki, Nagasaki 
The names of places such as “Amagahara (天ヶ原)” and “Takanohara (高野原)” still remain, and they are considered as “Heavenly Territory (天国領域)” according to the Kyushu-Yamatai-Koku theory.

 Takamagahara in South Korea 

 Goryeong Country, North Gueongsang Province, South Korea 
The Korean Peninsula theory was sometimes advocated mainly by amateur Korean researchers after World War II. Initially, Chuncheon City at Gangwon-do was considered to be the location of Takamagahara in South Korea because of certain lyrics from Komagaku, a type of traditional Japanese court music.

However, in the 1990s, the chancellor of the Kaya University proposed a new theory called Goryeong County theory. He believes that the name of Mount Sori from Takamagahara mythology came from the capital city of South Korea, Seoul, and therefore Goryeong County is the correct location of it. In 1999, stone monument of Takamagahara (고천원고지비) was raised in the Kaya University.

References

Guide in Takamagahara historic site (Japanese)
Ono, Sokyo, (1992), Shinto: The Kami Way, Charles E. Tuttle Company, Basic Terms of Shinto, Kokugakuin University, Institute for Japanese Culture and Classics, Tokyo 1985Kenkyusha's New Japanese-English Dictionary'', Kenkyusha Limited, Tokyo 1991,

See also
 Mount Takamagahara
 Nirai Kanai
 Ashihara no Nakatsukuni
 Yomi
 Ne-no-Kuni
 Tian

Conceptions of heaven
Locations in Japanese mythology