[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# University of Saskatchewan academics

University of Saskatchewan has over 200 academic programs on its Saskatoon, Saskatchewan campus, and is internationally known for its teaching and research. The on-campus synchrotron Canadian Light Source makes it the only Canadian institution for such nuclear and biotechnology research. Canadian Light Source nuclear research facility provides research and analysis of the internal structures of advanced materials and biological samples. The College of Arts and Science is the largest of the U of S and comprises five separate health science fields in addition to numerous other programs in the Arts, Social Sciences, Humanities, and Natural Sciences. The Department of Computer Science as well as the College of Engineering are ranked highly within their fields. The founding college, the College of Agriculture, is still providing agricultural breakthroughs which are utilized worldwide.

Rankings
University of Saskatchewan ranked among the top ten in medical doctoral universities in Canada, according to Maclean's Guide to Canadian Universities 2007. The Gourman Report Ranking of Canadian Universities gave the U of S a score of 3.28, which places it 20th out of 60 Canadian universities. The Sidhpur Foundation places the University of Saskatchewan at spot 14 out of the top 25 universities in Canada. The National Post and Financial Post "Top 500" ranking of Universities places the U of S 13th of the top 20 Canadian universities, with a population of 15,397 and revenue of $566,596,000.
Times Higher Education is a weekly British magazine that reports specifically on news and issues related to higher education. As part of this, they produce an annual ranking of over 1,800 universities from across the world.  The University of Saskatchewan is currently situated in the top third of all universities ranked. University rankings - Office of Institutional Planning and Assessment | University of Saskatchewan

Research

1967 saw the origin of the Department of Computational Science at the U of S. Just 29 years later in 1996, the department's research was rated as Number 1 by the Institute for Scientific Information in terms of influence in this field. University of Saskatchewan-owned Canadian Light Source opened in 2004, and is an internationally renowned synchrotron science facility. The linear accelerator was the precursor to the Canadian Light source for molecular and nuclear physics research. The U of S synchrotron has produced a world leader in agriculture biotechnology and livestock genomics which also feature breakthroughs in chemistry, geochemistry, pharmacology and proteomics. Winter wheat projects, rust resistant wheat strains, and development of rapeseed were just a few of the agricultural research developments.

Endowment
The University of Saskatchewan had endowments worth $136.7 million at fiscal year-end 2007. The Western Grains Research Foundation is among several others that have provided to the university an ongoing endowment research fund.

Undergraduate studies

Direct entry programs
The following colleges have no university-level prerequisites, and admit students directly out of high school.

College of Agriculture and Bioresources

The National Research Council contributed to the establishment of a Crop Development Centre at the University of Saskatchewan. Courses were offered in Agricultural and Bioresource Engineering (ABE), Agricultural Economics (AGEC), Agriculture (AGRC), Agronomy (AGRN), Animal Science (ANSC), Environmental Science (EVSC), Food and Applied Microbiological Sciences (FAMS), Indigenous People Resource Management (IPRM), Large Animal Clinical Sciences (VLAC), Plant Sciences (PLSC), and Soil Science (SLSC). The College Building held the first classes for the Agricultural College. There were also  reserved for agriculture practice, University Barn, crops, and livestock study. The new Agriculture building built between 1988 and 1991 was a large six storey glass building, with a seventh floor addition in 2000.