[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lauro Baja

under the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations." Baja alleged that "when the alleged violations transpired between January 13 and April 13, 2006, he was the Philippine permanent representative to the United Nations and head of the Philippine Mission located in New York City."

Graft and corruption cases 
Presidential Anti-Graft Commission (PAGC) Chair Constancia de Guzman and Commissioner Jaime Jacob filed criminal cases with the Ombudsman against Baja on March 12 for violations of the Government Procurement Act, the Anti-Graft and Corrupt Practices Act (R.A. 3019), the Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for Public Officials and Employees, and of technical malversation. Jacob submitted copies of the DFA fact-finding team's report, sworn statements, related documents, and a report of the Commission on Audit, as evidence. On 29 March 2011, Lauro Baja was charged by the Office of the Special Prosecutor with two criminal cases, one for malversation of public funds and another for violation of the Anti-Graft and Corrupt Practices Act. The fund anomalies occurred in two separate instances while Baja was the chief of mission at the UN (2003–2007). The charges were dismissed on March 20, 2017, by the Sandiganbayan Fourth Division for insufficiency of evidence.

Reactions 
Migrante International per chair Connie Bragas-Regalado asked the Arroyo administration for a thorough probe into Baja's involvement in maltreating Baoanan: “This modus operandi of our erring diplomatic officials trafficking Filipinos so they may take them as slaves has got to stop. Baja’s case would be a litmus test for the Philippines that recently won the vice-presidency of the United Nations Human Rights Council. We challenge the newly elected Vice President to the UNHRC Erlinda Basilio to take the lead in investigating the charges against the former UN Security Council President and to ensure that no white wash takes place, if indeed the Philippines is bent on upholding human rights in the UN body." She noted that on 2007, a San Francisco Philippine Consulate consul's mother pleaded guilty of exploiting a Filipina and paid her $78,000 in back wages.
Hong Kong-based Filipino Community Services and Information Network (Filcomsin)'s Edna Aquino said that “the Bajas defensively divert the blame on their domestic worker by questioning and putting motives on leaving her employment after three months; the minimum wage for a household domestic worker based on Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA) Directive of January 2007 is $400; Even by Philippine standards, this [$200] (paid by Baja) is already quite exploitative; Baja and the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA) did not consult the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA)."
 Gabriela party-list Rep. Liza Maza, main author of the Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of 2003, said Baja may be liable for qualified trafficking under Philippine law if Baoanan pursued the case in a Philippine court: “It is disturbing that a Philippine ambassador, no less than the head of the Philippine Mission to the United Nations and a former president of the UN Security Council, is now being accused of trafficking; (He) should be setting the standards for the compensation and treatment of Filipina workers; The minimum wage in the United States is actually $5.85 per hour. Moreover, the average Filipina domestic worker is paid $300 to $500.” In 2003, the labor department in Metro Manila ruled that Norma Baja, Elizabeth Baja and Baja-owned Labaire International Travel, were guilty of non-compliance with labor standards involving former employees who were forced to sign cash vouchers and quit claims in exchange for their salaries amounting to P 298,481.15. In 1995, the Manila Regional Trial Court found Labaire guilty of breach of contract for failure to comply with a travel and tour package to Palawan which had already been partially paid for by the complainants. The Court of Appeals later reversed both decisions.

See also 
 Philippine Center
 Rafael M. Salas

References

External links 
 Senior Diplomat's Slavery Charges
 Permanent Mission of the Republic of the Philippines to the United Nations
 Parliamentarians for Global Action

Living people
University of the Philippines alumni
1937 births
Permanent Representatives of the Philippines to the United Nations
United Nations General Assembly Sixth Committee officials
Recipients of Gawad Mabini
Filipino diplomats
Ambassadors of the Philippines to Brazil
Ambassadors of the Philippines to Italy