[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# TT1

TT1 is the burial place of the ancient Egyptian official Sennedjem and members of his family. It is located in the workmen's village of Deir el-Medina, on the west bank of the Nile opposite Luxor. The funerary complex consists of three pyramid-shaped chapels dedicated to, from south to north, Sennedjem's father or brother, Sennedjem himself, and to Sennedjem's son Khonsu. Of the three shafts associated with the chapels, only the shaft in front of Sennedjem's chapel was unrobbed. It led to a series of underground rooms, including the extensively decorated burial chamber.

The undisturbed tomb was discovered in January 1886 in excavations by Gurnawi local Salam Abu Duhi and three others. The single room contained 165 objects, including over 20 burials belonging to family members of Sennedjem. Nine burials were placed in coffins while the rest were placed on the floor. Sennedjem and his son Khonsu had the most elaborate burials, both being provided with a sarcophagus or outer rectangular coffin; these larger coffins were found disassembled and placed against a wall. Sennedjem's mummy was equipped with one inner anthropoid (human-shaped) coffin, a mummy board, and a mummy mask, while Khonsu had two nested anthropoid coffins and a mask. Sennedjem's wife Iyneferti was buried in a single human shaped coffin with a mummy board and mask. The wife of Khonsu, Tameket, was placed into one coffin with a mummy board, while their daughter Isis was given only a coffin and mask. For the other 11 people buried there, their exact relation to Sennedjem is unclear due to the lack of inscriptions.

The tomb was cleared quickly by Eduardo Toda y Güell and Jan Herman Insinger on behalf of Gaston Maspero. The burial goods included many ushabti, canopic chests and pieces of furniture. The contents of the tomb were transferred to the Boulaq Museum in Cairo. From there, some of the objects, including the coffins and mummies of Iyneferti, Khonsu, and Tamaket, were sold to museum and private collections around the world to fund further excavation work in Egypt. The most important items outside Egypt went to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York and the Egyptian Museum of Berlin; the exact locations of other pieces are now largely unknown.

Sennedjem and family

Sennedjem was an ancient Egyptian official active in the early Nineteenth Dynasty during the reigns of the pharaohs Seti I and Ramesses II. He bore the title "servant in the Place of Truth" (sḏm ꜥš m s.t mꜣꜥ.t), which indicates he was part of the community of royal tomb builders at Deir el-Medina. He may have been a scribe, based on the presence of an ostracon of the Story of Sinuhe placed near his coffin. Sennedjem was involved in the cult of the goddess Hathor, bearing the title "servant of Hathor" (bꜣk n(y) Hw.t-Ḥr). His father was Khabekhnet, whose title is "servant of Amun in the southern City" (ꜥš n Imn n Ip.t-rsy.t). Tahenu (or Taha(y)nu) is thought to be his mother. Khabekhnet and Tahenu are depicted with an additional woman named Rusu whose relationship to the couple is not specified. She may have been a second wife of Khabekhnet or Khabekhnet's own mother. Sennedjem had a probable elder brother named Tjaro and likely two further brothers named Tutuya (or Tutuia) and Messu (or Mose).

Sennedjem's wife was Iyneferti. She is titled "lady of the house" (nb.t-pr) and "singer of Hathor" (ḥs.t n(t) Hw.t-Ḥr). Little is known of her family but her mother may have been a woman named Mutnofret. Sennedjem and Iyneferti had at least 10 known children, many of whom are depicted in their tomb and also worked in the royal necropolis. Their eldest son Khabekhnet, named for his paternal grandfather, was the owner of the nearby tomb TT2. A younger son, Khonsu, had a pyramid chapel within the TT1 complex and was buried in his father's tomb. Sennedjem and one or two of his sons lived in a cluster of houses in the newly built southern part of Deir el-Medina, close to the family tomb.

Chapels

TT1 is located on a low terrace at the southern end of Deir el-Medina's western necropolis. The funerary complex contains three pyramid-shaped chapels within a walled courtyard. The court is rectangular and measures . It was probably entered via stairs through a gateway shaped like a pylon, although excavations by Bernard Bruyère found no trace of them. A mudbrick bench was located against the north wall of the courtyard, likely to hold funerary offerings on festive occasions.