[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carl Cohen (philosopher)

els and in media reports on racial preferences since the mid-1990s.

Civil liberties activism
Cohen was a lifetime activist for the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), serving as Chair of the Michigan affiliate of the ACLU, and for years as a member of the National Board of Directors of the ACLU.

When the American Nazi Party threatened, in 1978, to march in Skokie, Illinois, Cohen published (in The Nation to which he was a regular contributor) several widely reprinted essays defending the right to present publicly even the most abhorrent political views. When (as a part of the protest against the Vietnam War) efforts were made to forbid research of certain kinds on the U-M campus, Cohen strongly supported the freedom of faculty members to engage in the inquiries that they thought appropriate. During that war Cohen, in active protest, defended selective conscientious objection, and defended some, but not all, civil disobedience. When University administrators sought to censor the showing of sexually explicit films on campus, Cohen, then serving as Chair of the University faculty, strongly defended student freedoms before the Regents of the University, with ultimate success. In the mid-1970s, when the fear of misuse led some to oppose the continuation of research in recombinant DNA technology, Cohen defended such research vigorously, both on the Michigan campus and also in The New England Journal of Medicine.

Cohen maintained his membership in the ACLU despite his disagreement with the organization's support of race preferences in university admissions.

Research ethics
From 1985 to 1995 a fraction of Cohen's appointment was in the Medical School of the University of Michigan, where he served as Professor of Philosophy and as Director of the Program in Human Values in Medicine. There he served also as a founding member of the Michigan Medical Center's Ethics Committee, as a member of its Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, and for more than 30 years, as a member of its Institutional Review Board (IRB). Cohen's involvement with research on humans led to reflections on the uses of animals in science, which he defends; and on the limited uses of prisoners as research subjects, which he also defends; on ethical issues in transplant medicine; and on abortion.

Labor arbitration activities
Having written much about the concept of justice, Cohen became involved, during the 1970s, in the process of Labor/Management arbitration. With the support of the late economist William Haber, a well-known arbitrator, Cohen became a member of the Labor Panel of the American Arbitration Association, and over the years issued many arbitration awards in many industries. Cohen remained an active arbitrator for the AAA, and also an Act 312 Arbitrator, and Grievance Arbitrator, for the State of Michigan.

Death
Cohen died on August 26, 2023, at the age of 92.

Bibliography
A Conflict of Principles: The Battle over Affirmative Action at the University of Michigan. Lawrence KS, University Press of Kansas, 2014. 
Haben Tiere Rechte?. Interdisziplinäre Arbeitsgemeinschaft Tierethik (Hrsg.). Tierrechte - Eine interdisziplinäre Herausforderung. Erlangen 2007. 
On Rule by the People. Beijing: The Commercial Press, 2004.
Affirmative Action and Racial Preference. New York and London: Oxford University Press, 2003.
The Animal Rights Debate. New York, London, Rowman & Littlefield, 2001.
Introduction to Logic. New York, London, Prentice-Hall, 2001, 2004.
Naked Racial Preference:The Case Against Affirmative Action. New York, London, Madison Books, Rowman and Littlefield, 1995.
Four Systems. New York, Random House, 1982.
Democracy. Athens GA: University of Georgia Press, 1971. New York: The Free Press, Macmillan, 1973.
Civil Disobedience: Conscience, Tactics, and the Law. New York: Columbia University Press, 1971.
Communism, Fascism and Democracy: The Theoretical Foundations. New York: Random House, 1962.

See also
 American philosophy
 List of American philosophers

References

External links 
 Video of his lecture "Why Animals Do Not Have Rights" at the Interdisciplinary Lectures on Animal Rights at the Ruprecht-Karls-University Heidelberg on the 26th of July 2006
 Official website of Carl Cohen

1931 births
2023 deaths
20th-century American Jews
20th-century American philosophers
Critics of animal rights
Jewish philosophers
University of Michigan faculty
21st-century American Jews
Opposition to affirmative action
21st-century American philosophers