[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Swiss Americans

s community  Hennepin County, Minnesota is the story of a former Swiss colony in Minnesota written by Wayne C. Blesi.
 
  Swiss Americans Article by University of Illinois – Chicago emeritus professor Dr. Leo Schelbert about Swiss Americans.
  Settling Berne Article by Harold Miller about Berne, NY.

Research links
 Keith Zollinger Collection of Swiss Manuscripts Brigham Young University-Idaho Special Collections at the David O. McKay Library.
  The Archives of Le Temps Archival collection of every Journal de Genève, Gazette de Lausanne and Nouveau Quotidien.
 The Swiss American Historical Society Records 1927–1985, including correspondence, reports, minutes and other materials, are available for research use at the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.
 The Swiss American Historical Society Review. Articles and reviews featuring Swiss American history and life. 
  Swiss Colonies in Tennessee and Kentucky Collection, 1830–1938 University of Tennessee Special Collections Library, Knoxville, TN.
   Swiss Posters Collection The Swiss Poster Collection at Carnegie Mellon University.
  Swiss Benevolent Society of Chicago Housed at the University of Illinois at Chicago in the Richard J. Daley Library's Special Collections Department.
  Swiss Society of New Orleans records, 1855–2010 Housed at Tulane University as part of the Louisiana Research Collection, at the Howard-Tilton Memorial Library.
  Swiss Singing Society of Chicago Housed at the University of Illinois at Chicago in the Richard J. Daley Library's Special Collections Department.
  Swiss Prints Collection Graphic Arts Collection in the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections at Princeton University Library.
  Holden Rightmyer/American Swiss Company Papers 1933–1946 The Ward M. Canaday Center for Special Collections at The University of Toledo.
  Richard Bird missionary notebook from the Swiss/Austrian mission Housed at the Harold B. Lee Library at Brigham Young University.
  Swiss and German Mission of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Housed at the Harold B. Lee Library at Brigham Young University.
 Walter Kiener, Papers Housed in the Archives & Special Collections at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Libraries.
  Bluntschli (Johann Casper) 1808–1881 Collection 1750–1884 Housed at the Special Collections of the Milton S. Eisenhower Library at The Johns Hopkins University.
  Eddie Rickenbacker Papers Housed at Auburn University Special Collections and Archives.
  The Papers of J. Warren White Housed at the Patricia W. and J. Douglas Perry Library, Old Dominion University.
  Herbert Matter Papers Housed in Special Collections Green Library Stanford University.
  The Rièse collection Housed at The Victoria University Library of the University of Toronto.
  Swiss imprints in French Housed in University of Cambridge.
  The John Lyman Ballif Papers Housed at the J. Willard Marriott Library, University of Utah.
  Diplomatic Documents of Switzerland 
   Robert Billigmeier Collection  Hosted by University of California, Santa Barbara.
   Hoehn and Müller families papers, 1828-1980s Housed at Tulane University as part of the Louisiana Research Collection, at the Howard-Tilton Memorial Library.
  German and Swiss Colonization in Morgan County, Tennessee, 1925 Housed at University of Tennessee Libraries, Knoxville, Special Collections.
   Mennonite Historical Collections Very extensive Collection of Swiss and Swiss-American Mennonite information hosted in the Archives and Special Collections Librarian at Musselman Library, Bluffton University.
 Swiss Settlers in SW Illinois—searchable English translations of 19th-century works by Swiss settlers in southwestern Illinois.

American people of Swiss descent
European-American society
American