[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# J. E. Casely Hayford

in the political movement for African emancipation. He corresponded with W. E. B. Du Bois, and participated in Booker T. Washington's International Conference on the Negro in 1912. Casely Hayford's correspondence with Washington fostered the pan-African movement in both Africa and the United States.

Casely Hayford's career in public office began with his nomination to the Legislative Council of the Gold Coast in 1916. As a legislator he served on various public commissions, and received an MBE in the 1919 Birthday Honours for services in aid of the Prince of Wales's Patriotic Fund. In the same year he formed West Africa's first nationalist movement, the National Congress of British West Africa, one of the earliest formal organisations working toward African emancipation from colonial rule. He represented the Congress in London in 1920, to demand constitutional reforms from the colonial secretary, and address the League of Nations Union. He was criticised for accepting inadequate concessions from the colonial authorities. While promoting an African nationalism that demanded unity and cultural awareness among Africans, Hayford advocated only constitutional political reforms within the framework of Ghana remaining a colony. He became the first patron of the West African Students' Union in 1925, and was elected as municipal member for Sekondi in September 1927. The National Congress was dissolved shortly after Casely Hayford's death in 1930.

He published a novel entitled Ethiopia Unbound (1911), which is one of the first novels in English by an African. It has been cited as the earliest pan-African fiction. The novel is set in both Africa and England. It relies on philosophical debates between an African and his English friend, as well as references to contemporary African events and ancient African history, to provide a context for its exploration of African identity and the struggle for emancipation.

Marriage and family
Casely Hayford was the progenitor of the Casely-Hayford family of Ghana and Britain. His descendants have served as part of the latter country's Black British elite. 

He was first married to Beatrice Madeline Pinnock. The couple's son Archie Casely-Hayford became a barrister, district magistrate and the first Minister of Agriculture and Natural Resources in the First Republic of Ghana.

While in London studying at the Inner Temple and lodging at a hostel for African bachelors in 1893, Casely Hayford met Adelaide Smith, a lady of Sierra Leonean Creole origins. They later married, and she returned with him to the Gold Coast in 1896 after he was received by the bar. She became a prominent writer and established a Freetown girl's vocational school. Adelaide and Joseph had a daughter, Gladys May Casely-Hayford (1904–1950), who was a teacher, an artist and a poet, publishing some of her poems under the pen name of Aquah Laluah.

Bibliography 

The Truth About The West African Land Question (1898. Reprinted, 1913. Reprinted London: Frank Cass, 1971)
Gold Coast Native Institutions: With Thoughts Upon A Healthy Imperial Policy for the Gold Coast and Ashanti (1903. Reprinted London: Frank Cass, 1970, )
Ethiopia Unbound: Studies in Race Emancipation (1911. Reprinted London: Frank Cass, 1969, . Black Classic Press, with an Introduction by Molefi Kete Asante, 2011)
Gold Coast Land Tenure and the Forest Bill (1911)
William Waddy Harris, the West African reformer (1915)
United West Africa (1919)
West African Leadership: Public speeches delivered by the Honourable J. E. Casely Hayford; edited by Magnus J. Sampson (1951)

References

External links 
 Thoemmes Continuum – The History of Ideas: Writings of Ekra-Agiman (J. E. Casely Hayford)

1866 births
1930 deaths
20th-century Ghanaian politicians
20th-century novelists
Alumni of Fitzwilliam College, Cambridge
Alumni of Peterhouse, Cambridge
Fante people
Fourah Bay College alumni
Ghanaian Methodists
Ghanaian novelists
Ghanaian pan-Africanists
Ghanaian people of English descent
Ghanaian people of Irish descent
Ghanaian schoolteachers
Ghanaian writers
Gold Coast (British colony) people
Members of the Order of the British Empire
Newspaper editors
People from Central Region (Ghana)
J.E.