[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Port Hudson National Cemetery

Port Hudson National Cemetery is a United States National Cemetery located in Port Hudson,  north of the city of Baton Rouge in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana. Administered by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, it encompasses , and as of the end of 2020, had over 12,000 interments.

History 

The cemetery is located on the site which was the main battleground of the Siege of Port Hudson, during the American Civil War. Nearly 4,000 Union troops fell during the fighting, and most were buried in the cemetery, many as unknowns. After the war another  was appropriated to inter those who died in the local veterans' facilities. The battle was notable for valiant fighting by the 1st and 3rd Regiments of the Louisiana Native Guards, troops composed of free men of color from the New Orleans area and a majority of African Americans who had escaped from slavery to join the cause and gain freedom.

The Confederate soldiers who died were primarily buried in the trenches where they fell. A Confederate Cemetery was later established in the Port Hudson area; it is not accessible to the public.

The battlefield at Port Hudson is one of the few naturally preserved Civil War battlegrounds. The breastworks, gun pits, and trenches remain today almost as they were during the battle. The area has never been developed.

Port Hudson National Cemetery  area, comprising a total of 9 contributing resources, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on May 20, 1999; a different portion of the battlefield, several miles to the north, is preserved in the Port Hudson State Historic Site.  That area is designated a National Historic Landmark.

Notable burials
 John Ferguson, sportscaster for the LSU Tigers
 Frank Fields, double bass player
 Betty Heitman, co-chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1983 to 1987, buried with her husband, Captain Henry Schrader Heitman
 Tabby Thomas, blues musician

See also

 National Register of Historic Places listings in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana
 List of cemeteries in Louisiana

References

External links 
 National Cemetery Administration
 Port Hudson National Cemetery
 
 
 
 

Cemeteries in Louisiana
Cemeteries on the National Register of Historic Places in Louisiana
Historic American Landscapes Survey in Louisiana
Protected areas of East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana
United States national cemeteries
National Register of Historic Places in East Baton Rouge Parish, Louisiana
1867 establishments in Louisiana