[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# PeaceMaker

the Centre set up the "PeaceMaker Educational Program". It consists in using the game in Israeli and Palestinian schools, and to lead a supervised debate with the students. Over fifty workshops were held in 2008, involving  students from two states. This total amounts to  students in September 2009.

 Legacy 
In February 2008 ImpactGames launched the program Play the News. It is a web-based platform used to publish mini-games based on the news. The idea is that interactivity allows a better understanding of an event, rather than passive reading. A game is designed to be played for ten to twenty minutes, and to be developed in a day.

The game is divided into three steps. The player firstly has access to information about the event and its context, using timelines and maps. Then, they can play successively as the different protagonists of the event. They are asked to make a decision, following what they think the stakeholder should do. Finally, the player predicts which decision the protagonist will make. When the player returns later, he is informed of the decisions that were made in the real world. Play the News is built around a community, where every player has a profile. He may read statistics on the accuracy of his predictions and the tendency of his opinions (mainstream or fringe within the community).

Shortly after the launch, Ian Bogost described Play the News'' as "very casual", and feared that it could be summarised as a simple quiz. He claimed that the game had some potential to engage people with the news, "by making them think about what will happen next and by creating a natural reason to read stories one otherwise might not". The game won in May 2009 the first "Knight News Game Awards", awarded by the association Games for Change. It rewards "news game", games that "[enhance] people's ability to make decisions in a democracy".

References

Further reading

External links 

 

2007 video games
Humanitarian video games
Government simulation video games
Java platform games
MacOS games
Turn-based strategy video games
Windows games
Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Video games developed in the United States
Video games set in Israel
Video games set in the State of Palestine