[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kidderpore

e bus services. Kidderpore can also be accessed by the Kolkata Circular Railway, which has a station in the locality.

The Kolkata Metro Line 3 will pass through Khidderpore and will have an underground station of the same name. It will connect Joka with Esplanade.

Notable educational institutions 

St Thomas School, Kolkata, this girls and boys school was established in 1789, and is one of the oldest and largest schools in the city.
 Lajpat Hindi High School, is a school located at Kidderpore, Kolkata, India. This is a Hindi-medium boys' school and is affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education for Madhyamik Pariksha (10th Board exams), and to the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education for Higher Secondary Examination (12th Board exams).[1] The school was established in 1951.
 Loyola High School, the Institution was established in the year 1961 by the Roman Catholic Archdiocese for the religious and linguistic minorities.
Maulana Azad Urdu High School, Founded by Dr Ali Sher Khan MA B.Ed PHD (CU) in the year 1973 for the educationally backward and downtrodden students of the locality to counter the lack of educational institutions for the minority community. This institution provides a wonderful opportunity to the economically weaker section of the society.
Maulana Azad Educational Library- Founded by Dr Ali Sher Khan in the year 1979 in memory of his father Late Md Syeed Khan. This Library was registered and sponsored by the Govt of West Bengal in the year 1981. This library has abundance of books for every kind of book lovers in the neighborhood. This is an institution of Maulana Azad Educational Trust.
St Teresa Secondary school at 72, Diamond Harbour Road, Kidderpore, Kolkata 700023. Currently affiliated to the ICSE board, the school was established in 1885 and named after Marie Thérèse Haze. Haze decided to respond to the lack of education in her homeland, Belgium, in the chaos resulting from the French Revolution and made that the focus of her religious apostolate; she served as her order's Superior General from its founding until her death. This school is dedicated towards the cause of educating young girls of Kolkata.
Kidderpore Academy, Higher Secondary School.
Sharat Chandra Pal Girls Higher Secondary School.
KIdderpore Bankim Chandra Ghose Memorial girls Higher Secondary School.
St. Barnabas High Secondary School.
Kidderpore College
St. Thomas Engineering College
 Malaviya Vidyalaya at 16, Hem Chandra Street, Kolkata 700023 is a Hindi medium, government aided Co-educational school affiliated to West Bengal Board of Primary Education (WBBPE) established in the year 1955 in the memory of 'Mahamana' Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya. The school has classes from Lower Pre Primary up to standard V and provides all amenities for modern educational needs such as Library, Computer Laboratory and playing area.
 Michael Madhusudan Library 103 years old
 Hem Chandra Library 105 years old.
 Shri Shanti Niketan Vidyalaya located at Daighat (ghat popular for Ganga Aarti (every sunday) & Chathh Puja (festival visited by Chief Minister of West Bengal every year)
EVERGREEN HIGH SCHOOL
12B Ibrahim Road

Notes

References

External links

Neighbourhoods in Kolkata
Red-light districts in India
Notorious markets