[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anthony Grant (footballer, born 1987)

old the press that "I had a long chat with Anthony Grant the other day regarding my need for him to pass the ball on quickly and he will come again". However he transfer-listed him two months later and said that "I want a two-man midfield [and he] is better suited to being one of three midfielders".

Shrewsbury Town
On 2 August 2018, Grant signed for League One side Shrewsbury Town for an undisclosed fee on a one-year deal, with the option of a further year. Manager John Askey said that he hoped Grant would become one of the "Shrews" best players, filling the gap left by departed skipper Abu Ogogo. He indeed went on to quickly become a fan's favourite at the New Meadow, though warned that new manager Sam Ricketts and chairman Roland Wycherley should try and sign him to a new deal before his head was turned by another club. However he featured 48 times during the 2018–19 season and triggered a one-year contract extension. Grant was forced to train with the youth team in July 2019 for what Ricketts said was "due to reasons which will remain in house".

Swindon Town
On 2 September 2019, he joined League Two side Swindon Town on a four-month loan deal. Grant made his "Robins" debut against Leyton Orient on 7 September, replacing the injured Jordan Lyden in the first half of a 3–1 win. He made his full league debut in a 3–0 win over Macclesfield Town seven days later. On 6 January 2020, Grant made his loan move a permanent deal, signing for the "Robins" until the end of the 2019–20 season. During the mid-season break in play during the COVID-19 pandemic in England, Grant was named in three regional football journalist's "League Two team of the season (so far)". League Two clubs went on to vote to end the campaign early and promote Swindon as champions. Grant was named as the club's Player of the Season after polling 50% of the online vote, though had to receive the award via Zoom due to the pandemic.

Grant was linked with a move to Blackpool in summer 2020, but ended up signing a one-year extension with Swindon. However he struggled for form in the 2020–21 season after playing through a niggling ankle injury. Manager Richie Wellens was replaced by John Sheridan in November and Grant reportedly fell out with the new manager, though Sheridan denied the rumours in the press. Sheridan asked Grant to play at centre-back in March, much to the midfielder's surprise. Grant ended the season with three goals in 37 games as Swindon were relegated after finishing second-from-bottom in League One. On 14 May 2021, it was announced that he would leave Swindon at the end of the season, following the expiry of his contract. However he reported back to the club for pre-season training as new head coach Ben Garner weighed up the possibility of offering him a new deal. On 5 August, Grant re-signed for Swindon Town on a one-year contract extension. On 28 January 2022, Grant had his contract terminated by mutual consent, with the club reporting that "it was decided that a fresh start was needed for both parties".

Scunthorpe United
On 29 January 2022, Grant joined struggling League Two side Scunthorpe United on a free transfer. He was sent off on 15 March for a late challenge on Barrow's Josh Gordon in a damaging 1–0 defeat at Glanford Park. He was released by manager Keith Hill at the end of the 2021–22 season as the "Iron" were relegated into the National League.

Crawley Town
On 23 March 2023, Grant signed for struggling League Two side Crawley Town on a contract until end of the 2022–23 season. He made two starts and eight substitute appearances, before being released upon the expiry of his contract. On 3 August, Grant re-signed with Crawley Town on a short-term contract. Manager Scott Lindsey said that "Granty was a key player for us at the end of last season, [however] we weren't in a position to offer him a contract at that time, but I wanted to make sure that I invited him back for pre-season".

International career
Grant has represented England at under-16, under-17 and under-19 youth international level. In August 2021, Grant received his first call-up to the Jamaica national team for 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifier for games against Mexico, Panama and Costa Rica. He made his debut in a 2–1 defeat to Mexico at the Estadio Azteca on 2 September.

Style of play
Grant is a central midfielder who specializes in breaking up opposition play, and is also adept at receiving the ball from defenders and supplying the ball to more attack-minded players. He has been described as 'combative', and regularly picks up bookings.

Career statistics

International

Honours
Individual
Port Vale Player of the Year: 2015–16
Swindon Town Player of the Season: 2019–20

Swindon Town
EFL League Two: 2019–20

References

External links