[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pervaiz Iqbal Cheema

Pervaiz Iqbal Cheema (1940 – 16 February 2019) was a Pakistani political scientist, cricketer, and a professor of International Relations and was last working as Dean, Faculty of Contemporary Studies, National Defence University, Islamabad - Pakistan.

He studied at Murray College and later played three first-class cricket for Lahore.

Early life and education
Pervaiz Iqbal Cheema was born in 1940 at Sialkot, Punjab, British India and was initially educated at Sialkot. Later he moved to Government College, Lahore, where he completed his Master of Arts degree in history.  He also received a Master of Arts degree in political science from Punjab University, Lahore. He received a diploma in international relations from Vienna University (Austria), M. Litt. in strategic studies from Aberdeen University (UK) and a Ph.D. degree from Quaid-i-Azam University (Pakistan).

Career
Cheema was a teacher and a researcher for more than 45 years both inside Pakistan as well as abroad. Inside Pakistan, he had taught at Government College (Lahore), Pakistan Administrative Staff College (Lahore), Quaid-i-Azam University, (Islamabad), and National Defence University, Pakistan (Islamabad). He worked at Islamabad Policy Research Institute (Islamabad). Abroad, he had worked in various capacities like research fellow, Senior Fulbright scholar, visiting scholar for Australian National University (Australia), School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University (US), Institute of Southeast Asian Studies, (Singapore), and University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (US).

As a visiting lecturer, he also delivered lectures at many professional and training institutions including National Defence College (now called National Defence University (Islamabad), Command and Staff College (Quetta), Joint Staff College (Rawalpindi), Foreign Service Training Institute (Islamabad), Information Services Academy (Islamabad), Allama Iqbal Open University (Islamabad), Pakistan Administrative Staff College (renamed now as National Management College, Islamabad).

During his long  stay at Quaid-i-Azam University, Cheema served as the Chairman of International Relations Department as well as Defence and Strategic Studies Department for more than 14 years. Since 2009, Cheema had been working at the National Defense University as a Dean, Faculty of Contemporary Studies, Islamabad.

Pervaiz Iqbal Cheema participated in more than 215 National and International Seminars/Conferences/Workshops. He was a member of many International and National Academic Associations. He also had served  on the Editorial Advisory Board of many International and National Academic Journals.

Awards and recognition
Pride of Performance Award by the President of Pakistan in 2013.

Publications
Cheema's wrote a number of articles and books on South Asian politics.

Authored
 Quaid-i-Azam as a Strategist, Research and Publication Committee, Department of International Relations, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, 1977, Pakistan.
 Restraints in Korean War, Research and Publication Committee, Department of International Relations, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, 1978, Pakistan.
 Sanctuary and War, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, 1978, Pakistan.
 Conflict and Cooperation in the Indian Ocean: Pakistan's Interests and Choices, Canberra Papers on Strategy and Defence No.23, Strategic and Defence Studies Centre, The Research School of Pacific Studies, The Australian National University, Canberra, 1980, Australia.
 Afghanistan Since April 1978, Research and Publication Committee, Department of International Relations, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, 1980, Pakistan.
 Pakistan's Defence Policy 1947-58 (Macmillan, London, U.K. 1990)
 The Armed Forces of Pakistan (Allen & Unwin, Sydney. Also published by the New York University Press, 2002).
 The Politics of  the Punjab Boundary Award (Heidelberg paper No.1, South Asia Institute,    Department of Political Science, University of Heidelberg, September 2000).