[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Senedd building

he debating chamber and is separated by security glass. The public gallery holds 128 people on two rows of seats. The MSs' desks and public gallery seating are made of Welsh oak in a circular configuration so that all MSs can see each other, which, it is claimed, makes debating less confrontational.

In front of the Llywydd’s desk is the  ceremonial mace. Melbourne goldsmith Fortunato Rocca was commissioned by the Parliament of New South Wales in 2002 to design it. The mace took 300 hours to craft and is made from gold, silver and brass. In 2006, it was worth around £10,500 (A$25,000) and was handed over to the National Assembly during the opening ceremony.

All committee meetings are held in three committee rooms. Each can accommodate 24 people, although committee rooms 1 and 2 can both hold 34 when fully opened. Members of the public can access the committee room viewing galleries from the Neuadd, which holds 31 people.

Members of the public enter the building through Y Neuadd ("The Hall" ). This first floor level houses the public reception and information area. The reception desk features a large slate and glass desk and a canopy. Stairs to the left of the desk lead to the Oriel on the second floor.

Yr Oriel ("The Gallery", from ; ) is a public sitting and exhibition area with views down to Y Siambr and committee rooms. The glass flooring, which surrounds a large funnel feature, enables visitors to look down into the Siambr two floors below. The Swan chairs selected for the Neuadd and Oriel areas were from Fritz Hansen, a Danish company, and originally designed by Arne Jacobsen in 1958.
Y Cwrt ("The Courtyard"; ) is an area on the ground floor with a members' tea room, a media briefing room, and access to the Siambr and committee rooms. It is accessible only to MSs, officials of the Senedd and members of the press.

An undulating ceiling made of Canadian-sourced Western Redcedar timber spans across the various sections of the building. It was manufactured and installed by BCL Timber Projects (sub-contracted by Taylor Woodrow).

Artwork 

Four pieces of art were originally commissioned by the National Assembly to be both decorative and functional; they cost £300,000 in total. The Swansea-based artist Alexander Beleschenko designed and created the circular and domed Heart of Wales for the centre of the Siambr. It is  wide, made out of blue and gold glass, and lit from beneath. Martin Richman designed and created 270 fabric-covered acoustic absorption panels, which were dyed and painted. American sculptor Danny Lane designed and created the wind hedge,  Assembly Field. It has five parallel rows of 32 glass plates and was designed to have the practical use of protecting the public from high winds coming off Cardiff Bay. Devon-born sculptor Richard Harris created The Meeting Place on the Plinth, which is 45 tonnes of slate machine-cut into 39 slate slabs; the slate was from Cwt y Bugail Quarry in north Wales. It is an informal seating area south of the building. Harris said of the work, "I wanted to create a space that was to the side of the building, that related closely to the building but was very inviting for people to use – somewhere quieter that people could sit and spend some time." 

In 2008, two temporary tinplate portraits were commissioned by the National Assembly for Wales. The artist was Dylan Hammond, and each portrait, one of Aneurin Bevan and the other of Margaret Thatcher measured  x . They were on display for 3 months. 

The Welsh sculptor and blacksmith Angharad Pearce Jones designed and created the Three Maps of Wales () that were unveiled in 2021. They were made from Port Talbot steel at her workshop near Brynamman and are on permanent display. They consist of three large steel maps of Wales, the smallest shows the boundaries of the 5 electoral regions of the Senedd, the other the 40 constituencies of the Senedd and the largest being the landscape of Wales and weights  and is  wide and just over 2 metres high. The largest map of the Welsh landscape is on wheels so it can be displayed in other parts of the building if needed.

Etymology 
The Welsh word  means 'senate' or 'parliament'. The Roman Senate () used the word Senatus in its name, which is derived from the Latin word , meaning 'old man', 'old age', 'elder' or 'council of elders'.

Background and construction

First site selection process 

Under the Laws in Wales Act 1536 Wales was fully incorporated into England and administered as a single sovereign state (the Kingdom of England) with a single legal system (English law). It was in 1964 that the Secretary of State for Wales was created as a Cabinet post, which gave some powers to Wales. A referendum was held in 1979 to decide whether there was support for a Welsh Assembly among the Welsh electorate. This was defeated with a majority of 20.2% for and 79.7% against.