[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Medlow Bath railway station

services below the platform. A number of garden beds along the axis of the platform enhance the setting of the station. Modern platform furniture including light fittings, signage, timber bench seating and aluminium palisade fencing at both ends of the platform are other features along the platform.

Footbridge (1901, 1994)
A standard concrete slab structure supported on original brick abutments and two steel trestles with new stairs to the platform and bridge with new concrete deck over the tracks spanning between the Great Western Highway and Railway Parade. The footbridge marks the northern end of the station. A concrete level crossing with relatively new fabric is also located on the southern end of the station. 1994 metal balustrades provides safety along the edges of the stairs and the bridge.

Moveable items
Two timber bench style seats in the waiting room.

Condition 

As at 3 December 2008, the condition was assessed as follows:
Station Building – Good externally, however; internally it is in poor condition.
Signal Room – Good externally, internal condition unknown
Island Platform – Very Good
Footbridge – Very Good

The station building has a high degree of integrity externally, however; the interiors have lost their intactness due to the poor condition. The timber signal room is intact. The footbridge is relatively intact as it retains its original steel superstructure.

Modifications and dates 
 – 1909 interlocking frame covered by timber Signal box
1926 – additional siding built
1942 – platform extended at the Sydney end
1957 – line electrified
1994 – footbridge upgraded with new deck, stepway, and the superstructure cleaned and repainted.

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates two bus routes via Medlow Bath station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
698: Katoomba to 
698V: Katoomba to Mount Victoria

Heritage listing 
As at 15 April 2013, Medlow Bath Railway Station is significant as part of the early construction phase of railway line duplication on the upper Blue Mountains demonstrating the technological and engineering achievements in railway construction at the beginning of the 1900s. Constructed in anticipation of a boom period in the mountains particularly in connection with large holiday resorts such as the Hydro-Majestic Hotel, Medlow Bath station building is a good example of a Federation free classical railway station. The station building demonstrates typical architectural elements of the standard Federation style island platform buildings that were built between Penrith and Lithgow when the line was duplicated.

Medlow Bath railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

Medlow Bath Station Group is of historical significance as part of the early construction phase of railway line duplication on the upper Blue Mountains demonstrating the technological and engineering achievements in railway construction at the beginning of the 1900s. It was built in anticipation of a boom period in the mountains, particularly in connection with large holiday resorts such as the nearby Hydro-Majestic Hotel.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

Medlow Bath station building is a good example of a standard design island platform building and demonstrates typical architectural elements of Federation period standard buildings that were built between Penrith and Lithgow following the duplication of the railway line. It maintains its overall architectural quality and setting.

The place has strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The place has the potential to contribute to the local community's sense of place, and can provide a connection to the local community's past.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The timber signal room is a rare example of a separate platform level signal box as the majority of the signal rooms along Blue Mountains Line are incorporated into the main station building.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

The station building is one of the early examples of a large number of standard railway designs that were commonly used in the 1910s-20s after a decade from the construction of Medlow Bath station building. The 1901 superstructure of the footbridge is a typical example of standard steel beam structure supported on trestles and brick abutments with later concrete deck and steps.

See also 

List of railway stations in New South Wales

References

Bibliography

Attribution