[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Isaac Osbourne

e said he might want to continue on at the club. Following this statement, Osbourne continued to recover from his knee injury, while dealing with the ongoing negotiations with Partick Thistle.

St Mirren
Osbourne signed a one-year contract with Scottish Premiership side, St Mirren on 21 August 2014.

He made his debut for the club, starting a match and played 70 minutes, in a 3–0 loss against Dundee United on 30 August 2014. However, Osbourne suffered a knee injury that saw him out for three months. It wasn't until on 6 December 2014 when he returned to the first team, starting the whole game, in a 1–0 loss against St Johnstone. Following this, Osbourne soon received a handful of first team opportunities for the next two months. However, he suffered ankle injury that saw him sidelined for six weeks. On 21 April 2015, Osbourne left the club by mutual consent prior to the end of the season. By the time he left St Mirren, Osbourne made 18 appearances in total, without scoring a goal. Following this, he announced his retirement from professional football at age 28, due to his persistent knee injury.

Personal life
Born and raised in Erdington, Osbourne is the older brother of midfielder Isaiah Osbourne and has six brothers and four sisters. Growing up, he revealed that his family were Aston Villa supporters, and that his father, Ivan, used to be a footballer in amateur football.

Osbourne revealed he attended Henley College in Coventry to study BTEC National Certificate in Sport and plans to become a carpenter when he retires. In March 2009, Osbourne became a father for the first time when his partner gave birth to a baby girl, Remaya. During the 2011–12 season, Isaac and Isaiah both played for Aberdeen and Hibernian in the same league and played against each other on two occasions. They also played together during his time at Coventry City when they played against each other against Nottingham Forest on 18 April 2009.

Career statistics

References

External links
Isaac Osbourne profile at Aberdeen F.C.

1986 births
Living people
Footballers from Birmingham, West Midlands
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Coventry City F.C. players
Crewe Alexandra F.C. players
Aberdeen F.C. players
Partick Thistle F.C. players
St Mirren F.C. players
English Football League players
Scottish Premier League players
Scottish Professional Football League players