[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Berthiaume

ls on two shots giving him a 120.00 goals against average for the season and zero save percentage. Late in the season he was traded to the Detroit Red Wings for Steve Konroyd, but he never suited up for the club making his final NHL appearance his one-minute stint for the Senators earlier that year.

In all, Berthiaume played in a total of 215 regular season NHL games during his career, posting a record of 81-91-21 with a goals against average of 3.67. He also appeared in 14 NHL playoff games, all with Winnipeg.

Minor Leagues
After making his final NHL appearance with the Ottawa Senators during the 1993-94 season, he spent most of the remainder of his career in the ECHL with the Roanoke Express, where he spent seven seasons in three stints and often split duties with Dave Gagnon. He also played for the ECHL's Wheeling Thunderbirds, the Detroit Vipers of the International Hockey League, and the Central Texas Stampede of the WPHL where he won the Most Outstanding Goaltender honours for the 1996-97 season. He played his last season with the Port Huron Beacons of the United Hockey League before retiring in 2005.

Berthiaume also played professional roller hockey, tending goal for Roller Hockey International's New Jersey Rockin' Rollers in 1994, Motor City Mustangs in 1995,  and Philadelphia Bulldogs in 1996.

Coaching career
Berthiaume was the assistant coach of the Roanoke Valley Vipers in the United Hockey League at the start of their 2005-06 season., but on February 6, 2006 it was announced that Berthiaume would become the head coach, replacing Jim Wiley who lost his job in mid-season.  He then coached the Virginia Military Institute Hockey team.

Personal life
Berthiaume currently lives in Hardy, Virginia, where he owns and operates Captain Bert's Fishin' Charters on Smith Mountain Lake, Virginia, a freshwater striped bass fishery. He is married and has three sons. Alongside this he coaches the local youth hockey team.

Awards
1996-97: Outstanding Goaltender (WPHL)

Career statistics

Regular season and playoffs

References

External links

Captain Bert's Fishing Charters

1966 births
Living people
Adirondack Red Wings players
Boston Bruins players
Canadian ice hockey goaltenders
Central Texas Stampede players
Chicoutimi Saguenéens (QMJHL) players
Detroit Vipers players
Drummondville Voltigeurs players
French Quebecers
EC Graz players
Greensboro Generals players
Los Angeles Kings players
Minnesota North Stars players
Moncton Hawks players
Motor City Mustangs players
New Jersey Rockin' Rollers players
Ottawa Senators players
Ice hockey people from Longueuil
Port Huron Beacons players
Philadelphia Bulldogs players
Prince Edward Island Senators players
Providence Bruins players
Roanoke Express players
Sherbrooke Canadiens players
Wheeling Thunderbirds players
Winnipeg Jets (1979–1996) draft picks
Winnipeg Jets (1979–1996) players