[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pennsylvania Republican Party

deral elections, Republicans regained the majority in both houses of the General Assembly, as well as a majority of the state's Congressional seats.

In 1998, 42% of Pennsylvania's registered voters were Republican, 48% were Democrats, and the other 9% were either unaffiliated or with other parties.

By 2003, there were 12 Republicans and seven Democrats in the state's U.S. House delegation, as well as 29 Republicans and 21 Democrats in the state Senate, and 109 Republicans and 94 Democrats in the state House.

2006 general election
Two statewide elections took place in 2006. In the U.S. Senate race, State Treasurer Bob Casey, Jr., son of former Governor Bob Casey, Sr., won nearly 59% of the vote, defeating incumbent Republican Rick Santorum. Santorum's margin of defeat was 18 points—the largest for an incumbent Republican Senator in state history. Casey also became the first Democrat elected to a full Senate term from Pennsylvania since Joseph Clark was re-elected in 1962. In the gubernatorial election, incumbent Democratic Governor Ed Rendell won a comfortable re-election over Republican challenger Lynn Swann. Rendell took 60% of the votes cast, while Swann took the remaining 40%.

Democrats also retook the majority in the State House this year, though the balance-of-power in the State Senate remained the same.

2008 general election
In 2008, Democrat Barack Obama won Pennsylvania's 21 electoral votes with a total of about 3.2 million votes (54.7%). The Republican nominee, John McCain, won about 2.7 million votes (44.3%).

There were also three other statewide elections that year. Republican State Attorney General Tom Corbett was re-elected with 52.4% of the vote, defeating Democrat John Morganelli. Republicans have held the office of Attorney General since it became an elected one in 1980. The State Auditor General, Democrat Jack Wagner, was re-elected with 59% of the vote, while Democrat Rob McCord was elected State Treasurer with 55% of the vote.

2009 municipal election
There were three major statewide judicial contests in 2009. In the election for Justice of the State Supreme Court, Republican Joan Orie Melvin garnered about 900,000 votes (53.2%), defeating Democrat Jack Panella, who garnered about 800,000 votes (46.8%).

The other two elections were for the state's two intermediate appellate courts. In the election for four judges to the State Superior Court, there were nine candidates. Of the winners, three were Republicans and one Democrat. Additionally, in the election for two judges to the Commonwealth Court, Republicans Patricia McCullough and Kevin Broboson came-out on top of a four-candidate field.

2010 general election
There were two statewide elections held in Pennsylvania in 2010. In the election for United States Senate, Republican nominee Pat Toomey garnered about 2.2 million votes (51%), defeating Democrat Joe Sestak, who garnered about 1.9 million votes (49%). Sestak had defeated incumbent Senator Arlen Specter in the Democratic primary after Specter, who had been a Republican since his election to the Senate in 1980, switched his partisan affiliation to Democratic. Specter's partisan defection had briefly given Democrats control of both of Pennsylvania's Senate seats for the first time since before the Civil War. In the gubernatorial election, Tom Corbett garnered about 2.1 million votes (54.5%), defeating Democrat Dan Onorato, who garnered about 1.8 million votes (45.5%).

Republicans also retook the majority in the State House, which was captured by Democrats in 2006. The party maintained its majority in the State Senate, which it has held since 1994.

2014 general election

Incumbent Republican Governor Tom Corbett ran for re-election to a second term but was defeated by Democrat Tom Wolf. This marked the first time an incumbent Governor running for re-election in Pennsylvania lost.

Current elected officials
The Pennsylvania Republican Party control two of the five statewide offices and holds a majority in the Pennsylvania State Senate. Republicans hold none of the state's U.S. Senate seats, 8 of the state's 17 House seats, and a minority in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives.

Members of Congress

U.S. Senate
None

U.S. House of Representatives

Statewide offices
Stacy Garrity - Treasurer of Pennsylvania
Timothy DeFoor - Auditor General of Pennsylvania

Legislative leadership
President pro tempore of the Senate: Kim Ward
Senate Majority Leader: Joe Pittman
House Minority Leader: Bryan Cutler

Party leadership

Current
Lawrence Tabas, Chair
Bernie Comfort, Vice Chair
Angela Nielsen Alleman, Executive Director
Andy Reilly, National Committeeman
Christine Toretti, National Committeewoman
Deputy Chairman, Calvin Tucker
Mike Baker, Treasurer
Liz Preate Havey, Secretary
Mary Barket, Assistant Secretary