[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sauvignonasse

Sauvignonasse (also known as Friulano, Tocai Friulano or Sauvignon Vert) is a white wine grape of the species Vitis vinifera prevalent in the Italian region of Friuli, and adjacent territories of Slovenia. It is widely planted in Chile where it was historically mistaken for Sauvignon blanc.

Friulano from Friuli-Venezia Giulia was known as "Tocai" Friulano until March 31, 2007 when the European Court of Justice of Luxembourg set the prohibition of using the name "Tocai" in the name of the wine (as stipulated in a 1993 agreement between the European Union and Hungary).  Since 2007 wines made from Tocai Friulano have been labeled as Friulano in Friuli. 

Despite the fact that the word Tocai is no longer permitted on Italian wine labels, the grape is still officially named Tocai Friulano in Italy’s National Catalog of Grape Varieties. In addition, wineries outside of Europe are permitted to label wines made with this grape as Tocai Friulano.

The main confusion in Europe of the name Tocai Friulano is due to the Hungarian wine known as Tokaji (Hungarian of Tokaj) which does not have any Tocai Friulano in it at all, and is composed typically of the following grapes: Furmint (70%), Hárslevelű (20–25%), and Muscat Blanc à Petits Grains (5–10%). Hungary does not want anyone confusing the dry and aromatic Italian Tocai Friulano (which is a unique wine in itself) with their wine called Tokaji. Some believe that early editions of Tocai Friulano in Italy were most likely made of the grape Furmint.  The first record of a "new" Tocai, probably made from Sauvignonasse, is documented only in 1932.

The Pinot grigio vine, which is also prevalent in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, was once known by the synonym Tokay d'Alsace in Alsace, and may have also been the grape used in some Italian Tokai wines. There is, however, no genetic link between Tocai Friulano (Sauvignonasse) and Pinot grigio.

History

The grape is believed to have originated in the Veneto region and from there traveled to other Italian regions especially to the Friuli region where it was cultivated since 1600. In Italy the grape was historically known as Tocai or Tocai Friulano for centuries. The grape has no known relation to any of the grapes used in the Hungarian wine Tokaji, even though evidence suggests that following the wedding of the Venetian princess Aurora Formentini to the Hungarian Count Batthyány in 1632, some vines of Tocai Friulano were brought with the princess to Hungary. To better distinguish the wines and to protect the Tokaji name, the European Union established regulations prohibiting the use of names too closely associated and easily confused with Tokaji. Winemakers in the Friuli have elected to just refer to the grape as simply Friulano.

The grapes were also planted outside Italy in the Goriška region of Slovenia, especially in the Vipava Valley and Goriška Brda and was known as "Tokaj". After the European Union prohibition, the Slovenian wine producers have first changed the name of the wine in Sauvignonasse or Zeleni sauvignon (Green Sauvignon). After a few years, in 2013 the name of "Tokaj" was changed to "Jakot", now the official name for the grapes and wine from Slovenia wine regions.

From Italy the grape is believed to have spread to France where it was transported to Chile as "Sauvignon blanc". Only in the 1990s did ampelographers determine that the Chilean "Sauvignon blanc" was actually Sauvignonasse, which they called Sauvignon vert in Chile. Once the discovery was made, plantings of "true" Sauvignon blanc increased as Sauvignon vert decreased. While the grape still remains a popular planting in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Goriška Brda, it currently has little presence in other parts of the world.

It is unclear why the grape is called Sauvignon vert in Chile; although this has occasionally been used as a synonym in central France, there is a different grape called Sauvignon Vert (or Gros Sauvignon) in the Gironde region that has no known relation to Sauvignonasse. Furthermore, the grape called Sauvignon vert in California is actually Muscadelle, adding additional confusion.