[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Edward S. Bragg

.  A letter from Colonel Thomas Allen announced his death—along with the deaths of Lt. Colonel Rufus Dawes and Captain John Azor Kellogg—and was widely reprinted in several Wisconsin newspapers.  All three officers were actually alive and relatively unharmed—although Kellogg had been taken prisoner.

After days of skirmishing and shelling at the fortifications around Spotsylvania Court House, V Corps was again ordered to move to the south, continuing the maneuver toward Richmond.  After stopping at Guinea's Station and the Po River, they crossed the North Anna River near dusk on May 23, 1864.  That evening, before they were able to fully establish their battle lines, they were attacked by Confederates of A. P. Hill's Third Corps in the first action of the Battle of North Anna.  After initially giving ground, the division rallied and drove the Confederates from the field.  After more days of entrenched stalemate, on the evening of May 26, Grant again ordered the Union divisions to stealthily evacuate their lines and proceed south around the Confederate right flank.  They crossed the Pamunkey River on May 28 and set defensive lines behind the cavalry Battle of Haw's Shop. They moved again on May 29 and May 30, encountering divisions of the Confederate 1st Corps at the Battle of Totopotomoy Creek and repelled them.

Over the next two weeks, they were engaged in the trench warfare of the Battle of Cold Harbor.  On June 6, in the midst of this battle, Bragg's Pennsylvanian brigade was detached from the division and Bragg was placed in command of the Iron Brigade.  Colonel Bragg's account of the actions of the Pennsylvanian brigade during the Overland campaign can be found in the Official War Records, Series 1, Volume 36, Part 1, Item 141.

Siege of Petersburg (Summer 1864Spring 1865)

On June 12, they made another sudden evacuation of their position and crossed the James River, engaging the Siege of Petersburg, and entrenching southeast of the city.  On June 18, they participated in the futile charge against the Petersburg defenses in the Second Battle of Petersburg.  In the battle, the Iron Brigade was part of a general assault on the Confederate line, charging half a mile over open field toward the enemy.  They were ordered to halt under enemy fire and waited there for Union regiments on their left, which had become panicked and disorganized.  

After nearly two hours under fire, they retreated to their trenches.  In his report of the battle, their division commander, General Lysander Cutler, said, "In this affair I lost in killed and wounded about one third of the men I had with me, and among them many valuable officers."  He continued to say that they never reached within seventy five yards of the enemy lines.

For the next several weeks, they remained in position besieging Petersburg.  They remained on the trench line—where they could be subject to sniper fire and artillery—until June 26, when they were relieved temporarily.  During this time, Colonel Bragg received word of his official promotion to brigadier general, effective June 25, 1864.  They rotated back to the trenches a few weeks later.

They remained engaged in the siege for the rest of the year and into early 1865.  On July 30, a Union sapper mine detonated explosives underneath the Confederate trench, resulting in a day of fighting in what's called the Battle of the Crater.  On August 18, 1864, they were part of the successful Union raid, known as the Battle of Globe Tavern, to cut the Weldon Railroad and reduce the supply lines for the Petersburg defenders.  In October, there was another attempt, known as the Battle of Boydton Plank Road, to sever another Confederate supply line, but the attack was withdrawn.

General Bragg's final battle of the war was the Battle of Hatcher's Run, occurring February 6, 1865, near the site of the Battle of Boydton Plank Road.  The Iron Brigade took heavy casualties, and, following the battle, had to be significantly reorganized.  General Bragg was summoned to Washington with four regiments and then sent to Baltimore to supervise transportation of conscripts.  He remained in Baltimore until the end of the war. He mustered out October 9, 1865.

Postbellum career
Following the war, Bragg returned to his legal practice in Fond du Lac.

Johnson appointments controversy
In 1866, General Bragg was appointed postmaster of Fond du Lac by President Andrew Johnson.  This occurred as tensions were beginning to rise between President Johnson and the Radical Republican Congress.  In February 1867, the Senate voted to rescind Bragg's appointment, along with several other Johnson appointments.  Johnson subsequently nominated Bragg to be Assessor of Internal Revenue for the 4th district of Wisconsin, which the United States Senate also defeated.