[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kitchenuhmaykoosib Inninuwug First Nation

on site Monday to Friday.  The station also has visiting specialists including optometrists and dentists.  The nursing station also plays host to two first year medical students every May from the Northern Ontario School of Medicine which is a key component of their first year curriculum.

History 

Radio-carbon dating of a human burial site nearby suggests that the region has been occupied for at least 7000 years.  The people of the region are called Inninuwug.  The first Europeans gave various names to people of the region including Kiristinon or Kritinou which was eventually shortened to Cree.  This reservation is located at the major head-water lake of the Fawn River and subsequently the Severn River to Hudson Bay.  Consequently, it has been a traditional gathering place for centuries.

The first recorded European trader was James Swain who, in 1807, was charged with establishing a trading post at "Trout Lake" for the Hudson's Bay Company (HBC).  Upon entering the area he noticed the ruins of a settlement left by the rival North West Company who possibly settled as early as 1793; though it was left apparently disused.

The community is predominantly Christian (Anglican and Pentecostal).  The exposure to Christianity occurred as early as the late 1700s, brought by early fur traders.  The first recorded missionary was W.W. Kirkby and his wife who, in 1872, formally brought the Anglican faith to the community.  He discovered that many community members were already Christian reading from biblical texts written in Canadian Aboriginal syllabics (in some cases on birch bark texts).  These texts were provided by the people living in Fort York, Churchill, Manitoba. One of the islands off the shore of Big Trout Lake roughly translates to "Catholic's dwelling island".

Built in 1830, the HBC post played an important role locally as it facilitated the trade of furs for goods (fur trade).  Everything was traded according to the beaver pelt (Made Beaver - MB).  For example, a blanket would cost 6 MB.  Local people were then hired to ship the furs down the Fawn River to the Severn then up the Hudson Bay coast to Fort York (present day Churchill, Manitoba). The voyages took five days downstream and fifteen days up.

In 1940, a weather station was constructed and included hourly observations which were transmitted to the department of transport.  In 1952 the station was enlarged and had a staff of six people.  The building is now used as the Health Administration office.

The first regular communications with the outside world occurred with the "radio sked" which were regular communications between the weather station and the Winnipeg Airport via Morse Code.  Northern Telecom supplied phone service in 1963 (by HF radio) which was upgraded in 1975 to satellite service.

The KSI was sued by Platinex Incorporated over an interim order preventing it from exploring. The decision was released May 22, 2007. The court issued three orders: a consultation protocol, a timetable and an MOU on the KI, Platinex and Ontario. The Ontario Superior Court held that appropriate consultation funding was necessary and that it would continue to supervise and facilitate the consultation process. The KI's position had been that "the serious imbalance between the fiscal position(s) of the parties renders the consultation process unfair." No specific finding on funding levels was made, but adequacy of funding was found to be assessable in the consultation process. Implications for other consultation processes remain uncertain.

In 2008, six leaders of the community (Chief Donny Morris, Jack McKay, Sam McKay, Darryl Sainnawap, Cecilia Begg and Bruce Sakakeep) were imprisoned for peacefully protesting development on their traditional land by Platinex. A sacred fire consecrated in front of the Thunder Bay jail which held them was extinguished by police on March 19, 2008. Some members spoke out about this alleged violation of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and suppression of traditional ceremony. Several members of KI and surrounding nations protested their leaders' imprisonment by walking all the way from Kenora, Ontario to Toronto, Ontario. The leaders were given temporary parole to appear at the protest at Queen's Park on May 26, and were permanently freed by the Ontario Court of Appeal two days later.

In 2012, Chief Donny Morris and his wife were invited to New Zealand for a speaking tour discussing their experience with Platinex and the Government of Ontario.

Climate

References

External links

 Official Website
 AANDC profile
 Aboriginal Canada Portal profile of the First Nation

Further reading
Northern reserve “KI” wants 25 ordinary Canadians to visit to experience its culture, Louise Brown, Toronto Star, May 19, 2013

First Nations governments in Ontario
Communities in Kenora District
Oji-Cree reserves in Ontario
Road-inaccessible communities of Ontario