[Source: PubMed]

87. BMC Public Health. 2015 Nov 30;15:1198. doi: 10.1186/s12889-015-2521-8.

Charting the evolution of approaches employed by the Global Alliance for 
Vaccines and Immunizations (GAVI) to address inequities in access to 
immunization: a systematic qualitative review of GAVI policies, strategies and 
resource allocation mechanisms through an equity lens (1999-2014).

Gandhi G(1).

Author information:
(1)United Nations Children's Fund, New York, USA. ggandhi@unicef.org.

BACKGROUND: GAVI's focus on reducing inequities in access to vaccines, 
immunization, and GAVI funds, - both between and within countries - has changed 
over time. This paper charts that evolution.
METHODS: A systematic qualitative review was conducted by searching PubMed, 
Google Scholar and direct review of available GAVI Board papers, policies, and 
program guidelines. Documents were included if they described or evaluated GAVI 
policies, strategies, or programs and discussed equity of access to vaccines, 
utilization of immunization services, or GAVI funds in countries currently or 
previously eligible for GAVI support. Findings were grouped thematically, 
categorized into time periods covering GAVI's phases of operations, and assessed 
depending on whether the approaches mediated equity of opportunity or equity of 
outcomes between or within countries.
RESULTS: Serches yielded 2816 documents for assessment. After pre-screening and 
removal of duplicates, 552 documents underwent detailed evaluation and pertinent 
information was extracted from 188 unique documents. As a global funding 
mechanism, GAVI responded rationally to a semi-fixed funding constraint by 
focusing on between-country equity in allocation of resources. GAVI's 
predominant focus and documented successes have been in addressing 
between-country inequities in access to vaccines comparing lower income 
(GAVI-eligible) countries with higher income (ineligible) countries. GAVI has 
had mixed results at addressing between-country inequities in utilization of 
immunization services, and has only more recently put greater emphasis and 
resources towards addressing within-country inequities in utilization to 
immunization services. Over time, GAVI has progressively added vaccines to its 
portfolio. This expansion should have addressed inter-country, inter-regional, 
inter-generational and gender inequities in disease burden, however, evidence is 
scant with respect to final outcomes.
CONCLUSION: In its next phase of operations, the Alliance can continue to 
demonstrate its strength as a highly effective multi-partner enterprise, capable 
of learning and innovating in a world that has changed much since its inception. 
By building on its successes, developing more coherent and consistent approaches 
to address inequities between and within countries and by monitoring progress 
and outcomes, GAVI is well-positioned to bring the benefits of vaccination to 
previously unreached and underserved communities towards provision of universal 
health coverage.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-015-2521-8
PMCID: PMC4665898
PMID: 26621528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]