[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Swiss Americans

n with sizable populations having Swiss ancestry. These communities are mostly concentrated in the southern border counties, namely Green, Lafayette, and Dane Counties.

Population

Swiss Americans by numbers

Swiss Americans by percentage of total population

Communities settled by Swiss immigrants

Swiss American historical societies
Beech Island Historical Society, a historical society in South Carolina dedicated to the preservation of Historic Beech Island, including the early Swiss settlement led by John Tobler.
Grundy County Swiss Historical Society, a historical society in Grundy County, Tennessee, site of former Swiss colony of Gruetli.
Highland Historical Society, a historical society centered in Highland, Illinois, site of one of the oldest Swiss settlements in the United States.  It was founded in 1831 by Swiss pioneers from Sursee, Switzerland.
Orangeburgh German-Swiss Genealogical Society, a genealogical society focused on the early Swiss and German settlers of Orangeburg, South Carolina.
Santa Clara Utah Historical Society, a historical Society dedicated to the preservation of an early Swiss Settlement in Utah.
Swiss American Historical Society – focuses on the involvement of the Swiss and their descendants in American life, aspects of Swiss American relations, and Swiss history.
Swiss Heritage Village & Museum – begun in 1985, it is currently the largest outdoor museum in northern Indiana. It is located in Berne, Indiana.
Swiss Mennonite Cultural and Historical Association – consists of descendants of the Mennonites who immigrated to the U.S. from Ukraine in the 1870s.
The Swiss Center of North America includes an extensive list of Swiss clubs.
The Descendants of Swiss Settlers, founded in 2019, honors the legacy and achievements of Swiss men and women who settled in North America prior to March 5, 1798, which marks the end of the Old Swiss Confederacy.

Notable people

See also

 Switzerland–United States relations
 Swiss people
 Swiss abroad
 Swiss Argentines
 Swiss Brazilians
 Swiss Canadians
 Swiss Chileans
 Swiss Mexicans
 European Americans
 Swiss American Historical Society

References

Further reading
 Pochmann, Henry A. German Culture in America: Philosophical and Literary Influences 1600–1900 (1957). 890pp; comprehensive review of German influence on Americans esp 19th century. online
 Pochmann, Henry A. and  Arthur R. Schult.  Bibliography of German Culture in America to 1940 (2nd ed 1982); massive listing, but no annotations. 

 Schelbert, Leo. "Swiss Americans." Gale Encyclopedia of Multicultural America, edited by Thomas Riggs, (3rd ed., vol. 4, Gale, 2014), pp. 319–329. Online
 Schelbert, Leo, ed. American Letters: Eighteenth and Nineteenth Century Accounts of Swiss Immigrants (Camden, ME: Picton Press, 1995).
 Tritt, D. G., ed. Swiss Festivals in North America: A Resource Guide (Masthof Press, 1999).

External links
Swiss Americans
Swiss American Historical Society
OltreconfiniTi, the official website dedicated to Ticinese emigration
San Joaquin Valley Swiss Club (California, USA)

Articles about the Swiss in the United States
 Hacken, Richard (2020). "A History of the Swiss in California," Swiss American Historical Society Review, vol.56 (2020), no. 1, pp. 115–162.
 The  History of New Schwanden Swiss community  Hennepin County, Minnesota is the story of a former Swiss colony in Minnesota written by Wayne C. Blesi.
 
  Swiss Americans Article by University of Illinois – Chicago emeritus professor Dr. Leo Schelbert about Swiss Americans.
  Settling Berne Article by Harold Miller about Berne, NY.