[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dan Cronin

Juliann Ashley Cronin, owner of A&H Lithoprint, a lithography company in Broadview. Juliann is also a part-time yoga instructor. The couple became engaged in October 1991 and married in May 1992. They have three daughters and one son, and they are members of Immaculate Conception Parish in Elmhurst.

Cronin is part of a large, Irish American, Catholic, Republican political family. Most of the family lives in DuPage, several in Elmhurst. Around 50 family members and friends attended his inauguration to the House of Representatives in 1991. After Dan was elected to the Senate in 1992, the Cronin family was called the "Kennedys of DuPage" or "Kennedys of Elmhurst", not necessarily a compliment in the Republican-dominated county. The family was seen as politically ambitious, potentially prompting animosity and wariness from incumbents and insiders.

Dan's father, Richard Cronin, was born in Oak Park. Richard played football while attending Fenwick High School and the University of Notre Dame, where he graduated in 1946. He earned a Doctor of Medicine degree in 1950 at the Stritch School of Medicine, part of Loyola University Chicago, and completed his residency at the University of Illinois Hospital & Health Sciences System. He and Claire Cusack married in 1952. Richard enlisted in the Air Force in 1954 and served as an orthopedic surgery resident for two years at Chanute Air Force Base in Rantoul. He then opened a medical practice in Chicago's west suburbs, and in 1960 the family moved from River Forest to Elmhurst. Within the next few years, he organized a group of around ten doctors who purchased land to construct a medical office building at Palmer Drive and Kenilworth Avenue in Elmhurst. He specialized in sports medicine, and was crucial to the recovery of John Huarte, who suffered an injury in 1964 while playing football at Notre Dame and later went on to play for the National Football League. In 1986, Richard acquired full ownership of his office building after buying out the other partners. Richard was also a clinical medical professor at Loyola, and served as the vice chair and program director of the school's department of orthopedics. He retired from practicing medicine in the 1990s, but continued to manage the office building. He subsequently helped Dan with his senate and county board campaigns. Richard died in 2016, aged 89.

Tom Cronin, Dan's younger brother by four years, was interested in politics as early as when he attended York Community High School. He and Dan worked at the Elmhurst office of Daniels, their state representative. Tom pursued undergraduate studies in political philosophy at Harvard University, and continued to work for Daniels during summer breaks. He then received a Juris Doctor and a Master of Business Administration at the University of Chicago. From 1990 to 1992, he clerked for William J. Bauer, chief judge of the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit and former state's attorney of DuPage. Tom then worked as an attorney at Winston & Strawn starting in the fall of 1992. He took a leave of absence to work on campaigning during the 1994 elections, managing Ryan's successful campaign for attorney general and Gayle Franzen's campaign for DuPage County board chairman. He earned $3,400 per month while serving as campaign manager for Franzen, who had turned to Tom and Dan for help in asserting Franzen's independence from party leadership. Tom's and Dan's mother, Claire Cronin, and two sisters also volunteered for Franzen's campaign.

Tom had political ambitions of his own. In 1994, he expressed interest in running for the US Congress if Representative Henry Hyde, whose district included northeastern DuPage, were to retire. (Hyde did not retire until 2007, and Tom did not run to replace him.) Tom ran for DuPage state's attorney in 1996 against Birkett, who by then had worked in the state's attorney's office for 14 years and was endorsed by DuPage Republican leaders. Tom positioned himself as the outsider candidate, despite having managed the campaigns of Ryan and Franzen. At a forum between the two candidates, Dan asked a question attacking Birkett for accepting campaign contributions from criminal defense attorneys. During the campaign, Dan also protested language in sample letters circulated among Republican precinct workers that endorsed Birkett and criticized Tom. Additionally, Tom faced criticisms for receiving traffic tickets and failing to appear in court to answer them, causing his drivers license to be suspended. Tom lost to Birkett.