[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 191]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ompanion,
for he warbled merrily on. And beside him, the dust-motes danced the
wildest of dances, in the shaft of sunshine.

"It is very lovely, it is very lovely--the world is a miracle, but it is
all like a taunt, it is like an insult, this glory of the world. I am
born a woman, and to be born a woman is to be exquisitely sensitive to
insult and to live under it always, always. I wish that I were as marble
to the magic of Life, I wish that I cared for nothing and felt nothing.
I pray only that the dream and the longing may be killed, and killed
quickly!"

In the silence, the bird's note sounded clear and tender. The dance of
the dust-motes, like the great dance of Life itself, went on without
ceasing.

The robin seemed to insist on a brighter view of things. He urged his
companion to take comfort. Had the spring not come?

"But you do not understand, you do not understand, little soul that
sings--the spring is torturing me and taunting me. If only it would kill
me!"

The robin fluffed out his feathers, and began again to impart his sweet
philosophy. Hadria was shedding the first unchecked tears that she had
shed since her earliest childhood. And then, for the second time to-day,
that strange unexplained peace stole into her heart. Reason came quickly
and drove it away with a sneer, and the horror and the darkness closed
round again.

"If I might only die, if I might only die!"

But the little bird sang on.




CHAPTER LI.


"Quite hopeless!"

Joseph Fleming repeated the words incredulously.

"Yes," said Lady Engleton, "it is the terrible truth."

The Professor had been growing worse, and at length, his state became so
alarming that he decided to return to England. Miss Du Prel and an old
friend whom she had met abroad, accompanied him.

"I understand they are all at the Priory," said Joseph.

"Yes; Miss Du Prel telegraphed to Mrs. Temperley, and Mrs. Temperley and
I put our heads together and arranged matters as well as we could in the
emergency, so that the Professor's wish might be gratified. He desired
to return to the Priory, where his boyhood was spent."

"And is there really no hope?"

"None at all, the doctor says."

"Dear me, dear me!" cried Joseph. "And is he not expected to live
through the summer?"

"The summer! ah no, Mr. Fleming, he is not expected to live many days."

"Dear me, dear me!" was all that Joseph could say. Then after a pause,
he added, "I fear Mrs. Temperley will feel it very much. They were such
old friends."

"Oh! poor woman, she is heart-broken."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Professor lingered longer than the doctor had expected. He was very
weak, and could not bear the fatigue of seeing many people. But he was
perfectly cheerful, and when feeling a little better at times, he would
laugh and joke in his old kindly way, and seemed to enjoy the fragment
of life that still remained to him.

"I am so glad I have seen the spring again," he said, "and that I am
here, in the old home."

He liked to have the window thrown wide open, when the day was warm.
Then his bed would be wheeled closer to it, so that the sunshine often
lay across it, and the scent of the flowering shrubs and the odour of
growth, as he called it, floated in upon him. He looked out into a world
of exquisite greenery and of serene sky. The room was above the
drawing-room, and if the drawing-room windows were open, he could hear
Hadria playing. He often used to ask for music.

The request would come generally after an exhausting turn of pain, when
he could not bear the fatigue of seeing people.

"I can't tell you what pleasure and comfort your music is to me," he
used to say, again and again. "It has been so ever since I knew you.
When I think of the thousands of poor devils who have to end their lives
in some wretched, lonely, sordid fashion, after hardships and struggles
and very little hope, I can't help feeling that I am fortunate indeed,
now and all through my life. I have grumbled at times, and there have
been sharp experiences--few escape those--but take it all round, I have
had my share of good things."

He had one great satisfaction: that he had discovered, before the end of
his days, the means which he had so long been seeking, of saving the
death-agony of animals that are killed for food. Some day perhaps, he
said, men might cease to be numbered among the beasts of prey, but till
then, at least their victims might be spared as much pain as possible.
He had overcome the difficulty of expense, which had always been the
main obstacle to a practical solution of the problem. Henceforth there
was no need for any creature to suffer, in dying for man's use. If
people only knew and realized how much needless agony is inflicted on
these helpless creatures, in order to supply the daily demands of a vast
flesh-eating population, they would feel that, as a matter of fact, he
had been doin