[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Demographics of Houston

5 and passage of the federal Voting Rights Act, which enforced their constitutional rights of suffrage. Many blacks left Houston for the West Coast during and after World War II in the Great Migration, as jobs increased rapidly in the defense industry on that coast and social conditions were better.

In 1970, 90% of the black people in Houston lived in predominantly African American neighborhoods, reflecting decades of legal, residential segregation. By 1980 there was some increase in diversity in the city, and 82% of blacks lived in majority-black areas. Since the late 20th century, with changes in social conditions and the burgeoning Houston economy, there has been an increasing New Great Migration of blacks to the South. Many are college educated and have moved to Houston for its lower cost of living and job opportunities compared to some northern and western cities. Many of the new professional migrants settle directly in the suburbs, which offer more housing than the city; among them are upper class, majority-black neighborhoods. Black Enterprise has referred to Houston as the next black mecca. Houston has been ranked among the best U.S. metros for Black professionals. In 2010 Strait and Gong stated that of all ethnic groups in Houston, African Americans were the most segregated from non-Hispanic whites.

Asian Americans 

Houston also has large populations of immigrants from Asia. In addition, the city has the largest Vietnamese American population in Texas and third-largest in the United States as of 2004. Houston also has one of the largest Chinese American, Pakistani American, and Filipino American populations in the United States.

According to a 2002 survey of 500 Asian Americans in Harris County overseen by Stephen Klineberg, a professor at Rice University, Asian immigrants have substantially lower household income than Anglo residents and other immigrant groups, while they have higher levels of education. Indicating the community is severely underemployed. In spite of this, however, the Asian American population has grown from 4.1% of the population in 1990, to 7.1% in 2020.

Pacific Islanders 
In 2020 Harris County had 690 people of native Hawaiian origins. Post 2020 some Hawaiian people began moving to Houston due to decreased costs of living, and in 2022 the Houston Chronicle stated that there were larger numbers of people of Pacific Islander origins.

American Indians 
American Indian communities have existed in the present-day city and area of Houston prior to European colonization and settlement. With the advent of colonialism, its American Indian or Native American population has declined substantially.  tribes represented included the Alabama Coushatta, Choctaw, Comanche, Cherokee, Lipan Apache, Muskogee Creek, Navajo, Ponca, and Tunica Biloxi ethnic groups, with about 68,000 Native Americans in the area as of 2010.

Highlighting and preserving their culture, the American Indian Genocide Museum is in Houston. There was a Native American museum, Southern Apache Museum, that opened in 2012 in Northwest Mall. It closed in 2017 due to redevelopment. Area Native Americans opposed the statue of Christopher Columbus in Bell Park until its 2020 removal.

National origin
Houston's foreign-born population increased by 400,000 in a ten-year span ending in 2010. During that span, of all U.S. cities, Houston had the second-largest increase of foreign-born persons. As of 2011, 22% of Greater Houston residents were born in another country. This percentage was the fifth-largest in Texas. In 2015 about 25% of the residents of Harris County—over one million persons—were immigrants. Surrounding counties have percentages similar to that of Harris County. As of that year, immigrants were widely dispersed throughout the Houston area. In 2023, 25% of the people in the Houston area were not born in the United States.

The television program Mo is set in Houston and describes issues regarding immigration to the Houston area.

African immigration 
A significant number of African immigrants have made the Houston area home. The African immigrants in Houston have higher education levels than other immigrant groups and U.S.-born whites. According to Stephen Klineberg—a sociology professor at Rice University—as of 2003, almost 35% of African immigrants have university degrees, and 28% of African immigrants have postgraduate degrees. In the Houston area, 28% of U.S.-born whites have university degrees, and 16% have postgraduate degrees. In 2012, the total trade between Houston and Africa was $19.7 billion. Houston is Africa's largest U.S. trade partner. In 2016 the city had about 60,000 people of recent African immigrant origin.

In 2019 Ethiopian Airlines CEO Tewolde GebreMariam stated that the presence of African immigrants in United States is one reason related to the airline's decision to establish the Bush Intercontinental Airport-Lome Airport route.

Nigerians