[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Poomalai

symbolic support for the Tamil rebels as well as an act to preserve the credibility of Indian prime minister Rajiv Gandhi among the country's Tamil population—by the Indian Government to carry out an airdrop of the humanitarian supplies to the LTTE, designated Operation Poomalai or Eagle Mission 4.

Operation 
Mounted on the evening of 4 June 1987, the operation involved five An-32s of the Paratroop Training School in Agra, escorted by five Mirage 2000s of the No. 7 Squadron. At 2200 on 2 June, 7 Squadron was directed to send a six aircraft detachment to Bangalore Airport, where they were re-directed to Yelahanka airbase north of the city. At the same time, under the supervision of the (then) Vice-Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal S. Raghavendran, five An-32s were loaded with the relief supplies and took off for Bangalore at 0800. These were to fly out—led by Gp. Capt. B.K. Sunder, CO of Paratroop Training School—after dawn and carry out the supply drop under the cover of the Mirages, which were led by Wg. Cdr. Ajit Bhavnani, CO of  No. 7 Squadron. A group of 35 national and international journalists also joined the flight. The Mirages were armed with two Matra Magic II AAMs and 2× 30 mm DEFA 554 revolver cannons with 125 rounds each as a measure against any opposition by the Sri Lanka Air Force, and also carried three drop tanks.
 

Sri Lankan High Commissioner to New Delhi Bernard Tilakaratna was summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs at 15:00, where the message was conveyed by Minister of External Affairs Natwar Singh that the Indian Air Force would be flying a mission at 16:00 to drop supplies over Jaffna. He  was told that the aircraft were expected to complete their mission unhindered and any opposition by the Sri Lankan Air Force "would be met by force" by the escorting Mirage 2000s.

The first of the flights left Bangalore at 15:55 and flew towards the Coramandel coast, where they were met by four Mirage escorts. One Mirage stayed back acting as radio relay, along with two additional An-32s over Tamil Nadu, which acted as radio relay to Bangalore. The An-32s carried almost 25 tons of relief supplies, consisting of rice, milk powder, vegetables, and kerosene.

The flight leader attempted radio contact with Colombo ATC over the civilian air traffic radio channel at 16:47, but was unable to establish contact. The mission approached Jaffna peninsula at about 16:50 and sighted Jaffna Town itself at 17:00. The aircraft descended from 12000 feet to about 1500 feet and carried out the drop at the drop zone about 7 km from the town of Jaffna. The aircraft then turned in a western direction, flying over Palay airbase before turning north and heading for the Indian coast.

The mission arrived back to over Bangalore at 18:13.

Aftermath 

In the wake of Operation Poomalai, Sri Lanka accused India of violating its sovereignty. However, India defended its actions as a mercy mission in aid of what were termed as the deteriorating conditions of the civilian population, refusing at the time to rule out further missions.
Within India, the actions were endorsed across the political diaspora In India, it was seen at the time as an act of support against the beleaguered and besieged Tamil population of the north – an opinion that was destined to undergo a drastic reversal after the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi by the LTTE in 1991. At that time, Colombo deemed it as a blatant show of support for the Tamil Tigers. The total supply air dropped by India during the operation amounted to little over 25 tons, and this was clearly not sufficient to sustain a besieged city.

See also 
Indian Air Force
No. 7 Squadron IAF
Sri Lankan Civil War
IPKF
LTTE
Raid on Jaffna University

References

1987 in Sri Lanka
History of the Indian Air Force
1987 in India
Poomalai
Poomalai
Poomalai
Poomalai