[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David Hunter Strother

onel of his regiment (which he never commanded in the field).

Strother continued to document his wartime experiences in a detailed journal, some of which Harper's Monthly published after the war as "Personal Recollections of the War." His articles won praise for their objective viewpoint and humor.

On June 12, 1864, Col. Strother was chief of staff to his distant cousin General David Hunter, a fervent abolitionist who led the Shenandoah Valley Division of the West Virginia Department as Union forces struck at Lexington and Lynchburg. Unionists considered the Virginia Military Institute (VMI) a cradle of secession ideals and Confederate officers. After shelling, Gen. Hunter ordered the institution torched. Strother sent a bronze statue of General George Washington off to Wheeling, considering it a trophy and indignant that it had adorned "a country whose inhabitants were striving to destroy a government which he founded.". Following the end of the war Col. Strother shared the responsibility of having the statue returned to VMI in 1866.

Strother was involved in 30 battles, though never wounded. He resigned his commission on September 10, 1864, when General Hunter was replaced by General Philip Sheridan, whose scorched earth strategies would be successful, but make him even more despised in the Valley. In August 1865 Strother was appointed a brevet brigadier general of volunteers and remained Adjutant General of Virginia militia into 1866. Following the war, Strother became Adjutant General of VMI and also served on the VMI Board of Visitors; in that capacity, he actively promoted the institution's reconstruction.

Postbellum career

After his father's death in January 1862, the war limited occupancy by Southern guests (other than the unwelcome Stonewall Jackson who once used it as a base to shell the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad). Strother ran the family hotel, which a Baltimore company purchased in 1869 and refitted until John T. Trego purchased it in 1876. Strother continued to publish articles on a wide range of subjects – including politics, race relations, and Chief Sitting Bull. Harper's Monthly began publishing his illustrated Civil War memoirs in 1866, but discontinued the series after ten installments out of the 24 Strother planned (ending with his recollections of the Battle of Antietam). Strother also made many drawings of people he met or observed going about their daily lives. His ten-part series The Mountains in 1870 introduced Americans to the character and folkways of West Virginia.

Due to Strother's dedication to his home state, especially its rural character, he moved to Charleston for a short period in the early 1870s. There, he edited a newspaper and dedicated himself to furthering West Virginia's growth and well-being. He convinced state leaders to prioritize infrastructure initiatives. Strother became one of the first writers to understand West Virginia's unique place in both wanting to preserve its natural beauty while also encouraging growth, both economic and industrial.

In 1878, three years after Trego purchased what had once been the Strother family hotel, President Rutherford B. Hayes appointed David H. Strother the General Consul to Mexico. In that capacity, he hosted former General and President Ulysses S. Grant as well as dealt with the problems of various Americans in that country, as well as relations with the government of Mexican President Porfirio Diaz. He served until 1885, after which he returned to West Virginia.

Death and legacy
Strother died in Charles Town, West Virginia, three years later, around the time a branch railroad line was built to the family's former hotel. The New York Times published an obituary which noted that his pen name "Porte Crayon" was a household name during the summit of his career. Strother is buried in Green Hill Cemetery in Martinsburg, West Virginia, which he had designed based on a French model in 1854, and where his first wife Anne Wolfe Strother and infant children were buried, and where his widow Mary Elliott Strother, who long survived him, would be buried nearly three decades later.

West Virginia University makes over 700 of his drawings available online. Mount Porte Crayon, in eastern West Virginia, acknowledges Strother's pseudonym, and the folk painting, Meditation by the Sea (ca. 1862), is based on a Strother engraving.

In 1961, a biography of Strother by Washington and Lee University historian Cecil Eby Jr., was published by the University of North Carolina Press, and that press published a new edition of his civil war diary in 1999. The Handley Library in Winchester, Virginia, has an unpublished diary of the months after Virginia's secession in April 1861. Kent State University Press published Strother's diaries as consul in Mexico in 2006.