[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yisrael Friedman of Ruzhin

s even more beautiful than the one he had left in Ruzhyn. His beis medrash (synagogue) accommodated 3,000 worshippers. Thousands of Hasidim crossed the border from throughout Galicia, Russia and Romania to be with him, and all the Jews in Sadigura became Ruzhiner Hasidim.

Activities in Eretz Israel

The Apter Rav named the Ruzhiner Rebbe as president of Kollel Volhynia, with responsibility for raising and distributing the money to support the Hasidic community in the Land of Israel. The Rebbe encouraged Hasidim to emigrate and provided for their support through the kollel. Although he wished to make aliyah himself, he said that he could not leave his Hasidim.

In 1843, Rabbi Nissan Beck, a Ruzhiner Hasid, traveled from Jerusalem to Sadigura to visit the Rebbe. He informed him that Tsar Nicholas I intended to buy a plot of land next to the Western Wall with the intention of building a church and monastery there. The Rebbe gave Beck the task of thwarting the Tsar's attempt. Beck managed to buy the land from its Arab owners for an exorbitant sum, mere days before the Tsar ordered the Russian consul in Jerusalem to make the purchase for him. The Tsar was forced to buy a different plot of land for a church, which is known today as the Russian Compound. The Rebbe's son, Rabbi Avrohom Yaakov Friedman of Sadigura, completed the task of raising funds and inaugurated the building in the summer of 1872. The synagogue was named Tiferet Yisroel after the Ruzhiner Rebbe, Tiferet meaning "glory", though it was also known as the Nissan Beck Synagogue after its architect and builder.

The Rebbe died at the age of 54 on 9 October 1850 (3 Cheshvan 5610), probably due to heart failure, and was buried in Sadigura. On his deathbed he testified to his disciple, Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Fastan: "The holy master, Rabbi Yehudah HaNasi, Rabbeinu Hakadosh, testified about himself that he did not take pleasure from this world, even as much as a small finger. I bear self-witness, Heaven and Earth, that I did not take enjoyment from this world even as much as a slender thread. As for my behaving with overt leadership and pomp, this was all done to honor the Holy One, Blessed is He".

His gravesite, which eventually became the burial place of two of his sons, Avraham Yaakov of Sadigura and Dov Ber of Leova, as well as other family members, became a shrine for Ruzhiner Hasidim. His gravestone was destroyed during World War I and afterwards replaced by a large white concrete slab.

Family
Friedman and his first wife, Sarah, had six sons and four daughters. These were:
Sholom Yosef (Sadigura); he led his father's Hasidim, together with his brothers, for only a year until his death in 1851; his son, Rabbi Yitzchok, became the first Bohusher Rebbe
Avrohom Yaakov (Sadigura)
Menachem Nochum (Shtefenesht)
Dov Ber (Leova)
Dovid Moshe (Chortkov)
Mordechai Shraga (Husyatin)
Chaya Malka, whose second marriage was to Rabbi Yitzchak Twersky, first Rebbe of Skver
Gittel Tova, wife of Yosef Monazon of Berdichev, scion of a wealthy banking family
Miriam, wife of Rabbi Menachem Mendel Hager, first Rebbe of Vizhnitz
Leah, wife of Dovid Halpern of Berdichev, scion of another wealthy banking family; their son Shalom Yosef (1856–1940) became the first Vasloi Rebbe in 1896

Shortly after the death of his wife Sarah in 1847, the Rebbe remarried to Malka, the widow of Rabbi Tzvi Hirsch of Rimanov. She had a seven-year-old girl and three-year-old boy from her first marriage; this second marriage did not produce children.

Legacy

The Rebbe did not write any sefarim (books); however, his sayings and teachings have been recorded by Ruzhiner Hasidim and biographers.

To this day, Ruzhiner institutions are named "Tiferet Yisroel" (, lit. "Splendor of Israel") after the Ruzhiner Rebbe. These include the Mesivta Tiferet Yisroel, the Ruzhiner Yeshiva in Jerusalem, established in 1957 by the Rebbe's great-grandson, the Boyaner Rebbe of New York.

His progeny

See also 
 Ruzhin (Hasidic dynasty)

References

External links 
 "Ruzhin, Israel" in the Encyclopaedia Judaica
  The Golden Dynasty by Yisroel Friedman
 Biography of Rabbi Yisroel Friedman of Ruzhyn (in Hebrew)
 Torah crown of the Rebbe

1796 births
1850 deaths
Israel Friedman of Ruzhin
Rebbes of Ruzhin
Hasidic rabbis in Europe
Austrian Haredi rabbis
Romanian Orthodox rabbis
Ukrainian Orthodox rabbis
Emigrants from the Russian Empire to Romania
Romanian people of Ukrainian-Jewish descent
Bukovina Jews
Emigrants from the Russian Empire to the Austrian Empire
Austrian people of Ukrainian-Jewish descent
People from Pohrebyshche
19th-century rabbis