[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battery E, 1st Illinois Light Artillery Regiment

ight sunny day, and said that fire and counter-battery fire continued for three hours "as if the heavens were at war with one another, and about to part."  Rice himself was nicked by an enemy shell, and others in the battery had what he referred to as "close calls," though no one was seriously hurt.

On May 14, Battery E supported Sherman's final attack on Jackson.  Advancing during a driving rainstorm across Lynch Creek, a rain-swollen stream that ran only two miles from the Mississippi State Capitol, the XV Corps quickly ran into the Third Kentucky Mounted Infantry, the First Georgia Sharpshooter Battalion and Captain Martin's Georgia Battery.  The Federal advance was temporarily halted before Battery E and a companion battery from the 2nd Iowa responded in kind.  One Iowa soldier briefly described Battery E's role in this battle in these terms:

The "accurate fire" from Battery E and the Iowa artillery, coupled with the overwhelming Federal advantage in manpower, quickly forced the Confederates to retreat into their defensive works; within a matter of a few hours, Sherman's XV Corps had entered Jackson.  The battery remained in Jackson until May 16, taking no part in the Battle of Champion Hill.
.

Action at Vicksburg

On May 16, Battery E moved toward Vicksburg, the South's "Gibraltar of the West".  It arrived on the 18th, where it took an active part in the siege as part of the Third Division of Sherman's XV Corps.  Fielding four James Rifles and three captured 6-pound guns, it was assigned together with the 2nd Battery of Iowa Light Artillery as the division's artillery force near the northeast corner of the Confederate defensive line (currently located along Old Graveyard Road, between Union Ave. and Confederate Ave.).  They supported the abortive Federal assault upon the "Stockade Redan" on May 22, which resulted in more than a thousand Federal casualties, and led to the awarding of 78 Medals of Honor to attacking soldiers.  A photo of the exact location of Battery E's position at Vicksburg may be seen here.  The larger page from which this photo was taken may be viewed here.

On May 30, the battery was given a 30-pound Parrott rifle, which it retained until 3 June, when that gun was moved to a more advanced position at "Battery Jenny."

On 5 June, Battery E was ordered to trade its old artillery pieces in for six new 12-pound guns.  The battery was divided into three two-gun sections; two, under Lieutenants John Fitch and Orrin Cram, remained on the line.  The third was moved up to an advanced battery.  By 7 June, Private Rice reported to his wife that the battery had been split between five different places, and only counted 96 men as fit for duty.

In contrast to the starving Confederates inside Vicksburg—whose lack of food ultimately doomed their defense of the city, rather than the unsuccessful Federal assaults on their defenses—Battery E and the rest of the Union Army fared well with regard to victuals during the siege.  Rice reported that he had to eat here: "flour, tea, coffee, sugar, hardtack, pork, dried apples, rice, beans and fresh beef every other day."  He said that his favorite food was "flour and water mixed together as you would make batter, fry it in grease with meat, a cup of coffee, a hardtack and sugar; I make out a hearty meal."

Artillerists as infantry
Members of Battery E sometimes fought as sharpshooters and even infantry during the siege.  Private Rice relates his own experience:

On 22 June Battery E relocated with two infantry brigades from the 3rd Division to Bear Creek on the exterior line, where it remained until Vicksburg was surrendered by General Pemberton on July 4, 1863. Throughout the siege, the Battery lost two killed and six wounded.

Later operations in Mississippi

Expedition to Brandon, Mississippi
On July 5, 1863, the day after Vicksburg's surrender, a detachment from Battery E was ordered with elements of the 72nd Ohio Infantry, the 114th Illinois, the 8th Iowa and the 9th Iowa to proceed under the command of General Frederick Steele to Brandon, Mississippi.  Here they were directed to locate and burn Confederate military stores and destroy the local railroad.  The battery lost one of its three guns while crossing a pontoon bridge over the Pearl River, but the piece was recovered the next day.  Encountering Southern cavalry about six miles past the bridge, the battery's "war dogs" (to quote Private Rice) quickly drove them back.

Next came a report from Federal scouts that an enemy battery was on a nearby hill.  Battery E was ordered to shell the hillside in an effort to find the enemy's position, while their escort watched from a nearby fence:

Riding into Brandon, Battery E engaged Confederate scouts in a house there, "knocking out every window" there.  They set fire to a storehouse and burned down an entire city block, then turned their attention to the railroad depot and nearby tracks which they equally destroyed.

Return to Jackson