[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fort Kearny (Washington, D.C.)

Fort Kearny was a fort constructed during the American Civil War as part of the defenses of Washington, D.C. Located near Tenleytown, in the District of Columbia, it filled the gap between Fort Reno and Fort DeRussy north of the city of Washington. The fort was named in honor of Maj. Gen. Philip Kearny of the Union Army, who was killed at the Battle of Chantilly on September 1, 1862. Three batteries of guns (Battery Rossell, Battery Terrill, and Battery Smead) supported the fort, and are considered part of the fort's defenses.

Construction and operation 

Construction of the fort began in the summer of 1862, as a result of the discovery that the guns of Fort Pennsylvania (better-known as Fort Reno) and Fort DeRussy could not adequately cover the hilly terrain between Rock Creek and the Rockville Turnpike. To fix the situation, an intermediate fort was built to cover the dead ground. This fort would become known as Fort Kearny.

On September 4, 1862, the 15th New Jersey Volunteer Infantry Regiment was bivouacked adjacent to the hill selected for the fort and was assigned to do the initial construction work. The name Fort Kearny was selected  "in honor of the gallant General who had fallen at the hour of our entrance into Washington." The Regiment was "also engaged in slashing timber, working on new military roads and throwing up embankments." The area surrounding the fort was described as "naturally beautiful" but had been spoiled by war, "the trees for miles around were cut down, and the hills were denuded of even small brush, that the oversight might be without obstruction. Acres were covered with the abatis made of the fallen trees, the houses were deserted, and miles of fences burned." With the construction of the fort completed, the men of the 15th Regiment assisted in mounting the guns. Finally relieved by the arrival of 200 contrabands from North Carolina, the 15th NJVI left Fort Kearny on 29 September 1862.

Construction proceeded slowly, hampered by a lack of workers. Reports indicated that "of the 150 men that reported only 50 did any work." In December, the 113th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment was ordered to assist in the construction of the fort. Despite setbacks like these, by Christmas 1862, reports discussed the disposition of newly built Fort Kearny and several supporting field batteries that were constructed in order to cover blind approaches to the fort. That report described Fort Kearny as "occupying an excellent position, [and] a necessary connecting link between Forts Pennsylvania and De Russy. It sees well the upper valley of Broad Branch, and crosses its fires with those of Forts Pennsylvania and De Russy and intermediate batteries upon the dangerous heights in front. It has a powerful armament, and is provided with ample magazines and bomb-proofs, and is well adapted to its location. A field battery, just across Broad Branch, has been built to sweep part of the ravine immediately in front of Fort Kearny; otherwise unseen."

The battery, later known as Battery Rossell, provided space for eight field guns and a strong powder magazine. The battery was named in honor of Major Nathan B. Rossell of the 3rd U.S. Infantry, who was killed on June 27, 1862, at the Battle of Gaines' Mill.

In 1864, the fort was garrisoned by two companies of the 7th New York Heavy Artillery Regiment, commanded by Major E. A. Springsteed. A May 1864 report on the defenses of Washington counted 298 soldiers in the fort's complement and stated that the garrison was of full strength. Despite this fact, deficiencies were found in the capability of those soldiers, whose drill was recorded as "indifferent," and that "improvement [was] needed."

In contrast, the physical properties of the fort were found to be fully capable. The same inspection found three 24-pounder siege guns, three 32-pounder barbette guns, one 5-inch siege howitzer, and three 4-inch rifled guns. In addition, the powder magazine was found to be "dry and in good order" and the ammunition as a whole, "[in]full supply and serviceable."

Firepower and Dimensions 
The number of guns and the current condition of Fort Kearny and its supporting batteries are as follows:
 Battery Terrill – 7 guns. Remnants located north of Fort Kearny, at 3001 Garrison Street on the grounds of the Peruvian Embassy. No marker.
 Fort Kearny – 11 guns. Located between Forts Reno and DeRussy, at 4900 30th Place. (320-yard perimeter) No remains, no marker.
 Battery Rossell – 8 guns.  Located between Forts Reno and Kearny, at Fessenden Street and Connecticut Ave. No remains, no marker.

Battle of Fort Stevens