[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# György Sárosi

This 7-goal haul helped him to be the top goal scorer of the 1936–38 Central European Cup with a then-record of 10 goals (which was equalled in the next edition by fellow compatriot Ferenc Puskás). With a total of 17 goals in the Central European Cup, he is the competition's all-time top goalscorer.

World Cup 1938 
In the 1938 World Cup hosted in France. Sárosi's and Hungary's first game was against the Dutch East Indies, the final score was 6-0 and Sárosi scored twice, in the 25th and in the 89th minute. After the match, the Hungarian captain said: "They were stronger than we thought, but also rougher". Despite scoring twice, Sárosi wasn't much involved in the game. In the second game (Hungary - Switzerland 2:0), Sárosi scored again and Hungary went through the next round. This time Sárosi stepped up and was rated highly by the newspapers, yet he was expected to do even better in the next game considering his reputation. Against Sweden in the third game, Hungary won 5-1 and Sárosi delivered a brilliant performance scoring once and assisting 3 times against the Swedes, here is the description of his performance by Nemzeti Sport: "He (Sárosi) had almost reached the top of his form, and this was the mark of the shape-shifting he predicted [...] We had a lot of wonderful stunts from the Hungarian midfielder, who is starting to match his level in Paris [...] He released great long balls to the wind. All in all, he is a midfielder with a generous, phenomenal intelligence."

The 1938 World Cup final (Hungary - Italy) took place in the Stade Olympique de Colombes in Paris, an attendance of 55,000 people was registered. The stadium was not quite filled to capacity for the third World Cup final. After France's exit, interest in the tournament dwindled and this was reflected in the attendances for the later matches. However, the crowd was eager to see whether the Hungarians, with their flowing style of football and their captain György Sárosi, could halt Vittorio Pozzo's Italian side which boasted the outstanding centre-forward Silvio Piola. The score was already 3-1 in favour of Italians when Sárosi scored a well placed shot close to the 6 yard box in the 70th minute. Unfortunately for him and his teammates, Italy were known for their good defensive ability and managed to stop the Hungarians from attacking, the Golden Ball winner Silvio Piola scored the final goal of the 1938 World Cup at the 77th minute. Italy were crowned world champions for a second time in a row. Individually, Sárosi was showing a good vision and had a decent game but the Italian defence blocked most of his passes as the Nemzeti Sport described: "He (Sárosi) produced a few great things, throwing his peers in front of him with beautiful balls. His ideas are great. they were. But the design is already inferior to this fast and hard, all-down protection. His clever draws on this suffered a shipwreck. His passes were annoying because the Italian defenders could reach them sooner than the destinator." He was given a rating of 3 by newspapers which is equivalent to an "average" performance.

During the 1938 World Cup, Sárosi scored a total of 5 goals and delivered 3 assists in 4 games. He managed to score in every game of the knockout stage, an achievement matched only 84 years later, at the 2022 FIFA World Cup by Lionel Messi. His World Cup campaign is considered to be one of the greatest displays in Hungary's history.

Later life and death 
He first became the coach of Bari in 1948/49. His greatest success was winning a championship with the Juventus Guard in 1952. Until 1977, he worked for ten clubs. He later only dealt with young people.

In July 1976, he visited home for the first time. On 20 July, he was greeted by the Circle of Friends. It was an unforgettable experience. After his football career, Sárosi travelled a lot in Europe, when a journalist asked him what was the most beautiful city in the world, his answer was always one: "Ferencváros in Budapest . It was the narrower scene of the dreamy twenty years - the period of my football career - that I spent on the Üllői Úti field […] The story of Fradi, and my life is completely intertwined, intertwined within me."

He died on 19 June 1993 in Genoa and was buried there.

Style of play 

Sárosi is one of the most complete footballers ever, In the mid-1930s, he was named in European XIs published by La Gazzetta dello Sport, Kicker and L'Auto. And while there may be nothing surprising to that concurrence, there was a stupefying undercurrent to the three prestigious publications' selection of the Ferencvaros and Hungary stand-out: the former picked him at centre-back, the German magazine in midfield and the French sportspaper in attack. It was an emphatic testament to the fact that Sarosi did not just play in multiple positions, but could excel in them all.