[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Imad Khalili

as the club finished 3rd in Allsvenskan after eight straight wins at the end of the season.

In 2020, a season postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Khalili mostly came on from the bench and played 22 games in total, scoring four league goals, as his side disappointedly finished 8th in the table.

On 14 April 2021, it was announced that Khalili would become an assistant coach at Hammarby, focusing on individual development in the squad, as well as still being eligible as a player for the rest of the year. On 30 May 2021, Khalili won the 2020–21 Svenska Cupen, the main domestic cup, with Hammarby IF through a 5–4 win on penalties (0–0 after full-time) against BK Häcken in the final.

International career
Imad Khalili won several caps for the Swedish under-17's, under-19's and under-21s in his younger days.

In 2014, he accepted an offer to play internationally for Palestine, but withdrew from the squad due to an injury. He was eligible to play for either Palestine, UAE or Sweden at senior level.

Coaching career
He worked as the assistant coach of Hammarby's senior squad in both 2021 and 2022, focused on the individual development of players. In early 2023, Khalili became the head coach of their feeder team Hammarby TFF in Ettan, Sweden's third tier. He left the club on 2 July 2023, becoming the assistant coach to his former colleague Miloš Milojević at Al Wasl in the UAE Pro League.

Personal life
Khalili was born in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. His parents are Palestinians from Lebanon. At a young age, the family settled in the town of Helsingborg in southern Sweden.

He is the cousin of fellow professional footballer Abdul Khalili, who was part of the Sweden under-21 squad which won the 2015 European Championship. Another cousin, Moustafa Zeidan, previously played in the youth system at Aston Villa.

Career statistics

Club

Honours
Al-Shabab
 Kings Cup: 2014

IF Brommapojkarna
 Superettan: 2017

Hammarby IF
 Svenska Cupen: 2020–21

Individual
 Allsvenskan top scorer: 2013

References

External links
 

1987 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Dubai
Swedish men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Sweden men's youth international footballers
Sweden men's under-21 international footballers
Emirati men's footballers
Swedish people of Palestinian descent
Emirati people of Palestinian descent
Emirati emigrants to Sweden
Helsingborgs IF players
Randers FC players
IF Limhamn Bunkeflo (men) players
IFK Norrköping players
Hammarby Fotboll players
IF Brommapojkarna players
Al Shabab FC (Riyadh) players
Shanghai Port F.C. players
Chinese Super League players
Baniyas Club players
Allsvenskan players
Superettan players
Saudi Pro League players
Högaborgs BK players
UAE Pro League players
Danish Superliga players
Swedish expatriate men's footballers
Swedish expatriate sportspeople in Saudi Arabia
Expatriate men's footballers in Saudi Arabia
Swedish expatriate sportspeople in China
Expatriate men's footballers in China
Swedish expatriate sportspeople in Denmark
Expatriate men's footballers in Denmark
Hammarby Fotboll non-playing staff