[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Batabano

ulticolored bikini, feather headdresses, leg pieces, and extra tail feathers. Corsets and capes are offered as optional extras. Costumes are debuted along with the Masquerade Bands at the "All Ah We" band launch. The Junior Batabano costumes are slightly less extravagant and tend to cover more skin.

Reba Dilbert 
Reba Dilbert is a popular costume designer on the island. She is known for creating large and exotic pieces. Her costumes have been featured at over 30 Batabano celebrations. The costumes are designed to reflect the flora, fauna, and marine life of the Cayman Islands. Blue costumes represent the island's water, and green costumes represent the environment. Dilbert has expressed her intentions to design costumes that will offer more coverage than in previous years. Her plan is to take the nakedness away from Batabano and focus more on the bright colors and themes of the costumes. In 1998, Dilbert was nominated for Outstanding Work in Costume Design by the Cayman National Cultural Foundation, and in 2002 she won the Best National Costume in the Miss Bikini World (Malta) and Miss Tourism World (Turkey) pageants.

Makeup 
Makeup is an important feature of the Batabano costumes. Bright colors and glitter are often used to accent the costumes, and darker makeup looks can be used to contrast the costumes. Feather eyelash extensions made to match the costumes are a popular look. Kadian Edie is a makeup artist in the Cayman Islands who specializes in tribal tattoos around the eyes, which give a dramatic element to the costumes. They are created using lace and other stencils, and an airbrush.

What to expect 
Donna Myrie-Stephen, head of Cayman Carnival Batabano, plans to include neighboring islands in the Batabano celebrations in coming years. It is thought that this will draw an even larger international crowd, and inspire contestants to create even more extravagant costumes. If Myrie-Stephen is successful, then Cayman Batabano will grow to an even more internationally recognized celebration of local heritage and culture than it already is.

Sponsors 
General sponsors: 
Cayman Islands Department of Tourism
Ministry of District Administration, Tourism, and Transport
Cayman Airways
Cayman Compass
Netclues! Web Design and Marketing
Hot 104.1 FM
Le Classique
George Carvalho International Beauty Salon
Pinnacle Media
DHL
Picture This Studios
Explore Events!
Yabsta Digital
Rent Andy Cars
Cayman Spirits Co.
Hard Rock Café
This is Cayman
Cayman 27

References

External links
 Cayman Carnival official site

Folk festivals in the Cayman Islands
Caymanian culture
Recurring events established in 1984
1984 establishments in North America
Carnivals in the Cayman Islands