[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Bint Jbeil

Saff al-Hawa neighborhood in the northern outskirts of the town, close to the place where Nasrallah held his "cobweb" speech in 2000. Paratrooper Brigade commander Hagai Mordechai was commissioned the task of hoisting the Israeli flag on this building. Thus began the so-called "Battle of the Flag".

At the entrance to Bint Jbeil stood a large ten-story building, later nicknamed "the Monster" by Israeli soldiers, where about ten Hezbollah soldiers had taken up positions, preventing further Israeli advance. A heavy exchange of fire ensued, and the Israelis were reluctant to call in an airstrike because of its proximity to the Salih Ghandour hospital. Although it was assumed to be vacant, Israel did not want to risk a repetition of the disastrous mistake in 2006 Qana airstrike. While advancing on the building an Israeli soldier was critically wounded in a suspected friendly fire incident. It was clear that the soldier would not survive unless he could be taken to hospital. The wounded soldier was evacuated in a dramatic rescue operation but died in the helicopter before reaching the hospital. Another soldier was killed in the rescue operation. The Israeli Air Force eventually bombed the building, causing it to collapse. According to the IDF, at least four Hezbollah soldiers were also killed.

Mordechai told his deputy to "take the flag, put it on the building where [the Israeli] forces are, take pictures and leave. No one should die for this picture.” The flag was raised on a different building than intended and a photograph taken (reproduced here ). In the end, the IDF decided not to publish the picture. By the time it was ready to be distributed it had become irrelevant. The IDF had already begun to withdraw from the town.

On the same day Chief of Operation Gadi Eisenkot had to inform the Israeli cabinet that the army had not occupied Bint Jbeil and some other localities close to the border. Hezbollah managed to hold its positions in the town throughout the war. In the last days of the war the fighting was concentrated to areas north of the town and there were no reports of heavy fighting in the town itself.

Operation Change of  Direction 11 (10-12 August)

Less than three days before the ceasefire Operation Changing Direction 11 was launched with the aim of pushing further into Lebanese territory. 17 Israeli soldiers died in the fighting around the villages of Hadatha, Yatar, at-Tiri, Rashaf and Ayta az-Zut, to the north of Bint Jbeil. The overall commander of the Bint Jbeil region, Muhammad Qanso (Sajid ad-Duwayr), from the village of ad-Duwayr, was killed on 11 August. He was severely wounded in an Israeli airstrike outside the village of Beit Yahoun, some five kilometers north of Bint Jbeil and later succumbed to his wounds.
In spite of the fact that the IDF was ordered once again to capture Bint Jbeil, there are no reports of any offensive Israeli action against Hezbollah positions in the town itself.

A New York Times correspondent accompanied a platoon from the Golani 51st Battalion, that had previously suffered heavy casualties in the battle of Bint Jbeil. The unit occupied an unfinished building in the Bint Jbeil area. A Merkava tank was hit by a Kornet missile wounding two soldiers. After the top floor of the house was hit by a missile strike the IDF soldiers took shelter in the most secure part of the building, the first floor bathroom, and remained there for 36 hours. The experience two weeks earlier made the Golani soldiers wary of casualties.

On the last hours before the cease-fire came into effect Lieutenant Adam Kima was ordered to clear a road going westward out of Bint Jbeil. Kima refused to obey orders, claiming a high risk of being exposed to Hezbollah ambushes. The officer and five of his soldiers were arrested and sentenced to prison for 2–3 weeks (though released early).

By the beginning of September Israeli forces had withdrawn from the area of Bint Jbeil and control was transferred to the Lebanese army and United Nations peacekeeping forces.

Some have commented that this battle had a psychological component outweighing its military significance. Uri Bar-Joseph wrote about Dan Halutz in Haaretz "He pushed for ineffectual military initiatives with a high casualty toll, like the conquest of Bint Jbail, which was meant to create a spectacle of victory in the place where Nasrallah delivered his "spider web" speech following the IDF pullout in May 2000."