[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ringbanen

s time rail freight to and from points north of Hellerup dwindled to almost nothing as the DanLink plan moved the rail ferries carrying freight to/from Sweden from Helsingør to Østerport. But the freight line out of Østerport led to Lersøen, so most of the ring line still had active freight traffic.

The 1990s, however, saw fundamental change. The decision to build the Øresund bridge meant that freight would soon be absent on the entire freight bypass. At the same time policial determination to use revenue from Ørestad land sales to finance the Copenhagen Metro was building. It was decided to let the Frederiksberg-Vanløse line become part of the metro and to extend the S-trains from Hellerup along the now unused freight line south of Flintholm.

The Frederiksberg-Vanløse line closed a bit at a time between 1995 and 2001 and reopened as a metro line in 2003. The entire line from Vanløse to Hellerup was closed for a complete track rebuilding for most of 2001 and reopened in early 2002, though only from a temporary terminus north of Flintholm, where all of the connecting curves had been removed. In 2004 the new large interchange station at Flintholm opened, and from early 2005 the ring line trains could run almost all the way to Ny Ellebjerg. From Flintholm to Vigerslev Allé the ring line tracks occupy the same space as the old freight bypass; between Vigerslev Allé and Ny Ellebjerg new tracks have been built beside the freight tracks which are still in use for freight to and from the Øresund bridge, bypassing the central station.

The southern terminus at Ny Ellebjerg opened quietly on 16 November 2006, a few months in advance of the official opening on 6 January 2007. Originally it had been planned that there would be platforms at the Øresund bypass tracks in addition to the S-train platforms, although these platforms were only built later in 2013, and only began to see more frequent use upon the completion of the high-speed Copenhagen - Ringsted Line in 2019. The M4 line of the Copenhagen Metro will also terminate here upon completion in 2024, it is also planned for the station to be renamed to "København Syd" (Copenhagen South) in 2024, indicating its new importance as an interchange between InterCity trains, and the local Metro and S-train systems, reducing the need to travel into the city center beforehand.

Future 
The Danish Transport Authority (Trafikstyrelsen) has suggested converting the Ringbanen to metro standard as line M5, but this plan is dependent on the construction of a southern extension of the Copenhagen Metro from Copenhagen Central Station through Sydhavn to Ny Ellebjerg, where the M4 would link up with the Ringbanen. The only current interchange between the Ringbanen and the metro network is at Flintholm Station, where they cross out of level at right angles.

References

S-train (Copenhagen) lines