[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rout of Winchester

strike back. She gathered an army of her adherents and sortied from her base at Oxford around 28 July 1141. When the empress appeared before Winchester on 31 July it was a complete surprise. Bishop Henry fled the city while his soldiers retreated to Wolvesey Castle, the one belonging to the church.

While the Angevin host placed Wolvesey Castle under siege, Empress Matilda set up her headquarters in the royal castle and Robert of Gloucester established his command post near Winchester Cathedral (then Saint Swithun's). On August 2, the bishop's men set fire to Winchester, destroying a large part of the city. Wolvesey was a tough nut to crack. It was erected in 1138 and being in the corner of the city walls, could easily contact the outside world. Nevertheless, the Angevins put strong pressure on its defenders.

Queen Matilda quickly assembled an army of relief that included mercenaries hired by Bishop Henry, a levy of the queen's feudal tenants from the County of Boulogne, the nearly 1,000-strong London militia, William of Ypres' Flemish mercenary cavalry and other supporters of Stephen. The queen's army set up camp on the east side of Winchester and proceeded to blockade Empress Matilda's forces in the city. While the queen's army was well-provisioned, the Angevin forces soon began to suffer from lack of food. To weaken the blockade, Robert of Gloucester attempted to fortify Wherwell Abbey, six miles to the north of the city, but William of Ypres defeated the Angevins with heavy losses.

The supply situation convinced Robert of Gloucester that he must quit Winchester so he planned an orderly withdrawal. Earl Reginald of Cornwall and Brian fitz Count led an advance guard composed of crack troops designed to protect Empress Matilda. The main body guarded the baggage while Robert commanded the rearguard. On 14 September, the Angevins exited from the west side of Winchester on the road to Salisbury. Ahead of them, about  to the northwest, the road crossed the River Test at Stockbridge.

As soon as the Angevin host left the city the queen's army attacked. They pressed past the rearguard to attack the main body. The advance guard avoided the trap and delivered Empress Matilda safely to Gloucester, but the queen's army destroyed the Angevin main body as an effective fighting force; only remnants managed to escape. Robert of Gloucester's soldiers held together, but when his soldiers reached the Test they could go no further. Surrounded by a part of the queen's troops under William of Surrey and facing a bridge choked with panicked Angevins, Robert surrendered with his men.

Result
Queen Matilda offered to exchange Robert of Gloucester for her husband Stephen, but Empress Matilda refused to give up her royal prisoner. She would swap Robert for 12 earls and some gold, but not for the king. Therefore, the queen contacted Robert's wife Amabel, who had custody of Stephen. Behind the empress' back, the two wives determined to exchange their two husbands, and both Stephen and Robert were released.

The civil war went on with neither side gaining an advantage. Meanwhile, the common people suffered under the oppression of the local barons, who took the law into their own hands. It was said that, "God and all His saints were asleep" during these grim years. Robert of Gloucester died on 31 October 1147. With her best leader gone, Empress Matilda retired to Anjou and there was a lull in the fighting. Queen Matilda died on 3 May 1151 and was buried at Faversham Abbey. In January 1153, the empress' son Henry landed in England and began seeking combat with Stephen. At Wallingford another battle was averted when the two parties agreed that Stephen would remain king during his lifetime, but that Henry Plantagenet would succeed him. Stephen died on 25 October 1154.

Notes

References

External links
Britannia: The Council, Siege and Rout of Winchester

1141 in England
Conflicts in 1141
History of Winchester
Rebellions in medieval England
Battles of The Anarchy
Battles involving England
Military history of Hampshire
Empress Matilda