[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 46]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

earest thee," counselled everybody: people of
all kinds, books of all kinds. "Cheap, well-sounding advice," thought
Hadria, "sure of popularity! Continue to wriggle industriously, O
animalcule, in that particular ditch wherein it has pleased heaven to
place thee; seek not the flowing stream and the salt ocean; and if, some
clear night, a star finds room to mirror itself in thy little stagnant
world, shining through the fat weeds and slime that almost shut out the
heavens, pray be careful not to pay too much heed to the high-born
luminary. Look to your wriggling; that is your proper business. An
animalcule that does not wriggle must be morbid or peculiar. All will
tender, in different forms of varying elegance, the safe and simple
admonition: 'Wriggle and be damned to you!'"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was at this somewhat fevered moment, that Hubert Temperley appeared,
once more, upon the scene. Hadria was with her mother, taking tea at
Drumgarren, when Mrs. Gordon, catching the sounds of carriage wheels,
announced that she was expecting Hubert and his sister for a visit. In
another second, the travellers were in the drawing-room.

Hubert's self-possession was equal to the occasion. He introduced his
sister to Mrs. Fullerton and Hadria. Miss Temperley was his junior by a
year; a slight, neatly-built young woman, with a sort of tact that went
on brilliantly up to a certain point, and then suddenly collapsed
altogether. She had her brother's self-complacency, and an air of
encouragement which Mrs. Gordon seemed to find most gratifying.

She dressed perfectly, in quiet Parisian fashion. Hadria saw that her
brother had taken her into his confidence, or she concluded so from
something in Miss Temperley's manner. The latter treated Hadria with a
certain familiarity, as if she had known her for some time, and she had
a way of seeming to take her apart, when addressing her, as if there
were a sort of understanding between them. It was here that her instinct
failed her; for she seemed unaware that this assumption of an intimacy
that did not exist was liable to be resented, and that it might be
unpleasant to be expected to catch special remarks sent over the heads
of the others, although ostensibly for the common weal.

Hadria thought that she had never seen so strange a contrast as this
young woman's behaviour, within and without the circle of her
perceptions. It was the more remarkable, since her mind was bent upon
the details and niceties of conduct, and the _nuances_ of existence.

"I shall come and see you as soon as I can," she promised, when Mrs.
Fullerton rose to leave.

Miss Temperley kept her word. She was charmed with the old house,
praising authoritatively.

"This is an excellent piece of carving; far superior to the one in the
dining-room. Ah, yes, that is charming; so well arranged. You ought to
have a touch of blue there to make it perfect."

Hubert shewed good taste in keeping away from Dunaghee, except to pay
his call on Mr. and Mrs. Fullerton.

"Hadria," said his sister, "I am going to call you by your pretty
Christian name, and I want you to call me Henriette. I feel I have known
you much longer than ten days, because Hubert has told me so much about
you, and your music. You play charmingly. So much native talent. You
want good training, of course; but you really might become a brilliant
performer. Hubert is quite distressed that you should not enjoy more
advantages. I should like so much if you could come and stay with us in
town, and have some good lessons. Do think of it."

Hadria flushed. "Oh, thank you, I could not do that--I----"

"I understand you, dear Hadria," said Henriette, drawing her chair
closer to the fire. "You know, Hubert can never keep anything of great
importance from me." She looked arch.

Hadria muttered something that might have discouraged a less persistent
spirit, but Miss Temperley paid no attention.

"Poor Hubert! I have had to be a ministering angel to him during these
last months."

"Why do you open up this subject, Miss Temperley?"

"_Henriette_, if you please," cried that young woman, with the air of
a playful potentate who has requested a favoured courtier to drop the
ceremonious "Your Majesty" in private conversation.

"It was I who made him accept Mrs. Gordon's invitation. He very nearly
refused it. He feared that it would be unpleasant for you. But I
insisted on his coming. Why should he not? He would like so much to come
here more often, but again he fears to displease you. He is not a
Temperley for nothing. They are not of the race of fools who rush in
where angels fear to tread."

"Are they not?" asked Hadria absently.

"We both see your difficulty," Miss Temperley went on. "Hubert would not
so misunderstand you--the dear fellow is full of delicacy--and I should
dearly love to hear him play to your accompaniment; he used to enjoy
those practices so