[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# South Dakota-class battleship (1939)

inner portion of the double bottom, which gave the ship better underwater protection than the North Carolinas. Ultimately, the complex double incline belt armor was abandoned when it became apparent that a single slanted belt could provide similar protection, and save several hundred tons of weight.

The size of the hull was also a problem: a longer hull generally equates to a higher top speed, but requires more armor to protect it. In order to keep a higher top speed on a shorter hull, higher-performance machinery is required. Since the South Dakota design was much shorter than the preceding North Carolinas— compared to , respectively—the new ships would need improved machinery than would otherwise have been used in shorter hulls in order to retain the same speed as the longer ships. The design initially called for a top speed of at least , which was deemed sufficient to keep up with opposing battleships and outrun surfaced submarines. However, in late 1936, cryptanalysts deciphered radio traffic from the Japanese navy which revealed that the battleship  was capable of speeds in excess of .

To counter this, it was determined a top speed of  was possible if the power plant from North Carolina could be reduced in size enough to fit in the tighter hull of South Dakota. In order to do so the boilers were positioned directly above the turbines in the same arrangement to have been used in the 1916 s. The boilers were then rearranged several times so they were staggered with the turbines, eventually ending directly alongside the turbines. The propulsion system was arranged as close together as possible, and the evaporators and distilling equipment were placed in the machinery rooms. This provided enough additional space behind the armored belt to add a second plotting room.

By this time, the design process had established that the hull was to be  between perpendiculars and incorporate the single internal sloped armor belt. However, in case of rejection by the General Board, naval architects produced a series of alternatives. Among these were longer, faster ships armed with 14-inch guns in triple turrets, slower ships with 14-inch guns in quadruple turrets, improved versions of the North Carolina class, and a ship of  armed with nine 16-in guns in a similar configuration to the North Carolinas.

Arguments arose, frequently over the issue of speed; the Commander in Chief, United States Fleet (CINCUS) refused to allow the new ship to drop below , the Battle Force argued at least  was necessary to maintain homogeneity in the line of battle, and the president of the War College maintained a fast ship was optimal, but the navy would continue to operate the older  battleships until the 1950s and so a higher speed was not strictly necessarythough, crucially, it would mean the class would have been too slow to act in what would emerge as the most critical role for battleships, as escorts for fast carrier task forces. The primary 666-ft design was the only plan that could meet the specified requirements for speed, protection, and the nine 16-inch guns. By late 1937 a proposed design was agreed on, requiring only small modifications to save weight and increase the fields of fire. Berths for the crew, even the staterooms for senior officers, along with mess halls were reduced in size, and ventilation ports were completely removed, forcing the ship to rely completely on artificial air circulation.

Despite the compromises made, naval historians William Garzke and Robert Dulin would later argue that the South Dakota-class ships were the best treaty battleships ever built. The naval historian Norman Friedman stated that the South Dakota design was "a remarkable achievement within very constricting treaty limits." Moreover the final commitment to a higher speed presaged the development of the subsequent Iowa class—the largest, fastest, and final U.S. battleships. As Friedman has written:

Specifications

General characteristics
The South Dakota–class battleships were  long at the waterline,  overall, and  in beam. The design standard displacement was , approximately 1.2% overweight; when the ships were commissioned in 1942, the considerable increase in anti-air armament from the contract design increased standard displacement to  (Indianas calculated value on 12 April 1942). Full load displacement was  when commissioned, with a mean draft of  at this displacement. At the design combat displacement of , the mean draft was  while metacentric height was . The addition of more anti-aircraft mounts during the ships' service in World War II increased the full load displacement considerably towards the end of the war; by 1945, South Dakotas full load displacement was some , and Massachusetts reached up to  at emergency load.