[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brazilian Marine Corps

Shantytown Tide in the North Zone of Rio. Region is being prepared to receive the Pacifying Police Unit (UPP), Brazilian Marine Corps will provide support with 21 armored vehicles and 500 men.

Organization
The Corps headquarters is located in Fortaleza de São José, Ilha das Cobras, Rio de Janeiro.

Fleet Marine Force
The Fleet Marine Force (Força de Fuzileiros da Esquadra (FFE), literally Squadron Riflemen Force) includes the expeditionary component of the corps and consists of the following units:
1st Amphibious Division (Divisão Anfíbia (DivAnf)) of brigade size with three marine infantry battalions (Batalhão de Fuzileiros Navais (BFN) as its main fighting force, along with the following:
Command and Control Battalion (Batalhão de Comando e Controle),
1st "Riachuelo" Marine Infantry Battalion (BFN)
2nd "Humaitá" Marine Infantry Battalion (BFN)
3rd "Paissandu" Marine Infantry Battalion (BFN)
Marine Artillery Battalion (Batalhão de Artilharia de Fuzileiros Navais)
Marine Armoured Vehicle Battalion (Batalhão de Blindados)
Marine Tactical Air Control and Air Defence Battalion (Batalhão de Controle Aerotático e Defesa Antiaérea)
Governor's Island Marine Base (Base de Fuzileiros Navais da Ilha do Governador),
Reinforcement Troop (Tropa de Reforço (TrRef)) located in Ilha das Flores in São Gonçalo (RJ), composed of the following:
Marine Engineer Battalion (Batalhão de Engenharia de Fuzileiros Navais),
Marine Logistic Battalion (Batalhão Logístico de Fuzileiros Navais),
Amphibious Vehicles Battalion (Batalhão de Viaturas Anfíbias),
Police Company (Companhia de Polícia)
Landing Support Company (Apoio ao Desembarque) 
Isle of Flowers Marine Base (Base de Fuzileiros Navais da Ilha das Flores),

Landing Troop Command (Comando da Tropa de Desembarque (ComTrDbq)), located at Duque de Caxias (RJ) - provides the means to command, control and administer the Command of the Fleet Marine Force and to also local units
 Marine Special Operations Battalion "Tonelero" (Batalhão de Operações Especiais de Fuzileiros Navais (Batalhão Tonelero)) A unit similar to US Marine Corps Raiders, formed in 1957 and structured for high risk operations. Its mission is to destroy or damage prominent objectives in heavily defended areas, capture or rescue personnels or equipment, seize installations, obtain information, mislead and produce psychological effects.
Rio Meriti Marine Base (Base de Fuzileiros Navais do Rio Meriti (BFNRM)), located in Duque de Caxias (RJ)
ships detachments

Regional Forces
"Marine Groups" (Grupamentos de Fuzileiros Navais (GptFN) are subordinate to the Naval Districts (Distritos Navais), for the security of naval installations, as well as performing operations in support of the Naval District where they are assigned, while the 7th Marine Group is also tasked for public duties in the Brasilia area. They are located in the vicinity of the local Naval District headquarters. GptFNs are small-sized Marine battalions. 

Three of the GptFNs have been expanded into Batalhoes de Operacoes Ribeirinhas (Riverine Operations Battalions) or BtlOpRibs consisting of a Command and Services Company, 3 Marine Companies, and a Combat Support Company. 

 GptFN at Rio de Janeiro, RJ (1st DN)
 GptFN at Salvador, Bahia (2nd DN)
 GptFN at Natal, Rio Grande do Norte (3rd DN)
 2nd BtlOpRib at Belém, Pará (4th DN)
 GptFN at Rio Grande, Rio Grande do Sul (5th DN)
 3rd BtlOpRib at Ladário, Mato Grosso do Sul (6th DN)
 GptFN  at Brasília, Distrito Federal (7th DN)
 GptFN at São Paulo, São Paulo (8tht DN) (in formation)
 1st BtlOpRib, Manaus, Amazonas (9th DN)

Music

Musical support is rendered by the Central Band of the Marine Corps and the Marine Pipes, Drum and Bugle Corps in Rio de Janeiro (1st ND), the Brasilia Marine Corps Band (7th Naval District) and by the Marine Bands of each of the other Naval Districts.

Central Band of the Marine Corps
The Central Band of the Brazilian Marine Corps is the concert band unit of the CFN. Also known by its other name, the Symphonic Band of the CFN, it is the premier band of the CFN and is the senior most concert band in the armed forces. Their performances are marked by a balanced mix of popular and classical, as well as instrumental and sung songs. It is composed of two officers (the Director of Music and Bandmaster) and 118 military musicians who are NCOs. The band was created in the 1970s and belongs to the Band Company of the Naval Battalion, located at São José Fortress on Cobras Island, Rio de Janeiro.