[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Monika Griefahn

rade market by initiating a fixed bookprice law, cultural diversity and the expansion of Goethe-Institutes and German Schools abroad.

In 2005 Griefahn was elected chair of the bilateral committee on cultural diversity, which was appointed by the German Parliament and the French Assemblée Nationale.

In foreign policy her work focused on supporting renewable energy in German real estate all around the world (like German schools for example) as well as on the support of NGOs in the field of nature conservation and environmental protection. She was active in the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) and the OECD for these issues.

In addition to her committee assignments, Griefahn served as deputy chair of the German-French Parliamentary Friendship Group from 2006 until 2009.

Return to politics 
From 2015 until 2016, Griefahn served on a government-appointed commission tasked with recommending how to safeguard the funding of fulfilling Germany's exit from nuclear energy, under the leadership of co-chairs Ole von Beust, Matthias Platzeck and Jürgen Trittin.

In 2020, Griefahn became the SPD candidate for lord mayor of Mülheim an der Ruhr; she eventually lost against the Christian Democrat's candidate Marc Buchholz.

Other activities 

Since 1986 Griefahn has been volunteering for the Right Livelihood Award Foundation. She has been a member of both the jury and the board. In 2010 she was appointed co-chair alongside Jakob von Uexküll. In 2008 she became a member of the presidency of the German "Kirchentag", a biennial national festival for Protestants. Moreover, she is jury-chair of a national festival on ecological and nature films ("Ökofilmtour").

Additional activities include:
 Aktion Deutschland Hilft (Germany's Relief Coalition), Member of the Board of Trustees
 Cradle to Cradle Germany, Chair of the Board

Personal life 
Griefahn is married to Michael Braungart, an environmental chemist and professor of process engineering, who developed – in cooperation with the American architect William McDonough – the Cradle to Cradle design principle. Griefahn and Braungart have three children.

Selected publications (German) 
 Computerspiele als Kulturgut? In: S. Ganguin, B. Hoffmann (Hrsg.): Digitale Spielkultur. Kopaed Verlag, München 2010, .
 Kulturwirtschaft und kulturelle Intelligenz. In: B. Wagner: Jahrbuch für Kulturpolitik 2008. Thema: Kulturwirtschaft und kreative Stadt. Bonn/Essen, S. 221–226.
 Kreativität – ein Wirtschaftsfaktor? In: Kulturforum der Sozialdemokratie (Hrsg.): Kulturnotizen. 11/2006, Berlin.
 Nachhaltigkeitspolitik und Kulturpolitik. In: Kulturpolitische Gesellschaft KuPoGe (Hrsg.): Kulturpolitische Mitteilungen. II/2002, Bonn.
 Nachhaltigkeitspolitik und Kulturpolitik – eine Verbindung mit Zukunft? In: H. Kurt, B. Wagner (Hrsg.): Kultur-Kunst-Nachhaltigkeit. Die Bedeutung von Kultur für das Leitbild Nachhaltige Entwicklung. Bonn/Essen, 2002, S. 59–68.
 (Hrsg.): Greenpeace. Wir kämpfen für eine Umwelt, in der wir leben können. Rowohlt, Reinbek bei Hamburg 1983, .
 Weil ich ein Lied hab'. Die Politik einer Umweltministerin. Piper, München 1994, .

Selected speeches (English) 
 26 October 2010: "Necessary political framework conditions for sustainable building and social effects", speech delivered at Carleton University, Ottawa.
 13 April 2008: "Pushing Back the Frontiers of Poverty"; speech on the occasion of the General Debate of the Inter-Parliamentary Union.
 15 October 2007: "The cultural dimension of environmentalism"; Talk delivered at Harvard University, Massachusetts, USA.
 29 April 2007: "Global warming: ten years after Kyoto"; Speech for the 116th IPU Assembly in Bali.

Literature 
 Jürgen Streich: Monika Griefahn. Politik, Positionen, Perspektiven. Zebulon, Köln 1997,

References

External links 
 Griefahn's official CV on www.monika-griefahn.de (archived 2012)
 Griefahn's archives of her work in the German Parliament www.monika-griefahn.de

1954 births
Living people
People from Mülheim
Members of the Bundestag for Lower Saxony
Female members of the Bundestag
People associated with Greenpeace
Members of the Landtag of Lower Saxony
21st-century German women politicians
Recipients of the Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Members of the Bundestag 2005–2009
Members of the Bundestag 2002–2005
Members of the Bundestag 1998–2002
Members of the Bundestag for the Social Democratic Party of Germany
20th-century German women