[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Islam in London

bert Street, modern Camden. Ron Geeves states this in his biography of Abdullah Quilliam. The mosque moved to Euston Road in 1899, where the present Wellcome Collection stands. Mohamed Dollie was of Scottish and Malay ancestry. Mohamed Dollie died in 1906 and is buried at the Willesden New Cemetery.

The Fazl Mosque was the first purpose-built mosque in London. It was founded in 1926 in Southfields, as a project of the Ahmadiyya community. Since 1984, the mosque and its surrounding buildings have been the residence of the Khalifatul Masih caliphs and therefore, the international headquarters of the Ahmadiyyas.

One of the city's first large mosques opened in 1976 on Brick Lane, in a listed building which started life as a Huguenot church in the 18th century and was converted into a synagogue serving Ashkenazi Jews in the 19th. Soon afterwards, two large Sunni mosques were built, the East London Mosque (with the adjoining London Muslim Centre and Maryam Centre) on Whitechapel Road, and the London Central Mosque in Regent's Park.

Other mosques in Inner London include the Brixton Mosque, which serves a predominantly Caribbean community, and the Finsbury Park Mosque.

The Suleymaniye Mosque on Kingsland Road serves a largely Turkish community. Named after the famous landmark in Istanbul, it was purpose-built and opened in 1999. Shacklewell Lane Mosque was the first Turkish mosque in the United Kingdom. It was established by Turkish Cypriots in 1977 in a converted synagogue. The nearby Aziziye Mosque in Stoke Newington was converted from a cinema.

In Outer London are the Croydon Mosque, the very large Baitul Futuh Mosque in Merton, and the Abbey Mills Mosque in Stratford. Also notable are the Central Mosque Wembley, Leytonstone Mosque, and Harrow Central Mosque.

The Islamic Centre of England is a Shia mosque and educational establishment that opened in 1998. London is also home to The Islamic College, a college and university which offers A-levels, BA, and MA degrees in coordination with Middlesex University.

Islamophobia in London 
Police forces recorded 110 hate crimes directed at Muslim places of worship (Mar.-Jul. 2019) This number is up from 47 over the same six-month period in 2016; attacks have doubled over past year. For example, last year, a jury convicted a man of murder after he drove a van into Muslim worshipers outside a London mosque, killing one person and injuring nine others. Overall, the number of anti-Muslim hate crimes reported across Britain increased by 593% after the Christchurch shooting. The British government has been making vast efforts to reduce these deadly attacks.

See also 

 List of British Muslims
 Londonistan
 Islam Expo
 Islam in Birmingham
 Islam in England
 Islam in the United Kingdom
 Muslim Welfare House
 Wembley's Conference of Living Religions 1924
 Religion in England
 Religion in London

References

External links

Reassessing what we collect website – Muslim London History of Muslim London with objects and images
 Subject Guide on Islam in London