[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Food fortification

e online Global Fortification Data Exchange. It indicates which of 197 countries worldwide have mandatory and voluntary food fortification in their datasets and country profiles. The website is maintained by the Food Fortification Initiative, GAIN, Iodine Global Network, and the Micronutrient Forum.

Argentina 
In Argentina, wheat flour must by law (Ley 25.630 of 2002) be fortified with iron, thiamine (vitamin B1), riboflavin (B2), niacin (B3), and folic acid (B9).

Colombia 
Wheat flour sold in Colombia must by law be fortified with vitamin B1, vitamin B2, niacin (B3), folic acid (B9) and iron (Decreto 1944 of 1996).

El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua 
The four countries, also called the C-4, all legally require wheat flour to be fortified with vitamins B1, B2, B3, B9, and iron.

Philippines 
The Philippine law on food fortification has two components: mandatory (covering select staples) and voluntary (under the Sangkap Pinoy program). The latter has been criticized for covering only low nutritional-value food, namely, junk food, to enable them to be sold in schools.

United Kingdom 
UK law (The Bread and Flour Regulations 1998) requires that all flour (except wholemeal and some self-raising flours) be fortified with calcium. Wheat flour must also be fortified with iron, thiamine (vitamin B1) and vitamin B3.

United States 
In the 1920s, food fortification emerged as a strategy in the United States to address and prevent the lack of micronutrients in the population's diet.  Specifically, it was discovered in the 1930s and 1940s, that micronutrient deficiency is often linked to specific diseases and syndromes. Consequently, The Committee on Food and Nutrition suggested that micronutrients be added to flour. In 1980, The Food and Drug Administration put into action its Food Fortification Policy which included six fundamental rules. In addition to establishing safety guidelines of food fortification, this policy aimed to ensure that food fortification was solely for when the supplemental micronutrient had a national deficiency and that the food chosen to provide that nutrient was consumed by enough of the population to make a change. This policy also emphasized the importance of clinical data, a shift from earlier policies which relied on dietary data alone. The 2002 farm bill (P.L. 107–171, Sec. 3013) requires the Administrator of USAID, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, to establish micronutrient fortification programs under P.L. 480 food aid.  Section 3013 replaces a pilot program similarly named and authorized in the 1996 farm bill (P.L. 104–127, Sec. 415).  Under the programs, grains and other commodities made available to countries selected for participation will be fortified with micronutrients (e.g., iron, vitamin A, iodine, and folic acid).

Criticism 

In addition to criticism of government-mandated fortification, food companies have been criticized for indiscriminate enrichment of foods for marketing purposes. Food safety worries led to legislation in Denmark in 2004 restricting foods fortified with extra vitamins or minerals. Products banned include: Rice Krispies, Shreddies, Horlicks, Ovaltine and Marmite.

Limited absorption
One factor that limits the benefits of food fortification is that isolated nutrients added back into a processed food that has had many of its nutrients removed, does not always result in the added nutrients being as bioavailable as they would be in the original, whole food. An example is skim milk that has had the fat removed, and then had vitamin A and vitamin D added back. Vitamins A and D are both fat-soluble and non-water-soluble, so a person consuming skim milk without fats may not be able to absorb as much of these vitamins as one would be able to absorb from drinking whole milk. On the other hand, the nutrient added as a fortificant may have a higher bioavailability than from foods, which is the case with folic acid used to increase folate intakes.

Phytochemicals such as phytic acid in cereal grains can also impact nutrient absorption, limiting the bioavailability of intrinsic and additional nutrients, and reducing the effectiveness of fortification programs.

Different forms of micronutrients
There is a concern that micronutrients are legally defined in such a way that does not distinguish between different forms, and that fortified foods often have nutrients in a balance that would not occur naturally. For example, in the U.S., food is fortified with folic acid, which is one of the many naturally-occurring forms of folate, and which only contributes a minor amount to the folates occurring in natural foods. In many cases, such as with folate, it is an open question of whether or not there are any benefits or risks to consuming folic acid in this form.

In many cases, the micronutrients added to foods in fortification are synthetic.