[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ephialtes

sent at the proposal believe that he opposed them in the initial debate.  All agree that his resistance was doomed to failure by the fact that his hoplite force had just been rudely dismissed by the Spartans, an action which demolished the political standing of Cimon and other pro-Spartan Athenians.

Death and legacy
The success of Ephialtes' reforms was rapidly followed by the ostracism of Cimon, which left Ephialtes and his faction firmly in control of the state, although the fully fledged Athenian democracy of later years was not yet fully established; Ephialtes' reforms appear to have been only the first step in the democratic party's programme.  Ephialtes, however, would not live to see the further development of this new form of government; In 461 BC, he was assassinated. The details of his assassination are unknown. However, there are several different theories to explain this event. The first source we have on Ephialtes himself and his death is Antiphon (5.68) written in 420 BC, which states that the identity of the murderer was unknown. “Thus those who murdered Ephialtes, one of your citizens, have never been discovered to this day, and if someone expected his associates to conjecture who were his [Ephialtes'] murderers, and if not, to be implicated in the murder, it would not have been fair to the associates. In addition, the murderers of Ephialtes did not desire to hide the body so there would be no danger of betraying the deed.” However 90 years later, Aristotle, in his Constitution of Athens 25.4, states that Aristodikos of Tanagra was the culprit. As the years progressed, more theories were established. A third idea is that Aristodikos of Tanagra was part of an oligarchic plot; his political ally Pericles would go on to complete the governmental transformation and lead Athens for several decades.  Had Ephialtes been murdered by somebody outside the radical faction, scholar Robert W. Wallace reasons, the radicals would have made him a martyr and led a crusade to find the perpetrator. This didn't happen, so the murderer likely came from within Ephialtes' own faction.

Literary references
The assassination of Ephialtes, and a subsequent murder investigation to find the men behind the plot, is the subject of a historical mystery novel, The Pericles Commission, by Gary Corby.

Notes

References

de Ste. Croix, G.E.M., The Origins of the Peloponnesian War, (Duckworth and Co., 1972) 
Hignett, Charles.  A History of the Athenian Constitution (Oxford, 1962) 
Hornblower, Simon, and Anthony Spawforth ed., The Oxford Classical Dictionary (Oxford University Press, 2003) 
Kagan, Donald. The Outbreak of the Peloponnesian War'' (Cornell, 1969). 

5th-century BC births
461 BC deaths
5th-century BC Greek politicians
Ancient Athenian generals
5th-century BC Athenians
Ancient Greeks who were murdered
History of Classical Athens