[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Military Advocate General

The Military Advocate General (MAG Corps') (, HaParklitut HaTzva'it) is responsible for implementing the rule of law within the Israel Defense Forces. The unit's objectives include integrating the rule of law amongst IDF commanders and soldiers; providing commanders with the tools for the effective performance of their missions in accordance with the law; and working with the IDF to achieve its goals on all legal fronts. The MAG Corps' has the ability to provide legal advice in emergencies and during warfare.

The Military Advocate General's Corps (MAG Corps) was founded prior to the establishment of the State of Israel as the "Legal Service" within "Haganah" (the quasi-military body of the Jewish community and Zionist Movement in the British mandate prior to the establishment of the State of Israel). The MAG Corps, as it is today, was established in 1948 concurrent with the IDF, as the "Military Prosecution". In 1950, the unit was renamed the Military Advocate General's Corps.

Since 2015, the Military Advocate General holds the biannual IDF International Conference on LOAC. The conference brings together world-renowned academics and practitioners (governmental and otherwise) from around the world to discuss pertinent issues in LOAC.

Overview
The principal activities of the Military Advocate General are:

Maintaining prosecution and legal defense systems before the military tribunals.
Providing military authorities with legal advice on military law and the law in general (including international law).
Maintaining the military tribunal system in areas falling under the jurisdiction of the IDF.
Supervision over the rules of conduct in the IDF.
Supervision over the investigatory arms in the IDF and over the military detention centers.
Representing the IDF before public and institutional bodies.
Teaching law and jurisprudence in the IDF and its values among soldiers and commanders.

Departments
The Military Advocate General consists of the following bodies:

International Law Department
Head of the service, Aluf ; a member of the General Staff, but not professionally subordinate to the Chief of Staff.

Legal Advice and Legislate Affairs Department
Coordinates and directs the CMAG Command; serves as acting CMAG during the Chief's absence.

Military Prosecution
Headed by the Chief Military Prosecutor, they are responsible for criminal prosecution. The Chief Military Prosecutor has exclusive authority to submit appeals to the Military Court of Appeals over rulings rendered by the District Military Tribunals.

The Military Prosecution is responsible for upholding the rule of law in the IDF by enforcing the law against IDF soldiers that have committed offences under the jurisdiction of the military justice system. Additionally, the Military Prosecution is responsible for prosecuting residents of Judea and Samaria that have violated the law and are under the jurisdiction of the Military Courts.

Officers in the Military Prosecution handle cases that concern offences that have occurred within the military context or have a military service nexus. In addition, they also handle cases concerning crimes that are unique to the military legal system, such as absenteeism.

Military Defense
Responsible for defending soldiers and officers before the military tribunals, during appeals to the Military Court of Appeals, and providing representation and legal advice to members of the military while they undergo an investigation.

The Military Defense specializes in the defense of soldiers in military-criminal law, and consists of dozens of enlisted defense lawyers working in each district of the Military Courts, as well as numerous lawyers serving in reserve duty. The military defenders handle thousands of cases annually dealing with a variety of offences in the military justice system, and assist soldiers and commanders throughout legal and related proceedings.

Through individual cases as well as the advancement of different initiatives, the Military Defense assists soldiers under investigation and under trial, furthers the rights of soldiers, and contributes to the pursuit of justice. This is all done unwaveringly, independently and tirelessly.

Legal Supervision and Doctrine Branch
Composed of three departments: The Administrative Justice Dept. oversees administrative conduct and provides legal advice on areas related to administrative law. The Amnesty Dept. centralizes amnesty appeals to the President, provides legal opinion to the Chief of Staff as an authority confirming verdicts and sentences (including their reductions), provides legal advice to the committee for erasing the criminal records of soldiers prior to their recruitment, handles prisoner releases in the framework of peace agreements, and treats appeals to the Supreme Court. The Supervisory Dept. attends to criticisms of MAG bodies, and coordinates its activities with investigatory entities outside the IDF.