[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

vania Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain.
 April 24–27 – The Constitution Party's National Convention is held in Kansas City, Missouri. Chuck Baldwin and Darrell Castle are nominated for the offices of president and vice president respectively.

May 2008
May 3 – Barack Obama wins the Guam Democratic territorial convention by seven votes.
May 6 – The North Carolina Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Indiana primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The North Carolina and Indiana Republican primaries are won by John McCain.
 May 12 – Former United States Representative Bob Barr of Georgia officially enters the race for the Libertarian Party nomination.
 May 13 – The West Virginia Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Republican primary is won by John McCain. The Nebraska Republican primary is won by John McCain.
 May 14 – Former Democratic candidate and 2004 vice presidential nominee John Edwards endorses Barack Obama.
 May 20 – The Oregon Democratic primary is won by Barack Obama. The Kentucky primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Oregon and Kentucky Republican primaries are won by John McCain.
 May 23–26 – The 2008 Libertarian National Convention is held at Adam's Mark Hotel in Denver, Colorado. Bob Barr is chosen as the party's presidential nominee and entrepreneur Wayne Allyn Root is chosen as the party's vice presidential nominee.
 May 27 – The Idaho Republican primary is won by John McCain.

June 2008

 June 1 – The Puerto Rico Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton.
 June 3 – The South Dakota Democratic primary is won by Hillary Clinton. The Montana primary is won by Barack Obama, who wins enough delegates to become the Democratic presumptive nominee. The South Dakota Republican primary and the New Mexico Republican caucuses are won by John McCain.
June 4 – John McCain challenges Obama to a series of "town hall" debates starting on June 12.
June 5 – Barack Obama appoints his vice presidential selection committee.
June 7 – Hillary Clinton officially concedes the Democratic nomination, and endorses Barack Obama.
June 12 – Republican candidate Ron Paul officially suspends his campaign, since no Republican primaries remain, and to permit legal transfer of leftover funds to the Campaign for Liberty PAC.  Ron Paul delegates to the Republican National Convention were released technically, but were encouraged to stay true.  
June 16 – Former Vice President Al Gore endorses Barack Obama.
June 27 – Hillary Clinton joins Barack Obama at a rally in Unity, New Hampshire, her first public appearance since ending her presidential campaign.

July 2008
 July 3 – John McCain gives political advisor Steve Schmidt "full operational control" of his campaign.
 July 10–13 – The Green Party holds its National Convention in Chicago. Former Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney of Georgia is nominated for president and community organizer Rosa Clemente is nominated for vice president.
July 23–28 – Barack Obama makes a trip to Europe and the Middle East.

August 2008

 August 2 – The Peace and Freedom Party nominates independent candidate Ralph Nader and his running mate Matt Gonzalez for president and vice president respectively.
 August 16 – John McCain and Barack Obama make a joint appearance at the Civil Forum on the Presidency at Saddleback Church in Lake Forest, California, in which they are interviewed by Pastor Rick Warren.
 August 23 – Barack Obama announces his selection of former Democratic presidential candidate and Senator Joe Biden of Delaware as his running mate.
 August 24 – The Democratic National Committee unanimously votes that the delegates to the Democratic National Convention from Florida and Michigan will be fully seated. It had previously stripped both states of their delegates as punishment for moving their primary dates before February 5.
 August 25–28 – The Democratic National Convention convenes in Denver.
 August 27 – Barack Obama is officially nominated for president by the Democratic Party. Joe Biden is nominated for Vice President of the United States, accepting minutes later.
August 28 – Barack Obama accepts the Democratic Party presidential nomination in a speech delivered at Invesco Field in Denver.
August 29 – John McCain announces his selection of Alaska Governor Sarah Palin as his running mate.

September 2008