[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elizabeth Clarke Wolstenholme-Elmy

d, Harriot Stanton Blatch, Caroline Holyoake Smith, and Charles W. Bream Pearce (husband of Isabella Bream Pearce). Members include Lady Florence Dixie, Charlotte Carmichael Stopes, and George Jacob Holyoake. Isabella Ford worked on behalf of the WEU at outdoor rallies in London's East End in 1895. 

Papers included Amy Hurlston's "The Factory work of Women in the Midlands" and William Henry Wilkins's "The Bitter Cry of the Voteless Toiler", both in 1893, and Isabella Bream Pearce's "Women and Factory Legislation" in 1896.

Following the Local Government Act 1894, the WEU worked to encourage those women who were covered by it (mostly property owners) to stand for election in bodies of local administration, or at least to vote. Over 100 of the WEU organisers were elected as Poor Law Guardians or Parish Councillors.

Following the death of their benefactor and a halving of their subscriptions in the slump following the loss of the 1897 Women's Suffrage Bill, the WEU folded. The final meeting was held in 1899, when the speakers included Harriot Stanton Blatch and Charlotte Perkins Gilman.

WSPU

Wolstenholme, a friend and colleague of Emmeline Pankhurst, was invited onto the executive committee of the Women's Social and Political Union. The WEU is starting to be recognised as a forerunner to the combative 'militant' WSPU suffragettes.

She was on the stage when Keir Hardie and Pankhurst spoke to a large crowd in Trafalgar Square, and also wrote an eyewitness account of the 1906 Boggart Hole Clough meeting and the 1908 Women's Sunday where she was honoured with her own stand. In the 1911 Coronation Procession, watching from a balcony, she was dubbed 'England's oldest' suffragette ('militant suffragist'). Wolstenholme resigned from the WSPU in 1913 when its violent activities threatened human life.

Further activities
She became vice-president of the Women's Tax Resistance League in the same year. She also gave her support to the Lancashire and Cheshire Textile and other Workers' Representation Committee, formed in Manchester during 1903 headed by Esther Roper.

Wolstenholme was not a single issue campaigner and wanted parity between the sexes. She became secretary to the Married Women's Property Committee from 1867 until its success with the introduction of the Married Women's Property Act 1882. In 1869, she invited Josephine Butler to be president of the  Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts, a campaign which succeeded in 1886. In 1883, Wolstenholme worked for the Guardianship of Infants Committee that became an act in 1886 (see Custody of Infants Act 1873).

Personal life
Wolstenholme met silk mill owner, secularist, republican (i.e. anti-monarchist), and women's rights supporter Benjamin John Elmy (1838–1906) when she moved to Congleton. He became her soulmate and domestic partner. Elmy was born in Hollingsworth to Benjamin, an Inland Revenue officer, and Jane ( Ellis) Elmy. Working as a teacher in his early 20s, Elmy lost his faith and became a factory manager in Lancashire's textile trade. It was this work that gave him insights into economic hardships that beset women workers   

In 1867, Wolstenholme and Elmy set up a Ladies' Education Society that was open to men. They became active in the women's movement, joining Wolstenholme's committees. The couple began living together in the early 1870s, following the free love movement and horrifying their devout Christian colleagues. When Wolstenholme became pregnant in 1874, her colleagues were outraged and demanded that they marry, against their personal beliefs. Despite the couple going through a civil marriage registry ceremony in 1874, she was forced to give up her job in London.

The couple moved to Buxton House, Buglawton, where Wolstenholme-Elmy gave birth to their son, Frank, in 1875. Frank Elmy was educated at home. In 1886, Benjamin J. Elmy was elected as Master of the Congleton Lodge of the Fair Trade League (supporting protection of British industry) and both Wolstenholme and Elmy were popular speakers at events organised against the free trade laws. Elmy and Co. ceased trading in 1888 and Elmy retired due to ill health in 1891. In 1897, he founded the first Male Electors League for Female Suffrage (see also the 1907 Men's League for Women's Suffrage). 

Deaths
The couple remained married until Elmy's death in 1906. Wolstenholme died on 12 March 1918. Her funeral was held at the Manchester Crematorium.

Works

Wolstenholme wrote prolifically, including papers for the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science and articles for feminist publications such as Shafts and national newspapers such as the Westminster Review. Pamphlets concerning her campaigns were also published by organisations like the Women's Emancipation Union.