[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Department of Peace Operations

) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), African Union and European Union. One area of this reform effort has been the development of clearer internal doctrine or guidance for UN peacekeeping. The highest level DPO doctrine document was issued in 2008, known as the 'capstone' doctrine.

Very recently with the newest reform efforts, Secretary-General Guterres has made efforts to streamline peacekeeping efforts to conserve finances, and eliminate excess and unnecessary roles. Shared regional divisions of the DPA and DPO will restructure and remove duplication of tasks, allowing for more manpower to be available for new initiates and existing operations. This gives the department more resources and responsibilities for broader peace building efforts, which are of course by their nature linked to political analysis and strategy (Cliffe, 2018). While peacekeeping operations are at an all-time high, and funding continues to receive budget cuts, efficiency measures will allow peacekeeping operations to remain intact. Removing duplications will allow for a wider spectrum of support to be available for troops on the ground.

List of heads
The following is a chronological list of those who have held the position of Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations:

Financing
The bulk of peacekeeping operations funding is appropriated much like the general budget, but permanent members of the Security Council are required to pay a larger share, and all states are free to contribute additional funding, equipment, or other services to missions of their respective choices.

Current UN Peacekeeping Operations budget for the fiscal year 1 July 2021 - 30 June 2022 amounts for $6.38 billion.

This amount finances 10 of the 12 ongoing UN peacekeeping missions, along the liquidation of the UN African Union Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID) and logistics support for the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), providing the technology, logistics and general support to all peace operations through global service centres in Brindisi (Italy) and a regional service centre in Entebbe (Uganda).

The UN Truce Supervision Organisation (UNTSO) and the UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP) are excluded from the Peacekeeping Operations budged and are financed through the regular UN budget.

The top 5 providers of assessed contributions to the UN Peacekeeping Operations budget for 2020-2021 are: United States (27.89%), China (15.21%), Japan (8.56%), Germany (6.09%), and United Kingdom (5.79%)

Current operations
As of 2010, DPO leads 16 different missions in Africa, the Caribbean, the Middle East, Americas, Europe and Asia. Serving in these missions are over 100,000 uniformed and civilian personnel.   Total approved annual expenses are over US$5 billion for the period July 2006 to June 2007.

"The Surge"
At an October 2006 press conference,  then USG Jean-Marie Guéhenno announced that peacekeeping operations had reached an all-time high, and will continue to expand as UNIFIL and UNMIT reach full strength, and if a UN mission enters Darfur.

See also
List of United Nations peacekeeping missions

References

Further reading
 Koops, Joachim Alexander, et al., eds. The Oxford handbook of United Nations peacekeeping operations (Oxford UP, 2015).
 Curran, David, and Paul D. Williams. "The United Kingdom and United Nations peace operations." International Peacekeeping 23.5 (2016): 630–651. online
 Di Salvatore, Jessica, et al. "Introducing the peacekeeping mandates (PEMA) dataset." Social Science Research Network (2020). online
 Dorn, A. Walter, and Robin Collins. "Peacekeeping works: The UN can help end civil wars." International Journal 75.1 (2020): 95–103. online
 Druckman, Daniel, Grace Mueller, and Paul F. Diehl. "Exploring the Compatibility of Multiple Missions in UN Peace Operations." International Peacekeeping (2020): 1-30. [ online]
 Gromes, Thorsten. "Does peacekeeping only work in easy environments? An analysis of conflict characteristics, mission profiles, and civil war recurrence." 'Contemporary security policy 40.4 (2019): 459-480. online
 Mobekk, Eirin. UN Peace Operations: Lessons from Haiti, 1994-2016 (Routledge, 2016).
 Mulder, Nicholas. The Economic Weapon: The Rise of Sanctions as a Tool of Modern War (2022) excerpt
 Tardy, Thierry. "France: the unlikely return to UN peacekeeping." International peacekeeping'' 23.5 (2016): 610–629,

External links
Records of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO), Office of the Under-Secretary-General (OUSG) at the United Nations Archives
United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations Official Website
United Nations Rule of Law: The Department of Peacekeeping Operations, on the rule of law work conducted by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations.
 SPIA - Soldiers of Peace International Association
 

Government agencies established in 1992
United Nations peacekeeping
Military operations other than war
United Nations Secretariat