[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mayo A. Shattuck III

Mayo A. Shattuck III (born 1954 in Boston, Massachusetts) is an American businessman and philanthropist. He currently serves as non-executive chairman of Chicago-based Exelon Corporation, co-chair of the Johns Hopkins University Capital Campaign and vice chairman of the board of Johns Hopkins Medicine. Shattuck is involved in a number of philanthropic efforts, including those at the Johns Hopkins University, First Tee, and the University of Maryland Baltimore County and is a notable advocate for nuclear power.

Early life and education
Shattuck was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1954. He attended the Noble and Greenough School in Dedham, Massachusetts. Shattuck received a Bachelor of Arts from Williams College in 1976 and an MBA from Stanford University in 1980. Shattuck graduated as an Arjay Miller Scholar from Stanford Graduate School of Business.

Shattuck's father was "heavily involved in the Boston investment community," and he managed Harvard's endowment and also served as a managing director at one of Boston's most respected institutional money managers. Shattuck's father passed away in 1974.

Career 
After completing his MBA at Stanford in 1980, Shattuck joined Bain and Co. in San Francisco where he worked with former Massachusetts governor and presidential candidate Mitt Romney. He also held a position at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.

Alex. Brown & Sons 
In 1985, Shattuck joined the investment firm Alex. Brown & Sons and was soon after promoted to president and chief operating officer in 1991. There he helped the company move through several challenging mergers and the eventual acquisition of the company by Deutsche Bank. Howard Schultz, chairman and chief executive of Starbucks Coffee, called Shattuck a "brilliant strategist", referring to his time at Alex. Brown. In 1997, Shattuck helped engineer the $1.7 billion merger of Alex. Brown and Sons and Bankers Trust resulting in him becoming a vice chairman of Bankers Trust Corp. and the co-chief executive officer of BT Alex. Brown. During this process, Shattuck was known for advocating on behalf of workers at Alex. Brown and serving as mediator between the executives of the two companies. The new company was acquired by Deutsche Bank two years later, and Shattuck served as chairman of the board of Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown. Shattuck also served as the head of Investment Banking and Private Banking. Shattuck resigned on September 12, 2001 as head of Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown.

Constellation Energy Group 
On October 26, 2001, Shattuck was appointed president and CEO of Constellation Energy Group, and he was elected chairman of the board in July 2002. Shattuck's early tenure at Constellation was characterized by the objective of refocusing the company on the energy sector by taking actions such as laying off 10% of the company's workers and selling off the company's Boeing 747, transport tanker, real estate assets, and nursing home business. Over the same period, he reversed an existing plan to divide the company with the assistance of Goldman Sachs and restructured the company to force more accountability to management. In response to worsening conditions for American energy companies, Shattuck aimed to refinance Constellation's $5 billion debt load and secure more credit from banks allowing the acquisition of various weaker energy companies going into bankruptcy. Shattuck's decisions were widely considered to be painful at first, but ultimately necessary to turn around and grow Constellation.

In the next few years, Shattuck expanded Constellation's operations in the financial sector, staking out large positions in energy commodity markets and complex derivative products financed by large, short-term loans. For instance, Shattuck led Constellation's activities in buying power from utility companies and reselling power to customers around the country in deregulated markets resulting in significant growth. In expanding Constellation's energy trading activities, Shattuck predicted that only energy companies, and not financial firms, could create a market for energy derivatives and risk management in the energy industry. While these operations contributed greatly to Constellation's profits over the period, they also increased the company's exposure to financial market developments. When credit ultimately dried up during the financial crisis, ratings agencies downgraded Constellation's debt and Constellation stock fell by 76% leading some to question whether Shattuck should continue to lead the company.