[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Memorial Hall (Harvard University)

Memorial Hall, immediately north of Harvard Yard in Cambridge, Massachusetts, is a large High Victorian Gothic building honoring Harvard men's sacrifices in defense of the Union during the American Civil War"a symbol of Boston's commitment to the Unionist cause and the abolitionist movement in America."

Built on a former playing field known as the Delta, it was described by Henry James as consisting of

James's "three divisions" are known today as (respectively) Sanders Theatre; Annenberg Hall (formerly Alumni Hall or the Great Hall); and Memorial Transept. Beneath Annenberg Hall, Loker Commons offers a number of student facilities.



Conception and construction

Between 1865 and 1868 an alumni "Committee of Fifty" raised $370,000 (equal to one-twelfth of Harvard's entire endowment at the time) toward a new building in memory of Harvard men who had fought for the Union in the American Civil War, particularly the 136 deada "Hall of Alumni in which students and graduates might be inspired by the pictured and sculpted presence of her founders, benefactors, faculty, presidents, and most distinguished sons."
When, about the same time, a $40,000 bequest was received from Charles Sanders (class of 1802) for
"a hall or theatre to be used on [any] public occasion connected with the College, whether literary or festive", a vision was formed of a single building containing a large theater as well as a large open hall, and thus meeting both goals.

A site was found on the "Delta", the triangle bounded by Cambridge, Kirkland, and Quincy Streets.
The project was formally named Memorial Hall in September 1870, and
on October 6 the cornerstone was laid, Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. composing a hymn for the occasion.

In May 1878 the Committee of Fifty notified the President and Fellows that the project was complete and the premises ready for formal transfer to the university. On July8 the President and Fellows unanimously voted to "accept with profound gratitude this splendid and precious gift."

Architecture and facilities

The building's High Victorian Gothic design, by alumni William Robert Ware and Henry Van Brunt, was selected in a blind competition. A 1907 publication gives dimensions of 305 by 113 feet, with a height of 190 feet at the tower;
a 2012 source gave a height of 195 feet, making it the ninth-tallest building in Cambridge at that time.
Its 1970 National Historic Landmark designation recognized it one of the nation's most dramatic examples of High Victorian Gothic architecture.

A general restoration was carried out between 1987 and 1996.

Annenberg Hall
What was originally known as Alumni Hallnine thousand square feet shaped by massive wooden trusses, walnut paneling, and a blue, stenciled ceilingwas dedicated in 1874.

Originally intended for formal occasions such as alumni dinners, it was almost immediately converted to a dining commons, and was for fifty years the college's main dining hall (charging, in 1884, $3.97 for a month's meals).
In 1893 the Harvard Graduates Magazine described
"the throngs of men who, at one o'clock, are to be seen racing across the yard from Harvard, Boylston, and Sever [Halls], striving to reach [Memorial] Hall ahead of slower competitors for vacant seats at the overtaxed tables".
But "as the center of University life moved south toward the Charles, [the dining commons] became less popular and closed in 1925"
(see Harvard College § House system) after which Alumni Hall saw mostly light use, typically as a venue for dances, banquets, examinations, and the like. In 1934 The New York Times reported that Harvard officials had "at last found a use for Memorial Hall" by siting a rifle range in the basement.

During World War II the Crimson reported<ref
name="Crimson1943">
Services Use Mem Hall for Cal, Drill, Classes, Movies: 70 Year Old Building Was College Center Harvard Crimson. August 24, 1943. Retrieved 2012-11-10.</ref> that "the Great Hall" was being used "in winter-time for the 6 o'clock in the morning calisthenics of the [military] Chaplain's School" (though without explaining why Harvard Divinity students had been singled out for this treatment) and intimated that Stevens Laboratory, in the basement,  "is doing secret work in acoustics."

After extensive renovations, in 1996 the space was renamed Annenberg Hall and supplanted, as the freshmen dining hall, the Harvard Union, which had performed that function during most of the intervening time.

Memorial Transept

The Memorial Transept [] consists of a  gothic vault above a marble floor, with black walnut paneling and stenciled walls, a large stained glass window over each of two exterior doors, andcommemorating the 136 Harvard men who died fighting for the Uniontwenty-eight white tablets,

Confederate deaths are not represented.

Memorial Transept serves as a vestibule for Sanders Theatre.

Sanders Theatre