[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lundin Energy

100% electric motor systems for high-speed boats which has the potential of reducing emissions in the boating industry. Lundin Energy further support Katapult Climate with its Climate Accelerator Program that targets innovative tech entrepreneurs that advance zero and low carbon solutions at scale.

History
Lundin has been involved in oil exploration and production for over thirty years. Lundin Petroleum can trace its roots back to the early eighties in the form of International Petroleum, then International Petroleum Corporation, followed by Lundin Oil in the late nineties before emerging as Lundin Petroleum in 2001 and becoming Lundin Energy in 2020.

The company was formed in 2001 following the takeover of Lundin Oil AB by Canadian independent Talisman Energy, Lundin Petroleum AB is a Swedish oil company traded on the Stockholm Stock Exchange.  In the summer of 2003, Lundin Petroleum sold its working interest in Block 5A to Petronas Carigali for US$142.5 million. In 1998 the company discovered the En Naga North and West field in southern part of the Sirte Basin, Libya. After a successful appraisal program in 1998 and 1999 the field was declared. The commercial and development program commenced. Development included the construction of a central production facility, 100 km pipeline together with the drilling of 20 production, 15 injector and 15 water supply wells. Recoverable reserves were estimated to be approximately  of oil equivalent. In Tunisia, the Oudna field development (Lundin Petroleum 40% working interest) was successfully completed and production commenced in November 2006.

In 2002, Lundin Petroleum acquired Coparex International from BNP Paribas, adding exploration and production assets in France, Netherlands, Tunisia, Venezuela, Indonesia and Albania to the existing portfolio. The acquisition transformed Lundin Petroleum from a pure exploration company into a larger E&P player. In early 2003, Lundin Petroleum entered Norway for the first time by acquiring 75 percent of the shareholding in Norwegian OER oil. In 2004, Lundin Petroleum acquired a portfolio of producing assets in the UK from DNO AS, doubling Lundin Petroleum's reserves to  of oil equivalent and increased production to  per day of oil equivalent.

In April 2010 it demerged its assets on the United Kingdom Continental Shelf into Petrofac's Energy Developments unit to form the stand-alone company EnQuest.

In 2010, Lundin Petroleum made a large discovery on the Avaldsnes prospect in PL501 on the Utsira High in the North Sea, estimated to contain recoverable resources of  of oil equivalent. The discovery was later renamed Johan Sverdrup oil field.

In 2014, Lundin Petroleum made an oil and gas discovery on the Alta prospect in PL609 on the Loppa High in the southern Barents Sea. The discovery is located 20 km northeast of the Gohta discovery well and some 160 km from the Norwegian coast and is estimated to contain resources of  of oil equivalent.

In February 2015, it has started drilling exploration well 16/1-24, located in the Gemini prospect of the North Sea. The well is located in PL338C south-west of the Edvard Grieg field, offshore Norway. It will test the reservoir properties and hydrocarbon potential of Lower Paleocene aged sandstones of the Ty Formation. The Gemini prospect is estimated to contain unrisked, gross prospective resources of  of oil equivalent. The Island Innovator semi-submersible drilling rig will be used to drill the well to a planned total depth of 2,192m below mean sea level. The Gemini exploration well was completed as a dry well in March 2015.

In 2015, three field developments were completed and started production: the Bøyla field and the Edvard Grieg oil field in Norway and the Bertam field in Malaysia.

In April 2017, Lundin Petroleum spun-off its producing assets outside of Norway into a new company called International Petroleum Corporation (IPC). Following the spin-off, Lundin Petroleum is a fully Norway focused company.

Following the approval by the AGM 2020, the company changed its name from Lundin Petroleum to Lundin Energy, to better reflect its decarbonization strategy and broadening of its energy mix.

Leadership
Founder Adolf H. Lundin also founded Lundin Mining in 1994. Adolf H. Lundin, who was a pioneer in the oil and mining industries, died in 2006 at the age of 73. In June 2015, Alex Schneiter was appointed president and chief executive officer of Lundin Petroleum, effective October 2015.  The Company announced the appointment of Nick Walker as the company's new president and CEO In August 2020, effective January 1, 2021.

Accusations of Complicity in War Crimes
In her book Affärer i blod och olja: Lundin Petroleum i Afrika (Business in blood and oil: Lundin Petroleum in Africa) journalist Kerstin Lundell claims that the company had been complicit in several crimes against humanity, including death shootings and the burning of villages.