[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Distomo massacre

German state nonprofit organization, as part of the restitution.

In December 2008, the German government filed a claim at the International Court of Justice in the Hague.  The German claim was that the Italian courts should have dismissed the case under the international law of sovereign immunity.

In January 2011, the Prime Minister of Greece, George Papandreou, announced that the Greek Government would be represented at the International Court of Justice in relation to the claim for reparations by relatives of victims.  In its 2012 final judgement, the court ruled that Italy had violated Germany's state immunity, and directed that the judgment by the Italian courts be retracted. In 2014 the Italian Constitutional Court ruled that sovereign immunity for crimes such as Distomo violated the core rights guaranteed by the Italian constitution. Sovereign immunity would therefore no longer be applicable law in Italy for the war crimes cases in question. New claims for compensation for the Distomo massacre could therefore be brought before Italian courts.

In film
A Song for Argyris is a 2006 documentary film that details the life story of Argyris Sfountouris, a survivor of the massacre.

The massacre is described in Peter Nestler's experimental documentary Von Griechenland (1966).

See also
List of massacres in Greece
Hellmuth Felmy
Krupki massacre 
Marzabotto massacre
Massacre of Kalavryta
Oradour-sur-Glane massacre, which occurred on the same date
Sant'Anna di Stazzema massacre
Szczurowa massacre
Ivanci massacre

Books

Notes

External links 

What the Germans did to Greece. Life Magazine, Nov. 27, 1944, pp 21–27. Also on google books.
Municipality of Distomo on massacre
German website describing the Distomo massacre
Dutch website with reference to the Distomo massacre
Ein Lied für Argyris (A Song for Argyris). A documentary with Argyris Sfountouris, a survivor of the massacre.
 
 Karantsalis, Theo (2020). Distomo, still we mourn. The National Herald, Jun. 10, 2020. https://www.thenationalherald.com/opinions_columnists/arthro/distomo_still_we_mourn-444433/

1944 murders in Greece
Central Greece in World War II
June 1944 events
Massacres in 1944
Massacres in Greece during World War II
Nazi war crimes in Greece
War crimes of the Waffen-SS