[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Freemasons' Hall, London

hich makes it the largest of the Masonic provinces.

Architectural fittings 
Throughout the building Robert Adams (Victor) range of floor springs are used to control the doors, including the "Sceptre Victor." Windows are also controlled by Robert Adams geared fan light operators.

In popular culture

In 2016, a part of the film Assassin's Creed was filmed in the Grand Temple. Re-labeled as "The Grand Templar Hall", the Temple is used as the antagonist's location for his award ceremony towards the end of the film. The Hall is seen sporting double Templar Crosses on the facade of the Temple.

Like Sandby's Grand Hall, the Grand Temple is also used for concerts and musical events – having excellent acoustics and clear sight-lines. In September 2014, Freemasons' Hall hosted several fashion shows as a part of London Fashion Week 2014.

The building is used both internally and externally as a stand-in for Thames House (the home of MI5) in the TV series Spooks and in the TV series Spy and has also featured extensively in the long-running series of TV films Agatha Christie's Poirot. The building makes frequent one-off appearances in episodes of other television series, such as its extensive use in Hustle, series 5, episode 2. Both its exterior and interior were used in an episode of New Tricks, and the interior has been used for the film adaptation of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy where Freemasons' Hall becomes the temple in which the "Jatravartid" people pray for "the coming of the Great White Handkerchief". It has also been used in many other feature films, including Agent Cody Banks 2: Destination London, The Wings of the Dove, Johnny English, Sherlock Holmes, and the television adaptation of The Line of Beauty. The building has also featured as a backdrop in music videos, including extensive use (internally and externally) in the music video for Westlife's cover of Mandy.

The 2013 crypto-thriller The Sword of Moses by Dominic Selwood has numerous scenes set in Freemasons' Hall.

In 2022 The Late Late Show with James Corden filmed four episodes in Freemasons' Hall for a London week.

See also 
 Freemasonry
 Mark Masons' Hall, London
 National Heritage Museum of Freemasonry, Lexington, Massachusetts

Notes

External links 

 History of Freemasons' Hall
Website of the Museum of Freemasonry

Grade II* listed buildings in the London Borough of Camden
Art Deco architecture in London
Masonic buildings in the United Kingdom
Masonic memorials
United Grand Lodge of England
Masonic museums
Museums with year of establishment missing
History museums in London
Museums in the London Borough of Camden
Libraries in the London Borough of Camden
Masonic buildings completed in 1933