[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# History of Harringay (1880–present)

branch in 1975 and transferred ownership to British Rail, who installed new connections to the main line south of Finsbury Park. Finally the route has taken on its original intended purpose of providing a City terminus for suburban services, now run from Moorgate to Hertford, Welwyn, and Letchworth.

The Tube
The story of a Harringay tube station is one of near-misses. Provision for a Tube station at Harringay actually made it into plans contained in the Great Northern and Strand Railway (GNSR) Act of Parliament of 1899, which gave the go-ahead for a new line running from Wood Green to Aldwych. Stations were to be built at Wood Green, Hornsey, Harringay, Finsbury Park, Holloway, Bingfield Street/York Road, Russell Square, Holborn and Strand (adjacent to Aldwych). On the northern section, the line would have run below the Great Northern Railway with stations beneath the existing mainline ones. Finance for the new line, however, was problematic and eventually the scheme was taken over by an American sponsor, Charles Tyson Yerkes. Yerkes also owned two other railway companies, which had plans to build similar routes. He decided that financial viability meant they should be incorporated into one line. The Piccadilly line opened in 1906; Finsbury Park on 15 December. However, at the eastern end of the line, the Great Northern Railway considered the territory beyond Finsbury Park their own, and they vetoed any extension beyond that point. This remained the situation until public opinion became strong enough to reverse the veto.
 
In the early 1930s, with the opposition swept aside, plans to extend the Piccadilly line from Finsbury Park up to Wood Green and beyond were made public. However, the plans no longer included stops at either Harringay or Hornsey. A campaign by the Harringay Ratepayers' Association tried to get a station built near to St Ann's Road; however, the campaign failed because London Underground argued that an additional stop would increase the journey times to central London above their targets. The section from Finsbury Park to Arnos Grove was opened on 19 September 1932.

See also
Municipal Borough of Hornsey for the local government unit of which Harringay was part from 1903 to 1965
London Borough of Haringey for the local government unit of which Harringay has been part since 1965

References and notes

External links
Harringay Online's Harringay Timeline
 Harringay online - Website for Harringay residents with lots of information on Harringay and its history.

History of the London Borough of Haringey
Harringay