[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jade Esteban Estrada

Jade Esteban Estrada (born September 17, 1975) is an American singer, actor, stand-up comedian, journalist and human rights activist. Out Magazine called him "the first gay Latin star."

Biography 
Born to David Gonzales Estrada and Aurora (née Sanchez) Estrada, Jade Esteban Estrada has four siblings: Celeste, David, Olga and Sara. As a young boy, Estrada participated in extracurricular school activities and sang in the school choir. Growing up in the Catholic Church, Estrada once believed that he would join the clergy. Through his local parish, he became a member of the Boy Scouts of America. Through the encouragement of his choir instructor, he began to take voice lessons and eventually moved to New York to attend the American Musical and Dramatic Academy.

Estrada appeared in the German production of Starlight Express and worked as a dancer for Seventeen. After two popular appearances as a transgender singer/dancer on The Jerry Springer Show, he worked as Charo's choreographer and lead dancer. He gained international recognition in 1998 when he released the single "Reggae Twist" on the Brooklyn-based Total Envision Records label.

In 2008, he hosted the 19th Annual South Florida GLAAD Media Awards on Bravo. During the Obama Administration, he was invited to The White House to attend the State Arrival Ceremony welcoming President of Mexico Felipe Calderón and his wife Margarita Zavala.

Latin pop music 
According to Latina (magazine), Estrada is "probably best known as a Latin pop singer."

In 2001, Estrada made an announcement that would benefit his career. "I am proud to be a gay Latino," he said, while performing at Central New York Pride in Utica, New York.

In April 2002, Estrada lent his name to Being Out Rocks, a two-part National Coming Out Day project organized by the Human Rights Campaign. A poster celebrating "openly gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgendered musicians" was nationally distributed and encouraged young people to be themselves and to not let gender identity be an obstacle to their success. Other artists who signed their name included Melissa Etheridge, Pet Shop Boys, RuPaul, Michael Stipe and Indigo Girls.

On National Coming Out Day, October 11, 2002, a benefit CD featuring the songs of openly LGBT musicians and straight allies was released by Centaur Entertainment. Estrada, Cyndi Lauper, Queen, k.d. lang and Sarah McLachlan were among the artists who donated songs to the album.

Stand-up comedy 
Though Estrada has worked as a stand-up comedian in North America, Australia, South Africa and the United Kingdom, he's mostly known as for his headlining shows throughout the American Southwest. "Estrada’s delivery is endearingly folksy," writes Linda Ray of the Tucson Weekly. "It’s as if he’s metaphorically winking at an audience of friends as he deflates the stereotypes he invites with his flamboyant look, insider-Mexican bon mots and gay-culture references." USA Today's 10 Best wrote, "Laugh Out Loud Comedy Club should be on the top of your bucket list, especially when headlined by Jade Esteban Estrada from Bravo TV and Comedy Central."

Estrada frequently headlines the Sapphire Comedy Hour at Sapphire Las Vegas.

Theatre 
In 1993, Estrada played the title role in the national touring production of Tom Thumb in Toyland. In 1997, he returned to San Antonio's Jump-Start Theatre to perform in Milagritos by Sandra Cisneros and in Alicia Mena's There Comes a Time. Of the latter production, Dan R. Goddard of the San Antonio Express-News wrote, "But Estrada gives the best comic performance as poor, put-upon Peter, who allows himself to be overwhelmed by Ceci's fantasies - though it starts to wear thin after his 50th attempt to sing like Pedro Infante even though he's tone deaf."

In 2000, Estrada choreographed and starred in the New York production of Tropical! at Teatro LaTea. Robert Kent of TheatreMania wrote, “The show's greatest strength is the enthusiasm of these entertainers, who beautifully perform Estrada's demanding routines with dazzling smiles not seen in a musical variety show since Donny & Marie.”

In 2016, Estrada was an artist-in-residence at Prohibition Theatre in Houston, Texas. During this time, he wrote, directed and starred in burlesque adaptations of Edgar Allan Poe's The Masque of the Red Death, Eat Me, an adult-themed reboot of Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Tales of a Hard Nut, a comedic adaptation of The Nutcracker. In 2017, he returned to San Antonio to begin a two-year artist residency at the Overtime Theatre where he wrote, directed and choreographed Sinderella and the Glass Zipper, a burlesque adaptation of Cinderella.