[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mechina

ar experience in Israel with Israelis. There are at least three English speaking mechinas that are designed specifically to serve the needs of its international students. Mechinat "Kol Ami" is operated by the Jewish Agency and "Artzi" is an independent mechina that specializes in drama and the arts.

International religious students

Mechinat Keshet Yehuda specializes in helping religious men ages 17–21 from English speaking countries prepare for the IDF by integrating them into the Israeli student body and providing ulpan (Hebrew classes) and Torah learning in English. The program has been successfully helping young men from overseas for over 15 years. Most come with little or no Hebrew, without family or friends. By the end of the program, they are IDF ready, a high level of Hebrew proficiency and a great network of new friends. Keshet even has an adoption program to help the boys feel they have family in Israel too.

College preparatory programs
Several frameworks operate in Israel to prepare for entrance to institutions of higher (post-secondary) education those students who otherwise lack the necessary academic qualifications. These are geared for various populations.

Academic mechinot
These are operated by Israeli universities, for students with an Israeli high school education.

Mechinat olim
A mechinat olim (; immigrants' preparatory) is designed specifically for prospective, new, or recent immigrants intending to study in an Israeli institution of higher education. The programs are generally conducted for one year, and all courses are taught in Hebrew. The program has two basic goals: 
 to raise the student's level of Hebrew, including those who started with no prior knowledge of the language, suitable for enrolling in post-secondary academic coursework
 acquainting the student with academic material as taught in the Hebrew language, including subjects from the Israeli curriculum such as civics and Jewish history

Mechinot olim offers different content-based tracks of study (i.e. life science, humanities, social sciences, or physical science). The Technion will only accept students from its own mechina.

Remedial courses preparatory to higher education
In addition to the above, there are private (i. e., commercial) educational institutions in Israel offering remedial courses for students after high school who wish to complete or upgrade their scores in their subject matriculations or prepare for the psychometric examinations required for entrance to college or university.

See also
Service Year
Education in Israel

References

External links
 Joint Council of Mechinot
 Mechinot at the Ministry of Education (Hebrew)

Pre-army 
 Jewish Agency for Israel, Two Army Mechinot
 Rochelle Furstenberg: Israeli Life: Idealism From Below Hadassah Magazine, October 2008 Vol. 90 No. 2

Academic
 the Mechina of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
 the Mechina of the Technion

Olim 
 the Mechina for immigrants of the Technion
 the Mechina of Tel Aviv University

 
Jewish educational institutions
Hebrew words and phrases
Israel Defense Forces