[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chak, Sindh

libraries electronically and be part of the increasingly knowledge-based and connected society.

Sathi library, also established on self-help basis in 2004, is based at the Humbah locality of the town. Despite its limited capacity, it is providing much needed services to a large number of students.

Sufi soul of the town 
Chak had been largely immune from the religious extremism and intolerance, as has been the case with Sindh in general. There have been many Sufi saints in the area, whose shrines are located mainly in Hazrat Humbah, Chak. People from all religious affiliations pay homage to these saints year-round, especially during the annual Urs. Apart from The Shah Latif Library and Bhitai Bazar, there are many shops, retailers and a school named after Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai in town, which shows the attachment of the local folk with the great Sufi saint and Sufism.

Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai's message of peace and prosperity not only at home but all the world, which is even more relevant today than ever before, is beautifully portrayed by his most famous verses translated below:

Oh God! May ever You on Sindh
bestow abundance rare;
Beloved! All the world let share
Thy grace, and fruitful be.

Places of interest 
Shrines of Sufi saints in Hazrat Humbah – especially during the annual Urs, the death anniversary of a Sufi saint held at the saint's shrine. The Urs is a grand affair in town, where people from all walks of life from Chak and surrounding villages make a determined effort to attend. The Urs lasts for three days. The musical gatherings are the central event of the Urs, where disciples and singers gather around and sing passages from verses of the saints. The anniversary is also marked by food fairs, open-air markets selling traditional Sindhi ware, and entertaining and competitive sports.

See also 

 Sukkur
 Sindhi
 Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai
 The Shah Latif Library

Populated places in Shikarpur District