[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

le the Cranford Company was hired to build section 9-0-3, from Canal Street south to Pearl Street. The line had to be built through the former site of Collect Pond, which still had high amounts of groundwater. Contractors drained the groundwater, causing a huge crack in a nearby courthouse building.

The Centre Street Loop station, including a bridge over a planned line on Canal Street, was completed at the end of 1909. The station remained closed because the Chambers Street station, the terminal for the Centre Street Loop, was not complete. The BRT tunnel under Centre Street was completed by 1910, except for the section under the Manhattan Municipal Building, which contained the incomplete Chambers Street station. The tunnel remained unused for several years. In March 1913, the Public Service Commission authorized the BRT to lay tracks, install signals, and operate the loop. The Nassau Street Line platforms opened on August 4, 1913, providing service to northern Brooklyn via the Williamsburg Bridge.

Manhattan Bridge line 
The IRT unsuccessfully proposed constructing a two-track subway line along Canal Street in 1908, which would have crossed the Manhattan Bridge and connected with what is now the Eastern Parkway Line in Brooklyn. The BRT proposed the next year to construct a line across Canal Street and the Manhattan Bridge to connect with the Brighton Beach Line. The BRT submitted a proposal to the Commission, dated March 2, 1911, to operate the Tri-borough system (but under Church Street instead of Greenwich Street), as well as a branch along Broadway, Seventh Avenue, and 59th Street from Ninth Street north and east to the Queensboro Bridge. The Canal Street subway was to merge with the Broadway Line instead of continuing to the Hudson River. The Canal Street tunnel was originally supposed to be a separate line passing under the Broadway Line station and extend further westward. At the time, the Public Service Commission did not plan to build a track connection between the Canal Street and Broadway lines, saying that such a connection would cause severe train congestion. The BRT wanted to connect the lines, citing the fact that it would be difficult for passengers to transfer at the Canal Street station or to reroute trains in case of emergency. 

By the time the Dual Contracts were signed, the plans had been modified so the Manhattan Bridge line connected to the Broadway Line; this connection was estimated to cost an additional $1 million. In October 1913, the Public Service Commission ordered the BRT's parent company, the New York Municipal Corporation, to pay the Underpinning and Foundation Company about $12,000 for work related to the construction of the connection between the Canal Street and Broadway lines. At the time, the Underpinning and Foundation Company was constructing the section of the Broadway Line from Howard Street north to Bleecker Street; the New York Municipal Corporation ultimately had to pay the contractor an additional $412,000 for the connection. The commission was soliciting bids for a tunnel that diverged from the Broadway main line, extending east under Canal Street to the Manhattan Bridge, by February 1914. Due to the swampy character of the area, caused by the presence of the former Collect Pond, the commission considered building the line using either the cut-and-cover method or using deep-bore tunneling. The Underpinning and Foundation Company submitted a low bid of $1.822 million for a cut-and-cover tunnel in May 1914, and the company was selected to build the station two months later.

Work on the Manhattan Bridge line proceeded slowly, in part because of the high water table of the area, which required the contractor to pump out millions of gallons of groundwater every day. Although the old canal along Canal Street had been infilled, the ground still contained significant amounts of water; the Manhattan Bridge line was to be built within the bottom of the old Collect Pond, about  below the water level of the former pond. The Sun wrote that "the solution of the problem is in a way as great as those" that the builders of the Panama Canal had faced. About  of water had to be pumped out every minute of the day at all times, equating to about  every twenty-four hours. Workers then excavated sand and gravel from the site. In addition, the IRT station settled about  when the Manhattan Bridge line station was excavated.  Only a third of the project had been finished by mid-1915. The Manhattan Bridge line was less than half completed by January 1916, and it was 80 percent finished by that October. The Manhattan Bridge line platforms opened on September 4, 1917, as part of the first section of the Broadway Line from Canal Street to 14th Street–Union Square.