[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Biodiesel Board

ss all states. CFAA works with states on fuel quality enforcement measures.  CFAA also catalogs information regarding their authority to regulate fuels; their status in adopting ASTM D6751 as the fuel specification for biodiesel; enforcement procedures; and assessment of capacity to analyze samples.

CFAA administers a cooperative and voluntary program for the accreditation of producers and marketers of biodiesel fuel called BQ-9000. The program is a unique combination of the ASTM standard for biodiesel, ASTM D6751, and a quality systems program, which includes storage, sampling, testing, blending, shipping, distribution, and fuel management practices. BQ-9000 is open to any biodiesel manufacturer, marketer, or distributor of biodiesel and biodiesel blends in the U.S. and Canada. Companies must pass a rigorous review and inspection of their quality control processes by an independent auditor. The National Biodiesel Accreditation Commission (NBAC) issues a “BQ-9000 producer” or “BQ-9000 Marketer” seal of approval for those who pass.

Sustainability
CFAA membership adopted the following sustainability principles to guide the industry:

Biodiesel production shall follow all applicable laws of the jurisdiction in which it is produced.
Biodiesel projects shall be developed and operated under appropriate, transparent, and participatory processes that involve all relevant stakeholders.
Biodiesel shall contribute to climate change mitigation by significantly reducing lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions as compared to fossil fuels. Producers shall strive to continuously improve that reduction.
Biodiesel production shall support human rights and labor rights, and shall ensure safe and decent working conditions.
Biodiesel production shall contribute to the social and economic development of local communities.
Biodiesel production shall strive to improve food security.
Throughout the supply chain, the biodiesel industry shall implement management systems that maintain and strive to improve biodiversity, areas of High Conservation Value, and the quality of natural resources such as soil, air, and water.
Biodiesel production shall respect natural resource rights, such as land and water rights.
All participants throughout biodiesel supply chain shall be dedicated to the ideal of continuous improvement. Members shall, through ongoing efforts, make advancements in the economic, social and environmental performance of the industry.

Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) advancement
CFAA developed an OEM education and outreach program to foster OEM understanding, technical research, acceptance and promotion of biodiesel.  All diesel engine manufacturing companies warrant the engines they make for “materials and workmanship.” While most companies recommend a particular type of fuel in the owner's manual, engine manufacturers do not warrant fuel, including regular diesel.

Many companies have stated formally that the use of blends up to B20 (20 percent biodiesel, 80 percent diesel) will not void their parts and workmanship warranties. All U.S. OEMs approve of at least B5, and more than 54 percent support B20 or higher blends in at least some of their models.

Driven by new engine emissions requirements, which take effect on January 1, 2010, many engine manufacturers have completely redesigned their diesel engines for compliance.

Annual conference
Each February, CFAA holds its annual Clean Fuels Conference. The event provides educational tracks for all biodiesel stakeholders – state, national, and international feedstock and feedstock processor organizations, biodiesel suppliers, fuel marketers and distributors, and technology providers – as well as networking opportunities, industry updates, and access to government leaders. The conference has been going green for many years with the help of zero waste event producers The Spitfire Agency.

The Clean Fuels Foundation
The Clean Fuels Foundation (CFF), formerly known as the National Biodiesel Foundation, was organized in 1994 to support and promote outreach, education, science, and demonstration activities for the advancement of biodiesel and its co-products to improve national security, air quality, and the environment. Project funding is provided through government grants, charitable organizations, and corporate and individual donations.

Headquarters
The CFAA is headquartered in Jefferson City, Missouri in a “recycled” building, which was renovated from the ground up with eco-conscious features. These include carpet made from recycled materials, high efficiency plumbing and appliances, skylights, automated office lights, non-toxic paint, and solar-powered parking lot lights. The building also has many green technological capabilities, such as worldwide videoconferencing, which reduces the need for travel.

References

 ASTM 
 National Renewable Energy Laboratory 

Biodiesel
Trade associations based in the United States