[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Hannes Trautloft

n which contributed to the lost air war over Europe.

Following this incident, Trautloft was relieved of his position and sent to command the 4. Flieger-Schule Division (4th Pilot School Division) in Strassburg. He spent the remainder of the war there. Trautloft ended the war as an Oberst (colonel).

In the last days of the war he stole a small aircraft and flew it to land in a field between Blaichach and Sonthofen which was close to where his fiancé was living in the village of Oberstdorf. Joining up with her they hid in mountain huts, to avoid him being arrested by the occupying Allied troops and being sent to a detention camp. Once things had settled down they came down to the village and after registering with the authorities were able to live undisturbed in Oberstdorf.

Later life
To support himself and his wife following the end of the war Trautloft, who had produced many caricatures on the subject of aviation in his youth created the two costumed children "Toni and Vroni" which became popular, appearing on postcards, maps and as dolls marketed by the Schildkröt company.  His wife bought in additional income by providing tailoring services. Trautloft also designed an original scarf that served as admission to the German Alpine Ski Championships when they were held in Oberstdorf in 1949.  
In 1951 Trautloft and his family moved to Munich.

On 1 October 1957, Trautloft joined the new German Air Force, at the time referred to as the Bundesluftwaffe, of West Germany with the rank of Brigadegeneral. In 1961, he served as deputy Inspector of the Air Force. On 1 January 1962, Trautloft succeeded Generalmajor Hermann Plocher as commander of  (Air Force Group South) in Karlsruhe. Trautloft was retired on 26 June 1970 with a  (Grand Tattoo), holding the rank of Generalleutnant. That day, he was awarded the Grand Cross of Merit with Star of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany () for his service in Bundesluftwaffe. He was an active member of many veteran organizations including the Gemeinschaft der Jagdflieger until his death on 12 January 1995 at Bad Wiessee in Bavaria.

Personal life
While he was in his early twenties he became romantically involved with Marga Mayser. Marga's mother Helene was Jewish which according to the Nazi government's Nuremberg Laws meant that Marga was classified as a first-degree Mischling and thus prohibited from marrying Trautloft. In 1800, Marga's family had founded Mayser Hats, one of Germany’s largest hat manufacturers, in Ulm. 
To keep a low profile Marga and her parents moved to Oberstdorf in 1943. Upon registering with the mayor of Oberstdorf, he helped them by not adding the legally-required name "Sara" in Helene Mayser's registration. This name had been added to Jewish womens' surnames since 1938, and its omission was illegal.

After the end of the war Trautloft and Marga married and had a daughter.

Summary of military career

Aerial victory claims
According to US historian David T. Zabecki, Trautloft was credited with 58 aerial victories, five during the Spanish Civil War. Mathews and Foreman, authors of Luftwaffe Aces — Biographies and Victory Claims, researched the German Federal Archives and found records for 58 aerial victory claims, plus three further unconfirmed claims. This number includes five claims during the Spanish Civil War, eight on the Western Front and 45 on the Eastern Front of World War II.

Victory claims were logged to a map-reference (PQ = Planquadrat), for example "PQ 36 Ost 10523". The Luftwaffe grid map () covered all of Europe, western Russia and North Africa and was composed of rectangles measuring 15 minutes of latitude by 30 minutes of longitude, an area of about . These sectors were then subdivided into 36 smaller units to give a location area  in size.

Awards
 Spanish Cross in Gold with Swords (14 April 1939)
 Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross on 27 July 1941 as Major and Geschwaderkommodore of Jagdgeschwader 54
 German Cross in Gold on 27 July 1942 as Major in Jagdgeschwader 54
 Grand Cross of Merit with Star (26 June 1970)

Works
 Trautloft, Hannes (1940). Als Jagdflieger in Spanien: Aus dem Tagebuch eines deutschen Legionärs [As a Fighter Pilot in Spain: From the Diary of a German Legionnaire]. Berlin: A. Nauck & Co.

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1912 births
1995 deaths
People from Weimarer Land
People from Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach
Spanish Civil War flying aces
German World War II flying aces
Recipients of the Gold German Cross
Recipients of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross
Bundeswehr generals
Knights Commander of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Condor Legion personnel
German Air Force personnel
Military personnel from Thuringia