[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of Harringay (1880–present)

the estates, it was some time before they were both fully laid out and the individual plots sold.

The first roads to be laid out were the Wightman Road, (as far as present day Beresford Road) set out by the Great Northern Railway Company, and what is now Effingham Road, by the British Land Company.

The British Land Company took great care to ensure that the type and value of the buildings were of a good quality.  With development taking place in successive stages the type of development in one section would naturally affect the saleable value of areas that were yet to be developed and had not yet been put up for auction. Their concern is shown in a plan which was issued in connection with an auction of 119 lots on the Harringay Park Estate on 17 November 1884. Incorporated in the plan are stipulations. The following is an extract:

Once building work started, many builders were at work on both estates. Most of the applicants requesting permission to build were from local addresses, certainly not more than 5 miles away from either estate - some applicants even lived on either one of the estates. In the majority of cases the scale of operations of each builder was not unusually large. The Hornsey Local Board minutes show that the biggest single development seems to have been one of 32 dwellings in Mattison Road, for which planning permission was granted in 1895. However, this seems to have been exceptional since most applications were for a dozen houses or less; in some cases for only one or two houses.  The evidence of this can be still be seen today. At first glance most of the houses look the same, but a second look will reveal a considerable range of styles. With some care, it is possible to discern each small row or pair of houses. The table below shows how each estate developed.

* Harringay House

All the roads on both parts of the estate had been fully laid out and all houses built by 1899.

Although some local residents regarded the changing scene of Hornsey with dismay, it is clear from the local press that the changes were welcomed by the majority. This attitude, no doubt, reflected the Victorian obsession with the magic of size. The excitement with the scale and speed of the area's development can be discerned from comments made by the Chairman of the Hornsey School Board in 1883 during a visit to assess developments in the light of the possible need to provide a new school:-

Harringay House itself and three acres of ground around it was put up for auction on 29 October 1883. The British Land Company had hoped to sell the house as a viable building. The advertisement announcing its auction described it as being suitable for occupation by a large family or a charitable institution. However, with all the development going on in the immediate area and the whole character of the district changing rapidly, there was no interest in the building itself.  In April 1885 an advertisement appeared in the local press announcing the auction of the first portion of the building materials and fittings of the house; obviously the house had been demolished. At intervals of approximately two months there were three further auctions selling off the remaining building materials and fittings of the house. In September of the following year even the trees were put up for auction for sale to timber merchants.

A community establishes itself

By the turn of the century a strong sense of civic pride had been created and many local residents looked with a sense of achievement at the size which Harringay had reached in such a short period of time. Most of the occupants of both the estates were from the middle or lower-middle classes, the area being especially popular with clerks commuting to the city.

Any suggestion, however remote, that the lower orders were about to assault the bastion of social exclusiveness produced a quite remarkable reaction. An example of this came when the Hornsey School Board were considering a proposal to erect a Board school either on the Hornsey Station Estate or at nearby Stroud Green. The furore caused by this proposal in both Harringay and Stroud Green was extreme.

In Harringay protest meetings were held, letters were sent to the Hornsey and Finsbury Park Journal, deputations bearing memorials of protest were sent to the Board; all of this in an effort to keep the school out of Harringay. At a meeting in Hermitage Road about the issue, a Mr. Cummings mentioned that the neighbourhood of Walthamstow had been utterly ruined by the erection of small houses and Board schools and that if a school were erected on the site proposed he, for one, would leave the district.