[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Working Group on Arbitrary Detention

tion to ensure the detained person's right to life, as well as physical and mental integrity are respected. This a purely humanitarian undertaking, and does not prejudice the Working Group's final opinion on whether the deprivation of liberty is indeed arbitrary.

Advisory procedures

Country visits

In order to fulfil its mandate, the Working Group may conduct country visits. These provide an opportunity for the Group to understand the specific situation prevailing in countries. The Group undertake one to three country visits per year, upon invitation from the Government concerned. For example, in May 2017 the Working Group visited Argentina. In 2016 the Group visited the United States of America and Azerbaijan. The Group tend to visit between one and four countries per year.

On a country visit, members of the Working Group engage in a variety of tasks. These can include meeting with representatives of the executive, legislators, and other state officials. The Group also has the right to visit places of detention and have private discussions with detainees. Country visits enable the Working Group to gain a greater understanding of the social, political and historical environment in each country, enabling them to create context-appropriate recommendations.

Deliberations

More generally, the Working Group seeks to encourage broader international understanding of arbitrary detention, and promote universal standards. This is achieved through a more general advisory role, with the formulation of deliberations. The Group formulates deliberations on general issues to assist States in safeguarding against the practice of arbitrary deprivation of liberty. For example, the Group have developed deliberations on issues relating to house arrest, psychiatric detention, deprivation of liberty subsequent to a conviction and resulting from the use of the internet, on rehabilitation through labour and situations regarding immigrants and asylum seekers. The Group have also provided legal analysis regarding the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and clarified the definition of arbitrary deprivation of liberty under customary international law and the urgent appeals procedure.

Annual reports

The Working Group must submit Annual Reports to the Human Rights Council, summarising the previous year's activities. The report will express observations made while investigating cases and on field missions in differing countries. The report details the Working Group's reasoning behind legal insufficiencies, policies and judicial policies that are the cause of arbitrary deprivation of liberty, and recommend best practice to safeguard against arbitrary deprivation of liberty.

Criticisms

The Group functions as a quasi-judicial body. The Group has no direct enforcement power of its own. Instead, it relies on communication among states, policy-makers and advocates to encourage governments to implement its recommendations. Due to its reliance on the cooperation of states, it can be argued that this weakens the authority of the Group.

The opinions of the Working Group however are legally binding to the extent that they are based on binding international human rights laws, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. This is applicable to states that have ratified the Covenant.

The opinions of the Working Group are considered authoritative by some prominent international judicial institutions including the European Court of Human Rights. The features of the Working Group arguably play a role in its success, as it allows it to provide a politically viable alternative to treaty-based human rights enforcement mechanisms. The flexible mandate enables it to avoid direct political confrontation with governments, ultimately achieving more politically acceptable and lasting solutions to individual cases of arbitrary detention. While the opinions of the Working Group are not binding on states, they can facilitate information sharing among non-governmental organisations and governments. This can in turn lead to an increase in government accountability.

A further criticism of the Group is that it has taken no steps toward creating a robust follow-up procedure, to apply pressure on states arbitrarily detaining individuals. Establishing a systematic follow-up procedure could ensure an even greater accountability on governments, acting as a name and shame process to pressure them into action. A follow-up procedure may also be beneficial for providing feedback for future policy decisions. It could also aid non-governmental organisations in petitioning governments with unresolved cases. Having a record of resolved cases could help the Group to keep track of the status of detainees and any correlation between the action of the Working Group. Information and statistics drawn from this can be publicised, and help to increase outreach.

Development of draft principles