[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# United States rainfall climatology

e state of Mississippi, there are two rainfall maxima in the winter and spring.  Across Georgia and South Carolina, the first of the annual precipitation maxima occurs in late winter, during February or March.  Alabama has an annual rainfall maximum in winter or spring and a dry summer.

Warm season

During the summer, the subtropical ridge in the Atlantic Ocean strengthens, bringing in increasingly humid air from the warm Atlantic, Caribbean, and Gulf of Mexico.  Once precipitable water values exceed , afternoon and evening thunderstorms break out at the western periphery of the subtropical ridge across the Southeast on a daily basis.  Summer is the time of the second rainfall maximum during the year across Georgia, and the time of the main rainfall maximum in Florida.   During the late summer and fall, tropical cyclones move into the region from the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico, supplying portions of the area with one-quarter of their annual rainfall, on average.  Fall is the time of the rainfall minimum across Louisiana.  Sometimes, Gulf moisture sneaks up the Front Range of Rockies as far north as the northern High Plains, bringing higher dewpoint air into states such as Wyoming and Montana.

Great Lakes
Overall, late spring and early summer is the wettest time of year for the western portion of the region, with a winter minimum in precipitation. This is due to warm, moist, and unstable air moving along the jet stream where it is centralized. Which brings precipitation along the westerlies. In contrast, eastern portions of the regions have two precipitation maximums, one during spring, and again in November. While July and August are the driest months in the region. The reason being that this region is further away from the unstable air of the central U.S and has more moderators to the climate. Due to the fact that storms and winds generally move west to east, the winds that blow from the Great Lakes during the summer keep the area more stable. With thunderstorms generally being less common.

Cold season

Extratropical cyclones can bring moderate to heavy snowfall during the cold season.  On the backside of these systems, particularly those moving through the eastern United States, lake effect snowfall is possible.  Low level cold in the winter sweeping in from Canada combine with relatively warmer, unfrozen lakes to produce dramatic lake-effect snow on the eastern and southern shores of the Great Lakes.  Lake-effect precipitation produces a significant difference between the snowfall around the Great Lakes, sometimes within small distances.  Lake effect snowfall accounts for 30 to 60 percent of the annual snowfall near the coasts of the Great Lakes.  Lake Erie has the distinction of being the only great lake capable of completely freezing over during the winter due to its relative shallowness.  Once frozen, the resulting ice cover alleviates lake-effect snow downwind of the lake.  The influence of the Great Lakes allows the region to lie within a Humid Continental Climate regime. Although certain scientists have argued that the eastern third resemble more of an oceanic climate

Warm season

Weather systems in the westerlies that cause precipitation move along jet stream, which migrates north into the region by summer.  This also increases the likelihood for severe weather to develop due to stronger upper-level divergence in its vicinity.  Mesoscale convective complexes move into the region from the Plains from late April through mid-July, with June the peak month for the western portions of the Great Lakes.  These systems contribute about 2% of the annual precipitation for the region.  Also, remnants of tropical cyclones occasionally move northward into the region, though their overall contribution to precipitation across the region is minimal.  From the spring through the summer, areas near the shores of the relatively cooler Great Lakes develop sea breezes, which lowers rainfall amounts and increases sunshine near the immediate coastline. The eastern Great Lakes are significantly drier during the summer.

Northeast
 Average precipitation across the region show maxima along the coastal plain and along the mountains of the Appalachians.  Between  and  of precipitation falls annually across the area.  Seasonally, there are slight changes to precipitation distribution through the year.  For example, Burlington, Vermont has a summer maximum and a winter minimum.  In contrast, Portland, Maine has a fall and winter maximum, with a summer minimum in precipitation.  Temporally, a maximum in precipitation is seen around three peak times:  3 a.m., 10 a.m., and 6 p.m.  During the summer, the 6 p.m. peak is most pronounced.