[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# De la Conquête de Constantinople

n 1541 by the ambassador Francesco Contarini. A literal translation into Italian was made from the Contarini manuscript by Giovanni Battista Ramusio, which survives in two manuscripts, now Cod. Marc. it. VII 138 (8749) and Cod. Marc. it. VII 139 (8324) in the Biblioteca Nazionale Marciana in Venice.

Excerpt 
The first paragraphs from the Chronicle are copied here:
Sachiez que mille cent quatre-vinz et dix huit ans après l'incarnation nostre seingnor Jésus Christ, al tens Innocent trois, apostoille de Rome, et Philippe, roi de France, et Richart, roi d’Angleterre , ot un saint home en France qui ot nom Folques de Nuilli. Cil Nuillis siet entre Lagny-sor-Marne et Paris; e il ère prestre et tenoit la paroiche de la ville. Et cil Folques dont je vous di, comença à parler de Dieu par France et par les autres terres entor, et Nostre Sires fist maint miracles por luy.

Sachiez que la renommée de cil saint home alla tant qu’elle vint a l'apostoille de Rome, Innocent; et l’apostoille envoya en France et manda al prod'ome que il empreschast des croiz par s’autorité. Et après y envoia un suen cardonal , maistre Perron de Chappes, croisié, et manda par luy le pardon tel come vos dirai: Tuit cil qui se croisieroient et feroient le service Dieu un an en l’ost, seroient quittes de toz les péchiez que il avoient faiz, dont il seroient confés. Por ce que cil pardons fu issi granz, si s’en esmeurent mult li cuers des gens; et mult s’encroisièrent por ce que li pardons ère si grans.

in translation:

Be it known to you that eleven hundred and ninety-seven years after the Incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ, in the time of Innocent Pope of Rome, and Philip King of France, and Richard King of England, there was in France a holy man named Fulk of Neuilly - which Neuilly is between Lagni-sur-Marne and Paris - and he was a priest and held the cure of the village. And this said Fulk began to speak of God throughout the Isle-de-France, and the other countries round about; and you must know that by him the Lord wrought many miracles.

Be it known to you further, that the fame of this holy man so spread, that it reached the Pope of Rome, Innocent; and the Pope sent to France, and ordered the right worthy man to preach the cross (the Crusade) by his authority. And afterwards the Pope sent a cardinal of his, Master Peter of Capua, who himself had taken the cross, to proclaim the Indulgence of which I now tell you, viz., that all who should take the cross and serve in the host for one year, would be delivered from all the sins they had committed, and acknowledged in confession. And because this indulgence was so great, the hearts of men were much moved, and many took the cross for the greatness of the pardon.

Notes

Sources 
Beer, Jeanette M. A. Villehardouin: Epic Historian, Librarie Droz, 1968
Burckhardt, Jacob. Judgement on History and Historians, Garland Publishing, 1984
Godfrey, John. 1204: The Unholy Crusade, Oxford University Press, 1980
Joinville and Villehardouin. Chronicles of the Crusades, Penguin Books, 1963
Michaud, Joseph Francois. Michaud's History of the Crusades, AMS Press, 1973
Queller, Donald E. The Fourth Crusade, University of Pennsylvania Press, 1977

 This contains a summary and critical review of the work.

External links 
Memoirs or Chronicle of The Fourth Crusade and The Conquest of Constantinople - English translation
Old French Online, Lesson 7  - Some of the original text parsed
The full text available online, edition of Jean Alexandre Buchon, on Google Books (contains translated words in modern French, inserted by the editor), 1828, Paris.

Fourth Crusade
13th-century history books
French literature
1200s in the Byzantine Empire
1204 in Europe
Texts about the Crusades