[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mount Tabor, New Jersey

Grove).

The Children's Day custom is known as "Walking Day" in England, where churches organize parades, provide refreshments to participants and generally have a holiday.  Children's Day has evolved into a unique community festival in Mount Tabor and is still a focal point of summer on "The Hill".

Development as a community
Water has been, by necessity, an important aspect in the development of Mount Tabor.  From the beginning, shallow lines existed to provide water to residents.  However, they had to be drained for the winter for fear of freezing, thus preventing year-round occupancy.  In the year 1909 deep water mains were laid in the streets and a stand pipe erected, allowing water to be provided to winter residents. As the years passed, water from the Tabor wells became affected by vegetable matter, and it was found necessary to employ water from township wells.  A contract was entered into with Parsippany-Troy Hills Township, and this is how the community gets its water today.  Now the water tower in St. John's park functions only as a reminder of the past.

In the Great Depression, many properties were allowed to decay and deteriorate and large sums of unpaid assessments accumulated. In the year 1932 there was still $8,000 of the bonds of 1909 outstanding, but by careful management and diligent collection of back assessments these bonds were paid off and the mortgage burned on October 1, 1934. Since then there has been no debt and Mount Tabor is running strictly on a cash basis, with a budget of approximately a quarter million dollars. If assessments are paid promptly, the Board of Trustees expects to continue public improvement out of annual income.

As the years rolled by, many cottages were converted into winter residences by connection with deep water mains and by the modernization of walls and heating apparatus.  A chestnut blight came and devastated the stately trees in the town.  In the year 1935, 62 cottages were occupied during winter; in 1938 this number increased to 109.  The last summer residence was winterized in 2001.

The late 1940s brought many physical changes to Mount Tabor. Among these were the hard surfacing of the roads and the renovating of the basement of the Tabernacle for the CMA, the fire department, and the post office. After World War II, Mount Tabor felt that the time had come for a real church building.  Former Pastor Robert Simpson recently related that they decided against putting the church in the midst of the Hill (St. Johns park area was under consideration) because they did not want it to be a "small town church", but rather one that would welcome everyone from both Tabor and the rest of the world.

Property was set aside in what was then the Main Park for the United Methodist Church of Mount Tabor. which rose in 1948 through the combined efforts of the members of the church and the citizens of Mount Tabor (many of whom were not members). This coalition, called the "Builder's Club" that has since dissolved, was another demonstration of the bond of friendship that guided the citizens of Mount Tabor through the years. When completed, it offered a practical and convenient meeting house: it was in Tabor; it was large enough; and it was heated.  Thus, it replaced the other buildings for the purpose of services and other church related functions.

Since the 1950s
In the 1950s, a parking lot was built in the Main Park to provide space for the influx of automobiles.  This decade also saw the formation of the Tabor Junior Rifle Club. This organization proved its usefulness when, after the dump closed, it became rat infested. Then each weekend, members practiced on these moving targets, thus controlling the varmint colony and keeping it from invading the town.

The sixties evidenced Mount Tabor's concern for its children. A playground was constructed in the main park, a basketball court was built at the golf course, and a skating rink was built below the old pump house.