[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Helmut Zemo

e Weapon X facility, he finds the villain in a wheelchair as Zemo had developed ALS while also working on recreating the Super Soldier Serum. While Hawkeye initially planned to leave Zemo humiliated in his condition, he instead decides to shoot dozens of arrows into Zemo using the last of his sight.

In other media
Television
 Baron Helmut Zemo appears in The Avengers: United They Stand episode "Command Decision", voiced by Phillip Shepherd. This version is the leader of the Masters of Evil.
 Baron Helmut Zemo and his Citizen V identity appear in Avengers Assemble, voiced by David Kaye. This version is a high-ranking operative of Hydra. Introduced in the episode "Saving Captain Rogers", he manipulates Captain America into helping him retrieve his father Heinrich's super-soldier serums as his own formula was imperfect. Helmut successfully uses one to rejuvenate himself with superhuman strength and speed, but is defeated by Captain America, Iron Man, and Black Widow, and disappears into the ocean while trying to retrieve the second one. After resurfacing in the episode "Under Siege" with the Masters of Evil, they return in the episodes "The Thunderbolts" and "Thunderbolts Revealed" as the eponymous superhero team, with Zemo disguised as their leader Citizen V. While fighting various supervillains alongside the Avengers, Zemo initiates an elaborate scheme to kill them. After his allies begin to embrace being the Thunderbolts, Zemo seemingly kills them and the Avengers before issuing a public statement as Citizen V claiming they had perished, only for the two teams to return and expose his true identity. In the episode "The Zemo Sanction", the Black Panther initially suspects Helmut of working with the Shadow Council and confronts him. However, Helmut reveals he intends to destroy the Council in the hopes of saving his legacy and joins forces with the Black Panther to do so. Over the course of the next several episodes, he gains the Wakandan royals' trust and proves his integrity to Captain America while secretly working to seize the Wakandan crown and three Wakandan relics before the Council does. In the episode "Descent of the Shadow", Zemo betrays the Avengers and takes the crown, not realizing it is fatal to anyone who wears it outside of Wakanda and without Vibranium. After the crown is removed, Madame Masque and Erik Killmonger condemn him for his betrayal by throwing him off a bridge and leaving him to drown.

 Marvel Cinematic Universe 

Daniel Brühl portrays a heavily modified incarnation of Helmut Zemo in media set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). This version is a Baron of Sokovia and former special operations soldier who seeks revenge against the Avengers for the death of his family at the hands of Ultron, who was created by Tony Stark and Bruce Banner.

 Zemo first appears in the film Captain America: Civil War (2016). In pursuit of his goal to fracture the Avengers and potentially get them to kill each other, he tracks down retired Hydra agents and frames Bucky Barnes bombing the United Nations, which killed King T'Chaka of Wakanda. After Steve Rogers and Sam Wilson bring in Barnes, Zemo disguises himself as the psychiatrist sent to evaluate Barnes while his accomplices cause a power outage, during which Zemo uses Hydra information he obtained to reactivate Barnes' brainwashing and set him on the Avengers. In the confrontation, Zemo hints to Rogers that he wants to "see an empire fall", which leads Rogers, Wilson and Barnes to believe Zemo intends to awaken five sleeping Winter Soldiers at a Siberian Hydra base and use them to take over the world. Once Zemo, Rogers, Barnes, and Stark reach the base however, they learn Zemo killed the Winter Soldiers and shows them a security tape that reveals Barnes was responsible for murdering Stark's parents years ago, which Rogers kept from Stark. As the Avengers fight each other, Zemo retreats and attempts suicide, believing his mission is complete. However, T'Chaka's son T'Challa, who sought to avenge his father's death, stops Zemo and takes him to the authorities.
 Zemo subsequently appears in the miniseries The Falcon and the Winter Soldier (2021). In the episode "Power Broker", Barnes breaks Zemo out of prison to help him and Wilson stop the Flag Smashers. Over the course of the episodes "The Whole World Is Watching" and "Truth", Zemo destroys several vials of recreated Super Soldier Serum and kills their creator, Dr. Wilfred Nagel, before the Dora Milaje eventually capture and send him to the Raft. In the series finale "One World, One People", following the Flag Smashers' defeat and capture, Zemo arranges their murder to minimize the chance of their Super Soldier enhancements being reproduced.