[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 136]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

"In other words, you would accept the position of a slave."

"How so?"

"By bartering your womanhood, by using these powers of body, in return
for food and shelter and social favour, or for the sake of so-called
'duty' irrespective of--perhaps in direct opposition to your feelings.
How then do you differ from the slave woman who produces a progeny of
young slaves, to be disposed of as shall seem good to her perhaps
indulgent master? I see no essential difference."

"I see the difference between honour and ignominy," said Henriette.
Hadria shook her head, sadly.

"The differences are all in detail and in circumstance. I am sorry if I
offend your taste. The facts are offensive. The bewildering thing is
that the facts themselves never seem to offend you; only the mention of
them."

"It would take too long to go into this subject," said Henriette. "I can
only repeat that I fail to understand your extraordinary views of the
holiest of human instincts."

"_That_ catch-word! And you use it rashly, Henriette, for do you not
know that the deepest of all degradation comes of misusing that which is
most holy?"

"A woman who does her duty is not to be accused of misusing anything,"
cried Miss Temperley hotly.

"Is there then no sin, no misuse of power in sending into the world
swarms of fortuitous, poverty-stricken human souls, as those souls must
be who are born in bondage, with the blended instincts of the slave and
the master for a proud inheritance? It sounds awful I know, but truth is
apt to sound awful. Motherhood, as our wisdom has appointed it, among
civilized people, represents a prostitution of the reproductive powers,
which precisely corresponds to that other abuse, which seems to most of
us so infinitely more shocking."

Miss Temperley preferred not to reply to such a remark, and the entrance
of little Martha relieved the tension of the moment. Henriette, though
she bore the child a grudge, could not resist her when she came forward
and put up her face to be kissed.

"She is really growing very pretty," said Henriette, in a tone which
betrayed the agitation which she had been struggling to hide.

Martha ran for her doll and her blue man, and was soon busy at play, in
a corner of the room, building Eiffel Towers out of stone bricks, and
knocking them down again.

"I don't yet quite understand, Henriette, your object in coming to
Paris." Hadria's voice had grown calmer.

"I came to make an appeal to your sense of duty and your generosity."

"Ah!"

"I came," Henriette went on, bracing herself as if for a great effort,
"to remind you that when you married, you entered into a contract which
you now repudiate."

Hadria started up, reddening with anger.

"I did no such thing, and you know it, Henriette. How do you _dare_ to
sit there and tell me that?"

"I tell you nothing but the truth. Every woman who marries enters, by
that fact, into a contract."

Miss Temperley had evidently regarded this as a strong card and played
it hopefully.

Hadria was trembling with anger. She steadied her voice. "Then you
actually intended to _entrap_ me into this so-called contract, by
leading me to suppose that it would mean nothing more between Hubert and
myself than an unavoidable formality! You tell me this to my face, and
don't appear to see that you are confessing an act of deliberate
treachery."

"Nonsense," cried Henriette. "There was nothing that any sane person
would have objected to, in our conduct."

Hadria stood looking down scornfully on her sister-in-law. She shrugged
her shoulders, as if in bewilderment.

"And yet you would have felt yourselves stained with dishonour for the
rest of your lives had you procured anything _else_ on false pretences!
But a woman--that is a different affair. The code of honour does not
here apply, it would seem. _Any_ fraud may be honourably practised on
_her_, and wild is the surprise and indignation if she objects when she
finds it out."

"You are perfectly mad," cried Henriette, tapping angrily with her
fingers on the arm of her chair.

"What I say is true, whether I be mad or sane. What you call the
'contract' is simply a cunning contrivance for making a woman and her
possible children the legal property of a man, and for enlisting her own
honour and conscience to safeguard the disgraceful transaction."

"Ah," said Henriette, on the watch for her opportunity, "then you admit
that her honour and conscience _are_ enlisted?"

"Certainly, in the case of most women. That enlistment is a masterpiece
of policy. To make a prisoner his own warder is surely no light stroke
of genius. But that is exactly what I refused to be from the first, and
no one could have spoken more plainly. And now you are shocked and
pained and aggrieved because I won't eat my words. Yet we have talked
over all this, in my room at Dunaghee, by the hour. Oh! Henriette, why
did you not listen to your conscience