[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Breckinridge Castleman

John Breckinridge Castleman (June 30, 1841 – May 23, 1918) was a Confederate officer and later a United States Army brigadier general as well as a prominent landowner and businessman in Louisville, Kentucky.

Early life
John B. Castleman was the 7th of 11 surviving children born to David B. Castleman (1786–1852) and Virginia Harrison (1806–1895) who were married in Kentucky in 1824. By birth, he was closely related to a future 14th U.S. Vice President, John Cabell Breckinridge; their respective maternal grandmothers were sisters. He studied law at Transylvania University before the Civil War.

Military career
At the age of 19, Castleman entered into Confederate service. An obituary reports that he later repented of his support of slavery.

During the Civil War, Castleman recruited 41 men in his hometown of Lexington, Kentucky, who went to Knoxville, Tennessee, to form the Second Kentucky Cavalry company under John Hunt Morgan.

Castleman was promoted to major in 1864. He led guerrillas in the attempted burning of supply boats in St. Louis, Missouri and was arrested in October 1864 at Sullivan, Indiana. He was convicted of spying and sentenced to death, but his execution was stayed by Abraham Lincoln. Following the war, Castleman was exiled from the United States, and studied medicine in France. He was pardoned by president Andrew Johnson and returned to Kentucky in 1866.

He revived the Louisville Legion, a militia unit, in 1878 and became adjutant general of Kentucky in 1883. The unit became the 1st Kentucky Volunteers in the Spanish–American War, and Castleman was commissioned a colonel in the U.S. Army. His unit participated in the invasion of Puerto Rico, and after the war he was promoted to brigadier general and served as military governor of the island.

Castleman was also notably responsible for helping to keep the Commonwealth of Kentucky together serving as Adjutant General during the infamous Taylor-Goebel troubles, when Kentucky almost devolved into civil war following the assassination of Kentucky Governor William Goebel.

Social issues 

When a dispute over whether African-American soldiers serving in the US Army arose among some Southerners during the First World War, General Castleman said, "I unhesitatingly say that I will at any time salute an officer, superior or inferior, who salutes me, without regard to the color of his skin. The regulations and laws, and the fundamentals of courtesy and discipline, upon which these regulations and laws are based, prescribe this. It is no time to stand against them. I want to urge every soldier to be a soldier in the full sense of the term. We are at war, and soldiers are under the rules of the American army. We are all one under the flag. We salute the rank, not the individual."

According to a newspaper eulogy published following his death, John B Castleman could also be described as an early advocate for social justice in the city of Louisville. A May 26, 1918, tribute to him published in the Courier Journal entitled "A Negro's tribute to General Castleman", written by African American educator and community member J. Raymond Harris, heralded Castleman for his commitment and kindness to the African American community of Louisville. Harris starts his eulogy with "Will you give me space in which to speak of the great sorrow that has come to the colored people in General Castleman's Death" 

Harris makes sure to note Castleman's Civil War service alongside the Confederacy, but speaks of his road to redemption saying "yet no hero on the other side ever held so high a niche in the hearts and minds of colored Kentuckians."

Elsewhere in the eulogy, Harris speaks truth to the selfless nature of Castleman by saying "His Kindness to us, his willingness to help with counsel and advice, were unstudied and uncalculated the result of neither the politician's bid of popularity nor of the selfish man's desire to advance his own self interests."

Harris also wrote kindly of the general “Whenever . . . injustice or proscription raised its hand against African Americans, Gen. Castleman's voice was heard pleading for toleration and amicable adjustment.”

Another example of Castleman's standing up for racial justice in his time can be found in a 1924 Courier Journal article written by 19 African American faith leaders published six years after his death. In the letter outlining outrage at the recent segregation of the park system, the leaders specifically mention Castleman not only as the father of the park system, but point out that it was Castleman who had prevented the segregation of the parks while alive. The leaders said "General Castleman, the Father of our Park System, refused to allow any kind of racial segregation in the parks of the city, and this policy has been followed until the present board issued it's segregation orders a few days ago. This has been true in theory and in fact.