[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Murder of Ilan Halimi

te-Geneviève-des-Bois shortly before the anniversary of his death in 2019.

Legacy and analysis
The kidnapping brought many Jews to speak out against antisemitism and racism, but also stirred discussion about whether Jews could still feel safe in France or not. Emigration to Israel rose as a result.

In 2017 The Washington Post revisited Ilan Halimi's murder, describing it as similar to the murder of Sarah Halimi, because French authorities similarly refused to acknowledge the antisemitic nature of the murder or to investigate it as ethnically and ideologically motivated terrorism.

Books
A number of books have been written about the case. Among them:
 24 jours: la vérité sur la mort d'Ilan Halimi; Ruth Halimi and Émily Frèche; Éditions du Seuil; April 2009; . This books was written by his mother, Ruth Halimi, about her experience of the events, together with Émilie Frèche. In late April 2014, a movie by French filmmaker Alexandre Arcady about this case was released. Entitled 24 Jours: La vérité sur l’affaire Ilan Halimi (24 Days: The Truth about the Ilan Halimi Case), it is based on the above-mentioned book.
 Si c'est un Juif : Réflexions sur la mort d'Ilan Halimi ;  Adrien Barrot; Editions Michalon; January 2007; 
 Ilan Halimi, le canari dans la mine : Comment en est-on arrivé là ?; Yaël König et al; Editions Yago; June 2009; 
 Des Barbares Dans la Cité. Reflexions Autour du Meurtre d'Ilan Halimi; David Mascré; Éditions de l'Infini; April 2009; 
 A novel, Tout, tout de suite written by Morgan Sportés was inspired by the events and published in 2011. A film version of the novel, starring Marc Ruchmann as Halimi was released in 2015.

See also
Antisemitism in 21st-century France
List of kidnappings
List of solved missing person cases

References

Media reports

In English

In French
 Les événements heure par heure, timeline of events from Le Nouvel Observateur, February 24, 2006
 Itinéraires d'une bande meurtrière, Libération, February 22, 2006

2000s missing person cases
2006 murders in France
2000s murders in Paris
February 2006 events in France
Antisemitic murders in 21st-century France
Antisemitism in France
Deaths by person in Paris
Formerly missing people
Kidnapped French people
Kidnappings in France
Male murder victims
Missing person cases in France
Torture