[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Legs (song)

"Legs" is a song by the band ZZ Top from their 1983 album Eliminator. The song was released as the fourth single in May 1984 more than a year after the album came out. It reached number 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States (their highest-charting single on the pop charts), and the dance mix version of the song peaked at number 13 on the dance charts.

A video was made for "Legs", depicting a timid young female store clerk who is given confidence by a trio of sexy women, with the band mysteriously appearing and disappearing. "Legs" was the third installment of a trilogy of similarly themed videos shot by Tim Newman for Eliminator, and it won the MTV Video Music Award for Best Group. The video was placed into heavy rotation on MTV, which helped to lift the single high on the charts.

Like other songs on Eliminator, the musical style of "Legs" shows the band's new interest in electronic music elements, driven by singer-guitarist Billy Gibbons who was pushing to incorporate new wave and synth-pop styles. Pre-production engineer Linden Hudson established the song's pulsing synthesizer line during rehearsals. "Legs" contains electric guitar and vocals from Gibbons, but the bass guitar of Dusty Hill and drums of Frank Beard were replaced in the final mix by engineer Terry Manning who played keyboard bass and drum machine to achieve the style sought by Gibbons.

Recording

On the inspiration for the song, Billy Gibbons said, "We were driving in a rainstorm to the studio back in Texas when we spotted a woman who was getting drenched and wanted us to pull over to provide a ride. We circled back and—boom—she was gone. She had legs and knew how to use ’em!"

The band ZZ Top developed the song "Legs" at the home of drummer Frank Beard on the outskirts of Houston, Texas, in the band's rehearsal studio. The studio held recording equipment installed and operated by live-in engineer Linden Hudson. To give the song a sense of propulsion, Hudson created an unusual synthesizer sound by routing the synth's audio signal through a noise gate that was triggered externally by continual sixteenth-note hi-hat samples from a drum machine. As a result, the synthesizer chords pulsed to a sixteenth-note beat at a tempo of 125 beats per minute. Gibbons played a Dean ML guitar for both rhythm and lead parts, and sang the lead vocal part. Beard played drums, and Dusty Hill played bass guitar. Gibbons, Beard and Hill were credited on the album as songwriters.

The band recorded the Eliminator album professionally at Ardent Studios in Memphis, Tennessee, under the guidance of band manager Bill Ham and longtime band recording engineer Terry Manning. Manning phoned Hudson to ask how he had generated the pulsing synth effect. The whole band recorded their parts at Ardent, then Beard and Hill returned home to Texas.

Music video
The "Legs" music video follows a mousy young female shoe store clerk who is harassed by nearly everyone around her. The trio of women featured in previous music videos for Eliminator singles drives up in the vintage Eliminator car to give her confidence and take revenge on the bullies. The band shimmers in and out of visibility, spinning their sheepskin-covered guitars, finally giving the clerk the keys to the car.

Production
The "Legs" video was directed by Tim Newman, who had directed the successful videos for the Eliminator singles for "Gimme All Your Lovin'" and "Sharp Dressed Man". He declined to return to shoot the video for "TV Dinners". For "Legs", record executive Jeff Ayeroff pleaded with him to return. Newman bargained hard and asked for "points"—a percentage of the profit—but Warner feared this would set an expensive precedent. Instead, they offered Newman a fixed payment every time the album was certified for another 250,000 units sold in the US, earning Newman more money than he expected.

The "Legs" video concept started with Newman suggesting that the main character should be a young woman this time. He cast actress Wendy Frazier who had recently played the love interest in the little-seen Baxter Robertson video for the Robertson song "Silver Strand", also directed by Newman. As the crew set up to shoot the "Legs" video in February 1984, Frazier turned 21. Much of the video was shot in Valencia, California, the area now called Santa Clarita.