[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hope Town District Council

the establishment of the Pelican Cays' Land and Sea Park. As the term ended, Chief Councillor Bethel, after being active in local government and the Board of Works for almost forty years, retired from local government. Local residents still recognize her as their "Iron Lady" or "Margaret Thatcher"..

Hope Town Council 2002–2005
The dust from the general election showdown in the Bahamas had not quite settled, and local government elections were set a month later. Elections in Hope Town had Jeff Key, Roscoe Thompson, and Diane Bethel, the victors, getting more votes to secure the three spots than Junior Meynard. In Man-O-War Cay, Walter Sweeting, Tony Albury, and Roy Russell won the election defeating George Phillpot, Jeremy Sweeting, Gary Sawyer, and Bill Albury. Glenn Laing went in for Great Guana Cay unopposed.

The council members elected Walter Sweeting as Chief Councillor and Jeff Key as Deputy Chief Councillor.

From the beginning, this council dealt with a controversial matter. They attempted to award a council member, Tony Albury, a government contract. Along with the fact that he was the highest bidder, much controversy ensued. After awarding the contract, Tony Albury resigned his post, and Haziel McDonald served his spot the remainder of the term. Much criticism arose from surrounding councils in Abaco, including from Yvonne Key of the Central Abaco Council, who publicly denounced the way the matter was handled.

Other than that, the life of this council went relatively smoothly without much other controversy. The road contract for Hope Town was signed while in office, and this road stretched from the post office to Dorris Cove. As the term ended, they did petition that the Minister of Local Government realign the Hope Town District Council so that each town could have their own council. The decision was deferred by the Minister.

Hope Town Council 2005–2008
Elections in Hope Town had only one person nominated, Roy Cash. Appointed to the vacancies were Wayne Hall and Robert Malone. In Man-O-War Cay, Jeremy Sweeting was nominated, and Joe Albury and Chris Albury were appointed. Glenn Laing was re-elected to serve a third term in Great Guana Cay, defeating Anthony Roberts and Troy Albury.

Wayne Hall was elected the council's fourth Chief Councillor and Jeremy Sweeting elected as Deputy Chief Councillor.

This council has been viewed to be one of the most pro-active councils. Shortly after taking office, they went on a campaign with a white paper document that would implement zoning and building code laws for the district. After a four-month campaign, the white paper was defeated in a referendum. Although the council's idea was rejected by the district, Hope Town voters favoured the idea.

In May 2006, Chief Councillor Hall relocated to Nassau. The council then elected Jeremy Sweeting as Chief Councillor and Roy Cash as Deputy Chief Councillor. Jeremy Sweeting became the youngest Chief Councillor in the country's history. Harold Malone was elected by default to take Wayne Hall's seat as a council member.

Upon assuming the position of Chief Councillor, Jeremy Sweeting led the communities of the district, particularly Man-O-War Cay, through major reforms. He oversaw the introduction of the No Burning policy, which prohibited the burning of anything at the town's dumpsite. Additionally, the site overwent a major overhaul and received a facelift, improving the area. He led the communities in a Wall of Heroes programme, recognizing community builders in each community of the district. Chief Councillor Jeremy Sweeting unveiled a monument at the Old Cemetery in Man-O-War, recognizing the deceased residents buried in a cemetery that was damaged and seemed somewhat forgotten. The Chief Councillor then saw to the construction of a picnic area at the Low Place area in Man-O-War.

In May 2007, the national government changed hands, and thus in August of that year, the government called for elections for all appointed councillors.

In Hope Town, Councillor Robert Malone opted not to run, and Lana Russell ran and was unopposed. In Man-O-War Cay, Councillor Joe Albury opted not to run, but Councillor Christopher Albury ran, and was challenged by Roy Russell and Fred Sweeting. The latter two won election.

The remaining ten months of the term went relatively smoothly.

References

External links
The government of the Bahamas

Government of the Bahamas