[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# CCJO René Cassin

egations to the United Nations Human Rights Council with the support of the CCJO.  In 2005 as part of a campaign for restitution for victims of genocide, RC representatives negotiated the first-ever reference to group rights in a United Nations Instrument (the Basic Principles on Rights to Victims).

In 2007, RC launched the Jewish Human Rights Network in the UK to bring Jewish people together to speak out for human rights, with the support of the Chief Rabbi of the United Kingdom, the Attorney General of the United Kingdom and representatives from across the UK Jewish and human rights community.

In its early years, RC was chaired by two young lawyers, Alexander Goldberg and Daniel Kingsley. The group employed its first full-time Director, Clive Gabay in 2005, who was succeeded by Sarah Kaiser in 2006.  Kaiser continued to prioritise educational work, developing multiple resources and educational programmes focused on Judaism and human rights, and holding events.  In October 2010, Kaiser was succeeded by Simone Abel, an attorney with previous experience at Human Rights Watch, New York, and two leading international law firms. In late 2011, Shauna Leven, also a lawyer, joined RC as Programme Manager in 2011 and was appointed Director in 2013. Leven left René Cassin in December 2014 and was replaced as Director in June 2015 by Mia Hasenson-Gross.

Since Abel's appointment, the organisation has focused increasingly on advocacy work in addition to its educational offerings. The organisation began working on issues pertaining to discrimination against Gypsies, Travellers and Roma in UK and Europe in 2010, and modern slavery and support of domestic UK human rights protections in 2011, developing policy papers, advocacy strategies and educational resources.  The organisation has increasingly worked in collaboration with other organisations to achieve its advocacy goals in the most efficient and effective way possible.

In recent years (2019-2022), RC has expanded with additional workstreams on hate speech, women's rights, and social justice.

Issues and campaigns
Genocide and Crimes against Humanity Since 2019, RC's work in this area has focussed on the Chinese government's repression of Uyghur Muslims in East Turkestan (Xinjiang Province). RC has worked with the UK office of the World Uyghur Congress, calling on UK government to recognise China's action as genocide, highlighting link between western companies and forced Uyghur labour, and working to label Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics as 'the Genocide Games'
Asylum and Detention RC is concerned that the United Kingdom's policy and practice of detention infringes the human rights of many asylum seekers.  The organisation frames the detention of asylum seekers as a human rights issue and campaigns against indefinite detention, the detention of vulnerable people and the Detained Fast Track system as violations of human rights standards and the inherent dignity of the individual.  
Discrimination against Gypsies, Roma, and Travellers Since 2011 RC has been campaigning against discrimination facing these 'chronically excluded' communities.
Hate Speech RC's 'Cut It Out' campaign aims to counter discriminatory language in public discourse, mainly in the mainstream media; and its 'Reach Out' campaign provides solidarity with groups facing hate speech and hate crime, as well as practical help garnered from long experience of tackling anti-Semitism.   
Slavery and Human Trafficking RC seeks to end modern slavery through education and advocacy. In 2011 it published a Haggadah Companion highlighting the ongoing issue of modern-day slavery and engaging supporters in positive activities to: raise awareness, change consumer behaviour and join their advocacy work. RC also advised various corporations as to what steps they could take in order to ensure that they avoid indirectly contributing to modern-day slavery or increasing the likelihood of the exploitation of human beings during the 2012 London Olympics.
Working to protect and promote the Human Rights Act RC supports and advocates for the retention of the Act. In 2012 it hosted a panel discussion with guest speakers Professor Francesca Klug OBE and Sir Vernon Bogdanor CBE about the importance of retaining the Act and also prepared a submission to the Commission on the Bill of Rights Consultation.
Women's Rights RC launched this new workstream in 2020 in response to endemic inequality and misogyny.
Social Justice In 2021, RC began work on a Right to Food, inspired by Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

Education
RC has been committed to providing transformative human rights education since 2003, and initially developed a wide range of resources aimed at secondary school children. In 2008, on the Global Day for Darfur, the group hosted its first full-day conference entitled ‘What’s so Jewish about Human Rights?’ and the event has become an annual fixture.