[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Stuart London

erregnum period, London also had a trained band of soldiers who drilled in Finsbury Fields who marched about the city with pikes once a week. There were 800 Parliamentary soldiers who were stationed in the Old St Paul's Cathedral as it was a central meeting place at the time.

Religious suppression 

Religion was very important in Stuart London, with one's chosen sect of Christianity often being a matter of life or death. Anti-Catholic feeling in particular was very strong. In 1662, the Act of Uniformity ordered everyone to worship according to the Church of England's 1662 Book of Common Prayer, and Charles II's attempts to introduce complete religious toleration in 1672 were thwarted due to anti-Catholic feeling, although non-demoninational Protestants were allowed to worship in licensed buildings, and Catholics were allowed to worship in private. When the Catholic James II became king in 1688, London Catholics were able to openly celebrate Mass, with the diarist John Evelyn "not believing I should ever have lived to see such things in the King of England's palace, after it had pleased God to enlighten this nation".

1678 saw the anti-Catholic mania of the Popish Plot. A man called Titus Oates went before the magistrate Edmund Godfrey to report a conspiracy of Catholics plotting to overthrow King Charles II in favour of his brother, the Catholic James II. Parliament empowered Oates with a band of armed men and permission to root out the conspirators. Godfrey was found murdered and an anti-Catholic panic quickly set in amongst Londoners. People were arrested simply for being in contact with Catholics, and Oates named five noblemen, one of whom, Lord Stafford, was executed. By 1681, 35 people had been executed as a result of Oates' fabrications.

Nonconformist Protestants were similarly heavily persecuted, particularly after the Restoration of 1660, as nonconformists were thought to be particularly anti-monarchy. Under the 1665 Five Mile Act, nonconformist preachers and schools were banned from operating within five miles of the city walls, so chapels were often set up in London's outlying villages, in places like Highgate, Hampstead, and Chelsea. England's first Baptist church was built in Spitalfields in 1612. The Quaker movement was founded based on the preacher George Fox's teachings in the 1640s, but was heavily suppressed both legally and socially. Meetings of five or more Quakers were made illegal from 1662, and so many were imprisoned in London based on this law. A Quaker meeting house was built in London in 1668, despite the fact that attending meetings there did not become legal until the Toleration Act of 1688, 20 years later. The whole congregation of a Seventh Day Baptist church in Bulstake Alley, Whitechapel, was arrested and sent to Newgate Prison, and their preacher, John James, was found guilty of treason, and hanged, drawn and quartered at Tyburn.

Punishments 

Capital and corporal punishments were widely used. Tyburn, the main execution ground after 1660, had a unique three-sided gallows to allow 24 people to be hanged simultaneously. For example, the famous highwayman Claude Duval was hanged at Tyburn in 1670. Beheading was used as a punishment for those convicted of treason, such as the explorer Walter Raleigh, who was beheaded at the Old Palace Yard in Westminster in 1618. A particularly famous executioner of the period was Jack Ketch, who beheaded the Duke of Monmouth in 1685. The heads of people sentenced to be hanged, drawn and quartered were displayed on spikes over London Bridge or Temple Bar. When Charles II returned to London in 1660, those that had signed his father's death warrant were sentenced to be hanged, drawn and quartered at Charing Cross. Burning at the stake was used as a punishment for women convicted of treason, such as Sarah Elston, who was burned at Kennington Common in 1678 for the murder of her husband. Pirates, having committed their crimes outside the British mainland, were generally hanged at Wapping on the water's edge, at low tide. Their bodies were left on the gallows until the tide had risen over them three times. Some were then dipped in tar and displayed in cages called gibbets along the river's edge as a warning to other would-be pirates. Captain William Kidd was executed in this manner in 1701. Those who refused to plead in court were sentenced to suffer peine forte et dure- being crushed under heavy stones and starved to death. This was carried out on two men called David Pearce and William Stoaks after they refused to swear at the Old Bailey in 1673.

Transportation was increasingly used throughout this period, generally to Virginia or Maryland in America. The ships which volunteered to transport prisoners could make money from contracting out their labour upon their arrival.