[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Aaron Klein

As per Buzzfeed: "It's been a tradition for the past several American elections: At some point, Aaron Klein calls leaders of the Palestinian group Hamas, they tell him they're supporting the Democrat, and he goes with a headline along the lines of: 'Mideast terror leaders to U.S.: Vote Democrat.'"

During a June 2007 interview, after an argument during a radio interview over whether or not Hamas was a terrorist organization, British politician George Galloway evicted Klein from his office and turned him over to Parliament police, claiming he had breached security by falsely presenting himself as a reporter and that Klein was really a "Zionist agent".

In June 2010, Imam Faisal Abdul Rauf, the Muslim leader behind a proposed Islamic cultural center near the site of the 9-11 attacks, was interviewed by Klein on WABC, where he reportedly refused to describe Hamas as a terrorist organization.

On August 15, 2010, Mahmoud al-Zahar, the chief of Hamas in Gaza, appeared on Klein's program, where he expressed support for Park51 community center. Zahar's comments made the cover of the New York Post and generated world media attention.

Books

Schmoozing with Terrorists
Klein's book Schmoozing with Terrorists: From Hollywood to the Holy Land, Jihadists Reveal their Global Plans – to a Jew! was released in September 2007.

The book, a bestseller, is based on interviews with purported terrorists. Topics include Klein's meetings with a recruited Palestinian suicide bomber; interviews with Muhammed Abdel-El, the head of a Popular Resistance Committee, and Hamas leader Sheikh Yasser Hamad; and confrontations with the Muslim desecrators of Jewish and Christian holy sites. There is also a section in which jihadist leaders are petitioned to describe what life in the U.S. would be like under the rule of Islam, a chapter on Christian persecution in the Middle East, and a chapter claiming the U.S. funds terrorism.

The Manchurian President
The Manchurian President: Barack Obama's Ties to Communists, Socialists and Other Anti-American Extremists was released in May 2010. In the book (per The New York Times blurb), "President Obama's life and campaigns are sifted for Communist and socialist ties." The book was on the New York Times' bestseller list for hardcover nonfiction as well as those of Publishers Weekly and The Washington Post. Simon Maloy, writing for Media Matters for America, and John Oswald, of the New York Daily News, both called the book "ridiculous crap". Some journalists, including from publications such as Time and Newsweek, sent emails to the author's publicist saying they did not want to receive a review copy of Klein's book.

Red Army
Red Army: The Radical Network That Must Be Defeated to Save America was published in October 2011. The book was reviewed by Michael Tomasky for the New York Review of Books, writing "I can't in good conscience recommend that anyone read 'Red Army' except perhaps the president," noting that the book "will be read by hundreds of thousands."

Fool Me Twice
Fool Me Twice: Obama's Shocking Plans for the Next Four Years Exposed  was released on August 7, 2012, and appeared on The New York Times bestseller list the following week.

Impeachable Offenses
In August 2013, Klein published Impeachable Offenses: The Case to Remove Barack Obama from Office. MSNBC reported the book fueled the national conversation to impeach Obama, while  BuzzFeed announced the book “ushers in the Obama impeachment movement” on the right.

Real Benghazi Story
On September 11, 2014, the second anniversary of the Benghazi attacks, Klein released a new book entitled, The REAL Benghazi Story: What the White House and Hillary Don’t Want You to Know.

Maggie Haberman reported in Politico that the book was part of a resurgence of conservative book publishing targeting Clinton in the run-up to the United States presidential election in 2016. Alex Seitz-Wald, writing for MSNBC, said the book would prove "easy fodder for the conservative echo chamber".

Relationship with Wikipedia 
In March 2009, Klein criticized Wikipedia for what he described as preferential treatment of Barack Obama coverage. Klein said that Wikipedia editors had scrubbed the article of material critical of the president and that an editor had been suspended for attempting to add "missing" details about Obama's relationship with Bill Ayers and allegations that Obama was not born in the United States. Klein said similar negative content was found in the article of George W. Bush.

The story was picked up by The Independent, The Daily Telegraph, Drudge Report and Fox News. A spokesperson for Wikipedia stated that the Obama article had not received any preferential treatment.