[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Special Detective Unit

The Special Detective Unit (SDU) () is the main domestic security agency of the Garda Síochána, the national police force of Ireland, under the aegis of the Crime & Security Branch (CSB). It is the primary counter-terrorism and counter-espionage investigative unit within the state. The Special Detective Unit superseded the Special Branch (which they are still commonly referred to as), which itself replaced the older Criminal Investigation Department (CID), which was founded in 1921. They work in conjunction with the Defence Forces Directorate of Military Intelligence (J2) – Ireland's national intelligence service – on internal matters. The unit's headquarters are in Harcourt Street, Dublin City.

The Emergency Response Unit (ERU), a specialist armed tactical unit, was a division of the SDU until 2017 when the Special Tactics and Operational Command took over command of the unit.

History

The Civic Guard was formed by the Provisional Government in February 1922 to take over the responsibility of policing the fledgling Irish Free State. The Garda Síochána (Temporary Provisions) Act 1923 enacted after the creation of the Irish Free State on 8 August 1923, provided for the creation of "a force of police to be called and known as 'The .

Separate from the Gardaí, a Protection Officers Corps was set up to provide bodyguards for prominent treatyites during the Civil War. There was also a more secretive body called the Citizens Defence Force, responsible directly to Kevin O’Higgins and funded through the offices of  Arthur Cox. In charge of it was a Captain Henry Harrison, an Englishman who had been a meddler in Irish politics for many years. The exact function of this force remains unclear but some believe responsible for the unsolved disappearance of a number of prominent Republicans at that time. The remains of one of them, Noel Lemass, was discovered by accident years afterwards; secretly buried in the Dublin Mountains.

Oriel House was taken over and became a much-feared interrogation centre. The Oriel House team, about 80-strong,  was accused of using brutal interrogation techniques and of the assassination of republican suspects and prisoners. A study of the period concluded, 'Oriel House succeeded in its task of suppressing small scale republican activities in the Dublin area, not by the sophistication and efficiency its intelligence work... but by the more direct method of striking terror into its opponents. They were disbanded after the Civil War: supposedly because of squeamishness on the part of Kevin O’Higgins; but a core was retained as G-division of the Dublin Metropolitan Police: the G-men, headed by ex-RIC Inspector David Neligan.

In 1926, after the DMP had been amalgamated with the Gardaí, this unit was renamed the Special Branch in imitation of English nomenclature.

Duties
The responsibilities of the Garda Síochána Special Detective Unit include; 
 The investigation of threats to state security and the monitoring of persons and organisations who pose a threat on both national and international fronts 
 Counter-terrorism operations (specifically targeting dissident republicans and Islamic extremists)
 Counter-intelligence
 Armed response to serious incidents
 Security for movement of weapons, ammunition, and large cash-in-transit shipments
 Operation of the Witness Security Programme
 Presidential, ministerial and diplomatic protection, physical security for visiting VIPs

SDU bodyguards accompany the President of Ireland, Michael D. Higgins, on official visits in Ireland and internationally, and the Taoiseach, Micheál Martin, is protected by a Close Protection detail from the SDU. Full-time armed protection and transport is afforded to; the Tánaiste, Minister for Justice, Attorney General, Chief Justice, Director of Public Prosecutions and Garda Commissioner. All government ministers and former Presidents and Taoisigh are provided with armed protection and transport when their security is deemed under threat, otherwise it is reserved for official state occasions.

Ambassadors and high-ranking foreign diplomats in Ireland are given protection by the SDU when their safety or security is "at risk". High-risk foreign diplomatic premises are also protected by the unit, such as the embassies and diplomatic residences of the United States, United Kingdom and Israel in Dublin.

Gardaí use five levels to grade the international terror threat level for Ireland; low, moderate, substantial, severe and critical. The gradings are based on a series of factors, including information supplied by international authorities. The current level is considered to be moderate, meaning an attack is "possible, but not likely".