[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Schweitzer Mountain

spring of 2009.  Special attention has been paid to the environment, with local building materials, geothermal heating, and an architectural style that evokes northern Idaho. It is unclear whether all new homes in Mountainside at Schweitzer will be LEED-certified. Thirty lots remain to be developed.

While capital expenditure projects at Schweitzer during winter 2009-2011 were largely subdued infrastructure and customer service improvements (including a new website and mobile presence, a renewed commitment to customer service, and a new family-centric lodging program dubbed "The Schweitzer Difference"), the summer of 2012 was marked by more significant and visible development. The exterior of the Mill Building, one of the oldest buildings remaining in Schweitzer Village, was extensively remodeled and repainted. On the inside, the Ski & Ride Center was revamped, featuring a more logical flow from registration to rentals and lessons. Gourmandie was expanded with new space and artisanal food options. The Great Escape Quad received a new electrical system, increasing its reliability and efficiency. Finally, the Musical Chairs double was extensively rebuilt, with a new drive, new paint, and new chairs featuring restraining bars.

In early 2013, discussion turned to an expansion of the White Pine Lodge with twenty new units on the south side of the building, near the current main parking lot. Sales of those additional units began in 2013, with three sold in the first month on the market, but additional sales lagged and the project was shelved.

In June 2023, Alterra Mountain Company announced it had entered an agreement to purchase Schweitzer.

Present Development
Schweitzer's village currently contains two condominium-hotels: The Selkirk Lodge and The White Pine Lodge. The Selkirk Lodge features traditional hotel-style rooms, some with Kitchenettes, and others with bunk beds, called "Family Suites." The White Pine Lodge features one-, two-, and four-bedroom units with full kitchens and lofts. Hundreds of private residences and condominiums are also available throughout the lower and upper village. The Mill Building houses ski rental/repair and a retail shop, The Source. The day lodge in the village, the Lakeview Lodge, houses ticket sales, the Season Pass Office, Guest Services, Taps (a full-service bar), the Lakeview Cafe (a cafeteria), Cabinet Mountain Coffee (a coffee shop), ski patrol and daycare services. There are two additional day lodges on the mountain. Sky House, which operates both winter and summer at the top of the Great Escape lift, houses ski patrol, restrooms, a counter service restaurant (Red Hawk Cafe, operates in winter only), and a full-service restaurant and bar (The Nest). The Outback Inn, near the base of the Stella lift, has cafeteria service and restrooms.

In 2019, plans for a 30-unit boutique hotel in the village were announced; named the Humbird Hotel, it opened in February 2022.  In July 2021, to meet a critical workforce housing shortage throughout greater Sandpoint area, the resort broke ground on a $22 million, 84-unit apartment complex in Ponderay.  Also in autumn 2022, Schweitzer announced plans for a new arrival area for the resort under construction, dubbed Base Camp. The new area will include replacement and extension of the Musical Chairs chairlift and parking for an additional 1,400 vehicles.

Statistics

Elevation & Geography
Village Elevation:  - Main Village
Summit Elevation:  - Top of Great Escape Quad
Bottom Lift Elevation:  - Outback Inn
Vertical Feet: 
 above the surrounding land

Terrain & Snow
  of snowfall
   skiable inbounds
10% beginner
40% intermediate
35% advanced
15% expert
  of nordic trails (winter: cross country skiing, snowshoeing, fat tire biking)
 >  of hiking and biking trails (summer)

Current Lifts