[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gavin Tomlin

es for Dagenham in the 2011–12 without scoring a goal at Victoria Road. In January 2012 he signed for Gillingham on loan until the end of the season. He scored six goals in ten League two games for Andy Hessenthaler's "Gills", but was sidelined from March onwards after picking up a hamstring injury.

Southend United
In July 2012, Tomlin signed for Southend United on a one-year contract after being tracked by manager Paul Sturrock for a period of five years. He scored 16 goals in 42 games in the 2012–13 season for the "Shrimpers" and finished joint-top-scorer with strike partner Britt Assombalonga. He did though go 13 games without a goal, and thanked Paul Sturrock for sticking by him during this spell before the start of the 2013 Football League Trophy Final despite the fact that Sturrock had by then been replaced by Phil Brown. Southend were beaten 2–0 by Crewe Alexandra in the Wembley final.

Port Vale
He signed with newly-promoted League One club Port Vale in June 2013. Upon joining the club he stated that he was expecting to play as a striker, rather than as a utility forward, though he admitted he faced a challenge in dislodging either of free-scoring duo Tom Pope and Lee Hughes. He was dropped from the starting line-up after failing to find the net in his first few games, and then spent a month out injured with ankle, hamstring and toe troubles. He returned to action in December, and scored in four consecutive games. He finished the 2013–14 campaign with six goals in only 27 appearances; in the summer Southend United manager Phil Brown confirmed that he was attempting to re-sign Tomlin. Tomlin decided to move back to his native London, and determined on a move South from the Midlands.

Crawley Town
Tomlin joined League One side Crawley Town for an undisclosed fee in June 2014 as "Reds" manager John Gregory stated "I have always admired Gavin". He scored three goals in 40 appearances in the 2014–15 season as Crawley were relegated into League Two. He was released by new manager Dermot Drummy after making just 17 appearances in the 2015–16 campaign.

Later career
Tomlin joined Isthmian League Premier Division club Dulwich Hamlet in August 2016, following a successful trial ahead of the 2016–17 season. He went on to score 19 goals in 60 appearances across all competitions in his first season at the club, and helped Hamlet to the play-off final, where they were beaten 2–1 by Bognor Regis Town. The Hamlet again qualified for the play-offs with a second-place finish in the 2017–18 campaign, and Tomlin scored the equalising goal in the final against Hendon at Imperial Fields before Hamlet secured promotion with a victory in the penalty shoot-out.

On 23 January 2019, Tomlin joined Southern Counties East League Premier Division club Cray Valley Paper Mills. He scored on his debut for the club against Lordswood on 23 January 2019. The "Millers" won the league title at the end of the 2018–19 season and reached the 2019 FA Vase final. Tomlin scored in the final at Wembley Stadium, but Mills were beaten by 3–1 Chertsey Town after extra time. The 2019–20 Isthmian League season was formally abandoned on 26 March, with all results from the season being expunged, due to the COVID-19 pandemic in England. He did not feature in the 2020–21 season, but scored one goal from twelve appearances in the 2021–22 campaign.

Style of play
In June 2010, Dagenham & Redbridge manager John Still stated Tomlin to be "a clever striker with good movement who links play well. He's a hard worker who is equally adept playing as a forward or wide." Speaking in March 2011, Torquay manager Paul Buckle described Tomlin as a player that was "big, strong and has plenty of pace".

Personal life
As a boy he supported Newcastle United and looked up to Andy Cole.

Career statistics

Honours
St Albans City
 Herts Senior Cup: 2004–05

Dulwich Hamlet
Isthmian League Premier Division play-offs: 2018

Cray Valley Paper Mills
Southern Counties East League Premier Division: 2018–19

References

1983 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Gillingham, Kent
Footballers from Kent
English men's footballers
Black British sportsmen
Men's association football wingers
Men's association football forwards
Tooting & Mitcham United F.C. players
Ashford United F.C. players
Aylesbury United F.C. players
Staines Town F.C. players
St Albans City F.C. players
Yeading F.C. players
Windsor & Eton F.C. players
Brentford F.C. players
Fisher Athletic F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Dagenham & Redbridge F.C. players
Torquay United F.C. players
Gillingham F.C. players
Southend United F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Crawley Town F.C. players
Dulwich Hamlet F.C. players
Cray Valley Paper Mills F.C. players
Southern Football League players
Isthmian League players
National League (English football) players
English Football League players