[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Factions in the Democratic Party (United States)

Blue Dogs also being New Democrats. Presidents Barack Obama and Joe Biden have largely tried to bridge the gap and unify the wings of the Democratic Party while still addressing the goals of the liberal wing, and the Third Way is still a large coalition in the modern Democratic Party.

Progressives 

The modern progressive movement in the U.S. draws deeply from the left-wing populist economic and political philosophies of Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal and Woodrow Wilson's New Freedom, the latter occurring at the end of the Progressive Era, which was largely started by Republican President Theodore Roosevelt and his Square Deal. While Wilson and Theodore Roosevelt considered themselves progressives, Franklin Roosevelt only referred to himself as a liberal. Modern progressives are much more culturally liberal on social issues like race and identity, where they draw inspiration from the Civil and Voting Rights Acts proposed by President John F. Kennedy, enacted by President Johnson and advocated for by Dr. King.

While it does not transcend the political philosophy of social liberalism, the Progressive wing has fused tenets of social liberalism with traditions of the Progressive Era as well as drawing more robustly from Keynesian economics, social populism, and social democracy. Progressive Democratic candidates for public office have had popular support as candidates in metropolitan areas outside the South. The first self-described liberal president was Franklin D. Roosevelt whose ideas, such as his calls for a second Bill of Rights, continue to influence progressives. 

President Lyndon Johnson and Civil Rights activists such as Martin Luther King Jr. are influential to progressives as well, not only for their positions on race and identity but on economics as well (Johnson for the Great Society and King for his support of social democracy). The writings of thinkers such as John Dewey and Lester Frank Ward helped shape liberal and progressive ideas in the United States. While there are differences between them, both historical progressivism and the modern movement have the most crossover in the belief that free markets lead to economic inequalities and therefore the free market must be aggressively monitored and regulated with broad economic and social rights in order to protect the working class. 

Modern progressives seriously emphasize the threat of climate change and rally around the Green New Deal, which was created by Rep. Ocasio Cortez and Sen. Markey, as the framework forward to tackle the issue. Progressive Democrats have also been described as constituting the most robust anti-establishment wing of the party in the sense that they "see part of their role as not just attacking Republicans, but also highlighting what they see as shortcomings of the Democratic Party itself." 

Many progressive Democrats are ideological descendants of the New Left of Democratic presidential candidate and Senator George McGovern of South Dakota, while others were involved in the presidential candidacies of Vermont Governor Howard Dean. This group consists disproportionately of college-educated professionals. A 2014 study by the Pew Research Center found that a plurality (41%) resided in mass affluent households and 49% were college graduates. 

The Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) is a caucus of progressive House Democrats in the Congress, along with one independent in the Senate. It is the largest Democratic caucus in the House of Representatives and its members have included Representatives Alan Grayson (FL), John Conyers (MI), Barbara Lee (CA), Jim McDermott (WA), Keith Ellison (MN), Ayanna Pressley (MA), Ro Khanna (CA), Mark Pocan (WI),  and John Lewis (GA). Senators Elizabeth Warren and Ed Markey (MA), Russ Feingold and Tammy Baldwin (WI), Jeff Merkley (OR), and Sherrod Brown (OH) have all been described as progressives. Other notable progressives include Henry A. Wallace, Eugene McCarthy, Ted Kennedy, Paul Wellstone, and Stacey Abrams. Four progressive women of color all under age 50 first elected to the House in 2018 became prominently known as The Squad. The Squad became loosely organized though not as a traditional caucus, and went on to add several women and men first elected to the House in subsequent cycles.