[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Treaty of San Germano

rs that Frederick had confiscated were to be returned, as were any lands he had seized from the Roman church. Frederick surrendered his traditional legatine authority over the Sicilian church, agreeing to free ecclesiastical elections and exempting the clergy from secular courts, taxes and tallages.

Frederick would recognize the independence of the Papal State. The status of Gaeta and Sant'Agata would be resolved by further discussion or arbitration within twelve months, leaving the pope with certain rights over two cities in the Sicilian kingdom. As a guarantee, the papacy would retain control of certain Sicilian castles until the execution of the treaty.

The pope would recognize the treaty of Jaffa of 1229, which had ended the Sixth Crusade and restored Jerusalem to Christian rule.

Ceremonies
The public ceremony confirming the agreed "form of peace" was celebrated in San Germano on 23 July 1230. Frederick was present, while Gregory was personally represented by the friar Guala de Roniis. Church bells were rung. The assembly included princes and churchmen from Germany and Italy, several cardinals and imperial officials. The pope's charges against Frederick that led to his excommunication were publicly read by Patriarch Berthold of Aquileia, Archbishop Eberhard of Salzburg and Bishop Siegfried of Regensburg.

Count Thomas of Acerra, on Frederick's behalf, swore on the Gospels to obey the church and the agreed "form of peace". Oaths were then sworn by Frederick's fidejussores, princes who pledged that for eight months from the day his excommunication was lifted they would assure his compliance and fight for the church if he reneged. All the oaths were recorded in "testimonial letters", to which the parties affixed their seals, including the imperial golden bull. The originals would go in the papal archives with copies be distributed to everyone else.

After the ceremony, Guala returned to Rome. On 25 July, he was back in San Germano to lift the interdict that had been placed on it by Cardinal Pelagius of Albano during the war. On 28 July, Duke Leopold VI of Austria, who had played a leading role in negotiations, died suddenly. On 28 August at Ceprano, Thomas and John formally released Frederick II from his excommunication in a public ceremony. On 1 September, Gregory hosted Frederick in one of his family's houses in Anagni. The two shared the kiss of peace and held talks both in private and in public. The scene was staged as of a father (Gregory) receiving back a prodigal son (Frederick). Gregory on this occasion pardoned all the Sicilian bishops who had stayed loyal to Frederick. On 2 September, they supped together with Hermann von Salza. Their meeting is described both in Gregory's biography in the Liber censuum and in Frederick's letters. Independent accounts are in the Chronica regia Coloniensis and Breve chronicon de rebus Siculis.

In September, Frederick issued an encyclical describing the ceremony of 28 August to all of Europe. Gregory sent out letters in the following months. These public ceremonies helped assure the public that peace had been reached.

Enforcement
The enforcement of the terms of the treaty did not go entirely smoothly. On 15 October 1230, Gregory wrote to Frederick demanding amnesty for some of his supporters in the Capitanata. On 19 January 1231, he wrote reminding the emperor to restore the confiscated properties of the Templars and Hospitallers. As late as the summer of 1233, the status of the citizens of Gaeta in Frederick's eyes was an open question.

In the aftermath of the treaty, Berthold of Urslingen rebelled against Frederick. In or after May 1231, he withdrew to Antrodoco, where his brother, Duke Rainald, tried to induce him to submit. He was besieged by imperial forces and surrendered to Henry of Morra in July 1233, after which he and Rainald left Sicily.

Analysis
Modern historians tend to see Frederick's behaviour after his landing in Italy as highly restrained. He quickly reversed almost all the papal conquests and the initiated peace negotiations rather than invade Papal State. It has been recognized that his ability to govern while excommunicated was severely hampered. Insofar as he succeeded in having his excommunication lifted and Gregory failed to bring the Sicilian kingdom under his control, the peace has been viewed as a victory for Frederick. The public ceremonies, however, were carefully staged to preserve the pope's honour. Peter Partner argues that the treaty of San Germano shows how the pope's power was actually independent of his military capabilities.

Notes

Bibliography

1230 in Europe
San Germano
San Germano
San Germano
Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor