[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1996 Ontario Liberal Party leadership election

The 1996 Ontario Liberal Party leadership convention, held between November 29 and December 1, 1996 at the Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto, elected Dalton McGuinty as the new leader of the Ontario Liberal Party, replacing Lyn McLeod, who announced her resignation following the 1995 Ontario provincial election. 

The contest featured seven official candidates: MPPs Anna-Marie Castrilli, Joseph Cordiano, Dwight Duncan, John Gerretsen, Gerrard Kennedy, and Dalton McGuinty, and businessman Greg Kells. McGuinty lost the subsequent 1999 provincial election but won in 2003 and served as Premier for almost ten years until 2013.

Background
Lyn McLeod, a cabinet minister in the government of Premier David Peterson, was elected leader of the party in 1992 following the defeat of the Peterson government in 1990. She defeated frontrunner Murray Elston by nine votes on the fifth ballot, becoming the first woman to lead a major party in Ontario. 

The party under McLeod had been leading in the polls for most of the period from 1992 to 1995, and were generally favoured to benefit from the swing in support away from the NDP. However, the party hurt its credibility through a series of high-profile policy reversals in the period leading up to the election, the most notable being her stance on rights for same-sex couples. Following her disappointing showing in the 1995 provincial election, McLeod announced in September 1995 she would step down as soon as a replacement is selected.

Early Campaign
Former cabinet ministers Sean Conway, Murray Elston and Gerry Phillips were initially the leading contenders for the leadership. At a preliminary planning meeting hosted by the party in January 1996, prospective candidates sent representatives, including the four of the six MPPs eventually entered the race (excluding Duncan who was supporting Conway at the time, and Kennedy who was not an MPP at the time); MPPs Conway, Phillips, Dominic Agostino, Richard Patten; federal environment minister Sergio Marchi, Toronto lawyer John Campion; and Robert McMurtry, brother of former Progressive Conservative Attorney General Roy McMurtry.

Conway publicly declared his intention to run in the summer of 1995, and was widely perceived to have accumulated enough support within the caucus and the wider party to secure victory, but announced in late January 1996 that he would not be a candidate. Phillips announced his bid in late March after Conway's exit, quickly emerging as the frontrunner and garnering support from half of the caucus, but withdraw in April due to a heart ailment.

Duncan became the first caucus member to formally announce a bid in June, followed shortly by Kennedy in mid July.  McGuinty, Cordiano, Castrilli and Gerretsen all officially entered the race in late August. Each candidate were required to pay a $50,000 non-refundable deposit.

Candidates

Anna-Marie Castrilli
Anna-Marie Castrilli, 47 a lawyer, was elected MPP for Downsview in 1995. A former chair of the Governing Council of the University of Toronto, she served as the party's colleges and universities critic.
 Other prominent supporters: Federal Ministers Jane Stewart (MP for Brant) and Art Eggleton (MP for York Centre)

Joseph Cordiano
Joseph Cordiano, 39, was first elected MPP in 1985 for Downsview, and served as MPP for Lawrence since 1987. He served as a Parliamentary Assistant to several ministers during the Peterson government, and was the only candidate that has served in government. In opposition he was a prominent voice for the party within Toronto.  At the start of the campaign, he was seen as the leading right-of-centre challenger to frontrunner Kennedy. 
 Supporters in Caucus (4): Elinor Caplan (Oriole), John Cleary (Cornwall), Alvin Curling (Scarborough North), Mario Sergio (Yorkview)
 Other prominent supporters: Tony Ianno (MP for Trinity—Spadina, cousin of Cordiano and served as campaign chair)

Dwight Duncan
Dwight Duncan, 37, was MPP Windsor—Walkerville since 1995. Duncan was an aide to prominent Windsor political figures like federal minister Herb Gray and provincial minister Bill Wrye, and served on Windsor City Council from 1988 until 1994. He campaigned on a cautious fiscal strategy but with plans for increased investment in health and education. Confidence with his chances, his campaign allowed a CPAC camera crew to shadow him throughout the convention, capturing a number of less-than-flattering moments for Duncan.
 Supporters in Caucus (9): Rick Bartolucci (Sudbury), Michael Brown (Algoma-Manitoulin), Mike Colle (Oakwood), Sean Conway (Renfrew North), Bruce Crozier (Essex South), Pat Hoy (Essex-Kent), Frank Miclash (Kenora), Sandra Pupatello (Windsor-Sandwich), David Ramsay (Timiskaming)
 Other prominent supporters: Federal Minister Herb Gray (MP for Windsor West); former MPP Tim Murphy