[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Lithgow railway station

of-shed removed.

Further information 

The Lithgow Coal Stage Signal Box, Eskbank Railway Station, and Lithgow (James Street) Underbridge all have separate listings.

The following items are located adjacent to the station but are excluded from the listing as they do not warrant listing on the SHR:

Substation –  rectangular single-storey substation of face brick construction featuring strongly emphasized engaged piers with a decorative projecting accent, a four-course brick base with a recessed course and bull-nosed splay on top, a parapet with capping extending above the piers, and a metal door with bullnose brick surrounds. The rear of the substation appears to be damaged in part with a paint finish on the wall possibly to obscure some graffiti.
Office Building –  large two-storey office building of face brick construction. It is located to the west of the Station Master's residence at the corner of Railway Parade and Eskbank Street. The building combines three adjacent wings, one of which has a higher skill level to the upper storey windows resulting in higher eaves and ridge level than the other wings. They form a stepped complex building. The overall fenestration of the building is typical of post-war period office building façade articulation featuring large 12-pane metal windows with three casement windows, with dominant mullion, s emphasised. A rendered string course forms a hood along with the lintel height of the ground floor and is the only decorative element on the main façade that provides continuity between the wings beside the windows. The main office block entry is from the eastern smallest wing via a recessed porch with large multi-paned floor to ceiling glazing and a single door opening. Three doors with a utilitarian appearance (one to the main large building and the others in the group to the central wing) provide separate access to the individual wings. The roof is hipped with terracotta tiles. A single flight later addition steel fire stair is attached to the west elevation of the large wing, which required the creation of a new door opening on the upper-level elevation. These are the only visible major modifications to the exterior of the building. Security grills to ground floor doors and obscure glazing to some windows are the other minor changes.

Platforms and services
Lithgow has one island platform with two sides. It is the terminating point for NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services from Sydney Central. It is also served by the Bathurst Bullet to Bathurst, the Central West XPT to Dubbo and the Outback Xplorer to Broken Hill. Journey Beyond's Indian Pacific passes Lithgow but does not stop at the station.

Transport links

Lithgow Buslines operate six routes to and from Lithgow station:
100: to Lithgow Hospital
200: to Bowenfels
304: to Oakey Park & McKellars Park
500: to Vale of Clwydd
600: to Portland
636: to Bathurst

NSW TrainLink operate road coach services from Lithgow to Orange, Grenfell, Parkes, Dubbo, Nyngan, Gulgong, Coonabarabran and Baradine.

Heritage listing 
As of 10 December 2009, Lithgow Railway Station is significant as an important regional headquarters for the NSW Railways since the 1920s combining a range of buildings and structures dating from the 1880s to the mid-1920s and is significant for its strong associations with the rail and coal industry in the wider Lithgow and Eskbank area. Along with nearby Eskbank Station, the site provides physical evidence of the activities and development that occurred in the historic Lithgow railway corridor marking several important phases in the evolution of railway operations in the most western end of the upper Blue Mountains. The buildings reflect the development of the site, the shift of the station location and the development of the town as a major mining area in the early years of the century.

Lithgow Railway Station is of aesthetic significance as it comprises a number of buildings that are individually good examples of their type. The platform building is a good example of a standard island-building demonstrating the typical characteristics of Federation railway architecture used throughout NSW. The weatherboard overhead booking and parcels office and the goods lift tower display both aesthetic and technical achievements in design and construction. The Station Master's residence is a fine example of a grand two-storey railway residence with a prominent and landmark quality overlooking the railway corridor. Its distinctive architectural detailing and fenestration is evidence of prosperity in the railways and the importance given to the railway staff in the 1880s.

Lithgow railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 30 August 2013 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.