[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Max Fisher

ive change to speed the pace of assistance to underserved populations."

Fisher has 15 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.

He died March 3, 2005, at about 11:30 am in his home in Franklin, Michigan, surrounded by family and is interred at the Clover Hill Park Cemetery in Birmingham, Michigan.

Fisher financed the schooling of his nephew Stephen M. Ross, who called him, "the most important role model and inspiration for me in life".

Wealth

In 2004, Max Fisher had amassed a net worth of $775 million. At 96, he was the oldest member of the Forbes 400.

Legacy

Historical documents
Max Fisher's papers are available for public research at the Walter P. Reuther Library in Detroit, Michigan. The library's website explains that, "This large collection documents Fisher's life and career as a successful Detroit industrialist and investor, influential Republican Party fundraiser and power broker, Jewish community leader, and major philanthropist. It includes correspondence, documents, speeches, interviews, photographs and other media, and documents from his biographer."

B'nai B'rith Youth Organization (BBYO) Involvement
In March 2006, a male chapter of BBYO was founded by 12 young men from the state of Michigan with the name of Max Fisher AZA (AZA standing for Aleph Zadik Aleph, the male sector of the organization). Following the foundation, the chapter was officially recognized by the Fisher Foundation in early April. The chapter's charter number is #337.  Since Fisher's charter in 2006, the chapter has flourished at the chapter, regional, and international level.  Four times has a member from Fisher AZA served as the President for all of Michigan Region BBYO; even though the chapter has only been around for 10 years, an International President has already hailed from Fisher.  Fishermen always set the standard for how to behave in BBYO; in fact, they have won the Sportsmanship award at Michigan Region's Regional Convention many times since its founding.  Each year several members represent Michigan Region by attending BBYO's International Convention in February, and by attending countless summer programs around the globe each summer, many of which focus on building leadership skills. Fisher has won several awards, including the Henry Monsky award which recognizes the most outstanding chapters across the International Order. On a more local level, each year several Fishermen apply for individual awards including the Bronze and Silver Stars of David (recognizing outstanding participation) and the Tree of Life Award (recognizes those individuals who bring more members into the order via recruiting).  Additional awards are available for those who excel in community service as well.  Recently, Fisher has received publicity for starting a Platform Database which hosts several hundred platforms of individuals' candidacy for office from around the world. The platforms range from the chapter level, to the regional and international levels as well.

Telegraph Road
On November 30, 2005, President George W. Bush signed the 2006 appropriations bill related to the US Department of Transportation and other agencies. Contained in that law was a provision that named a  stretch of Telegraph Road (U.S. Route 24) from I-96 to its northern end at I-75 the "Max A. Fisher Memorial Highway"; the highway was dedicated in May 2008.

References

External links
Membership on 2004 Forbes 400
Max M. Fisher Papers at the Walter P. Reuther Library

1908 births
2005 deaths
American businesspeople in the oil industry
American people of Russian-Jewish descent
Businesspeople from Ohio
Heads of the Jewish Agency for Israel
People from Salem, Ohio
Ohio State University Fisher College of Business alumni
United States Football League executives
People from Franklin, Michigan
20th-century American philanthropists
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American Jews
21st-century American Jews