[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1979 in New Zealand

ure films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1979 films

Sport

Athletics
 Tony Good wins his first national title in the men's marathon, clocking 2:18:47.3.

Chess
 The 86th New Zealand Chess Championship is held in North Shore, and is won by Ortvin Sarapu of Auckland (his 16th title).

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup: Lord Module
 Auckland Trotting Cup: Sapling

Motorsport
 A New Zealand team consisting of Larry Ross, Mitch Shirra, Ivan Mauger and Bruce Cribb win the motorcycle Speedway World Team Cup held at White City Stadium in London.

Netball
 5th Netball World Championships held in Trinidad and Tobago. Australia, New Zealand and Trinidad and Tobago all tied for first place.

Soccer
 New Zealand National Soccer League won by Mt. Wellington AFC
 The Chatham Cup is won by North Shore United who beat Mount Wellington 2–1 in the final.

Births
 27 January: Daniel Vettori, cricketer
 1 February: Peter Fulton, cricketer
 15 February: Hamish and James Marshall, cricketers
 15 March: Kyle Mills, cricketer
 20 March: Keven Mealamu, rugby union player
 26 March: Ben Blair, rugby union player
 12 May (In Nadi, Fiji): Amasio Valence, rugby sevens player
 15 May (in Samoa): Chris Masoe, rugby union player.
 8 June: Adine Wilson, netball player.
 2 July: Michael Papps, cricketer.
 30 July: Louise Corcoran, skeleton racer.
 3 October: Rodney So'oialo, rugby union player
 14 November: Carl Hayman, rugby union player
 20 November: Maree Bowden, netball player
 3 December: Daniel Bedingfield, pop singer
 Pete Wheeler, artist.
:Category:1979 births

Deaths
 October: Marty Johnstone, drug trafficker ('Mr Asia')
 28 November: Peter Mulgrew, mountaineer (died in Mount Erebus disaster)
:Category:1979 deaths

See also
List of years in New Zealand
Timeline of New Zealand history
History of New Zealand
Military history of New Zealand
Timeline of the New Zealand environment
Timeline of New Zealand's links with Antarctica

References

External links

 
New Zealand
Years of the 20th century in New Zealand