[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anthony Enahoro

issioner (Minister) for Information and Labour under the General Yakubu Gowon Military Government, 1967–74; Federal Commissioner for Special Duties, 1975. He later became a member of the National Party of Nigeria, NPN, 1978–83. He was the president, World Festival of Negro Arts and Culture, 1972–75.

Enahoro was the chairman of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), a pro-democracy group that fought dictator Sani Abacha till Abacha's death. Enahoro was conferred with the national honour of Commander, Order of the Federal Republic, CFR, in 1982, and was the chairman of the Movement for National Reformation, MNR, as well as the Pro-National Conference Organisation (PRONACO). He was awarded honorary DSC by the University of Benin in 1972. His publications include the treatise Fugitive Offender.<ref>"Enahoro was a titan, says Fani-Kayode",'Vanguard, 15 December 2010.</ref>

Crisis in Western Nigeria
During the 1962 crisis in the old Western region, he was detained along with other Action Group members. Accused of treason during the Awolowo alleged coup trial, Enahoro escaped via Ghana  to the United Kingdom in 1963, Nigeria requested Enahoro's extradition under the 1881 Fugitive Offenders Act, preventing his application for political asylum. Early in 1963, the new leader of the Labour party, Harold Wilson, detected the embarrassment caused by Enahoro's arrest and imprisonment. Labour went on the attack in the House of Commons, with support from some Tories, backed by a media furore. He was once one of the best-known Nigerians in Britain. He was the "fugitive offender" who triggered days of debate in the House of Commons in 1963 as he battled against extradition.

"The Enahoro affair" became an issue of human rights versus the government's pusillanimous wish not to offend Nigeria, and put the Tory prime minister, Harold Macmillan, and his home secretary, Henry Brooke, in a difficult position.

He was extradited from the UK and imprisoned for treason. In 1966, he was released by the Military Government.

Sport
Enahoro came from a sporting background. He played golf and followed cricket ardently. He excelled in sports at King's College and is credited with being the first Nigerian national to gain membership of a golf club in Nigeria. He managed to bring his handicap down into single figures during his long golfing career. He was also the driving force behind bringing FESTAC to Nigeria in the 1970s, during which time both Muhammad Ali and Pele visited the country to widespread acclaim. 

All his children excelled at sport during their schooling and University years, playing Football, Rugby, Golf and Tennis. Kenneth (1953–2017) and Eugene either are or were avid golfers, and were founding members of the Saturday Society at Benin Golf Club. Annabella practices Pilates and Gabriel is an avid cyclist.

Legacy
In 1953, Anthony Enahoro initiated the self-government motion in the Western House of Assembly, which eventually led to Nigerian Independence on 1 October 1960.

Family
Enahoro was survived by his wife Helen (née Ediae) (1933–2012), their five children, several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.

Books
 Fugitive offender: the story of a political prisoner''

References

External links
 Anthony Enahoro: A Grim Vindication
 Ron Christenson (ed.), Anthony Enahoro: Political Trials in History: From Antiquity to the Present, Transaction Publishhers, 1991

Nigerian Pentecostals
1923 births
2010 deaths
Nigerian Roman Catholics
Nigerian democracy activists
Nigerian prisoners and detainees
Prisoners and detainees of Nigeria
People convicted of treason against Nigeria
King's College, Lagos alumni
Action Group (Nigeria) politicians
National Democratic Coalition (Nigeria) politicians
Commanders of the Order of the Federal Republic
People extradited from the United Kingdom
People extradited to Nigeria
Nigerian editors
People from colonial Nigeria
People from Edo State