[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Global strategic petroleum reserves

e consistently been above 160 days since January 2009, hitting the country's historical record of 240 days (124 days of government stocks and 117 days of industry stocks) in March 2014.

Others
The Philippines had plans for a National Petroleum Strategic Reserve by 2010 with an approximate size of .

Taiwan has an SPR with a 1999-reported size of . Taiwan's refiners (Kaohsiung ; Ta-Lin ; Tao-Yuan ; Mailiao 150,000 bbl/d) are also required to store at least 30 days of petroleum stocks. As of 2005, these mandated commercial reserves total  of strategic petroleum stocks.

Thailand increased the size of its SPR from 60 to 70 days of consumption in 2006.

Pakistan has announced plans for a 20-day emergency reserve.

Europe

European Union
In the European Union, according to Council Directive 68/414/EEC of 20 December 1968, all 27 member states are required to have a strategic petroleum reserve within the territory of the E.U. equal to at least 90 days of average domestic consumption.

The Czech Republic has a four-tank SPR facility in Nelahozeves run by the company CR Mero. The Czech SPR is equal to 100 days of consumption or .

Denmark has a reserve equal to 81 days of consumption (about 1.4 million tonnes). Not counting reserves held by the military defence.

Finland has an SPR with an approximate size of .

France has an SPR with an approximate size of . As of 2000, jet fuel stocks for at least 55 days of consumption were required, with half of those stocks controlled by the Société Anonyme de Gestion des Stocks de Sécurité (SAGESS) and the other half controlled by producers.

Germany created the Federal Oil Reserve in 1970, located in the Etzel salt caverns near Wilhelmshaven in northern Germany, with an initial size of . The current German Federal Oil Reserve and the Erdölbevorratungsverband (EBV) (the German stockholding company) mandates that refiners must keep 90 days of stock on hand, giving Germany an approximate reserve size of  as of 1997. The German SPR is the largest in Europe.

Hungary has an SPR equal to approximately 90 days of consumption or .

Ireland has approximately 31 days of oil stocks in Ireland and another nine days of oil stocks held in other EU members states. Additionally, it has stock tickets (contracts with a third party whereby the government has the option of purchasing oil in the event of an emergency) and stocks held by large industry or large consumers. In total, Ireland has approximately 100 days' worth of oil at its disposal.

The Netherlands maintains a stockpile equal to 90 days of net oil imports. In 2013, this was about four million tonnes of oil.

Poland has an SPR equal to approximately 70 days of consumption. Another facility holding 20 days of consumption was completed in 2008. Poland also requires oil companies to maintain reserves sufficient to provide 73 days of consumption.

Portugal has an SPR with an approximate size of .

Slovakia has an SPR with an approximate size of .

Spain has an SPR with an approximate size of .

Sweden has an SPR with an approximate size of .

In 2008, the United Kingdom recently drew up plans to create its own strategic fuel reserves utilizing Steven Brown as an agreement agent.

Russia
As of 2011, Russia is accumulating strategic reserves of refined oil products to be held by Rosneftegaz, a state-owned company. The reserves will be held at commercial refineries, Transneft facilities and state reserve facilities. The current planned size is .

Switzerland
Switzerland has SPRs consisting of gas, diesel, jet fuel and heating oil for 4.5 months of consumption. The reserves were created in the 1940s.

Ukraine
At the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russia destroyed major Ukrainian fuel depots, leading to a critical fuel situation. Ukraine responded by purchasing 2,000 used fuel trucks from the EU and Turkey, along with 600 new ones. These trucks act as a mobile fuel storage system. Unlike oil depots, refineries and stationary fuel terminals like railway stations, fuel trucks are more difficult to target.

Middle East

Iran
In April 2006, the Fars News Agency reported that Iran was planning to create an SPR. The National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) began construction of 15 crude oil storage tanks with a capacity of . In August 2008, Iran announced plans to expand the SPR with a new facility on Kharg Island with four tanks holding  each. Iran's SPR facilities are:
Ahwaz – four storage tanks, total capacity .
Omidiyeh – three storage tanks, total capacity .
Goureh – six storage tanks, total capacity .
Sirri Island – one storage tank, total capacity .
Bahregansar – one storage tank, total capacity .
Kharg Island – four storage tanks, total capacity . (Planned facility, not operational yet.)

Kuwait
Kuwait has a joint stockpile located in South Korea. The deal gives South Korea first rights to purchase the oil. As of 2006, the size of the stockpile is .