[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gadi Eizenkot

Gadi Eisenkot or Eizenkot (; born 19 May 1960) is an Israeli general who was the 21st Chief of General Staff of the Israel Defense Forces from 16 February 2015 until 15 January 2019. He is the originator of the so-called Dahiya doctrine, which endorses the use of "disproportionate force" and the destruction of civilian infrastructure in areas where attacks against Israel originate from. He serves as a minister without portfolio in the thirty-seventh government of Israel.

Biography
Gadi Eisenkot was born in Tiberias, in northern Israel. He is the second of four children born to Meir and Esther Eizenkot, Jewish Moroccan immigrants from the town of Safi. His mother was born in Casablanca, and his father was born in Marrakesh. It is thought that the family name was originally Azenkot and was changed to Eisenkot by a clerk after his father immigrated to Israel. After his parents divorced, his father remarried and had four more children.

Eisenkot grew up in the southern port city of Eilat, and studied at Goldwater High School, majoring in maritime studies. After high school he was drafted to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and served in the Golani Brigade.

He graduated with a (B.A.) in History from Tel Aviv University and later completed a post-graduate degree at Haifa University in Political science.

He is married and the father of five children. He currently resides in Herzliya.

On 12 October 2023, he was sworn in as a minister without portfolio after his party joined the government following the outbreak of the 2023 Israel–Hamas war.

Military career 

Eisenkot did his military service in the Golani Brigade, of which he became commander in 1997–98. He served as a soldier, a squad leader and a platoon leader. In the First Lebanon War he served as a Company commander in the Golani brigade. During the South Lebanon conflict (1985–2000) he served as the brigade's Operations Officer and as the commander of the Golani Orev Company. Later, he served as Golani's 13th Battalion commander, the Deputy to the Commander of the Brigade and an operations officer of the Northern Command. Afterwards he served as Carmeli Brigade's commander and as the commander of the Ephraim Brigade. In 1997 he replaced Col. Erez Gerstein and was appointed commander of the Golani Brigade.

In 1999 Eizenkot was selected to be the Military Secretary for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defense under then Prime Minister Ehud Barak. Since then he has commanded the 366th Division and the Judea and Samaria Division, where he led the Campaign against Palestinian political violence. He was promoted to head of Israeli Operations Directorate in June 2005. After the conclusions exercise "joining of forces" Eizenkot led the formulation of the concept on which the IDF must severely damage the center of gravity of Hezbollah, the Dahiya neighborhood, as a key component for creating deterrence against Hezbollah. 

After Maj. Gen. Udi Adam resigned in October 2006 amid criticism over his conduct in the 2006 Lebanon War, Eizenkot replaced him as head of the Northern Command. In his years as the head of the Northern Command he emphasizes the training of forces, strengthening the capacities of command and creating an appropriate operational response to threats from Hezbollah and Syria.

On 11 July 2011, the position was transferred to Maj. Gen. Yair Golan. Afterwards he served as Deputy Chief of General Staff in place of Maj. Gen. Yair Naveh, assuming office on 14 January 2013. On 28 November 2014, Defense Minister Moshe Ya'alon and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu chose Eizenkot as the successor to Gen. Benny Gantz as the Chief of Staff of the IDF.

Chief of Staff of the IDF 

Eizenkot took office on 16 February 2015. Upon taking office he began to promote measures to strengthen the ground forces, including infantry training reinforcement and armor, reducing the volume of reserve forces on the one hand and reinforcing the amount of training on the other hand. In addition he emphasizes the training of forces regarding the threat of tunnels. Eizenkot ordered the implementation of the multi-year plan "Gideon" that was formed under his direction. "Gideon" was presented in July 2015 and it was approved by the cabinet in April 2016. The plan involves a variety of issues which such as force buildup to a range of threats, strengthening and developing the IDF's maneuvering capabilities, eliminating redundant arrays and the constructing a cyber command. At the heart of multi-year plan stands "The IDF Strategy".