[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Foreign relations of the Axis powers

rte Kurt Eggers unit, and Delaney is believed to later have served in the Légion des Volontaires Français (LVF). He met Monti and probably arranged for him to enter the Waffen-SS.  Delaney was killed in 1945. Another eight American volunteers are known to have been killed in German service.

Oceania

Australia
In the early 1930s, German immigrant, medical doctor, World War I veteran of the German Army and father of former South Australian Liberal politician, Heini Becker, Dr. Johannes Becker set up the Nazi Party in Australia. Based in Tanunda, South Australia, he became the leading Nazi Party organiser for Australia, gathering around a number of people, including a Lutheran pastor. Becker lost favour with the Nazi officials in Germany and was expelled from the party in 1941. Within the first few days of World War II, all members were interned as they were considered a risk to national security. Becker was labelled "Australia's No. 1 Nazi" and his organisation was known as The Hitler Club by Australian security operatives. A very small number of Australians were also believed to be recruited into the British Free Corps. Australia also produced its own fascist organisation, known as the Australia First Movement. Although not directly linked to Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy or Japan, it believed that greater links with the Axis nations would benefit Australia's long term interests. Unlike other right-wing organisations founded in Australia in the 1930s (such as the New Guard), which were essentially monarchist and pro-British Empire, the Australia First Movement was unique in that it proposed that the country become a republic as a future form of government.

Western Samoa
In the 1930s the former German colony of Western Samoa was under New Zealand Administration. On January 15, 1934, Mr. Alfred Matthes and E.W. Bohle were authorised to establish a short-lived branch of the National Socialist German Workers' Party in Western Samoa. Following this, they began to receive literature and printed propaganda from the Auslandsabteilung (Foreign Branch) of the Nazi Party in Hamburg.

On January 20, 1937, Matthes and Gerhard Stoeicht returned to Apia from the Nazi Party's World Congress organised in Hamburg, Germany. In the same year the German consul in Wellington visited the Nazi HQ in Apia. During the Sudeten crisis in 1938 the local Nazis became active again and apparently planned to seize some key government institutions. Later, Matthes went broke and Berlin dissolved the Samoan Nazi Party in April 1939.

Some documents that were found in Germany after the war proved that twelve Western Samoans had official NSDAP membership cards. Ten of them emigrated to New Zealand after the war.

See also
World War II
Axis powers of World War II
Collaboration with the Axis Powers during World War II
Participants in World War II
List of Pro-Axis Leaders and Governments or Direct Control in Occupied Territories
Expansion plans of the Axis
Expansion operations and planning of the Axis Powers

Notes and references

 
 
 
 
 
 

20th century in international relations
Axis powers
Politics of World War II