[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Inquisitor's Palace

oor became a Folklore Museum on 5 December 1981, but by the late 1980s the museum was in decline and only parts of it remained open to the public. The palace was fully reopened as the National Museum of Ethnography in 1992, and apart from a museum it also houses Heritage Malta's ethnography section.

Apart from exhibits relating to the inquisition, the museum's collections also include a number of wooden architectural models of destroyed landmarks, including representations of Birgu before the World War II bombings, the Order's bakery in Valletta before it was demolished in the 1930s, and the Manderaggio before it was rebuilt in the 1950s.

The Inquisitor's Palace is one of the few surviving palaces of its kind around the world, and the only one which is open to the public. Many buildings used by the inquisition were destroyed during and after the French Revolution, or were left to decay over the centuries. The summer residence of Malta's inquisitor, Girgenti Palace, has also survived and it is now the summer residence of the Prime Minister of Malta.

The building was included on the Antiquities List of 1925. It is now a Grade 1 national monument, and it is also listed on the National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands.

Architecture

The Inquisitor's Palace is built in a number of architectural styles, but overall it resembles a Roman palazzo. It has a symmetrical façade which is divided by piers into five bays. The piers on the ground floor are rusticated, while those on the first floor are smooth-faced. The central bay contains the main doorway on the ground floor, above which is an open balcony supported on corbels. Two windows flank either side of the central bay, and they have rusticated surrounds on the ground floor and mouldings on the first floor. A string course runs along the first floor window sill level. The façade also has a socle to make up for the steep slope of the street.

Since the building was constructed over the course of the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries, with further alterations and restorations in the 19th and 20th centuries, its interior has a labyrinthine plan. One of the courtyards has a Gothic groin vault cloister, and this is the only part of the building that remains from the Castellania.

See also
Girgenti Palace, originally the inquisitor's summer residence

Further reading
Il-Palazz ta' l-Inkwizitur tal-Birgu
Remains At Inquisitor’s Palace date back to pre-Knights period
Folklore museum opening

References

Bibliography

Bonnici, Alessandro (1968). L'Inquisizione di Malta 1561-1798. Melita Historica. Retrieved on 2 August 2016.

External links

Heritage Malta

Palaces in Birgu
Buildings and structures completed in the 16th century
Limestone buildings in Malta
Inquisition in Malta
Former courthouses in Malta
Defunct prisons in Malta
British military hospitals
Defunct hospitals in Malta
Convents in Malta
Museums in Malta
Museums established in 1966
Museums established in 1992
Religious museums
National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands
Ethnographic museums in Europe
Sites managed by Heritage Malta