[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Atlanta in the American Civil War

the bridges completely, and then move your command to-morrow to Kingston and beyond, passing General Davis command,"  On Nov. 11, 1864, Capt. Poe, in Atlanta, received instructions from Gen. Sherman, "You may commence the work of destruction at once, but don't use fire until toward the last moment."

The work of destroying Atlanta's military assets began under the direction of the Chief Engineer, Capt. Poe, on Nov 12, and would continue until the evening of November 15, 1864. In his official report, Captain Poe states:

Gen. Sherman returned to the city on Nov. 14. In his memoirs, he recalls:

After a plea by Father Thomas O'Reilly of the Immaculate Conception Catholic Church, Sherman did not burn the city's churches or hospitals. However, the remaining war resources were then destroyed in Atlanta and in Sherman's March to the Sea. One of the major buildings that was destroyed was Edward A. Vincent's railroad depot, built in 1853. In his diary, Capt. Poe would bemoan the "destruction of private property" that occurred.

Sherman's march to the sea begins (November 15–16, 1864)

On November 15, the work of destroying the military assets continued in downtown under Capt. Poe, while the bulk of the Union forces began their "March to the Sea". The Union forces now consisted of approximately 60,000 men divided into two wings; each wing comprised two Corps. The right wing under Maj. Gen. Oliver O. Howard took the McDonough Road (later Capital Ave.) following the Macon & Western Railroad towards Jonesboro while the left wing, commanded by Maj. Gen. Henry W. Slocum,  took Decatur Street along the Georgia Railroad towards Decatur and Stone Mountain.

The XVII Corps, commanded by Major General Frank P. Blair Jr, marched south along the McDonough road, and moved, via McDonough and Jackson, to the Ocmulgee River, at Planters Factory. The XV Corps, commanded by Major General Peter J. Osterhaus, followed the XVII Corps on the McDonough Road.

The, 4th Division of the XV Corps was north of Atlanta and "by consecutive marches passed through Kingston, Allatoona, and Marietta, and arrived at Atlanta on the morning of the 15th [November] just as the Fifteenth Corps debouched from the town. Twenty days' supplies were loaded on the trains, and the command moved to overtake the corps, and encamped near East Point on the night of the 15th". The XV Corps arrived in the vicinity of McDonough on the 16th.

The XX Corps, commanded by Brig. Gen. Alpheus S. Williams, took Decatur Street following the Georgia Railroad through Decatur and past Stone Mountain. Their destination was Lithonia. The corps camped near the Georgia railroad, south of Stone Mountain on the evening of the 15th and near Rock Bridge Post-Office on the 16th.

The XIV Corps, commanded by Bvt. Maj. Gen. Jefferson C. Davis, having been north of Atlanta in Rome, reached Atlanta on the morning of November 15. The corps bivouacked in the suburbs of the city. The remainder of the day and night was spent in issuing clothing to the men, filling up empty wagons with provisions, equalizing and assigning trains to the different commands with a view to rapid marching. The XIV Corps left Atlanta on the 16th, taking the Decatur Rd, passed through Decatur and then moved to Covington.

As Gen. Sherman departed Atlanta at 7:00 a.m. on Nov. 16 with the army, he noted his handiwork:

Atlantans return (November 17, 1864 – May 4, 1865)

After the Union forces left Atlanta, one of the first Atlantans to return was Zachary Rice. On Nov. 20, 1864, Mr. Rice reported that, "there is not a house standing on Whitehall Street from Rowark's corner to Wesley Chapel on Peachtree Street and on Marietta from the street running from the Baptist church ..." He goes on to report that:
 "all the houses on Marietta Street are burned except a short space from Dr. Powell's to Robinson's house, opposite the state depot. Except Norcross's mills, L. Dean's and B. O. Jones's, no houses are burned on Peachtree Street, beyond Wesley Chapel. Inman's, Holbrook's, Landale's, and Nox buildings are burned. Colonel Glenn and Rawson's dwellings are not burn..."
Mr. Rice reports that all of the churches near City Hall were saved but that the new Episcopal and Pain's churches were destroyed.

In a letter to his wife, dated Dec. 1, 1864, James R. Crew, Mayor Calhoun's emissary to Gen. Sherman wrote,
 "You have heard before this that the Federals have burned and evacuated Atlanta, but for information to the refugees and the exiles who have been driven from their homes, allow me to trouble you with a few lines, as all will be anxious to know whether their homes have been spared by the vandal hands."
He also notes that many private homes were destroyed and that Dr. Quintard's "Rebel" chapel had been destroyed.  Mr. Crew estimates that two-thirds of the city had been destroyed.