[Source: PubMed]

91. BMC Public Health. 2012 Oct 30;12:926. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-926.

Resilience among asylum seekers living with HIV.

Orton L(1), Griffiths J, Green M, Waterman H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health & Policy, Institute of Psychology, Health & 
Society, The University of Liverpool, 3rd Floor, Whelan Building, 1-5 Brownlow 
Street, Liverpool L69 3GL, UK. l.c.orton@liv.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: A small body of evidence demonstrates the challenges faced by 
migrant communities living with HIV but has yet to consider in-depth the 
experience of asylum seekers whose residency status is undetermined. The overall 
aim of our study was to explore the experiences of those who are both living 
with HIV and seeking asylum. This paper focuses on the stressors precipitated by 
the HIV diagnosis and by going through the asylum system; as well as 
participants' resilience in responding to these stressors and the consequences 
for their health and wellbeing.
METHODS: We conducted an ethnographic study. Fieldwork took place in the UK 
between 2008-2009 and included: 350 hours of observation at voluntary services 
providing support to black and minority ethnic groups living with HIV; 29 
interviews and four focus group discussions with those who were seeking asylum 
and living with HIV; and 15 interviews with their health and social care 
providers. Data were analysed using the constant comparative method.
RESULTS: There were three main stressors that threatened participants' 
resilience. First, migration caused them to leave behind many resources 
(including social support). Second, stigmatising attitudes led their HIV 
diagnosis to be a taboo subject furthering their isolation. Third, they found 
themselves trapped in the asylum system, unable to influence the outcome of 
their case and reliant on HIV treatment to stay alive. Participants were, 
however, very resourceful in dealing with these experiences. Resilience 
processes included: staying busy, drawing on personal faith, and the support 
received through HIV care providers and voluntary organisations. Even so, their 
isolated existence meant participants had limited access to social resources, 
and their treatment in the asylum system had a profound impact on perceived 
health and wellbeing.
CONCLUSIONS: Asylum seekers living with HIV in the UK show immense resilience. 
However, their isolation means they are often unable to deal with their 
treatment in the asylum system, with negative consequences for their perceived 
health and wellbeing.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-926
PMCID: PMC3539981
PMID: 23110402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]