[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Demy de Zeeuw

million. As a result of the move to Spartak Moscow, his first club, Go Ahead Eagles, received 5% transfer move. Upon joining Spartak Moscow, de Zeeuw would play in the same position, just like he did at Ajax, as manager Valeri Karpin suggested. In addition, de Zeeuw was given a number sixteen shirt.

After being absent for two games at the start of the season, de Zeeuw made his debut for the club in a 4–2 win over Terek Grozny on 7 August 2011. After a slow start, he scored his first goal for Spartak Moscow in a 3–0 win over Krylia Sovetov Samara on 18 September 2011. In a follow–up match Krasnodar on 25 September 2011, de Zeeuw scored his second goal for the club, in a 4–2 win but he suffered an injury and was substituted as a result. After the match, manager Karpin suggested that de Zeeuw suffered a concussion as the result of his injury. But he made a quick recovery and was featured in a match against Zenit Saint Petersburg on 2 October 2011 and set up one of Spartak Moscow's goals, in a 2–2 draw. However, during a 4–0 win against Tom Tomsk on 23 October 2011, de Zeeuw sustained a knee injury and had to be substituted in the 62nd minute. As a result, he would miss the remaining two games before taking a long break until March. On 19 March 2012, de Zeeuw made his return to the first team from injury, starting a match and playing 73 minutes before being substituted, in a 2–1 loss against CSKA Moscow. However, his return was short–lived when he suffered an injury and never played for the rest of the 2011–12 season. At the end of the 2011–12 season, de Zeeuw went on to make sixteen appearances and scoring two times in all competitions. However, he was criticised by the club's supporters. In response to criticism, de Zeeuw said he doesn't get on the first team because of injuries, and was often played in occasional games.

At the start of the 2012–13 season, de Zeeuw started in a number of matches for Spartak Moscow, playing in the defensive midfield position. However, he received a second bookable offense in the play-off of the Champions League, as the club beat Fenerbahçe 3–2 on aggregate to reach the group-stage. After the match, de Zeeuw said he expressed his dissatisfaction for receiving a second bookable offense. De Zeeuw then scored his first goal of the season, in a 2–1 win against Salyut Belgorod in the round of 32 of Russian Cup on 26 September 2012. A week later on 2 October 2012 against Celtic, he set up a goal for Emmanuel Emenike, who went on to score twice, in a 3–2 loss. However, de Zeeuw was unable to earn his first place, as he could not really prevail and often sat on the bench in his second season at Spartak Moscow. As a result, de Zeeuw was expecting to leave the club in the January transfer window. By the time he was loaned out, he went on to make seventeen appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

After joining Anderlecht on loan, de Zeeuw was described as the "worst transfer signing" by Manager Karpin, who signed him from Ajax. He expressed relief at leaving Spartak Moscow. At the end of the 2012–13 season, de Zeeuw was considered by the club to be in the first team next season, but de Zeeuw made it clear that he refused to return to the club. At the end of the 2013–14 season, de Zeeuw was released by the club when his contract expired.

Anderlecht (loan)
On 22 January 2013, de Zeeuw joined Belgian Pro League club Anderlecht on loan for the remainder of the season. Upon joining the club, he was given a number six shirt.

De Zeeuw made his debut for Anderlecht on 15 February 2013, coming on as a 75th-minute substitute, in a 2–0 victory over Charleroi. In a follow–up match against Club Brugge, he set up a goal for Samuel Armenteros to score an equalising goal, in a 2–2 draw. Following this, de Zeeuw was involved in a number of matches in the first team, playing in the midfield position. On 19 May 2013, he scored his first goal for the club, in a 4–2 win over Lokeren. His goal against Genk in the previous match eventually awarded it as an own goal to Khaleem Hyland. His contributions at the club saw Anderlect win the league after a 1–1 draw against Zulte-Waregem. At the end of the 2012–13 season, de Zeeuw went on to make twelve appearances and scoring once in all competitions. With no option to sign on a permanent basis, he returned to his parent club.