[Source: PubMed]

47. J Int Bioethique. 2008 Mar-Jun;19(1-2):143-54, 202-3. doi:
10.3917/jib.191.0143.

Conflicts of interest in research involving human beings.

Greco D(1), Diniz NM.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, 
Brazil.

Conflicts of interest are inherent to the majority of relationships among 
individuals and of these with companies and institutions and, certainly, 
research involving human beings is no exception. In relation to clinical 
research, the main focus of this manuscript, conflicts of interest occur at 
different levels and usually permeate among them: In the pharmaceutical industry 
in their decisions to invest to develop new products, especially vaccines and 
drugs, and also in relation to marketing of these products; Among the 
investigators the conflicts may be related to the financial gains to participate 
in pharma sponsored trials, or to the expected academic career boost attained 
with the publication of the results of the trials and also to personal interests 
such as the financial support for trips to international conferences. Often the 
participation of host country investigators is restricted to performing phase 
III or IV protocols developed abroad, many times with low scientific relevance, 
and even lower relevance to public health; Universities or research institutes 
themselves also have conflicts of interest, as the sponsored projects may help 
increase their budgets, both directly (taxes) and indirectly (e.g., improvement 
of physical infrastructure of laboratories or out patient clinics); For the 
trial volunteers in developing countries, and Brazil is no exception despite 
free and universal access to its health system, participation in clinical trials 
is many times seen as, and can really be, an unique opportunity of receiving 
better health care, better treatment by the health professionals, easier access 
to costly lab exams and also to receiving certain medications which would 
otherwise be difficult to have access to. In order to handle these conflicts of 
interest, Brazil has a well-established and respected legal support and ethical 
normatization. The latter is represented by Resolution 196/96 of the Brazilian 
National Research Ethics Committee (CONEP). This national system was established 
in 1996 providing guidance to all research involving human beings and currently 
there are approximately 500 local research ethical committees certified by CONEP 
in all States of Brazil. However, there is intense international pressure mainly 
from the pharmaceutical industry especially to the ethical requirements emanated 
from the Declaration of Helsinki (DH), aiming to lower the level of ethical 
requirements in research to be carried out with volunteers from developing 
countries. Fallacious reasoning includes that the equity stated at the DH, 
especially the access to the best proven medical care and to the developed 
products to all volunteers independently of where the trial is being held, would 
inflate the costs of research and drive the sponsors away from the developing 
countries. In this line of thought, if the volunteers have not the same rights 
that would constitute an unacceptable double standard, or in other words, the 
best for the volunteers from developed countries and whatever is possible for 
those in developing countries. This manuscript will focus on the various levels 
where conflict of interest issues are more prone to happen, such as in the 
actions of pharmaceutical industries, their relation to health professionals, 
the participation of universities and research institutes, the ethical research 
committees and their members, including the possible pressures exerted on them 
by researchers, sponsors and even their institutions. Emphasis will be given to 
the interrelation between conflicts of interest and vulnerability, and also the 
causes and possible solutions to lower the risks of exploitation of volunteers 
in research. It will also emphasize the need to guarantee access to products 
that are proven efficacious to all individuals who may need them. Possible ways 
of empowering these volunteers will be evaluated, so that they become aware of 
their rights and demand for them. It will discuss the need of separating 
economic interests from the real needs of public health and of demystifying 
economic arguments used in order to justify the lowering of ethical 
requirements. And finally it will address the search for or the establishment of 
real and effective involvement of all stakeholders in an international organism 
really representing everyone (e.g., WHO) in order to evaluate, debate, and 
decrease the risks of several conflicts of interest, aiming at the establishment 
of research projects that can truly contribute to lower the obscene disparities 
of health between developed and developing countries.

DOI: 10.3917/jib.191.0143
PMID: 18664007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]