[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Johns Hopkins University SAIS Europe

dents may apply to spend their first year of SAIS at the Bologna campus.
 Johns Hopkins University Junior Year Study Abroad: Undergraduate students pursuing the International Studies Program can apply to spend their junior year or one semester at SAIS Europe.

Research Institutions and Publications 

 The Center for Constitutional Studies and Democratic Development: The CCSDD is a joint project of the Bologna Center and the University of Bologna Faculty of Law. It   conducts research and training in the field of comparative constitutional law, focusing on countries undergoing a process of democratic transition. Through conferences, workshops, publications, summer schools, study trips, and speaker series, the CCSDD addresses issues of civil society development and legal reform.
 The Bologna Institute for Policy Research: The BIPR is the research division of SAIS Europe. The purpose of the institute is to promote problem-centered, interdisciplinary research in international policy by drawing upon the global network of SAIS faculty, students and scholars.
 The SAIS Europe Journal of Global Affairs: The SAIS Europe Journal of International Affairs is a scholarly journal run by the students of SAIS Europe, published by the center yearly since 1997. Its stated purpose is to provide, 'a forum for the discussion and dissemination of ideas about current issues in the field of international relations to a broad audience concerned with foreign relations.'
 The Italian Foreign Policy Dialogue: The Italian Foreign Policy Dialogue is a forum for Italian academics, foreign affairs professionals and think-tanks. It aims to improve communication between these groups and improve the effectiveness of Italian foreign policy.

References 

Johns Hopkins University
Schools of international relations
Education in Bologna
Universities in Italy
Universities and colleges established in 1955
1955 establishments in Italy