[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paul Hunt (academic)

h were published by the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). After a period of consultation, OHCHR revised the Draft Guidelines and they were published as Principles and Guidelines for a Human Rights Approach to Poverty Reduction Strategies.

UN Special Rapporteur (2002–2008)

In 2002, Hunt stepped down from the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and was appointed the first UN Special Rapporteur on the right to the highest attainable standard of health ('right to health'). In this independent capacity, he reported, orally and in writing, to the UN General Assembly, UN Commission on Human Rights and UN Human Rights Council.  He submitted thematic reports on a wide range of right to health issues, such as sexual and reproductive health, neglected diseases, mental disability, maternal mortality,  and the health-rights responsibilities of pharmaceutical companies. He also visited, and wrote right to health reports on, countries, including India, Peru, Sweden, and Uganda. Hunt took the unorthodox step of undertaking visits to, and preparing right to health reports on, non-state actors, such as the World Trade Organization, World Bank and International Monetary Fund, and GlaxoSmithKline. Also, he prepared reports with other Rapporteurs on Guantanamo Bay, as well as the Lebanon/Israel conflict of 2006. Many people wrote to Hunt with alleged violations of their right to health and he took up some of these complaints and subsequently reported to the UN about them.
 
His reports have elicited a wide response, for example, in 2005, Cynthia Rothschild discussed the report on sexual and reproductive health, "Hunt's 2004 report is certainly one of the UN system's most far-reaching documents to incorporate a focus on sexual orientation and gender identity and health". Some commentators called the report “shocking” and Hunt was branded “unprofessional” in the UN Commission on Human Rights.
 
On maternal death and morbidity, Sandeep Prasad wrote, it "was [Hunt] who first started bringing the human rights dimensions of the issue of maternal mortality to the attention of the [UN Human Rights] Council as a global Health and Human Rights crisis."  Following a press conference in Delhi at the end of his visit to India, during which he focussed on maternal mortality in Rajasthan and Maharashtra, the Indian Express devoted an editorial to the issue, reflected on Hunt's findings, and agreed with his conclusion that “the situation does not befit a country of India's stature and level of development.”

Following Hunt's report on Peru, Ariel Frisancho Arroyo remarked upon “[t]he key role" played by Hunt in "supporting the health authorities' interest on how to increase the realization of health-rights". Following his report on Sweden, scholars wrote, “Since Hunt's report and the resulting [Right to Health Care Initiative], most county councils have issued more generous guiding principles for the health care of local undocumented patients." In an editorial, The Lancet commended Hunt's thematic report on the health-rights responsibilities of pharmaceutical companies, as well as his twin report on GlaxoSmithKline. Hunt devoted three UN thematic reports to the methodological problem of how to measure the progressive realisation of the right to health and their influence is manifest in the key OHCHR publication Human Rights Indicators: A Guide to Measurement and Implementation. He drew on several of his UN reports to co-author a major study on health systems and the right to health  which was described by The Lancet as a “landmark” report.

Human rights and the WHO

Hunt's reports, such as his studies on Peru and Uganda, demonstrate constructive engagement with the World Health Organization (WHO). In 2008, during his last oral report to the UN Human Rights Council as Special Rapporteur, Hunt acknowledged this co-operation but also emphasised its limits: “Over the last six years, I have enjoyed excellent cooperation with a number of WHO members of staff on a range of policy and operational issues. For this, I am extremely grateful. However, to the best of my knowledge, neither the World Health Assembly, nor the WHO Executive Board, have ever considered one of my reports. Despite requests, I have never met a WHO Director General since my appointment in 2002.”