[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Concepta Riley

Hewitt's when they purchase a greyhound and enter it into a race, which it wins. This prompts Concepta's neighbours to believe that they can make money off the dog. Elsie Tanner (Pat Phoenix) even bets her entire holiday fund on the race, which it loses forcing the Hewitts to retire from dog racing.

Producers soon set about expanding the Hewitt family, with the birth of Concepta and Harry's son Christopher Hewitt (Victoria Baker). Lucille finds it difficult to adjust to having a brother and is jealous that he gets more attention. To mark the first anniversary of the Hewitt's wedding, producers lined up a story in which Christopher is abducted. When Lucille is running errands for Annie, someone snatches Christopher from outside Gamma Garments. The police are called and Concepta goes missing in the search for him. Florrie Lindley (Betty Alberge) soon finds Concepta wondering the streets crying in her search for Christopher. The search focuses on the Hewitts and the local canal is drained. Lucille is questioned as people think that she has harmed her brother out of jealousy. Elsie manages to track Christopher down to the home of Joan Akers (Anna Cropper), who has taken him because she is unstable following the death of her own child. The story was a success for the show because it gained the highest ratings to that date, with 21 million people watching. The Hewitt's carried on in the show having to put up with Lucille's dramas as she rebelled.

Departure and returns
In June 1963, Concepta's father Sean Riley (Harold Goldblatt) is taken ill in Ireland. Concepta convinces to Harry to quit his job at the bus station and move away to look after Sean. Harry changes his mind before they leave because he cannot bear to leave Lucille behind. When Tim Aspinall took over as the producer of Coronation Street, he began writing out several characters to rejuvenate the series. This era of the show became known as "the bloody purge of 1964", in which he infamously killed off Martha Longhurst (Lynne Carol). Concepta and Harry were two other characters that Aspinall decided to write out of the show. Writers revisited the earlier story of Concepta and Harry moving to Ireland. This time, Harry plans to open a garage in Castleblayney, leaving Lucille behind living on Coronation Street in the care of Annie and Jack. Their departures aired in August 1964.

In September 1967, Keogh and Beavis both reprised their roles as Concepta and Harry. Keogh was asked first and informed that it would be a two-week guest role. Beavis was shocked to learn Harry's return would be subject to a story in which he would be killed off. Beavis claimed that he told Keogh of his shock stating "bloody hell, they're going to kill me off and you're staying for the funeral." On-screen they arrive to attend Elsie and Steve Tanner's (Paul Maxwell) wedding. Harry's death occurs while repairing Len Fairclough's (Peter Adamson) van. A jack gives way and the van collapses on top of him which kills him. In their final scene together Concepta arrives to identify his body. Filming Harry's final scenes were eventful as when a stunt man refused to act the scene. The car later collapsed for real onto a stunt dummy.

Viewers could not understand why they brought Harry and Concepta back for the story. Moss, who played Lucille was not happy with the decision. She told author Daran Little that "to bring him back and finish him off was just a reminder of what had gone on in 1964."

Keogh agreed to return to the series twice during the 1970s. A return happened during October 1972 episodes, which feature Concepta visiting Lucille. She announces that she plans to remarry after becoming engaged to Sean Regan (Tony Doyle). Her final return to the show occurred during November 1975. Concepta and Sean arrive to visit Lucille, but Sean's behaviour causes concern. He visits the Rovers Return and kisses Bet Lynch (Julie Goodyear), who then slaps him across the face. She then threatens to tell Concepta that Sean is promiscuous. In her final scenes, Conecpta confides in Annie that she is aware Sean has been unfaithful, but stays with him because she loves him. Keogh appeared as Concepta in a total of 320 episodes of Coronation Street.