[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tim Mahoney

nor of Florida and U.S. senator Bob Graham, which was cut before the scandal broke, but aired promptly after. Mahoney quickly rose to the top of the polls, and gained a lead of 7 points. Congressional Quarterly (CQ) shifted the race from safe Republican to tossup, and eventually to favoring Mahoney.

Foley's resignation originally left Mahoney without a Republican opponent in the election. However, on October 2, 2006, the Florida Republican Party Executive Committee selected Joe Negron, a member of the Florida House of Representatives from the 82nd district and former candidate for Florida Attorney General, as Mahoney's new opponent. Under Florida law, Negron's name did not appear on the ballot; he only received votes cast for Foley, whose name remained on the ballot. The Florida Democratic Party filed an emergency injunction to prevent elections supervisors from placing signs at polling places stating that a vote for Foley would go to Negron, arguing that it would violate state laws that prohibit the soliciting of voters. Negron ran on a campaign which reminded voters to "Punch Foley for Joe", and said that the district's voters would not be "defined by the disgraceful actions" of Foley. Mahoney's campaign sought to portray Negron as a political insider who favored insurers over homeowners. Mahoney generally avoided the Foley scandal while campaigning, saying that he "wish[ed] the best for [Foley]" and all people involved. Mahoney was endorsed by the Sarasota Herald-Tribune, citing his successful business career and his moderate policies. However, while Mahoney still led in the polls, multiple predictors changed their ratings from favoring Mahoney to tossup. On election day, Mahoney narrowly defeated Negron with a plurality of 49.55%, a margin of 4,417 votes and 1.89 percentage points, with Independent candidate Emmie Lee Ross taking 2.79 percent of the vote. While Negron carried most of the more conservative areas of the district near Fort Myers, Mahoney carried the two largest counties in the district, Palm Beach and St. Lucie counties, by a combined margin of 10,723 votes, far more than the actual margin of victory. Negron called Mahoney to congratulate him, and publicly conceded to his supporters at the Hutchinson Island Marriott. Mahoney gathered his supporters at the Jupiter Beach Resort & Spa, where he held his victory celebration.

Mahoney was sworn in on January 3, 2007, to the 110th U.S. Congress.

2008 

Mahoney ran for re-election to Congress in 2008, and went unopposed in the Democratic primary. Mahoney faced Republican challenger Tom Rooney in the general election. Rooney defeated State Representative Gayle Harrell and former Palm Beach Gardens councilman Hal Valeche in the Republican primary. Mahoney had been a top target for defeat in 2008, due to the district's Republican voting history, and was seen as the only Democrat from South Florida to be vulnerable to defeat. However, Mahoney initially led in surveys of the race. At one point in the campaign, Mahoney was shown to have a 20-point lead in the polls. In September 2008, a poll of 400 likely voters conducted by Rooney's campaign showed Mahoney with a 48 to 41 point lead over Rooney with a margin of error of 4 points.

Revelations of his extramarital affair severely hampered his re-election chances. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called for a House Ethics Committee investigation concerning the matter. Mahoney said he requested an ethics investigation as well, stating that the allegations were "based on hearsay" but his constituents "need a full accounting". Two days later, CQ Politics changed their forecast on the race from "No Clear Favorite" to "Leans Republican". Mahoney pulled out of attending a debate with his opponent due to the organizers refusing to prohibit television media from covering the event, leaving Rooney as the sole candidate at the debate. Due to his conservative positions on gun rights, Mahoney was endorsed by the National Rifle Association of America. In light of the scandal, Democratic Pennsylvania State Representative Timothy S. Mahoney issued a press release explaining that he was not involved in an extramarital affair, due to both politicians' similar names. Mahoney raised over $3 million, and spent $2,756,453 on the race. However, in the November election, Mahoney was soundly defeated by former assistant state Attorney General Tom Rooney. Mahoney won only 40 percent of the vote to Rooney's 60 percent, the largest margin of defeat for an incumbent in the 2008 cycle.

Political positions