[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 165]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

becoming the food of man, or of
the various animals which contribute to his support. I studied their
qualities, the soil in which they delighted, and the improvements which
might be made in every species. I sometimes wandered among the
neighbouring mountains, and wherever the fall of rocks, or the repeated
violence of torrents had borne away the soil, I considered with silent
admiration the various substances which we call by the common name of
_earth_. These I used to collect and mingle with the mould of my own
garden, by which means I frequently made useful discoveries in
fertilising the soil and increasing the quantity of food.

"'I also considered the qualities of the air, which surrounds and
sustains all living animals; I particularly remarked the noxious or
salutary effects it is able to produce upon their constitutions; and, by
these means, was frequently enabled to give useful counsels to all the
neighbourhood. A large tract of ground had been formerly deluged by the
sea; and the waters, finding no convenient vent, spread themselves all
around, and converted a large extent of soil into a filthy marsh. Every
year, when the heat of summer prevailed, the atmosphere was filled with
putrid exhalations, which produced fevers and pestilential disorders
among the inhabitants. Touched with compassion for the evils which they
endured, I persuaded them to undertake the task of draining the soil and
letting off the superfluous waters. This I instructed them to do with
such success that, in a short time, an unwholesome desert became covered
with the most luxuriant harvests, and was deprived of all its noxious
influence. By thus rendering my services useful to my fellow-creatures,
I received the purest reward which can attend the increase of
knowledge--the consciousness of performing my duty, and humbly imitating
that Being, whose goodness is as general and unbounded as his power.

"'Amidst these tranquil and innocent employments my life flowed gently
away like a clear and even stream. I was a stranger to avarice or
ambition, and to all the cares which agitate the bulk of mortals.
Alternate labour and study preserved the vigour both of body and mind;
our wants were few and easily gratified; we chiefly subsisted upon the
liberal returns of the earth, and seldom polluted our table with the
bodies of slaughtered animals. One only child, the unfortunate girl who
owes her preservation to the courage of this young man, was granted to
our prayers; but in her we found enough to exercise all the affections
of our minds; we hung with ecstasy upon her innocent smiles, and
remarked her opening graces with all the partiality of parental
fondness. As she grew up, her mother instructed her in all the arts and
employments of her sex; while I, who already saw the tempest gathering,
which has since burst with such fatal fury upon my country, thought it
necessary to arm her mind with all the firmness which education can
bestow. For this reason I endeavoured to give both her mind and body a
degree of vigour which is seldom found in the female sex.

"'As soon as Selene (for that was her name) was sufficiently advanced in
strength to be capable of the lighter labours of husbandry and
gardening, I employed her as my constant companion, and she soon
acquired a dexterity in all the rustic employments, which I considered
with equal pleasure and admiration. If women are in general feeble both
in body and mind, it arises less from nature than from education; _we_
encourage a vicious indolence and inactivity which we falsely call
delicacy; instead of hardening their minds by the severer principles of
reason and philosophy, we breed them to useless arts, which terminate in
vanity and sensuality. In most of the countries which I had visited,
they are taught nothing of a higher nature than a few modulations of the
voice, or useless postures of the body; their time is consumed in sloth
or trifles, and trifles become the only pursuit capable of interesting
them. _We_ seem to forget that it is upon the qualities of the female
sex that our own domestic comforts and the education of our children
must depend. And what are the comforts or the education which a race of
beings, corrupted from their infancy, and unacquainted with all the
duties of life, are fitted to bestow? To touch a musical instrument with
useless skill, to exhibit their natural or affected graces to the eyes
of indolent and debauched young men, to dissipate their husbands'
patrimony in riotous and unnecessary expenses--these are the only arts
cultivated by women in most of the polished nations I had seen; and the
consequences are uniformly such as may be expected to proceed from such
polluted sources--private misery and public servitude.

"'But Selene's education was regulated by different views, and conducted
upon severer principles--if that can be called _severity_ which opens
the mind to a sense of moral a