[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# APO Hiking Society

The Apolinario Mabini Hiking Society, later popularly known as APO Hiking Society, or simply APO, are a Filipino musical group, that comprised Danny Javier, Jim Paredes, and Boboy Garrovillo. Today, the group consists of only Paredes and Garrovillo as a duo.

APO Hiking Society are regarded as one of the pillars and icons of Original Pilipino Music (OPM). The group was formed and had its fledgling beginnings in 1969 at the Ateneo de Manila High School, with 12 members: Lito de Joya, Sonny Santiago, Gus Cosio, Renato Garcia, Chito Kintanar, Kenny Borton, Bruce Brown, Butch Dans, Doden Besa, Ric Segreto Macaraeg, Jim Paredes, Boboy Garrovillo, and the 13th member, Danny Javier, who joined in college. The group's name was created from the acronym AMHS representing their school with a witty twist having an irreverent reference to the  Philippine revolutionary intellectual and hero, Apolinario Mabini, and later shortened to "Apo", an Ilocano term for a wise man or a Tagalog term of grandchildren, and later re-branded to "APO" (all caps). Contrary to popular belief, the "Apo" name was not a reference to the Philippines's highest peak, the potentially-active stratovolcano Mount Apo.

As the students advanced into college, their lead vocalist, Danny Javier joined the group. After graduation, the majority of its members left to pursue individual careers, with only three members remaining, made up of Javier, Jim Paredes, and Boboy Garrovillo.

In the span of their professional career, APO emerged as a principal adherent of the musical movement termed Original Pilipino Music (OPM), a term coined by Javier, a milieu in which their original musical contributions and cultural influence became essential. APO became involved in record production, talent management and organizing artists under the Organisasyon ng Pilipinong Mang-aawit (O.P.M., acronym translation: "Organization of Philippine Singers/musicians"). The group expanded its activities into establishing and furthering the careers of new OPM artists in the Philippines.

To date, the group has released 27 albums in the five decades of their career. Two successful tribute albums were produced in 2006 and 2007 by their management group, featuring numerous young bands reinterpreting APO's expansive repertoire.

The group frequently utilized their brand name, "APO", as a clever component for Tagalog puns in titles for television shows such as their own noon-time variety shows, Sa Linggo nAPO Sila and 'Sang Linggo nAPO Sila, live programs and marketing materials, for example, as in nA PO, which transliterates as "already" (polite/formal usage).

In 2010, Javier, Paredes, and Garovillo retired the group's name after 41 years of performing. They performed a series of concerts from February to May. They were also reunited for the last time to perform at the inauguration of Benigno Aquino III on June 30, 2010. After APO retired from singing, Paredes and Garrovillo still remained active in show business and perform occasionally as a duo. In 2022, the group lost one of its members upon the death of lead singer, Danny Javier, due to a prolonged illness at the National Kidney and Transplant Institute on October 31, 2022, at the age of 75, as confirmed by his daughter Justine.

Members
 Danny Javier - lead vocals, composer
 Jim Paredes - vocals, composer
 Boboy Garrovillo - vocals, composer

History

The name "Apolinario Mabini Hiking Society" was meant to be deliberately ironic since the historical figure, Apolinario Mabini, famously lost the use of his legs to polio.

The APO Hiking Society first gained recognition in 1973 when they gave a farewell concert at the Meralco Theater in Pasig, Metro Manila, Philippines. Just out of college, the group was the talk of the Ateneo de Manila University and adjoining campuses for their music and humor.

It was only when two of its four members were about to retire from the field of amateur music, however, that APO Hiking Society, then known as the Apolinario Mabini Hiking Society, finally had a citywide audience. One of them was scheduled to leave for Turkey as an exchange student. The other had a position waiting for him in his father's advertising firm.

The trip to Turkey did not materialize and APO, now a tentative trio, pushed on steadily towards fame and fortune.

In late 1978, APO Hiking Society nearly disbanded after Jim Paredes stormed out of a songwriting session. While asking Danny Javier for a 3 syllable word to fill in a line, he was provided the word "katapusan"; a four syllable word. The error went unnoticed until post-recording, where an irate Paredes noticed that the word had indeed one extra syllable more than what he had originally intended.

Looking back, APO members Danny Javier and Boboy Garrovillo do not regret never having been regular wage earners. Their farewell concert, which had SRO audiences for two stormy nights, not unexpectedly became a hit record the following year.