[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sharron Angle

conflict. To suggest that they have taken over ignores the fact that Dearborn hosts seven mosques and 60 Christian churches." Jim Mitchell, in an online editorial for the Dallas Morning News, clarified that "Frankford" was a town that had been included in Dallas in 1975, and didn't exist otherwise.

Canada–US border controversy
The Canadian ambassador to the U.S. Gary Doer has asked Angle to retract her assertion that the hijackers in the September 11 attacks entered the United States through Canada. Angle claims that the Canada–United States border is the "most porous border we have" and "what we know is our northern border is where the terrorists came through." U.S. law enforcement determined that the hijackers entered the U.S. directly from third countries with visas issued by the U.S.

Patriot Caucus
On December 12, 2010, Angle announced the formation of a PAC named the Patriot Caucus to "organize a ground game across most battleground states for the 2012 election cycle". According to Politico, Angle "[dropped] it in February ahead of a decision to run for the Republican nomination for a Nevada House seat."

2012 elections
On January 26, 2011, while attending a screening of The Genesis Code in Iowa, a reporter asked Angle if she was considering a run for the White House. "I'll just say I have lots of options for the future, and I'm investigating all my options," was her reply. By February 10, she had decided against a run. On March 16, she announced that she would run for the House seat then held by Dean Heller, who at the time was running for the Senate seat held by retiring John Ensign in 2012, a seat which he was later appointed and subsequently elected.  A year later, Angle announced she would not be running for any office in 2012.

National Federation of Republican Assemblies
Angle became a member of the Nevada chapter of the National Federation of Republican Assemblies (NFRA) in 2006, and in 2007, while she was still polling third in a three-way race, received the endorsements of both the state and national organizations for her United States Senate run. After her general election defeat, Angle became President of the Nevada Republican Assembly, and in 2011, Pacific Region Vice President of the national organization.  In September 2013, Angle was unanimously elected NFRA President at the group's national convention in Dallas, Texas.

Angle said that she would "probably" run for office again and she did not rule out running for the Senate again in 2016 when Harry Reid would be retiring. Angle ran in the 2016 Republican primary, finishing a distant second to winner Joe Heck, who garnered 64.9 percent of the vote to Angle's 22.8 percent.

2018 congressional campaign
In March 2017, Angle announced that she would be running in the 2018 United States House of Representatives elections in Nevada in Nevada's 2nd congressional district, seeking to unseat incumbent Republican congressman Mark Amodei. Angle came second in the primary with 18% of the vote to Amodei's 72%.

Political positions

Education
Angle believes that the U.S. Department of Education should be eliminated and that the local approach yields the best academic results ("[The] best education is the education that is controlled closest to the local level as possible.") Angle also holds that the Department of Education is "unconstitutional" and should not be involved in dictating educational standards from Washington, D.C.

United Nations
Angle believes that the U.S. should withdraw from the United Nations, saying it is a bastion of liberal ideology and "the umpire on fraudulent science such as global warming."

Social policy
Angle supports the Federal Marriage Amendment to define marriage as between one man and one woman. She believes that households in which only one spouse works outside the home is the best way to raise a family. Angle opposes abortion, including in cases of rape or incest. In a June 2010 radio interview, broadcast statewide in Nevada, Angle stated that she had counseled young girls in "very at risk, difficult pregnancies" to consider other alternatives, by which they had been able to make "a lemon situation into lemonade."

Separation of church and state
Angle does not believe that the United States Constitution mandates the separation of church and state.

Health care/abortion
Angle favors the privatization of Medicare. She voted against fluoridating drinking water.

Angle opposes abortion, even in cases of rape and incest, saying that it is against God's "plan". On several occasions, she has introduced legislation which would have required doctors to tell women that abortion is linked to an increased risk of breast cancer, a faulty hypothesis promoted by anti-abortion activists but dismissed by the medical community.