[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mirsaid Sultan-Galiev

ed out can be seen in a speech of his during the ninth conference of the Tatar Oblast party committee:

The above "quotation" is an excerpt of the speech attributed to Sultan-Galiev. This was voiced at a conference in which Sultan-Galiev himself (already expelled from the party) did not participate.

Sultan-Galiev further believed that within an empire, those regions which have been conquered or colonised ought to be prioritised or worked alongside during a revolution, instead of there merely being a revolution restricted to core countries. The reason for this was that if a revolution was to occur in an isolated manner, an imperialist country could easily exploit the resources of its colonies to defeat any revolutionary movement. However, if such a movement is co-ordinated with movements in colonies or conquered provinces, the chances of a revolution succeeding are increased, since the capabilities of the defending party to exploit and draw upon the resources of its colonial holdings are greatly weakened, if not vanquished entirely. Sultan-Galiev gave the examples of the failure of the Spartacist Uprising and the Hungarian Soviet Republic.

Galiev extended his criticisms of colonialism and states that utilised colonialism to the Americas, where he denounced American actions against Indigenous peoples of the Americas.

Sultan-Galiev further argued that by the start of the 20th Century, the world had been divided into two camps: the imperialist and exploiting half of the world and the exploited half. Sultan-Galiev often referred to the members of the imperialist world as “Metropolitans”. Galiev argued that the financial culture of Metropolitans had two main properties. Firstly, the methods of production and distribution of essential commodities sat in the hands of the Metropolitan. For instance, Sultan-Galiev highlighted how the majority of industry and its methods of circulation (such as banks) and methods of communication (like telegrams) had been monopolised by the Metropolitans so that these essential goods and services were exclusively enjoyed by mainly the population of Metropolitan countries. Significantly, Galiev did not blame this on the culture of Metropolitan countries, instead blaming the dynamic scene, the changing powers of the state. The second property was found in the efficiency of production and distribution and how it was maximised by parasitism and reactionary attitudes. Sultan-Galiev argued that the basis for this did not end with Monopoly Capitalism and imperialism, but its root was also not in the cultures or races of the Metropols. Sultan-Galiev explained that the process of having to resort to the aid of monopoly capital consisted of the following elements. Firstly, the primary element of the Metropolitan economy is the economy's access to cheap raw materials. Galiev cited the rate of exploitation and how it was retained by preventing the rise of nationalist and anti-colonialist sentiments in colonies by violently cracking down on any such movement. Secondly, Galiev argued that there was an unending competitive war between certain national groups for colonial holdings and estates. In other words, on the one hand, there is an ongoing increase in social conflicts between the metropolitans and their colonies, and on the other hand, the origins of national differences between the different strains of the leaders of metropolitans are also hidden here.

The second element was found in ensuring the cheap sale and production of industrial goods. Sultan-Galiev cited the development of production technology which took place through the exploitation of the industrial workers of the metropolitan countries and similar practices in the colonies. According to Galiev, the relationship between the metropolitan and the colonies is bi-directional. Firstly in the form of raw materials and work forces. Secondly, in terms of exploitation in the markets. Sultan-Galiev argued that this exploitation was not only carried out through slavery or military might. The intensification of colonialist policies to keep industrial products as permanent markets for sale is related to this issue. This last element of the development process of metropolitan material cultures, Sultan-Galiev believed, was particularly important for the relations between the colonies and the metropolitan, because this element constituted the main dynamics of the Metropolitans and the main reason for all social deviations that occur in the development process of modern humanity.