[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stewartstown, County Tyrone

Stewartstown is a village in Northern Ireland, close to the western shore of Lough Neagh, about  from Cookstown,  from Coalisland and  from Dungannon. Established by Scottish Planters early in the 17th century, its population peaked before the Great Famine of the 1840s at over 1000.  In the 2011 Census the town had a population of 650 people. Formerly in the historic County Tyrone, today it is in local-government district of Mid Ulster.

History

17th century
Stewartstown derives its name from Andrew Steuart (or Stewart), Lord Ochiltree, from Ayrshire in Scotland to whom in the Ulster Plantation James I of England (VI of Scotland) granted the surrounding district. In 1608, with a party of just 33 retainers from Scotland, Ochiltree erected a strong bawn of limestone overlooking Lough Roughan (converted by his son Andrew Steuart into a castle) and laid the foundation of a village. The Irish name for Stewartstown, An Chraobh (the branch tree) can figuratively apply to a fort or mansion and is preserved in the name Crew Hill just north of the town.

Following Ochiltree's death in 1629, Roughan Castle and estate passed in succession to Robert Stewart of Irry, a cousin related through both his mother and his (first) wife to the Irish O'Neills. During the 1641 Rising he was appointed to a rebel command under Sir Felim O'Neill of Kinard but in the unfolding War of the Three Kingdoms switched alliances taking a commission from Charles II.

As had the great Hugh O'Neill after the Nine Years War (en route in 1607 in what became known as the Flight of the Earls),  at the end of the Cromwellian reconquest of Ireland in 1653 Felim O’Neill took shelter on an old crannog in Lough Roughan. There he was betrayed and captured, with many of his followers drowning in the lough waters.

On the shores of the same lough, the army of James II encamped on their march to Derry in 1689. Following their defeat, in 1694 the Anglican (Church of Ireland) parish church, St Patrick, was built out of the forfeited impropriations by order of William III.

18th century
In 1784, during the American War of Independence, the Irish Volunteer supported (Masonic) Yankee Club of Stewartstown voted an address to George Washington composed by the Presbyterian minister Thomas Ledlie Birch. It expressed their joy that the Americans had succeeded in throwing off "the yoke of slavery" and suggested that their exertions had "shed a benign light on the distressed Kingdom of Ireland". Washington returned his thanks. 

While patriotic sentiment in favour reform surged again following news of revolution in France, the only action associated with the United Irish insurrection of 1798 witnessed in Stewardstown occurred the previous July. Largely Anglican and Orange Order local yeomanry (joined in the heat of the battle by English and Scottish Fencibles), attacked members of the Kerry Militia, Catholic conscripts whom the government had sought to billet in the village. Several fell on either side. The Kerrymen's final stand is commemorated today by "Kerry House" in North Street and by a headstone erected for "Sergeant Mahoney and privates of the Kerry Militia" in the Roman Catholic graveyard.

19th century
In 1837, Samuel Lewis's Topographical Dictionary of Ireland described Stewartstown as "a highly respectable and flourishing little market-town":The town consists of a spacious square and three principal streets, well-arranged, and the houses well-built of stone and roofed with slate - many of the habitations are large and handsome, several of modern erection, and the whole place has an appearance of cheerfulness and prosperity. The market-house, a handsome building, stands in the centre of the town. Petty sessions are held on alternate Tuesdays, and a court monthly for the manor of Castle-Stewart, in which debts to the amount of 40s. are recoverable. The town at one time carried on an extensive trade in the manufacture of linen and union cloth, and there is still business done of some consideration in this branch; and likewise in lime, quarried in the neighbourhood. The town derives a good inland business for the supply of the neighbourhood, and additional advantages from its situation as a place of thoroughfare.

A new Catholic Church, St Mary's, had just been completed in the then largely Protestant town (replacing a thatched chapel built on the site of an old quarry). Two miles distant there was "an extensive and improved demesne, with a fine park, is Stewart Hall, the seat of Earl Castle-Stewart, who derives his titles of Baron and Earl from this place".

In 1910, the Belfast and Ulster Towns Directory recorded a market town whose 699 inhabitants had their own railway station [closed in 1956] and post office, and six places of worship (3 Church of Ireland, 1 Presbyterian, 1 Wesleyan, and 1 Roman Catholic).  Before the onset in the 1840s of the Great Famine and the accelerated emigration that followed, the town had a recorded population (1841) of 1,082.