[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Mahmoud Ahmadinejad

r for International and Security Studies at Maryland (CISSM) and IranPoll with ±3.2% margin of error shows his approval rating as follows:

Electoral history

Personal life
Ahmadinejad is married, and has one daughter and two sons. His elder son married a daughter of Esfandiar Rahim Mashaei in 2008.

Supporters of Ahmadinejad consider him a simple man who leads a modest life. As president, he wanted to continue living in the same house in Tehran his family had been living in until his security advisers insisted that he should move. Ahmadinejad had the antique Persian carpets in the Presidential palace sent to a carpet museum, and opted instead to use inexpensive carpets. He is said to have refused the VIP seat on the presidential plane, and that he eventually replaced it with a cargo plane instead. Upon gaining Iran's presidency, Ahmadinejad held his first cabinet meeting in the Imam Reza shrine at Mashhad, an act perceived as "pious". He also used to lay an extra place for the 12th Imam at his weekly cabinet briefings.

See also

 2006 Iranian sumptuary law controversy
 Advisors to the president: Hamid Mowlana, Mohammad-Ali Ramin, Ali Akbar Javanfekr
 Ayatollah Mohammad-Taqi Mesbah-Yazdi
 Politics of Iran
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Israel
 Electoral history of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
 Foreign policy of the Mahmoud Ahmadinejad administration

References

Notes

Further reading 
 Encyclopedia of World Biography: Supplement #27 (Thomson-Gale, 2007) pp 7–9
 
 "Referral of Iranian President Ahmadinejad on the Charge of Incitement to Commit Genocide" by Justus Reid Weiner, Esq., with Amb. Meir Rosenne, Prof. Elie Wiesel, Amb. Dore Gold, Irit Kohn, Adv., Amb. Eytan Bentsur, and MK Dan Naveh
 Ali Rahnema, Superstition as Ideology in Iranian Politics: From Majlesi to Ahmadinejad, Cambridge University Press, 2011 (Reviewed in The Montréal Review)

External links

 Blog of Former President, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
 Biography   at CIDOB Foundation
 Video Archive of Ahmadinejad during his presidency at Irannegah.com
 
 
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Telegram
 Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Instagram 
 
 
 
 
 
 People Who Mattered: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Time, 16 December 2006
 The Results As They Came In, Andrew Sullivan, The Atlantic, 13 June 2009

 
1956 births
Living people
9/11 conspiracy theorists
Alliance of Builders of Islamic Iran politicians
Anti-Americanism
Antisemitism in Iran
Anti-Zionism in Iran
Governors of Ardabil Province
Iran University of Science and Technology alumni
Academic staff of Iran University of Science and Technology
Iranian campaign managers
Iranian civil engineers
Iranian Holocaust deniers
Iranian Qutbists
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps personnel of the Iran–Iraq War
Islamic Society of Engineers politicians
Mayors of Tehran
Members of the Expediency Discernment Council
Office for Strengthening Unity members
People from Semnan Province
Populism in Iran
Presidents of Iran
Secretaries-General of the Non-Aligned Movement
Society of Devotees of the Islamic Revolution politicians
Transport engineers