[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

a striking revenge.  The 17th Regiment trapped a force of 3,000 insurgents inside the village and inflicted very heavy casualties on them when they stormed it.  Nearly a thousand enemy bodies were counted after this massacre.  Japanese losses were only 30 men killed or wounded, including 3 officers.

Japanese capture of Takow 
Lieutenant-General Nogi's southern column, consisting of 6,330 soldiers, 1,600 military coolies and 2,500 horses, landed at Fangliao on 10 October, and engaged a force of Formosan militiamen at Jiadong on 11 October. The Battle of Jaidong was a Japanese victory, but the Japanese suffered their heaviest combat casualties of the campaign in the engagement—16 men killed and 61 wounded.  Three officers were among the casualties.  On 15 October Nogi's column closed in on the important port of Takow, but discovered that the Japanese navy had beaten it to the punch.  Two days earlier, on 13 October, the Takow forts had been bombarded and silenced by the Japanese cruisers Yoshino, , , Hiei, Yaeyama and Saien, and a naval landing force had been put ashore to occupy the town.  Foiled of their prize, Nogi's men pressed on, and captured the town of Pithau on 16 October.  By 20 October they were at the village of Ji-chang-hang, only a few miles south of Tainan.  There, on the night of 20 October, they received an offer of unconditional surrender from the Chinese merchants of Tainan.

Liu Yongfu's flight 

All three Japanese columns were now within striking distance of Tainan, and on 20 October, realising that the war was lost, Liu Yongfu disguised himself as a coolie and fled to Amoy in mainland China aboard the British merchant ship SS Thales.  The ship was pursued by the Japanese cruiser Yaeyama and boarded by Japanese sailors, who did not recognise Liu Yongfu but arrested him and several of his companions on suspicion.  The British captain protested vigorously at this illegal search, and when the merchant ship reached Amoy the detainees, including Liu Yongfu, were released.  Admiral Arichi Shinanojo, the Japanese fleet commander in the invasion of Taiwan, was forced to resign as a result of a subsequent British complaint to Japan.  Only later did the Japanese realise how close they had come to capturing Liu.

Capitulation of Tainan 

Tainan capitulated to the Japanese on 21 October.  Its capture put an end to serious Formosan resistance and effectively inaugurated the era of Japanese colonial rule in Taiwan.
Historian and politician Takekoshi gave the following account of the surrender of Tainan:
After General Liu's flight, the remains of his party wandered about the city not knowing what to do, until the foreigners, afraid that they would begin plundering, managed to persuade them to lay down their arms.  This operation took the whole of one day, between 7,000 and 8,000 rifles being eventually placed in secure custody.  Then two English missionaries, Messrs. Fergusson and Barclay, went to the Japanese headquarters a few miles south of the city, bearing a letter from the Chinese residents saying that the soldiers had all laid down their arms and disappeared, and asking the Japanese to come quickly and enforce order.  General Nogi entered the city on 21 October and the rest of the army soon followed.  Thus Formosa came into our possession in reality as well as in name.

Casualties 

Japanese combat casualties in the invasion of Taiwan were relatively light: 164 officers and men killed and 515 wounded.  Casualties from disease, particularly cholera and malaria, were far higher.  The cholera outbreak in the Penghu Islands at the end of March 1895 killed more than 1,500 Japanese soldiers, and an even higher number of Japanese soldiers died in September 1895 in the wake of the malaria outbreak at Changhua shortly after its fall to the Japanese.  According to Japanese sources, 4,642 soldiers died in Taiwan and the Penghu Islands of disease.  By the end of the campaign, 5,246 Japanese soldiers had been hospitalised in Taiwan and a further 21,748 soldiers had been evacuated back to Japan for treatment.

Japanese casualties from disease included Prince Kitashirakawa Yoshihisa, who fell ill with malaria on 18 October.  His condition rapidly worsened and he died in Tainan on 28 October, seven days after the city's capitulation to the Japanese.  His body was carried to Anping, the port of Tainan, by a troop of wrestlers who by special imperial permission had accompanied the Imperial Guards Division, and shipped back to Japan for burial aboard the steamer Saikio Maru.  The cruiser Yoshino escorted the prince's body back to Japan.  A story widely circulated in Taiwan at the time, that the cause of the prince's death was a wound he received during the Battle of Baguashan, is quite untrue.