[Source: PubMed]

45. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2023 Jan 18;20(3):1750. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph20031750.

Climate Change and Health: Local Government Capacity for Health Protection in 
Australia.

Smith JC(1), Whiley H(1), Ross KE(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Science and Engineering, Flinders University, Adelaide 5042, 
Australia.

Climate change is the greatest global health threat of the 21st century, with 
numerous direct and indirect human health consequences. Local governments play a 
critical role in communities' response to climate change, both through 
strategies to reduce emissions and adaption plans to respond to changing climate 
and extreme weather events. Australian local government environmental health 
officers (EHOs) have the relevant skills and expertise to inform and develop 
adaptation plans for health protection in the context of climate change. This 
study used an online survey followed by phone interviews of local government 
management to determine the extent to which EHOs are involved in adaptation 
planning in health protection climate change plans. Questions were also asked to 
determine whether local councils are aware of EHOs' capability to contribute and 
to gauge the willingness of management to provide EHOs with the workload 
capacity to do so. The findings demonstrated that although climate adaptation 
and mitigation planning is occurring in local government, it is not including or 
considering the public health impacts on the community. Primarily, it was found 
that this oversight was due to a lack of awareness of the health impacts of 
climate change outside of a disaster or emergency scenario. Currently, EHOs are 
an untapped source of knowledge and skills that can contribute to climate change 
adaption planning. To support this, a framework of local environmental health 
practice was developed to assist the reconceptualization of the scope of 
practice required for the planning and response to climate change.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph20031750
PMCID: PMC9914245
PMID: 36767114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.