[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abram Wakeman

onal convention. When New York City opponents of the Lincoln administration and military conscription rioted in 1863, Wakeman was singled out because he was a prominent federal official; a mob broke into his Yorkville home to steal all the clothing and furniture, then burned the house to the ground.

During the 1864 United States presidential election, some prominent northern newspaper publishers and Democrats advocated for a negotiated peace with the Confederacy. Though he doubted their efforts would bear fruit, Lincoln authorized Horace Greeley to meet with Confederate commissioners in Niagara Falls, Ontario. Greeley's effort ended in failure when the Confederate representatives admitted they had no authority to bargain for terms. Afterwards Lincoln worked to persuade pro-peace Democrats in the north to support his re-election, including asking Wakeman to intercede with James Gordon Bennett Sr. of the New York Herald. Wakeman was partly successful; though the Herald habitually endorsed Democratic candidates, and Bennett had advocated for both the candidacy of Democratic nominee George B. McClellan and a negotiated peace with the Confederacy, for the general election the Herald made no endorsement for president. Wakeman also provided Lincoln other intelligence about politics in New York, including the news that Weed was considering backing another candidate for the Republican nomination and the news that he ultimately decided to give Lincoln his tacit support.

Wakeman was also friendly with Mary Todd Lincoln; in addition to seeing her at dinner parties and other events, he exchanged frequent letters with her.  When Mary Lincoln's compulsive shopping caused her to incur a large debt to New York City retailers, Wakeman aided her to refinance her obligations so her husband wouldn't find out. In 1864, Wakeman was appointed Surveyor of the Port of New York, a lucrative position and an important political plum, and he served until 1869.

When Mary Lincoln attempted to pay her debts in 1867 by holding an auction of her personal items in an event that came to be known as the "Old Clothes Scandal", she attempted to enlist Wakeman's aid. In a letter which later became public, she named Wakeman and Simeon Draper, the former Collector of the Port of New York, as being obligated to help her financially (though Draper had died the year before), since she had aided them in procuring their federal positions. After a visit from Wakeman, Mrs. Lincoln tempered her public comments, but the auction still went forward. It was unsuccessful, but in 1871 Congress granted her a life pension of $3,000 a year (about $64,000 in 2019).

Later career
In his later years, Wakeman was one of the principal developers of Coney Island as a resort and amusement park area. He made a substantial profit in the late 1870s when he sold his interests in Coney Island to a syndicate led by businessman Austin Corbin.

Death and burial
Wakeman died in New York City on June 29, 1889.  He was interred at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.

Family
In 1851, Wakeman married Mary E. Harwood (1825–1883) of Ridgeway, New York. She was the daughter of Cyrus Harwood and Mary (Lee) Harwood, and a niece of William Little Lee. His second wife was Katharine Horton Price, whom he married in 1884.

With his first wife, Wakeman's children included Harwood, Abram, Mary C., and Rosamond. With his second wife, he was the stepfather of Kate Billings Noel.

Dr. Harwood Wakeman died in August 1879 when he drowned while swimming in Blue Mountain Lake, New York.

In March 1883, Mary E. and Rosamund Wakeman were killed in a house fire. According to new accounts, Rosamund Wakeman helped her mother's nurse escape the building that caught fire. Mary Wakeman was an invalid, and when she had difficulty attempting to exit, Rosamund Wakeman went to her aid. Both mother and daughter were overcome by smoke before they could escape.

Notes

References

Sources

Books

Newspapers

Internet

External links
 Retrieved on 2009-03-21

Abram Wakeman at The Political Graveyard

1824 births
1889 deaths
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
Republican Party members of the New York State Assembly
New York (state) lawyers
Burials at Green-Wood Cemetery
Postmasters of New York City
Union Army colonels
Whig Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American lawyers