[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tide Mills, East Sussex

mes and the Marconi Radio station (1904). Apart from the dig, it will evolve into a large collection of film, video, recollections and photographs logging the decline of the area.

Mill complex

Old photographs and paintings, together with a poem, show that the Tide Mill complex included a windmill.

Access
Access is via either Mill Drove, an insignificant single-track road that runs south-west from the Newhaven and Seaford roads at approximately the point where one changes into the other  (very limited parking, and access is via a pedestrian railway crossing at Bishopstone Beach Halt); or along the beach to the east of Newhaven Harbour. Network Rail plans to build a new footbridge across the railway to replace the existing crossing.

In popular culture
The Tide Mills features in the 2007 novel A Kind of Vanishing by crime-writer Lesley Thomson. Two girls are playing hide-and-seek in the summer of 1968. Eleanor is hiding from Alice, who never comes looking for her. Alice disappears and more than thirty years later she is still missing. Much of the "action" takes place around the Tide Mills. The cover photograph for the UK edition published by Myriad Editions shows a shot of the Tide Mills.

It also features in a novel of 2018. Set in 1963–4, Change at Tide Mills uses a version of the Mill and village that is still standing. In practice, it was demolished in 1940. A family from London revitalises the Mill's fortunes and the main storylines use local landmarks and contemporary values. The author also offers a talk using contemporary images to flesh out the actual site and surroundings.

It is also features in the poem "Tide Mills", written by Minoli Salgado for the 2021 Arts Council England-funded project Your Local Arena. The poem was inspired by a 2009 BBC Arena documentary on T. S. Eliot.

See also
 Watermills in the United Kingdom

References

Bibliography

External links

 Friends of The Tidemills and Newhaven Eastside Conservation Group
 
 
 Saline Lagoons The pound for the tide mill as a wildlife habitat
 
 Abandoned Communities ..... Tide Mills

Forcibly depopulated communities in the United Kingdom
Former populated places in East Sussex
Populated places disestablished in 1940
Seaford, East Sussex
Tide mills
Villages in East Sussex
Watermills in East Sussex
Windmills in East Sussex