[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Fourth Protocol (film)

eneral, and he angrily resigns to take a job at a bank.

Reception

Box office
The film debuted at no. 4 at the box office with $3.6 million in ticket sales.

In the UK it made £766,413.

Critical response
Rotten Tomatoes retrospectively gave the film a score of 67% based on reviews from 21 critics.

The Globe and Mail'''s film critic Jay Scott said that "the movie is entertaining on a rudimentary, never-to-be-taken-seriously level. On the rare occasions when it does rise above the material, it's because Pierce Brosnan is chillingly effective as an assassin with the body temperature of a snake. The yarn is otherwise little more than Mission Impossible tightly re-wound for the age of glasnost." Scott praised Michael Caine's excellent performance, but complained that the "role permits him to display only one of the three dimensions he was able to provide in his portrayal of the father in The Whistle Blower (1986)."Halliwell's Film and Video Guide described it as a "very competent but somehow old hat espionage thriller", awarding it one star from a possible four. Quoted in Halliwell's guide, Daily Variety stated that "there is an uneasy feeling that the whole affair could have been better made into an excellent miniseries". John Ferguson awarded it two stars out of five for Radio Times'', stating "what once made for diverting summer reading now appears tired and not particularly relevant".

References

External links 
 
 
 
 

1987 films
1987 independent films
1980s spy thriller films
British independent films
British spy thriller films
Cold War spy films
Films about nuclear war and weapons
Films about MI6
Films scored by Lalo Schifrin
Films based on British novels
Films based on thriller novels
Films based on works by Frederick Forsyth
Films directed by John Mackenzie (film director)
Films set in England
Films set in London
Films shot at EMI-Elstree Studios
Films shot in England
Films shot in Finland
Milton Keynes
MI5 in fiction
Techno-thriller films
Cultural depictions of the Cambridge Five
Films shot in London
Films about the KGB
Films set in Glasgow
Films set around New Year
Films shot in Buckinghamshire
Films shot in Essex
1980s English-language films
1980s British films