[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Romain Danzé

side, playing in either the right–back and left–back positions. In a 2–2 draw against SM Caen on 17 February 2018, Danzé surpassed René Cédolin's appearances, making him the second most capped player in club history. At the end of the 2017–18 season, he made fifteen appearances in all competitions.

At the start of the 2018–19 season, Danzé continued to find his first team place limited, appearing as an unused substitute. However, Danzé had an operation on his knee, which he sustained during a warm up prior to a match against FC Astana in the UEFA Europa League match and ruled him for the rest of the 2018–19 season, making no appearances for the side. It was announced on 24 May 2019 that Danzé would be retiring from professional football, due to injury. Upon learning from his retirement, the club's supporters paid tribute to him by giving him a farewell sent off with his face plastered across Roazhon Park above the caption: “Your name will remain engraved for eternity. Danzé said in an interview on the club's website: "This relationship will be one of the good memories. She quickly settled in with them. At the start, I was the little Breton from the training center who joined the pro group. Contact with supporters was simple, whether at the stadium or elsewhere. The supporters didn't necessarily see me as a player. I arrived at the club, I was 13 years old, I will soon be 33. I have spent more than half of my life in Red and Black. I spent more time at La Piverdière than in my main residence. Stade Rennais FC is my life."

Post-playing career
Shortly after his retirement from professional football, Stade Rennais announced they will retire Danzé's number twenty–nine in honour of his career at the club.

Danzé said after announcing his retirement, he announced his intention to earn a coaching badge in hopes of becoming a Manager. Danzé became an assistant manager to Jean-Fabien Peslier for the club's U17 side. Around the same time, he was among several retired footballers to enrol at the university master's training of general manager of professional sports club of the CDES.

International career
In May 2007, Danzé was called up to the France U20 squad for the Toulon Tournament. He made his France U20 debut, starting the whole game, in a 2–0 win against Ivory Coast on 31 May 2007. Danzé later helped France U20 reach the Toulon tournament final and started in the final, as they won 3–1 against China.

In May 2008, Danzé was called up to the France U21 for the first time. However, he withdrew from the squad, due to an injury. Three months later, Danzé was called up to the under-21 side once again. He made his first appearance for the under-21 side, starting the whole game, in a 2–2 draw against Slovakia U21 on 20 August 2008. Danzé later made three more matches for the under-21 side.

Personal life
In February 2013, Danzé was awarded Pro Rennais Sportsman of 2012. Two years later in May 2015, he was awarded Ballon d'eau after being voted by fans.  Growing up, he supported Rennes. Outside of football, Danzé said: "I got into golf and got hooked. I did not think elsewhere. My golf, my computer, and my console. I'm a real geek. To get out, you have to make the effort to adapt." He is good friends with his former teammate, Benoît Costil, even as going far as naming him his personal choice of his starting eleven.

It was announced on the club's website that Danzé became a first time father when his wife gave birth to a daughter, Tania, on 31 July 2013. In December 2014, he invested in a restaurant in Lamennais, near Place de la République, in Rennes.

Career statistics

See also
List of one-club men

References

External links

 
 Romain Danzé's profile, stats & pics

1986 births
Living people
People from Douarnenez
Footballers from Finistère
French men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Stade Rennais F.C. players
Ligue 1 players