[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 146]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

these ideas I sprang
forwards at the question, and told the officer that the darling passion
of my life would be to bear arms under a chief like him; and that, if
he would suffer me to enlist under his command, I should be ready to
justify his kindness by patiently supporting every hardship, and facing
every danger. 'Young man,' replied he, with a look of kind concern,
'there is not an officer in the army that would not be proud of such a
recruit; but I should ill betray the hospitality I have received from
your parents, if I suffered you to be deceived in your opinion of the
military profession.' He then set before me, in the strongest language,
all the hardships which would be my lot; the dangers of the field, the
pestilence of camps, the slow consuming languor of hospitals, the
insolence of command, the mortification and subordination, and the
uncertainty that the exertions of even a long life would ever lead to
the least promotion. 'All this,' replied I, trembling with fear that my
father should take advantage of these too just representations to refuse
his consent, 'I knew before; but I feel an irresistible impulse within
me which compels me to the field. The die is cast for life or death, and
I will abide by the chance that now occurs. If you, sir, refuse me, I
will, however, enlist with the first officer that will accept me; for I
will no longer wear out life amid the solitude of these surrounding
mountains, without either a chance of meriting applause or
distinguishing my name.'

"The officer then desisted from his opposition, and, turning to my
parents, asked them if it were with their consent that I was going to
enlist. My mother burst into tears, and my sisters hung about me
weeping; my father replied with a deep sigh, 'I have long experienced
that it is in vain to oppose the decrees of Providence. Could my
persuasions have availed, he would have remained contented in these
mountains; but that is now impossible, at least till he has purchased
wisdom at the price of his blood. If, therefore, sir, you do not despise
his youth and mien, take him with you, and let him have the advantage of
your example. I have been a soldier myself; and I can assure you, with
truth, that I have never seen an officer under whom I would more gladly
march than yourself.' Our guest made a polite reply to my father, and
instantly agreed to receive me. He then pulled out a purse, and offering
it to my father, said, 'The common price of a recruit is now five
guineas; but so well am I satisfied with the appearance of your son, and
the confidence you repose in me, that I must insist upon your accepting
what is contained in this purse; you will dispose of it as you please
for your mutual advantage. Before I depart to-morrow I will give such
directions as may enable him to join the regiment, which is now
preparing to march.' He then requested that he might retire to rest, and
my father would have resigned the only bed he had in the house to his
guest, but he absolutely refused, and said, 'Would you shame me in the
eyes of my new recruit? What is a soldier good for that cannot sleep
without a bed? The time will soon arrive when I shall think a
comfortable roof and a little straw an enviable luxury.' I therefore
raised him as convenient a couch as I was able to make with heath and
straw, and wrapping himself up in his riding-coat, he threw himself down
upon it and slept till morning. With the first dawn of day he rose and
departed, having first given me the directions which were necessary to
enable me to join the regiment. But before he went, my father, who was
equally charmed with his generosity and manners, pressed him to take
back part of the money he had given us; this, however, he absolutely
refused, and left us, full of esteem and admiration.

"I will not, gentlemen, repeat the affecting scene I had to undergo in
taking leave of my family and friends. It pierced me to the very heart;
and then, for the first time, I almost repented of being so near the
accomplishment of my wishes. I was, however, engaged, and determined to
fulfil my engagement; I therefore tore myself from my family, having
with difficulty prevailed upon my father to accept of part of the money
I had received for my enrolment. I will not trespass upon your time to
describe the various emotions which I felt from the crowd of new
sensations that entered my mind during our march. I arrived without any
accident in London, the splendid capital of this kingdom; but I could
not there restrain my astonishment to see an immense people talking of
wounds, of death, of battles, sieges, and conquests, in the midst of
feasts, and balls, and puppet-shows, and calmly devoting thousands of
their fellow-creatures to perish by famine or the sword, while they
considered the loss of a dinner, or the endurance of a shower, as an
exertion too great for human fortitude.

"I soon embarked, and arrived, witho