[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Insect migration

a native insect of Australia that is known to migrate to cooler climates. The Madagascan sunset moth (Chrysiridia rhipheus) has migrations of up to thousands of individuals, occurring between the eastern and western ranges of their host plant, when they become depleted or unsuitable for consumption.

In southern India, mass migrations of many species occur before monsoons. As many as 250 species of butterflies in India are migratory. These include members of the Pieridae and Nymphalidae. The Australian painted lady periodically migrates down the cost of Australia, and occasionally, in periods of strong migration in Australia, migrate to New Zealand.
The monarch butterfly migrates from southern Canada to wintering sites in central Mexico where they spend the winter. In the late winter or early spring, the adult monarchs leave the Transvolcanic mountain range in Mexico to travel north. Mating occurs and the females seek out milkweed to lay their eggs, usually first in northern Mexico and southern Texas. The caterpillars hatch and develop into adults that move north, where more offspring can go as far as Central Canada until the next migratory cycle. The entire annual migration cycle involves five generations.

The painted lady (Vanessa cardui) is a butterfly whose annual 15,000 km round trip from Scandinavia and Great Britain to West Africa involves up to six generations.

The hummingbird hawk-moth (Macroglossum stellatarum) migrates from Africa and southern Asia to Europe and northern Asia.

Orthoptera

Short-horned grasshoppers sometimes form swarms that will make long flights. These are often irregular and may be related to resource availability and thus not fulfilling some definitions of insect migration. There are however some populations of species such as locusts (Schistocerca gregaria) that make regular seasonal movements in parts of Africa; exceptionally, the species migrates very long distances, as in 1988 when swarms flew across the Atlantic Ocean.

Odonata

Dragonflies are among the longest distance insect migrants. Many species of Libellula, Sympetrum and Pantala are known for their mass migration. Pantala flavescens is thought to make the longest ocean crossings among insects, flying between India and Africa on their migrations. Their movements are often assisted by winds.

Coleoptera
Ladybird beetles such as Hippodamia convergens, Adalia bipunctata and Coccinella undecimpunctata have been noted in large numbers in some places. In some cases, these movements appear to be made in the search for hibernation sites.

Heteroptera 
Some Oncopeltus fasciatus will journey from northern states and southern Canada to southern states; others will overwinter where they are. Murgantia Histrionica relies on seasonal winds on the Mississippi valley for travel.

Homoptera 
Leafhoppers Macrosteles fascifrons and Empoasca fabae rely on seasonal winds on the Missippi valley for travel.

See also
 Animal migration

References

Migration
Animal migration