[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Animal migration

ten permanently change where they live, which does not fit the patterns described here. An exception is some traditional migratory patterns such as transhumance, in which herders and their animals move seasonally between mountains and valleys, and the seasonal movements of nomads.

In other animals 

Among the reptiles, adult sea turtles migrate long distances to breed, as do some amphibians. Hatchling sea turtles, too, emerge from underground nests, crawl down to the water, and swim offshore to reach the open sea. Juvenile green sea turtles make use of Earth's magnetic field to navigate. 

Some crustaceans migrate, such as the largely-terrestrial Christmas Island red crab, which moves en masse each year by the millions. Like other crabs, they breathe using gills, which must remain wet, so they avoid direct sunlight, digging burrows to shelter from the sun. They mate on land near their burrows. The females incubate their eggs in their abdominal brood pouches for two weeks. Then they return to the sea to release their eggs at high tide in the moon's last quarter. The larvae spend a few weeks at sea and then return to land.

Tracking migration

Scientists gather observations of animal migration by tracking their movements. Animals were traditionally tracked with identification tags such as bird rings for later recovery. However, no information was obtained about the actual route followed between release and recovery, and only a fraction of tagged individuals were recovered. More convenient, therefore, are electronic devices such as radio-tracking collars that can be followed by radio, whether handheld, in a vehicle or aircraft, or by satellite. GPS animal tracking enables accurate positions to be broadcast at regular intervals, but the devices are inevitably heavier and more expensive than those without GPS. An alternative is the Argos Doppler tag, also called a 'Platform Transmitter Terminal' (PTT), which sends regularly to the polar-orbiting Argos satellites; using Doppler shift, the animal's location can be estimated, relatively roughly compared to GPS, but at a lower cost and weight. A technology suitable for small birds which cannot carry the heavier devices is the geolocator which logs the light level as the bird flies, for analysis on recapture. There is scope for further development of systems able to track small animals globally.

Radio-tracking tags can be fitted to insects, including dragonflies and bees.

In culture

Before animal migration was understood, various folklore and erroneous explanations were formulated to account for the disappearance or sudden arrival of birds in an area. In Ancient Greece, Aristotle proposed that robins turned into redstarts when summer arrived. The barnacle goose was explained in European Medieval bestiaries and manuscripts as either growing like fruit on trees, or developing from goose barnacles on pieces of driftwood. Another example is the swallow, which was once thought, even by naturalists such as Gilbert White, to hibernate either underwater, buried in muddy riverbanks, or in hollow trees.

See also

 Great American Interchange

References

Further reading

General

 
 Baker, R. R. (1978) The Evolutionary Ecology of Animal Migration. Holmes & Meier. .
 Dingle, H. (1996) Migration: The Biology of Life on the Move. Oxford University Press. .
 Gauthreaux, S. A. (1980) Animal Migration, Orientation, and Navigation. Academic Press. .
 Milner-Gulland, E. J., Fryxell, J. M., and Sinclair, A. R. E. (2011) Animal Migration: A Synthesis. Oxford University Press. .
 Rankin, M. (1985) Migration: Mechanisms and Adaptive Significance: Contributions in Marine Science. Marine Science Institute. .
 Riede, K. (2002) Global Register of Migratory Species. With database and GIS maps on CD. .

By group

 Drake, V. A. and Gatehouse, A. G. (1995) Insect migration: tracking resources through space and time. Cambridge University Press. 
 Elphick, J. (1995) The atlas of bird migration: tracing the great journeys of the world's birds. Random House. 
 Greenberg, R. and Marra, P. P. (2005) Birds of Two Worlds: The Ecology and Evolution of Migration. Johns Hopkins University Press. 
 Lucas, M. C. and Baras, E. (2001) Migration of freshwater fishes. Blackwell Science. 
 MacKeown, B. A. (1984) Fish migration. Timber Press. 
 Sonnenschein, E; Berthold, P. (2003) Avian migration. Springer.

For children

 Gans, R. and Mirocha, P. How do Birds Find their Way? HarperCollins. (Stage 2) 
 Marsh, L. (2010) Amazing Animal Journeys. National Geographic Society. (Level 3)

External links

 Migration Basics from U.S. National Park Service
 Witnessing the Great Migration in Serengeti and Masai Mara
 Global Register of Migratory Species – identifies, maps and features 4,300 migratory vertebrate species
 Animal migration on PubMed MeSH term F01.145.113.083

 
Ethology