[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Symphony No. 2 (Bernstein)

g desperately to find what they are searching for, but falling short, though becoming closer because of their experience.  This brings the first half of the piece to a dramatic and abrupt close.

Part Two
 a) The Dirge: Largo
 b) The Masque: Extremely Fast
 c) The Epilogue: Adagio; Andante; Con moto

The second half of the piece opens with “The Dirge”, a theme, first introduced by the solo piano, based on a 12-tone row that gives way to a contrasting middle section, reminiscent of Brahms’ romanticism. In the poem, the four travel to the women’s apartment by cab, mourning the loss of their fallen father ("Dad") figure.  Once they arrive at the apartment, the four are determined to have a party, but refuse to take the attention away from any of the others, and all opt to turn in for the night.  “The Masque” is a speedy piano solo that is accompanied by syncopated rhythms in various percussion instruments.  The main theme is the tune from Ain't Got No Tears Left, a song cut from On The Town.  The piano is joined by the rest of the orchestra for a time before it drops out entirely, becoming “traumatized” as it tries to come to terms with its “escapist living.”  The energy from “The Masque” fades and the entire orchestra comes in to repeat the bars it had been playing before, now joined by the strings and starting “The Epilogue.” Here, echoes of the “Prologue” resound while the new 4 note theme is contemplated by the reminiscent piano soloist.  Answering the orchestra’s calls for clarity, a solo piano cadenza, added in 1965, revisits the journey of the characters, and is taken up by the full orchestra, which builds to a radiant close. The listener, as well as the reader, finds that “what is left, it turns out, is faith.”

Premiere
The work was premiered on April 8, 1949, with Serge Koussevitzky conducting the Boston Symphony Orchestra and the composer at the piano. It was met with good reviews and received a repeat performance in Tanglewood that summer. It was recorded for the first time by Columbia Records in 1950 with Bernstein himself conducting the New York Philharmonic with pianist Lukas Foss as the soloist. A typical performance of the work lasts approximately 35 to 40 minutes.

W.H. Auden, who reportedly did not care for ballet and thought it a "very, very minor art", appears not to have appreciated the translation of his poem into other media. After the Symphony's premiere he commented that it "really has nothing to do with me. Any connections with my book are rather distant."

Ballet
Jerome Robbins choreographed a ballet to this symphony in 1950 for the New York City Ballet. The choreography has been lost. The work was premiered at the New York City Center Theater in 1950 and showcased the artistry of Jerome Robbins, Todd Bolender, Francisco Moncion and Tanaquil Le Clercq.

John Neumeier used the score for a ballet premiered by Ballet West in 1991. Liam Scarlett created another version for the Royal Ballet in 2014.

References

External links
 
Hyperion notes
Notes by Thomas May
Leonard Bernstein, piano and the Boston Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Sergei Koussevitzky. April 8, 1948

Compositions by Leonard Bernstein
Bernstein 2
1949 compositions
1965 compositions
Compositions for piano and orchestra