[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# University of Saskatchewan academics

ics. Griffiths Stadium (offering playing field with artificial turf, running track and grandstand seating) was upgraded in 2006 for the Huskie football Vanier Cup playoffs.

Non-direct entry programs
All of the following colleges have university-level prerequisites for admission into their programs.

College of Dentistry
The College of Dentistry accepted only limited enrollment until it obtained space in the Health Sciences Building in 1973. The Dental Clinic Building opened in 1979.
Dentistry is a non-direct entry program which requires university pre-requisites, and often examination, prior to admission to this college. Courses provide education on prevention/public education, detection and management of oral conditions, esthetic improvement, restoration, correction, reconstruction, and surgery.

College of Nursing

The Nursing Education Program of Saskatchewan (NEPS) offers a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN). With this four year degree, registration with the Saskatchewan Registered Nurses Association provides registered nurse (RN) or registered psychiatric nurse (RPN) status. The PhD program in nursing began in September 2007. SIAST Kelsey Campus offers the first two years of the nursing course and a diploma in nursing. Students can follow up at the U of S for the third and fourth year and receive a degree in nursing.

College of Pharmacy and Nutrition
There was a need to establish in the city of Saskatoon the School of Pharmacy in 1913. The College of Pharmacy was officially formed in 1921, changing names in 1994 to the College of Pharmacy and Nutrition. A Pharmacy addition to the Chemistry Building or Thorvaldson Building was opened in 1988.
The College of Pharmacy & Nutrition: Division of Nutrition & Dietetics has an accredited dietetic program. The university is accredited by a professional organization such as the Dietitians of Canada, and the university's graduates may subsequently become registered dietitians.

College of Law

The college of Law building jointly operated with the College of Commerce and opened on September 22, 1967. Western Canada honours the U of S Law school as its original university law school with its first graduating class in 1915. The current expansion will join together the Native Law Centre with the College of Law.

The Rt. Hon. John George Diefenbaker, CH, PC, QC, BA, MA, LL.B, LL.D, DCL, FRSC, FRSA, D.Litt, DSL graduated from the College of law to later become Prime Minister of Canada. The Diefenbaker Centre, on campus, is named in his honour. His burial site is near the centre.

College of Medicine

In 1919 the university added the Department of Bacteriology. The School of Medical Sciences separated from the College of Arts and Sciences in 1952 and officially became known as School of Medical Sciences, which was taught in the Header Houses, now referred to as the Horticulture Greenhouses. The Health Sciences Building was opened in 1971 to provide room for the Colleges of Medicine and Dentistry, and the School of Nursing. The College of Medicine is divided into over 20 separate departments, including anesthesiology, anatomy & cell biology, biochemistry, community health and epidemiology, family medicine, medical imaging, medicine, microbiology, obstetrics & gynecology, oncology/radiology, ophthalmology, pathology, pediatrics, pharmacology, physiology, psychiatry, physical medicine and rehabilitation, school of physical therapy, surgery: division of neurosurgery. There are also seven College of Medicine units. The university's Medical Complex combines training at the College of Medicine with the Royal University Hospital Saskatoon City Hospital and St Pauls Hospital.

Western College of Veterinary Medicine

The Western College of Veterinary Medicine offers veterinary training for the Canadian provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, and Saskatchewan, as well as the Northwest Territories, Nunavut and the Yukon. The (WCVM) Building officially opened in 1965. Within the college are a variety of degree programs offered via the departments of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, Small Animal Clinical Sciences, Veterinary Biomedical Sciences, Veterinary Microbiology, Veterinary Pathology, and Veterinary Teaching Hospital.

Graduate and post-graduate studies

School of Environment and Sustainability
The School of Environment and Sustainability was established in 2007 and is currently located in Kirk Hall. Three degrees are offered, all interdisciplinary in nature: Master of Sustainable Environmental Management (MSEM), Master of Environment and Sustainability (MES), and PhD in Environment and Sustainability.