[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karava

which was also used by their equivalent Tamil Karaiyars.The Karavas were one of the few Sri Lankan communities traditionally entitled to use flags. A large number of these Karava flags have survived the ravages of time and many are illustrated in E. W. Perera's book Sinhalese Banners and Standards.

The sacred usage of conch shell and tying of Nalapata (royal forehead plate) was a common practice among Karavas, also mentioned in the Rajaveliya. The sun and the moon, pearl umbrella are traditional royal symbols used by the Karavas. The Makara, being an emblem of their clan, is the mount of their clan deity, the sea god Varuna. The clan name Warnakulasuriya, denotes their deity Varuna. 

Insignia such as the pearl umbrella, flags, swords, trident, yak tail whisks, lighted flame torches and drums were previously widely used by the Karavas at their weddings and funerals. By the 1960s, such usage has been greatly reduced, whereas some places is it still practiced.

Ancestral names 
The Karava's use the  naming system. Vasagama, literally meaning "estate (gama) in which one resides", is a title or surname that is given to the patrilineal descendants. The most common clans among the Karavas are Kurukulasuriya, Warunakulasuriya and Mihindikulasuriya (formerly known as Arasakulasuriya). Other clans are Koon Karavas and Konda Karavas.

Name based on leadership or armoured military office (Sannaddha/Sannadi) include Hennadige, show a traditional military heritage and confirms the military origins of the group as claimed by Karava origin stories and family histories. Some of the popular surnames, Wachchi Hennadige, Weera Hennadige, Andra Hennadige and Warusa Hennadige , Arasa Marakkalage ("house of the Royal Mariners"), Patabendige ("house of the local headmen"), and Thantrige (also Tantulage or Thanthulage, "house of experts").

Names based on profession include Marakkalage (house of the ship/boat owners or sailors ) and Vaduge (also Baduge; house of carpenters, ship, Silmaguruge & boat builders, also descendant of Vadugar).

See also 
Caste in Sri Lanka
Bharatakula
Negombo Tamils
Kastane

References 

RAGHAVAN, M. D., The Karava of Ceylon: Society and Culture, K. V. G. de Silva, 1961.
Caste Conflict and Elite Formation, The Rise of the Karava Elite in Sri Lanka 1500–1931. Michael Roberts 1982, Cambridge, Cambridge University Press. 
Social Change in Nineteenth Century Ceylon. Patrick Peebles. 1995, Navrang .

External links 

Karava web site – Kshatriya Maha Sabha Sri Lanka
Karava – the blue-blooded Kshatriyas 
The Maha Oruwa (The Last in the tradition of the Indigenous Sailing Ships): plate 5
The Bala (Power) Oruwa: world's fastest traditional sailing canoe

Sinhalese castes