[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 152]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nsported with grief and passion, I immediately darted
forward to offer him my feeble support; but, in the very instant of my
arrival, he received a straggling ball in his bosom, and, tottering to a
tree, supported his fainting limbs against the trunk. Just in that
moment three of our savage enemies observed his situation, and marked
him for their prey; they raised their hideous yell, and darted upon him
with the speed and fierceness of wolves. Fury then took possession of my
soul; had I possessed a thousand lives, I should have held them cheap in
the balance. I fired with so unerring an aim that I stretched the
foremost on the earth; the second received the point of my bayonet in
his breast, and fell in the pangs of death; the third, daunted with the
fate of his companions, turned his steps another way.

"Just then a horse, that had lost his rider, was galloping along the
wood; I bounded across the path, and, seizing him by the bridle,
instantly led him to my leader, and conjured him to preserve his
glorious life. He thanked me in the most affectionate manner for my
friendship, but bade me preserve my own life. 'As to myself,' said he,
'I do not wish to survive my country's dishonour; and even had I such a
wish, the wounds I have received would render all escape impossible.'
'If that is your resolution,' said I, 'we will die together; for I swear
by the eternal majesty of my Creator that I will not leave you.' When he
saw me thus resolved, he consented to use my assistance, and with
infinite difficulty I seated him upon the horse, which, holding by the
reins, as I was then light and active, I guided along the wood with no
inconsiderable speed.

"Fortunately for me, we were not observed by any of our savage enemies,
so that, flying through the thickest part of the forest, we left the
danger behind, and were soon removed beyond the sight or hearing of the
battle. 'Courage,' said I, 'my noble leader! you are now almost in
safety; and I trust you will yet preserve a life so necessary to your
friends and country.' He answered me with the kindest expressions, but
with a feeble voice, 'Campbell, I have consented to fly, more for the
sake of preserving your life than from any hopes of my own; but since we
are at a distance from yonder dreadful scene, permit me to alight; I
have consumed my small remaining forces in the way, and now I am faint
from loss of blood.' He sunk down at this, and would have fallen, but I
received him in my arms; I bore him to the next thicket, and, strewing
grass and leaves upon the ground, endeavoured to prepare him a bed. He
thanked me again with gratitude and tenderness, and grasped my hand as
he lay in the very agonies of death, for such it was, although I
believed he had only fainted, and long tried every ineffectual method to
restore departed life. Thus was I deprived of the noblest officer and
kindest friend that ever deserved the attachment of a soldier. Twenty
years have now rolled over me since that inauspicious day, yet it lives
for ever in my remembrance, and never shall be blotted from my soul.
(The Highlander then turned away to hide a tear, which did not misbecome
his manly countenance; the company seemed all to share his griefs, but
Miss Simmons above the rest. However, as the natural gentleness of her
temper was sufficiently known, no one suspected that she had any
particular interest in the relation.)

"I sat till night (continued the stranger) supporting the breathless
body of my colonel, and vainly hoping he might return to life. At length
I perceived that his noble soul was fled for ever. My own wounds grew
stiff and painful, and exhausted nature required a supply of food; I
therefore arose, and finding a spring that trickled down a hill at no
great distance, I refreshed myself by a copious draught, and washed the
clotted blood away from the hurts I had received. I then crushed some
leaves, which the inhabitants of that country imagine salutary, and
bound them on with bandages which I tore from my linen; I also found a
few wild fruits, which past experience had taught me were innocent, and
with them I allayed the pains of hunger. I then returned to the thicket,
and, creeping into the thickest part, endeavoured to compose myself to
rest.

"Strange, gentlemen, as it may appear, neither the forlorn nature of my
situation, nor the dangers with which I was beset, were sufficient to
keep me awake; my wearied and exhausted body seemed to triumph over all
the agitations of my mind, and I sunk into a sleep as deep and profound
as that of death itself. I awoke next morning with the first rays of the
sun, but, more composed, I better understood the difficulties in which I
was involved, and the uncertainty of my escape. I was in the midst of an
immense desert, totally destitute of human assistance or support. Should
I meet with any of my fellow-creatures, I could expect nothing but
implacable cruelty; and