[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Thanjavur Nayak kingdom

a large amount of literary output both in music and Telugu literature. Vijayaraghava's court had a number of poets and literary scholars. Vijayaraghava Nayak wrote more than thirty books in Telugu. His long reign was sadly brought to an abrupt end by Chokkanatha Nayak of Madurai.

End of Nayak rule

The end of the Thanjavur Nayak dynasty was brought on by Chokkanatha Nayak, the Nayak of Madurai.  The dispute was due to the refusal of Vijaya Ragava Nayak to give his daughter in marriage to Chokkanatha Nayak.  Chokkantha determined to fetch the maiden by force back into their capital, successfully stormed the Thanjavur palace in 1673 after flattening much of the fort walls by cannons.  But Chokkanatha Nayak was thwarted in his attempts by Vijaya Ragava Nayak, when  he, in a gruesome act of defiance, blew up his daughter and all the other ladies of the palace.  He then charged at the attacking army with his son and his body-guard. He was captured after a brief fight, and was beheaded by the Madurai General Samukham Venkata Krishnappa Nayak.

Maratha conquest
Chokkanatha placed his younger brother Alagiri Nayak on the throne of Thanjavur, but within a year the latter threw off his allegiance, and Chokkanatha was forced to recognise the independence of Thanjavur. Chengamala Das, the son of Vijaya Raghava induced the Bijapur Sultan to help him get back the Thanjavur throne. In 1675, the Sultan of Bijapur sent a force commanded by the Maratha general Venkoji (alias Ekoji) to drive away the Madurai usurper. Venkaji defeated Alagiri with ease, and occupied Thanjavur. He did not, however, place his protege on the throne, but seized the kingdom and made himself king due to the disintegration of the Bijapur state. Thus ended the reign of Nayaks and the start of Maratha power in Thanjavur.

See also
 Madurai Nayak dynasty
 Nayaks of Gingee

References

Bibliography
 Nagaswamy, R Tamil Coins- a study, (1970), State Department of Archaeology, Government of Tamil Nadu
 Vriddhagirisan V, Nayaks of Tanjore, , Reprint Annamalainagar 1942 edn., 1995
 Velcheru Narayana Rao|Rao, David Shulman and Sanjay Subrahmanyam. Symbols of substance : court and state in Nayaka period Tamil Nadu (Delhi ; Oxford : Oxford University Press, 1998) ; xix, 349 p., [16] p. of plates : ill., maps ; 22 cm. ; Oxford India paperbacks ; Includes bibliographical references and index ; .
 Sathianathaier, R. History of the Nayaks of Madura [microform] by R. Sathyanatha Aiyar ; edited for the university, with introduction and notes by S. Krishnaswami Aiyangar ([Madras] : Oxford University Press, 1924) ; see also ([London] : H. Milford, Oxford university press, 1924) ; xvi, 403 p. ; 21 cm. ; SAMP early 20th-century Indian books project item 10819.
The Political Career of E.V. Ramasami Naicker: A Study in the Politics page 79 by I. Vicuvanatan, E. S. Visswanathan
The Mysore Tribes and Castes by L Anantha Krishna Iyer and H.V Nanjundayya
Encyclomedia Indica by Jagadish Saran Sharma
Gazetteer of the Nellore District: Madras District Gazettees - Page 105, Government Of Madras Staff - History - 2004 - 384 pages
Questioning Ramayana: A South Asian Tradition by Paula Richman
Literary Cultures in History by Sheldon Pollock
Castes and Tribes of Southern India by Edgar Thurston and Rangachari
Caste and Race in India by G.S.Ghurye
[ Questioning Ramayanas - by Paula Richman]
[ The Literary Cultures in History - by Sheldon I Pollock]
[ Further Sources of Vijayanagara History By K A Nilakanta Sastry]
[ Penumbral Visions - by Sanjay Subrahmanyam]
[]
 "Thanjavur -  A Cultural History", Pradeep chakravarthy, Niyogi books

External links
 
 
 
 

States and territories established in 1572
Dynasties of India
Tamil Nadu under the Vijayanagar Empire
Telugu people
Hindu monarchs
Telugu monarchs
History of Thanjavur
1532 in India