[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Tostan

em to bring power to their communities and earn an income for themselves and for their Community Management Committee. From 2009 to 2016, 25 Tostan participants attended classes at the Barefoot College, including 13 women from Senegal, five from Guinea-Bissau, 5 from Djibouti, and 2 from The Gambia.

Modified CEP Programming 
Tostan offers two modified versions of the CEP. Known as the Prison Project and the Youth Empowerment Program, these programs are aimed at groups that ordinarily would not have access to the traditional CEP but who can still benefit from the curriculum. The Prison Project was first launched in 1999, and it aims to help detainees reintegrate back into their communities, which it accomplishes by building their knowledge of human rights and equipping them with practical skills to launch income-generating activities. Tostan also facilitates family mediations to help integrate former detainees back into their communities upon release. The Youth Empowerment Program typically takes place in urban areas, where the curriculum of the CEP is adjusted to make it more relevant to young people going through the education system and searching for employment, helping them to develop the skills needed to be successful.

Partners, awards and recognition 
Tostan's donors include the Greenbaum Foundation, the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), UNICEF, UNFPA, USAID, the Wallace Global Fund, and the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, among others.

In August 2007, Tostan received the UNESCO King Sejong Literacy Prize. In September 2007, Tostan was awarded the Conrad N. Hilton Humanitarian Prize for its "extraordinary contributions toward alleviating human suffering." In 2010, Tostan and its founder Molly Melching were recognized by the Skoll Foundation with the Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship. Tostan received an 'Award in Action' by the Cécilia Attias Foundation for Women in 2012, recognizing their work in improving health systems and maternal care at a community level. In 2013, Molly Melching was honoured with a 'Women of Impact' award at the 4th Annual Women in the World Summit. In 2002 Melching received the Sargent Shriver Distinguished Humanitarian Award from the National Peace Corps Association for her work with Tostan; it is awarded to returned Peace Corps volunteers who continue to make a sustained and distinguished contribution to humanitarian causes at home or abroad or are innovative social entrepreneurs whose actions will bring about significant long-term change.

See also 
Female genital mutilation
Molly Melching

References

External links 
Tostan Homepage
UNICEF Technical Note: Coordinated Strategy to Abandon FGM/C in One Generation
UNICEF Innocenti Research Centre Digest on FGM/C (2005)
2007 Conrad N. Hilton Humanitarian Prize Winner: Tostan 
UNESCO King Sejong Literacy Prize

Women's rights in Africa
Charities based in the United States
International organizations based in Africa
International human rights organizations
Female genital mutilation
Foreign charities operating in Senegal
Foreign charities operating in the Gambia
Foreign charities operating in Guinea
Foreign charities operating in Guinea Bissau
Foreign charities operating in Mauritania
Foreign charities operating in Djibouti
Foreign charities operating in Somalia