[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Heraldo Muñoz

to the UN were: chairman of the Peacebuilding Commission; facilitator of the Security Council reform consultations (2007-2008); Vice President of the General Assembly's 61st Session (2006-2007); and member of the Human Rights Commission reform consultations (today known as the Human Rights Council).

As Chairman of the Peacebuilding Commission, in 2009 he obtained a donation of the funds collected through author's rights from a new digital version of John Lennon's song, "Give Peace a Chance" by his widow, artist Yoko Ono. Muñoz and Ono also collaborated in an initiative for Autism Speaks: Ono donated a work of art for an auction to benefit the efforts of that organization on the occasion of the United Nations Autism Awareness Day, an event that was sponsored by the Mission of Chile to the UN in 2009.

In May 2010, Muñoz was appointed by UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon as Assistant Secretary General, Assistant Administrator, and Regional Director for Latin America and the Caribbean of the United Nations Development Programme.

Ministry of Foreign Affairs 

President Michelle Bachelet named him Minister of Foreign Affairs of Chile in 2014. As such, he led Chile in its response to a case presented by Bolivia at the International Court of Justice, intended to force Chile to negotiate a sovereign access to the Pacific Ocean for Bolivia. Chile won the case by an overwhelming majority of the Court. Likewise during Muñoz's tenure, the Foreign Ministry elaborated a National Action Plan for Human Rights and Business, which was presented to President Bachelet in 2017.
Also that year, Venezuela's political opposition to the government of Nicolás Maduro requested that Muñoz represent them, along with Foreign Minister of Mexico Luis Videgaray Caso, in negotiations held in the Dominican Republic, to set conditions for the then upcoming presidential elections: these efforts were eventually unsuccessful due to the intransigence of Venezuelan authorities and disagreements within the opposition. Furthermore, by invitation from the then US Secretary of State John Kerry, Muñoz joined an international campaign to protect the ocean. As a result of this involvement, Chile turned 1.4 million square kilometers of its waters into marine protected areas, becoming a world leader in ocean protection. Muñoz also achieved -after many failed attempts by previous governments- congressional approval of the bill for the modernization of the Foreign Ministry; the bill was promulgated by President Bachelet on March 7, 2018. Muñoz also led the elaboration of an agenda for Chile's foreign policy of the future entitled Política Exterior 2030. Finally, Muñoz created and promoted the concept of "convergence in diversity" between the two integration mechanisms for the region, the Pacific Alliance and Mercosur.

Career after office 
In 2018 the Pew Charitable Foundation and the Bertarelli Foundation named Muñoz Ambassador of the Ocean.

In 2018, Muñoz was elected President of the Party for Democracy (PPD). His term ended in August 2021.

In September 2019 Muñoz was named Director of the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation.

Munoz intentionally planned to run in the 2021 Chilean presidential election, but ended up dropping out in May 2021.

Books and publications 
 A Solitary War: A Diplomat's Chronicle of the Iraq War and Its Lessons, Fulcrum Publishing, 2008 (it has been translated into Spanish).
 
 The Dictator's Shadow: Life Under Augusto Pinochet, Basic Books, 2008 (it has been translated into Spanish and Portuguese). Newsweek said about it: Muñoz wrote "an insightful and poignant new personal memoir of the Pinochet years." The Washington Post called it "a meticulous and vivid new book... Muñoz delivers a compelling, personal account of life in a police state and a strong reminder of how far Chile has come": and the paper also listed The Dictator's Shadow among the best books of 2008. In 2009, Duke University presented him with the WOLA-Duke award for the best non-fiction book on the subjects of human rights, democracy, and social justice.
  
 Getting Away with Murder: Benazir Bhutto's Assassination and the Politics of Pakistan, W.W. Norton & Company, 2013, a book based on the aforementioned UN investigation over which Muñoz presided.

Other books written or edited by Muñoz are: