[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Peter Galbraith

in the Senate praised his intelligence, clear thinking, and nonconformism. Governor Peter Shumlin described him as "incredibly articulate, bright and capable." Galbraith did not run for a third term in 2014, citing a desire to focus on his career in international diplomacy.

 Candidate for governor 

Galbraith announced in March 2016 that he would be a candidate for the Democratic nomination for Governor of Vermont in 2016. Galbraith ran on an "unapologetically progressive" and "unconventional" platform which included raising the minimum wage, eventually to $15 per hour; establishing universal health care or universal primary health care; and banning campaign contributions from corporations; putting a moratorium on new industrial wind turbines; and eliminating "special interest" tax breaks. Galbraith supported universal background checks for gun sales in Vermont, and called for a ban on assault weapons.

Galbraith came in third in the primary, behind Matt Dunne and the winner Sue Minter, whom Galbraith endorsed. Despite the outcome, he credited his campaign with introducing substantive policy debates, especially over single-payer health care, into the race.

Personal life
Galbraith has one child with his first wife, Anne O'Leary, and two children with his second wife, Tone Bringa.

Galbraith was a good friend of the twice-elected Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto, dating back to their time together as students at Harvard and Oxford Universities; he was instrumental in securing Bhutto's release from prison in Pakistan for a medical treatment abroad during the military dictatorship of General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq.

Galbraith speaks English, German, Russian, French, Croatian, and Dari.

 Writings 
 Galbraith, Peter (2006), The End of Iraq: How American Incompetence Created a War without End; Simon and Schuster. 
 Galbraith, Peter W. (2008), Unintended Consequences: How War in Iraq Strengthened America's Enemies''; Simon & Schuster.

Notes

References

External links 
 
 
 

1950 births
Living people
Alumni of St Catherine's College, Oxford
Ambassadors of the United States to Croatia
American political writers
American male non-fiction writers
Georgetown University Law Center alumni
Harvard College alumni
People from Windham County, Vermont
Politicians from Boston
Writers from Boston
American political scientists
Democratic Party Vermont state senators
Commonwealth School alumni