[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cecily of York

hedral that he would marry the eldest daughter of Edward IV, Elizabeth, or his sister Cecily if marriage with Elizabeth was impossible for any reason, after he took the English throne. However, the uprising of the Tudor party, led by the Duke of Buckingham, failed even before Henry's oath in Rennes.

After the failure of Buckingham's rebellion, Richard III began negotiations with his brother's widow. On 1 March 1484, the king publicly swore that the daughters of Edward IV would not be harmed or molested; in addition, Richard III promised that they would not be imprisoned in the Tower or any other prison, that they would be placed "in respectable places of good name and reputation", and later be married to "men of noble birth" and given dowry lands with an annual income of 200 marks each. On the same day, the memorandum was delivered to the Queen Dowager, along with provisions. The princesses left the shelter and moved under the care of their "gracious uncle", who allocated them chambers in his palace. Tudor historian Edward Hall wrote that Richard III "made all the daughters of his brother solemnly arrive at his palace; as if with him new – familiar and fond of entertainment – they were supposed to forget ... the trauma inflicted on them and the tyranny that preceded this".

The guardianship that Richard III established over his nieces has become the subject of controversy in modern historiography, with opposing opinions about the King. Many researchers note that the daughters of Edward IV found themselves in an extremely difficult situation, as their legal rights were usurped, and their brothers were allegedly killed. Cecily witnessed a very unpleasant event for her: the betrothal of her former fiancé, the Scottish Duke of Rothesay, with her cousin Anne de la Pole, daughter of Elizabeth of York, Duchess of Suffolk. With the death in 1484 of Edward of Middleham, Prince of Wales, the only remaining legitimate son of Richard III, Anne de la Pole's brother John became the heir presumptive to the throne.

First marriage
After the daughters of Edward IV, recognised as bastards, arrived at court, various rumours began to circulate about their future fate: for example, it was alleged that Richard III was going to marry one of the elder nieces, Elizabeth or Cecily. In addition, Richard III considered marrying Cecily to someone below her in order to rule out her claim to the throne. The king's plans were carried out: when Henry Tudor landed in England with the intention of seizing the throne and marrying Cecily if Elizabeth was married to Richard III himself, he learned that Cecily was already married. Shortly before the defeat and death of Richard III, Cecily married, with her uncle's support, Ralph Scrope, the younger brother of the 6th Baron Scrope of Masham.

Reign of Henry VII

At the Tudor court
In August 1485, Richard III was killed at the Battle of Bosworth. Henry Tudor became King Henry VII by right of conquest; his mother, Lady Margaret Beaufort, had previously made a pact with Queen Dowager Elizabeth whereby Cecily's older sister Elizabeth would marry the new king. Having gained the throne, Henry VII repealed the Titulus Regius act, which deprived the children of Edward IV of titles and rights to the throne; the act itself and all its copies were removed from the archives, as well as all the documents associated with them. Having received the crown and subsequently married Elizabeth, Henry VII also paid attention to her sisters: the princesses had to profitably marry the supporters of the young king, but without the opportunity to claim the throne. The fate of Cecily, the younger sister of the new Queen, had to be decided as soon as possible. The marriage of the princess to Ralph Scrope was annulled in 1486 as not being in the interests of the new Tudor dynasty.