[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Union Nationale (Quebec)

Union Nationale for the few thousands of votes that were still up for grabs. Those parties included André Asselin's Progressive Conservative Party of Quebec, Jacques E. Tardif's Unité Québec and Jean-Paul Poulin's Parti crédit social uni. The situation accelerated the demise of the Union Nationale.

On June 19, 1989, Quebec chief electoral officer Pierre F. Côté withdrew the party's registration after the party was found to be nearly $350,000 in debt. As a result of this decision, it was no longer able to receive contributions or make expenditures. The next day, the interim leader of the party, Michel Le Brun, told a reporter that he would contest the decision before the Quebec Superior Court, arguing that the decision was unfair, and a violation of both the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the Quebec Charter of Rights and Freedoms. It was the first time in Quebec that a party had lost its official status as a result of its debts.

Le Brun resurrected the Union Nationale under the name Parti Renaissance on June 26, 1992.  It ran candidates in two by-elections in 1993, but the party did not field any eligible candidates in the 1994 election and lost its registration on August 27, 1994.

Although another attempt was made to revive the Union Nationale in 1998, it failed when the party failed to nominate enough candidates to be registered. The Action démocratique du Québec (ADQ) was established about at the same time and made a significant breakthrough in the districts that were once considered the base of the Union Nationale's support. This has continued with Coalition Avenir Québec, which has sometimes drawn comparisons with Union Nationale.

In 2009, former Union Nationale MNAs Serge Fontaine and Bertrand Goulet (both of whom had been among the last Union Nationale members elected to the legislature) announced the formation of a new Conservative Party of Quebec. Fontaine had asked Éric Caire of the ADQ to join the party and become its leader, with a view to attract disaffected ADQ supporters, but this did not materialize and Caire now sits as a member of the Coalition Avenir Québec.

The Parti démocratie chrétienne du Québec, a minor political party which garners less than 1% of the popular vote, was founded in 2000 and emulates the Union Nationale by combining moderate Quebec nationalism with Christian social conservatism. It changed its name in 2012 to the Parti unité nationale.

Vocabulary

The media claimed that the Parti Québécois was going through a phase of Union-Nationalization () when, in the mid-1980s, it chose Pierre-Marc Johnson as its leader and put the issue of Quebec sovereignty on the back burner.

Party leaders

Source:

General election results 

1 Compared to the 1935 election in which the Action libérale nationale, led by Paul Gouin, and the Quebec Conservative Party, led by Maurice Duplessis elected, which elected 42 MLAs (27 ALN and 15 Conservatives) running as an electoral alliance under the banner of the Union nationale. The two parties formally merged prior to the 1936 election.

See also

 Coalition Avenir Québec
 Clerico-nationalism
 Parti nationaliste chrétien
 Action démocratique du Québec
 Political parties in Quebec
 List of Quebec general elections
 National Assembly of Quebec
 Parti conservateur du Québec
 Parti National Populaire
 Politics of Quebec
 Timeline of Quebec history
 Union Nationale leadership elections

Notes

External links
 National Assembly historical information
 La Politique québécoise sur le Web

Provincial political parties in Quebec
Political parties established in 1935
Defunct political parties in Canada
Conservative parties in Canada
1935 establishments in Quebec
1989 disestablishments in Quebec
Political parties disestablished in 1989
Maurice Duplessis
Right-wing populism in Canada
Far-right politics in Canada