[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of coups and coup attempts

1866, Romania: Prince Alexandru Ioan Cuza of Romania was forced to abdicate by a political and military coalition.
 1867, Japan: Compelled by the Satchō Alliance, the Tokugawa shogunate returned political power to Emperor Meiji.
 1868, Glorious Revolution in Spain: A pronunciamiento of Juan Bautista Topete in Cádiz deposed Queen Isabella II.
 1870, 1870 Costa Rican coup d'état: Bruno Carranza came to power in Costa Rica after deposing President Jesús Jiménez Zamora. He resigned three months later.
 1871, Bolivia: Agustín Morales led a popular revolt against Mariano Melgarejo.
 1874,  in Spain: After Emilio Castelar lost a vote of confidence and a new government was to be instituted, Manuel Pavía y Rodríguez de Alburquerque ordered Congress to evacuate and formed a new government, giving power to Francisco Serrano.
 1874, Spain: Arsenio Martínez Campos overthrew the First Spanish Republic and installed Alfonso XII as king.
 1876, Costa Rica: Aniceto Esquivel Sáenz was deposed in a coup d'état led by Vicente Herrera Zeledón.
 1876, Mexico: Following the Plan of Tuxtepec, Porfirio Díaz overthrew Sebastián Lerdo de Tejada and installed himself as President of Mexico.
 1876, Bolivia: A military coup led by Hilarión Daza overthrew the president Tomás Frías Ametller and installed Hilarión Daza as President of Bolivia, leading to the War of the Pacific.
 1879, Bolivia: Hilarión Daza was deposed while fighting in the War of the Pacific.
 1884, Gapsin Coup in Korea: The Japanese-supported Gaehwa Party attempts to overthrow the Chinese-supported Joseon government, but is suppressed.
 1889, Proclamation of the Republic in Brazil: A military coup led by Marshal Deodoro da Fonseca deposed the Brazilian Emperor, Dom Pedro II, proclaimed the Republic, and installed a provisional government.

 1891, Brazil: President of Brazil Marshal Deodoro da Fonseca dissolved the National Congress and declared himself Dictator, but soon after resigned after the Navy rebellion.
 1893, Kingdom of Hawai'i: Sanford Dole and American plantation owners overthrew the independent Kingdom of Hawaii led by Queen Liliuokalani
 1895, 1895 Wilcox rebellion in the Kingdom of Hawai'i: Robert W. Wilcox unsuccessfully launched a coup in an attempt to restore the Hawaiian Monarchy.
 1895, Bahrain: Shubar al-Sitri launched an unsuccessful coup to depose the Bahraini monarchy.
 1898, Wilmington insurrection of 1898 (also known as the Wilmington coup and the Wilmington massacre) in the United States: White supremacists in Wilmington, North Carolina overthrew the biracial Fusionist government.
 1898, Qing dynasty (China): Empress Dowager Cixi launched the Wuxu coup in the Qing dynasty of China in response to the Hundred Days' Reform.
 1899, Bolivia: José Manuel Pando defeated Severo Fernández, bringing an end to the Federal War.
 1899, Venezuela: Cipriano Castro's army overthrew the government of Ignacio Andrade in Venezuela.

1900–1919

1903

 May Coup in Serbia: The Black Hand group of military officers, led by Colonel Dragutin Dimitrijević Apis, killed Alexander I of Serbia in coup d'état named Majski Prevrat (May Overthrow).

1905 

 Brazil: A failed military coup was led by Lauro Sodré after a week of civil disorder during the Vaccine Revolt.

1908

  Venezuela: Juan Vicente Gómez took the office as President of Venezuela after Cipriano Castro left for Europe to receive medical treatment.
 1908 bombardment of the Majlis in Iran: Persian Cossack forces, commanded by Vladimir Liakhov and the other Russian officers, bombarded and by that suppressed the Iranian parliament. Liakhov was subsequently made Military Governor of Tehran by the Shah of Persia, Mohammad Ali Shah Qajar.
Young Turk Revolution in the Ottoman Empire: The Committee of Union and Progress, a Young Turks organization, rebelled against the absolute rule of Sultan Abdul Hamid II which resulted in the restoration of the Ottoman constitution of 1876 and marked the beginning of the Second Constitutional Era and multi-party politics in the Ottoman Empire.

1909

 Goudi coup in Greece: A secret society of military officers called the Military League issued a pronunciamiento, resulting in the replacement of Prime Minister Dimitrios Rallis government and various reforms.
 31 March Incident in the Ottoman Empire: Shortly after the Young Turk Revolution, members of the military convened on Sultan Ahmet Square to demand reestablishment of Sharia. After a brief period of rival groups claiming to represent the legitimate government, the uprising was suppressed and the former government was ultimately restored.

1910
5 October 1910 revolution in Portugal: A republican coup d'état deposed King Manuel II of Portugal and established the Portuguese First Republic.

1912