[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Adlington Hall

of Bacchus, Ceres, Flora, and Neptune.  The rooms in the south wing include family sitting rooms decorated with Rococo style ceilings, and Gothic and Chinoiserie motifs.  Also in the rooms of this wing are items moved from the demolished parts of the west wing.  The east wing contains service rooms.

Organ
The organ was installed in the Great Hall in the late 17th century.  There is some dispute in respect of the precise date of installation and the builder.  It was probably built in about 1670, and has been attributed to Bernard "Father" Smith, but "no conclusive evidence has come to light either to substantiate or to dismiss this theory". It has two manuals, no pedals, and fourteen speaking stops.  It includes three 17th-century reed stops, which is a rarity for the time.  The organ was "remade" in about 1680 by Christian Smith, and rebuilt in 1741–42 by Glyn and Parker.  In 1958–59 it was restored by Noel Mander, at which time it had been derelict for a century or more.  The organ has a "very fine Renaissance case", in two tiers.  In the lower tier are the two manual keyboards over which is a row of pipes.  The upper tier consists of five panels containing pipes, which are flanked by Corinthian pilasters.  Over the top is a large curved hood containing gilded statues of putti playing trumpets, and a coat of arms celebrating the marriage of John Legh to Isabella Robartes in 1693.  The hall's website states it is "without doubt England's most important surviving instrument from the late 17th century".  It has been awarded a Historic Organ Certificate. The organ was filmed and recorded for the documentary The Elusive English Organ.

The composer Handel was a friend of the Legh family and played the organ in 1741 or 1742.  He also composed the music for a hunting song, the words of which had been written by Charles Legh.  There is a tradition that Handel composed The Harmonious Blacksmith at the hall, but it is not possible to confirm this.

Grounds
The hall is surrounded by a landscape park and woodland, covering in total about .  In addition to the buildings in the grounds, Charles Legh played a large part in designing the layout of the gardens in the 18th century.  Over the years parts of the grounds have become overgrown, and the condition of the buildings has deteriorated.  Since the 1950s work has been carried out to improve the grounds, and to develop parts of the gardens in a more modern style.  To the north of the house a rose garden has been created and, beyond that a yew maze.

To the southeast of the hall is the stable block which partly surrounds a courtyard.   It has a south front of nine bays, the middle three of which project forwards and have a pediment carried on four large Doric pilasters.  The block originally had a cupola, but this has been removed.  A formal garden has been built between the east wing and the stable block.  Standing in this garden is a lead statue of a reclining, naked male figure, said to be Father Tiber, the river god.  This formerly stood in the wilderness garden.  On the wall behind the statue are two carved unicorn heads, the emblem of the Legh family.  These formerly stood on pillars at the eastern entrance to the grounds.  The statues have been designated as a Grade II listed building.  A Grade II building is one that is "nationally important and of special interest".  To the south of the formal garden is a stone statue of Napoleon carved by George Turner and dated 1837.  To the west of the hall is a ha-ha in rubble sandstone dating from the 18th century. It was built to act as a barrier between the west side of the garden and the deer park beyond it, and is listed Grade II.  Immediately to the south of the hall is a circular lawn, in the centre of which is a sundial that probably dates from about 1825.  Constructed in ashlar buff sandstone and standing on a pair of circular steps, it consists of an octagonal base with a partly fluted baluster supporting an octagonal moulded capstone. The capstone carries a copper plate inscribed with Roman numerals and the initials "TL", and has a simple triangular gnomon.  The sundial is also listed Grade II.