[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Al-Qaeda

ased 90 members of the group from prison several months after "they were said to have renounced violence."

In 2007, on the anniversary of the September 11 attacks, the Saudi sheikh Salman al-Ouda delivered a personal rebuke to bin Laden. Al-Ouda addressed Al-Qaeda's leader on television asking him:

According to Pew polls, support for Al-Qaeda had dropped in the Muslim world in the years before 2008. In Saudi Arabia, only ten percent had a favorable view of Al-Qaeda, according to a December 2007 poll by Terror Free Tomorrow, a Washington-based think tank. 

In 2007, the imprisoned Dr. Fadl, who was an influential Afghan Arab and former associate of Ayman al-Zawahiri, withdrew his support from al-Qaeda and criticized the organization in his book Wathiqat Tarshid Al-'Aml Al-Jihadi fi Misr w'Al-'Alam (). In response, Al-Zawahiri accused Dr. Fadl of promoting "an Islam without jihad" that aligns with Western interests and wrote a nearly two hundred pages long treatise, titled "The Exoneration" which appeared on the Internet in March 2008. In his treatise, Zawahiri justified military strikes against US targets as retaliatory attacks to defend Muslim community against American aggression.

In an online town hall forum conducted in December 2007, Zawahiri denied that al-Qaeda deliberately targeted innocents and accused the American coalition of killing innocent people. Although once associated with al-Qaeda, in September 2009 LIFG completed a new "code" for jihad, a 417-page religious document entitled "Corrective Studies". Given its credibility and the fact that several other prominent Jihadists in the Middle East have turned against Al-Qaeda, the LIFG's reversal may be an important step toward staunching Al-Qaeda's recruitment.

Other criticisms 
Bilal Abdul Kareem, an American journalist based in Syria created a documentary about al-Shabab, Al-Qaeda's affiliate in Somalia. The documentary included interviews with former members of the group who stated their reasons for leaving al-Shabab. The members made accusations of segregation, lack of religious awareness and internal corruption and favoritism. In response to Kareem, the Global Islamic Media Front condemned Kareem, called him a liar, and denied the accusations from the former fighters.

In mid-2014 after the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant declared that they had restored the Caliphate, an audio statement was released by the then-spokesman of the group Abu Muhammad al-Adnani claiming that "the legality of all emirates, groups, states, and organizations, becomes null by the expansion of the Caliphate's authority." The speech included a religious refutation of Al-Qaeda for being too lenient regarding Shiites and their refusal to recognize the authority Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, al-Adnani specifically noting: "It is not suitable for a state to give allegiance to an organization." He also recalled a past instance in which Osama bin Laden called on Al-Qaeda members and supporters to give allegiance to Abu Omar al-Baghdadi when the group was still solely operating in Iraq, as the Islamic State of Iraq, and condemned Ayman al-Zawahiri for not making this same claim for Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Zawahiri was encouraging factionalism and division between former allies of ISIL such as the al-Nusra Front.

See also 

 Al-Qaeda involvement in Asia
 Al Qaeda Network Exord
 Allegations of support system in Pakistan for Osama bin Laden
 Belligerents in the Syrian civil war
 Bin Laden Issue Station (former CIA unit for tracking bin Laden)
 Steven Emerson
 Fatawā of Osama bin Laden
 International propagation of Salafism and Wahhabism (by region)
 Iran – Alleged Al-Qaeda ties
 Islamic Military Counter Terrorism Coalition
 Operation Cannonball
 Psychological warfare
 Religious terrorism
 Takfir wal-Hijra
 Videos and audio recordings of Osama bin Laden
 Violent extremism

Publications 
 Al Qaeda Handbook
 Management of Savagery

Notes

References

Sources

Bibliography

Reviews

Government reports 

 
  Alt URL

External links

 
 Al-Qaeda in Oxford Islamic Studies Online
 Al-Qaeda, Counter Extremism Project profile
 17 de-classified documents captured during the Abbottabad raid and released to the Combating Terrorism Center
 

Media
 Peter Taylor. (2007). "War on the West". Age of Terror, No. 4, series 1. BBC.
 Investigating Al-Qaeda, BBC News
 
 "Al Qaeda's New Front" from PBS Frontline, January 2005