[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1953 South African general election

ion, in 1948, the UPs veteran leader Field Marshal Jan Smuts had died. The new Leader of the Opposition was J.G.N. Strauss.

The other parliamentary opposition party was the Labour Party. In 1953, the United Party and the Labour Party had an electoral pact, for the third successive general election.

During the campaign, the Labour leader John Christie died. His seat was consequently contested at a by election after the normal day of the general election poll. It was retained by a new Labour candidate and is included in the totals for the results section of this article,

The NP promoted its policy of apartheid Dr Malan suggested that the white voters could unite around the Nationalist programme. The UP criticised the idea of apartheid as impractical and eventually disastrous. Mr Strauss campaigned alleging that the first task of a South African government should be the suppression of "Native" crime, who created insecurity in the major cities. United Party supporters were optimistic on the eve of the poll of regaining their position as the largest party.

Results
Due to the first-past-the-post system, the Nationalists won 37 more seats than United despite finishing only two percentage points ahead of United in the popular vote. As Cape Coloured voters still exercised this right in the Cape province, the majority among white voters would actually have been higher. This was enough to deliver the Nationalists a second consecutive majority government.

By province

References

 Keesing's Contemporary Archives
 Smuts: A Reappraisal, by Bernard Friedman (George, Allen & Unwin 1975) 
 South Africa 1982 Official Yearbook of the Republic of South Africa, published by Chris van Rensburg Publications
 The South African Constitution, by H.J. May (3rd edition 1955, Juta & Co)

External links
 S. African elections (1953), AP Archive footage

General elections in South Africa
South Africa
General
Events associated with apartheid
April 1953 events in Africa