[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Anfeh

y.

The table below displays average monthly climate indicators in Anfeh based on 8 years of historical weather readings.

Demographics
In 1953, the town had a population of 1,447. Its population is estimated to be around 6,500, not including the thousands of emigrant families and young individuals.

Global Emigration
One of the many Lebanese villages where the number of inhabitants is a speck compared to the number of villagers abroad. Global emigration occurred as far back as the mid 19th century with records showing young men and families migrating to the new world mainly Australia and the Americas (North and South). The emigration continues till the present day. Some families are extinct and others are greatly reduced in number. However, in the diaspora, if one visits any major city or town specially in Brazil, Argentina, Qatar, Australia, Canada or the USA one will almost certainly find someone whose ancestors come from this village. During holidays specially summer many of the empty houses are joyfully cleaned and return to life with visiting families.

Religion
Anfeh is primarily Antiochian Orthodox, and there are several historical churches and local shrines throughout the village.

Notable people
Farid Makari: Lebanese politician since 1980, He was elected as a member of the Lebanese Parliament in 1992 and reelected in 1996, 2000, 2005 and 2009, he served as information minister in Hariri's second cabinet from 25 May 1995 to 7 November 1996, Former Vice-President of Lebanese Parliament since 2005.

Economy

Salines
Wide areas of Anfeh and its surrounding are covered by salines. Along the length of the bay, the salt marshes add a typically pretty note to the landscape, especially with the traditional wind wheel which pumps seawater. The production of sea salt is a staple of the local economy. "White gold", as it is called, provides for an inexhaustible natural resource which can thus be extracted without endangering the environment.

Fishing
Around 415 inhabitants practice fishing on a regular basis. The 80 full-time fishermen own their boats and maintain them. Fishing is the livelihood and main source of income for many families in Anfeh. Fishing boats have sought shelter in the natural harbor of Nhayreh in bad weather conditions.
The large terraces on Anfeh's rocky coast shelter underwater species feeding on the seaweed and attract large numbers of fish. That place also attracts many anglers willing to fill their baskets with different types of fish.
Fishing, by itself, is an art in Anfeh, inherited by its ancestors.

Agriculture
Fruits consist mainly of: Olive trees producing quality table olives and olive oil, and Grapes (seedless and non seedless).

Tourism
Anfeh attracts tourists, especially during summer time, for its landscape of small white houses, windmills and salines on its rocky beaches along the Mediterranean coast. Its historical monuments, old churches, and archaeological site of its peninsula make it one of the top touristic destinations of the Lebanese northern coast.

Anfeh is equipped to receive tourists, offering a choice of activities and touristic resorts such as Marina Del Sol and Las Salinas. Tourists can also eat fresh fish by the sea at local restaurants that offer fresh daily picks.

Education
Anfeh is equipped with one public school (Gebran Makari School). Private schools are available in the surrounding region of el-Koura, and in the nearby city of Tripoli.
The three top universities of northern Lebanon, are around 5 to 10 minutes by car, like Balamand University, NDU in Barsa, and USJ in Al-Qalamoun.

Sports

Camping Hiking and swimming
Lying between the natural harbor of Nhayreh and the archaeological peninsula, the Anfeh creek consists of an attractive rocky shore shaped as a perfect semi-circle at whose bottom lie many sandy underwater caves. It has become a haven for hikers and swimmers who are drawn to its well-preserved view and always clear water.
Many swimmers enjoy the wavy clear sea of Anfeh, others prefer the olympic swimming pools that are available for practicing outdoor in summer and indoor in winter.
During the war, Lebanese national swimming championships were mostly held in Las Salinas and marina del sol in Anfeh.

Diving
Anfeh is known for its clear water, one of the cleanest waters on the Lebanese coast, home to a wide variety of fish. the archaeological peninsula hides many secrets in its bottoms below sea level, attracting curious divers.

Surfing
The waves of Anfeh's sea are not big enough for surfing, and its rocky shore does not help much.
although its mostly windy weather during summer, makes it a top destination for wind surfing. equipment rental are available in town.
Recently the wind of Anfeh is attracting the new small kite surfing community of Lebanon.

Arts And Culture