[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

ndam and disables his Gundam; while his Gundam is destroyed he survives and attempts to escape. However, he is cornered by Lyle and held at gunpoint. However, as Lyle decides to lower his gun and let him leave, Saachez tries to take advantage of the situation to kill Lyle, only to be killed by him. 

 
 Alejandro Corner is the main antagonist of the series' first season. Originally an observer of Celestial Being assisted by Ribbons, supporting them from the shadows, Alejandro doubles as a diplomat of the United Nations. However, Alejandro and his family had ulterior motives in supporting Celestial Being in controlling the world they create. As a result, he committed sabotage against Celestial Being to gain control of Veda. But after Veda shuts its most precious data to him, Alejandro pilots the GNMA-XCVII Alvatore and then the GNMS-XCVII Alvaaron to eliminate Celestial Being. He is killed after his Alvaaron explodes during the battle with Exia, spending his final moments discovering that Ribbons had used him as a pawn the entire time. 

 Gundam Throne Meisters/Team Trinity
Although Trinity's past and origins remain a mystery in the show itself, the official Mobile Suit Gundam 00 novels state that the three siblings were created by Ribbons Almark, who used parts of his own DNA to engineer human beings with several Innovator-like traits. As a result, they are able to perform otherwise impossible tasks such as interfacing with Veda and using quantum brainwaves. But unlike the Innovades, the Trinity siblings have significantly less androgynous appearances.

 
 Oldest of the three siblings, Johann pilots the Gundam Throne Eins. Undertaking the mission to eradicate the world's strife, he began armed interventions alongside Michael and Nena. He is a calm person who faithfully handles his given mission while he commands his problematic brother and sister. His rational and cool-headed demeanor provides a subtle contrast to his fiery and stubborn younger siblings. Also unlike his younger siblings, Johann does not take lives that are not involved in their mission. An excellent marksman, he handles the firing of the GN Mega Launcher equipped on the Gundam Throne Eins. Johann is killed by Ali Al-Saachez after Al-Saachez kills Michael and steals the Throne Zwei. 

 
 An impulsive young man, Michael immediately bares his fangs at people who oppose him, brandishing his trademark knife when feeling enraged or intimidated. He is also very rude to the first four Gundam Meisters upon their first meeting, although he does comment that Tieria Erde would be "kinda hot" if he were a girl. Similar to his personality, he favors brutal tactics for mobile suit combat and specializes in attacks with the Gundam Throne Zwei's all-range weapon, the GN Fangs. Though he feels somewhat protective over his younger sister, Nena, he frequently complains about having to comply to orders from his brother, Johann. Michael is killed by Ali Al-Saachez who then goes on to steal Michael's Throne Zwei. 

 
 Nena Trinity is the youngest of the Trinity siblings and pilot of the Gundam Throne Drei. Nena presents herself as being a cheerful and flirtatious young girl, however she is selfish and callous in battle. Between two of Team Trinity's missions, Nena fires upon an unsuspecting wedding party, killing Louise Halevy's entire family, out of frustration that others are having fun while she is overworked. After witnessing the deaths of Johann and Michael at the hands of Ali Al-Saachez, Nena is saved by Setsuna's timely intervention, and leaves in her Gundam while mourning the loss of her brothers.

In the second series, intent on surviving, Nena works directly under Wang Liu Mei. Piloting the Riian, she is often sent out on stealth and reconnaissance missions to gather information on the activities of groups such as Katharon and the A-Laws. But because of Liu Mei's contacts with the Innovators and Ali Al-Saachez, Nena begins to question Liu Mei's motivations as she secretly helps the crew of the Ptolemaios II. She finally betrays Liu Mei by attacking her ship. Though Liu Mei and Hong Long survive the assault, Nena tracks them down and shoots Hong Long in the head and later kills Liu Mei as she tries to escape, revealing she always hated her.  While she intended to eventually betray the Innovators and avenge her brothers when she got a chance, Ribbons Almark had already arranged her to be dealt with by Louise in the Regnant, immediately attacking her as a result. After disabling the Throne Drei, Louise kills Nena without mercy to avenge her parents.

A-Laws