[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 36]
# List of Shaman King characters

nown individually as  and , the two wrath-filled muscular guardians of the Buddha.  Each has a Reiyoku of 25,000.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Seikyou. Its Reiryoku is 400,000 and uses a mirror as its medium.

 
 The Buddha commanded by Aeon Li. Its Reiryoku is 400,000.  Its medium is Aeon's necktie.

Five Grand Elemental Spirits
Regarded as the sacred treasures of the Patch Tribe, the  were said to have been created by the Great Spirit and can only be controlled by a powerful shaman. Each of the High Spirits is capable of becoming stronger by consuming the souls of others and retains all their memories. After Hao Asakura, in his second incarnation as a Patch member, steals the Spirit of Fire, the Patch become highly protective of the remaining four spirits. After Silva's attempt to steal the spirits and hearing of Gandhara's plan to take the remaining spirits for the shaman they have recognized as the Five Grand Elemental Spirits, the Patch hide the spirits in Hell, where they are each protected by one of the Four Kings of Hell. The spirits are later retrieved by Lady Sati and Gandhara's strongest members so they can delivered to Yoh and his companions for their final fight against Hao.

  (S.O.F.)
 Hao's guardian ghost, an elemental spirit that Hao stole from the Patch Tribe during his second life 500 years ago. Its power was initially greatly diminished because of its journey back from Hell (where Hao negotiated the terms of his reincarnations with Taizan Kuzun, the god of the dead), forcing it to regain its strength by consuming other souls and spirits. The spirit's flames serve as Hao's way of killing off shamans who failed him or those who refused to rally for his cause and has accompanied him from his second incarnation to his third. It's Reiryoku 330,000. Its primary medium is the oxygen in the air, allowing Hao to manifest the Spirit of Fire with incredible speed. Using Onmyōdō magic, Hao can alter the nature of the Spirit of Fire into any of the five elements (fire, water, wood, metal, and earth). It can shower the enemy with magma with a temperature exceeding , and can also launch a large amount of fire into the air as a defensive move. As Hao enters a deep sleep to merge with the Great Spirit, he sends the Spirit of Fire to Yoh's group to become Lyserg's guardian ghost.
 In the 2001 anime, Hao ultimately deems the Shaman Fight to be a pointless contest and moves to acquire the Great Spirit by force. After fighting through various obstacles, the Spirit of Fire consumes the Great Spirit itself, being reborn in a golden hue ten times its previous size.

  (S.O.E.)
 The elemental spirit that gives life to plants and creates metal. It can generate gravitational forces to attract any object towards itself, which is a highly effective defensive move as protection from forces as great as large meteors. It later becomes the guardian ghost of Yoh Asakura.

  (S.O.T.)
 A spirit that can create powerful electrical charges up to 1 500 000 000 kW and 100 million volts from black clouds to strike opponents and generate magnetic fields to defend. It is strongly associated with Taoism and becomes the guardian ghost of Tao Ren.

  (S.O.R.)
 The elemental spirit with an unlimited amount of holy water. It can create large massive icicles and by combining its power with the power of the Spirit of Wind it can even make violent freezing winds.  The spirit becomes the guardian ghost of Horohoro.

  (S.O.W.)
 Representing the Aztec symbol of the Eagle warrior that slices the wind with its wings, the Spirit of Wind is incredibly swift, peaking at 120 m/s with a pressure of 900 hPa, and can destroy any debris that runs into its path. It becomes the guardian ghost of Joco McDonnell.

Reception

Lori Henderson from Manga Life commented that "everyone has a reason for fighting, even the villains, so even if you don't like a character, you do understand them." Writing for Active Anime, Holly Ellingwood praised "the differing styles of the shaman fighters" and the "appealing characters designs overall."

References

Shaman King
Shaman King characters