[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# EHealth Exchange

IE which, in turn, will provide a connection to the NwHIN;
They may use features of a multi-regional PHR that will participate directly in the NwHIN;
If they do not have access to a PHR, they may achieve some limited functionality by using the services of an HIE through its portal.

Related projects

CONNECT software
An open source software package is available that implements the NwHIN architecture from CONNECT. The CONNECT software is the outcome of a 2008 decision by federal agencies to begin work on connecting their health IT systems into the NwHIN. Rather than individually build the software required to make this possible, the federal agencies collaborated through the Federal Health Architecture program to create a single solution that can be reused by each agency within its own environment. Twenty-two Cooperative members, including seven federal agencies using the CONNECT gateway, participated in testing and demonstrations in 2008.

Direct project
The Direct project, which has been termed a scaled down version of the NwHIN, allows two trusted entities (for instance, a physician and a referred specialist) to share medical records. In this way, the patient's electronic record could be viewed by two trusted entities. These entities may not have access to the NwHIN in a product like the CONNECT software. However, they would have a trusted email address issued by the ONC.

Future direction
The NwHIN, as an operational entity, is moving from public (ONC-backed) operations, to a non-profit public-private structure.  Under this model, the ONC will maintain overall responsibility for the governance of the NwHIN. and the NwHIN operational entity will be known as the eHealth Exchange which will be facilitated by the non-profit Sequoia Project (formerly Healtheway), Inc. a membership-based corporation.

References

External links
Sequoia Project official website.
Direct Project official wiki.
HIEWatch (formerly NHINWatch), by HIMSS Media.
CONNECT Community Portal

Healthcare in the United States
Health informatics
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology