[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Four Loko

he ban became effective immediately and was in effect until May 18, 2011. The ban required businesses to cease the sale of alcoholic energy drinks and withdraw existing items immediately. The sale of the restricted products during this period carried a penalty of 30-day suspension of liquor license.

Utah, which has a state-run alcoholic beverage distribution system, did not allow the sale of alcoholic energy drinks. Michigan and Oklahoma voted to ban the sale of alcoholic energy drinks over health and safety concerns. Additionally, the Washington State Liquor Control Board voted to ban the sale of alcoholic energy drinks, which went into effect on November 18, 2010. The vote came as a result of the incident at Central Washington University. The New York State Liquor Authority banned their sale and distribution as of November 19, 2010. New York senator Chuck Schumer and New York City councilman James Sanders Jr. approached the Obama administration to ban Four Loko across the state of New York.

FDA warning
On November 17, 2010 the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a warning letter to four manufacturers of caffeinated alcoholic beverages citing that the caffeine added to their malt alcoholic beverages is an "unsafe food additive" and said that further action, including seizure of their products, could be taken under federal law. It declared that beverages that combine caffeine with alcohol, such as Four Loko energy drinks, were a "public health concern" and could not stay on the market in their current form. The FDA also stated that concerns had been raised that caffeine can mask some of the sensory cues individuals might normally rely on to determine their level of intoxication. Warning letters were issued to each of the four companies requiring them, within 15 days, to provide to the FDA, in writing, the specific steps the firms will be taking.

The four companies that received the warning letter were:
 Charge Beverages Corp.: Core High Gravity HG, Core High Gravity HG Orange, and Lemon Lime Core Spiked
 New Century Brewing Co., LLC: Moonshot
 Phusion Projects, LLC (doing business as Drink Four Brewing Co.): Four Loko
 United Brands Company Inc.: Joose and Max

Post-ban
From weeks before the FDA ruling, many drinkers and people seeking financial gain purchased large quantities of the drink, which created a black market, with many sellers charging nearly five times the normal retail price. Four Loko appeared on Craigslist, and "collectible" cans of the drink were being sold on eBay.

In late December 2010, a reformulated version of the drink was put on shelves. The new product packaging had exactly the same appearance as the original, but the caffeine, guarana, and taurine from the original drink had been replaced by food coloring agent Red 40. Sales of the original drink continued, usually for a price of roughly $3 per 24 ounce can.

References

Further reading
 

Food and drink introduced in 2005
Alcopops
American alcoholic drinks
Energy drinks
Drinking culture