[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hello Kitty murder case

The Hello Kitty murder case () took place in Hong Kong in the spring of 1999, when a nightclub hostess was abducted in Lai Yiu Estate, where the victim was tortured and raped in an apartment in Tsim Sha Tsui after stealing a wallet owned by one of her frequent customers. Fan Man-yee (, 23) was held captive by three men and one girl before dying between April 14 and April 15, 1999. Her body was decapitated and her skull placed inside of a Hello Kitty mermaid plush, which gave the name for the murder case.

Background 

Born in 1976 in Shenzhen, Fan Man-yee was abandoned by her family as a child, resulting in her being raised in an all girls' orphanage in Ma Tau Wai. When she turned 15, she was told to leave the orphanage because they had an age restriction. Becoming homeless and addicted to drugs, Fan was forced into street prostitution until the age of 21, when she began working at a brothel named Romance Villa, located in Sham Shui Po. Fan eventually married one of her clients, a fellow drug addict named Ng Chi-yuen (), in 1996. She gave birth to their son two years later in approximately November 1998, not long before her murder. The couple and the child formerly lived in Mong Kok. Fan's husband was described as abusive and neighbors would report being woken-up by sounds of the couple's fights and the child's screaming and crying from their apartment. Upon the pregnancy and then birth of her son, Fan decided to turn her life around in order to protect her son and provide him a safer life. She quit drugs and prostitution, got a job as a hostess at a nightclub named Empress Karaoke Club, and eventually left her violent husband shortly before her murder. Due to these sacrifices, she had a much lower income and struggled to support herself and her family.

Kidnapping 
Chan Man-lok (, alias Ah Lok or Ah Hsi, born May 17, 1965), a 33-year-old Wo Shing Wo triad member who had problematic behavior since middle school and previous convictions for drug trafficking (in 1991), was one of Fan's regular clients at the brothel. In early 1999, Fan stole Chan's wallet, which contained about $HK4,000 (roughly US$500). When Chan realized what had happened, he demanded Fan return the money in addition to a fee of $HK10,000. Although Fan immediately returned the stolen money, she needed more time to secure the additional fee.

On March 17, 1999, Fan was abducted by three men and one girl at her flat in the Fu Yiu section of Lai Yiu Estate: Chan; his grooming victim Lau Ming-fong (, alias Ah Fong, 14), Leung Wai-lun (, alias Gangsta 1, 21), and Leung Shing-cho (, alias Gangsta 2, possibly 26, boyfriend of Lau). The group took Fan to an apartment at No. 31 Granville Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, where they imprisoned her for a month. The apartment was rented by Chan himself, but was owned by two men referred to as Ah Sam and Ah Kao, who were not involved in gang activities. Initially, Chan had intended to make money off of Fan by pimping her out to other men.

Prior to the kidnapping, both Leung Wai-lun and Leung Shing-cho worked at a retail store nearby Granville Road.

Ordeal 
During her imprisonment, she was tortured and raped. According to one source, she was beaten with metal bars, sometimes while being strung up and used as a punching bag. On one occasion, Fan was kicked in the head around fifty times. Spices were rubbed into Fan's wounds, her legs and feet were burned with candle wax and hot plastic so that she was unable to walk, she was forced to consume human feces and urine, and she was forced to smile and say she enjoyed the beatings; if she refused, they subjected her to even harsher torture. This treatment eventually led to traumatic shock and ultimately death.