[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen Quinn

or squad to face San Marino in the UEFA Euro 2008 qualifier at the Serravalle Stadium on 4 February 2007.

He made his U21 international debut in the 1–0 loss against the Netherlands in Venlo on 27 March. Quinn scored his first international goal in a 3–2 victory against Sweden U-21 in October 2007.

Quinn won his first senior cap on 2 June 2013 when the Republic of Ireland beat Georgia 4–0. He would also go on to win a second cap against World Cup and European Champions Spain.
On 7 September 2014 in Martin O'Neill's first competitive game in charge of Ireland, Quinn started his first competitive game against Georgia alongside Glenn Whelan and James McCarthy in midfield. Ireland won the game 2–1 thanks to a last minute winner by Aiden McGeady. Quinn admitted after the game that there was a "weight lifted off his shoulders" after making his competitive debut. Quinn started in a 1–1 draw against Germany, Quinn was criticised in the media for the German goal for standing off and allowing Toni Kroos the time to shoot and score.

Personal life
Stephen Quinn is the younger brother of former Sheffield Wednesday and Sheffield United midfielder Alan Quinn, and the older brother of former Sheffield United midfielder Keith Quinn. His cousin Joe Redmond is also a professional footballer. He is nicknamed Mini Quinny in reference to older brother Alan.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Hull City
Football League Championship runner-up: 2012–13
FA Cup runner-up: 2013–14

Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 2011–12 League One
Sheffield United Player of the Year: 2010–11

References

External links

Ireland profile at Soccerscene

1986 births
Living people
Association footballers from Dublin (city)
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
St Patrick's Athletic F.C. players
Sheffield United F.C. players
Milton Keynes Dons F.C. players
Rotherham United F.C. players
Hull City A.F.C. players
Reading F.C. players
Burton Albion F.C. players
Mansfield Town F.C. players
League of Ireland players
Premier League players
English Football League players
UEFA Euro 2016 players
People from Clondalkin
Sportspeople from South Dublin (county)