[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Henry Livermore Abbott

Henry Livermore Abbott's service and exploits had gained him some notoriety so news of his death was met with consternation and grief at the highest levels of command and back in Lowell, Massachusetts. Holmes later said that Abbott was a friend whose death "seemed to end a portion of our life also."

On December 12, 1864, President Abraham Lincoln nominated Major Abbott for the award of the honorary grade of brevet brigadier general, United States Volunteers, to rank from August 1, 1864. The United States Senate confirmed the award on February 20, 1865. On February 15, 1867, President Andrew Johnson nominated Major Abbott for the award of the honorary grades of brevet lieutenant colonel, brevet colonel, and brevet brigadier general, United States Army (Regular Army), to rank from March 13, 1865. The U. S. Senate confirmed the awards on March 2, 1867.

Abbott has been said to have been the most widely known and admired officer of his grade (or "rank") in the Army of the Potomac. Major General John Sedgwick said that Abbott was "a wonderfully good soldier" and "a bright, particular star." Major General Winfield Scott Hancock said "his reputation was built upon a solid foundation, and the closest scrutiny could not diminish it." Abbott's extensive correspondence with his family provides an especially good record of the engagements in which he fought and the generals and other personalities with whom he came into contact. Yet, over 90 percent of it remained unpublished until 1991.

Henry Livermore Abbott's good friend, future United States Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., who served in the 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry Regiment with him, deeply admired Abbott for his courage and unruffled calm, and for his determination to do his duty even though he was deeply skeptical of Union war aims (except for preservation of the Union), was politically opposed to President Lincoln, and did not support the abolition of slavery because he thought it would die out in the near future. Holmes considered Abbott an ideal soldier, and praised him in a famous 1884 Memorial Day speech stating that: "In action he was sublime."

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)
List of Massachusetts generals in the American Civil War
Massachusetts in the American Civil War

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H. and Eicher, David J., Civil War High Commands. Stanford University Press, Stanford, CA, 2001. .
 Heidler, David S. and Heidler, Jeanne T., eds., Encyclopedia of the American Civil War: A Political, Social and Military History. W.W. Norton & Company, Inc., 500 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY, 10110, 2000. . Combines into one volume the original 5 volume work published by ABC-CLIO, Santa Barbara, California in 2000. Article on Henry Livermore Abbott by the Heidlers.
 Hess, Earl J., Pickett's Charge – The Last Attack at Gettysburg. The University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill, NC, 2001. .
 Holmes, Oliver Wendell, In Our Youth Our Hearts Were Touched With Fire, An address delivered for Memorial Day, May 30, 1884, at Keene, NH, before John Sedgwick Post No. 4, Grand Army of the Republic. http://people.virginia.edu/~mmd5f/memorial.htm, retrieved September 25, 2010.
 Hunt, Roger D. and Brown, Jack R., Brevet Brigadier Generals in Blue. Olde Soldier Books, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD, 1990. .
 O'Reilly, Francis A., The Fredericksburg Campaign: Winter War on the Rappahannock. Louisiana State University Press, Baton Rouge, LA, 2003, paperback edition, 2006. .
 Rhea, Gordon C., The Battle of the Wilderness, May 5–6, 1864. Louisiana State University Press, Baton Rouge, LA, 1994, Louisiana Paperback Edition, 2004.   (pbk).
 
 U.S. War Department, The War of the Rebellion: a Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, U.S. Government Printing Office, 1880–1901.

External links
.
Guide to Abbott family Civil War letters at Houghton Library, Harvard University

1842 births
1864 deaths
Military personnel from Lowell, Massachusetts
Union Army generals
Harvard Law School alumni
People of Massachusetts in the American Civil War
Union military personnel killed in the American Civil War