[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 39]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

to heaven we could get on a little faster," exclaimed Hadria.

The incident proved, in the end, a fortunate one for the homeless, and
almost starving terrier, of plebeian lineage, whose wail of distress had
summoned two friends to the rescue. The creature had been ill-treated by
some boys, who found Sunday afternoon hang heavy on their hands. The
Professor carried the injured animal across the fields and through the
woods, to Dunaghee.

Here the wounds were dressed, and here the grateful creature found a new
and blissful home. His devotion to the Professor was unbounded; he
followed him everywhere.

Hadria's reverence and admiration rose to the highest pitch of
enthusiasm. Her father laughed at her. "Just as if any decent fellow
would not have done as much for a wounded brute!"

"There must have been a strange dearth of decent fellows in church that
morning then."

It was not merely the action, but the feeling revealed by the
Professor's words on that occasion, that had turned Hadria's sentiment
towards him, into one of worship.

Algitha warned her that even the Professor was human.

Hadria said she did not believe it, or rather she believed that he was
inordinately, tenderly, superlatively human, and that he had gone many
steps farther in that direction than the rest of his generation. He was
dowered with instincts and perceptions belonging to some kinder, nobler
race than ours.

Miss Du Prel looked grave. She took occasion to mention that the
Professor had never ceased to grieve for his wife, to whom he had been
passionately attached, and that he, almost alone among men, would never
love any other woman.

"I admire him only the more for that," said Hadria.

"Don't let yourself care too much for him."

"Too much!"

"Don't fall in love with him, if I must be frank."

Hadria was silent. "If one _were_ to fall in love at all, I don't see
how it would be possible to avoid his being the man," she pronounced at
last. "I defy any creature with the least vestige of a heart to remain
indifferent to him." (Valeria coloured.) "Why there isn't a man, woman,
child, or animal about the place who doesn't adore him; and what can _I_
do?"




CHAPTER XI.


The autumn was now on the wane; the robins sang clear, wild little songs
in the shrubberies, the sunshine fell slanting across the grass. And at
night, the stars twinkled with a frosty brilliancy, and the flowers were
cut down by cruel invisible hands. The long dark evenings and the
shrieking winds of winter were before them.

With the shortening of the days, and the sweeping away of great shoals
of leaves, in the frequent gales, Miss Du Prel's mood grew more and more
sombre. At last she announced that she could stand the gloom of this
wild North no longer. She had made arrangements to return to London, on
the morrow. As suddenly as she had appeared on the scene, she vanished,
leaving but one day to grieve at the prospect of parting.

It was through an accidental turn in the conversation, on this last day,
that the difference between her creed and the Professor's was brought to
light, accounting to Hadria for many things, and increasing, if
possible, her admiration for the unconscious Professor.

As for her own private and personal justification for hope, Valeria
asserted that she had none. Not even the thought of her work--usually a
talisman against depression--had any power to comfort. Who cared for her
work, unless she perjured herself, and told the lies that the public
loved to hear?

"What should we all do," asked Hadria, "if there were not a few people
like you and Professor Fortescue, in the world, to keep us true to our
best selves, and to point to something infinitely better than that
best?"

Miss Du Prel brightened for a moment.

"What does it matter if you do not provide mental food for the crowd,
seeking nourishment for their vulgarity? Let them go starve."

"But they don't; they go and gorge elsewhere. Besides, the question of
starvation faces _me_ rather than them."

Miss Du Prel was still disposed to find fault with the general scheme of
things, which she regarded as responsible for her own woes, great and
little. Survival of the fittest! What was that but another name for the
torture and massacre of the unfit? Nature's favourite instruments were
war, slaughter, famine, misery (mental and physical), sacrifice and
brutality in every form, with a special malignity in her treatment of
the most highly developed and the noblest of the race.

The Professor in vain pointed out that Valeria's own revolt against the
brutality of Nature, was proof of some higher law in Nature, now in
course of development.

"The horror that is inspired in human beings by that brutality is just
as much a part of Nature as the brutality itself," he said, and he
insisted that the supreme business of man, was to evolve a scheme of
life on a higher plane, wherein the weak shall n