[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Immigration New Zealand

applications. Chen disputed the charges and unsuccessfully applied for refugee status with Immigration NZ's Refugee Protection Unit in February 2023, claiming that he risked arrest if deported to China. Chen subsequently appealed the Protection Unit's decision to the Immigration Protection Tribunal.

On 10 July 2023, senior lawyer Mike Heron released his independent review into Immigration NZ's "out of hours immigration visits." His review found that Immigration NZ, MBIE, and the Immigration Minister had made no changes to their compliance visits and other immigration practices despite the 2021 apology. Heron also found that contemporary "out of hours" compliance visits mainly targeted Chinese and Indian nationals, with few Pasifika being affected. Heron's review made five recommendations including amending the Immigration Act 2009 to specify the criteria for "out of hours" compliances visits; treating "out of hours" compliance visits as a last resort; considering their impact on children, the elderly, and other vulnerable individuals; assessing the reasonableness, proportionality, and public interest of these visits; and that any compliance visits be authorised by the relevant compliance manager and national manager. Immigration Minister Andrew Little apologised that the Government had not updated its guidance on dawn raid policies following the national apology. Little said he would discuss the Heron review's recommendations with Cabinet.

Accredited employer scheme
In September 2023, Steve Watson, Immigration NZ's general manager of immigration compliance and investigations, confirmed it had received 711 complaints against accredited employers and was investigating 154 accredited employers for criminal offending including misleading advertising and exploitation of migrant workers. Watson also confirmed that 151 of these complaints had been referred to Immigration NZ's compliance department since they concerned migrants working in breach of their visa conditions while 406 had been referred to Employment New Zealand since they involved breaches of employment law and migrant exploitation. Between May and September 2023, The New Zealand Herald had reported that hundreds of Nepalese, South American, Bangladeshi, Indian, and Pakistani migrants had been scammed by several accredited employers into paying large amounts of money for work visas for non-existent jobs or jobs that did not match job advertisements. Many of these migrants were unable to find work, income, or safe housing in New Zealand. In response to media coverage, the National Party's immigration spokesperson Erica Stanford described the migrant exploitation situation as "the worst human suffering we have seen in this country, maybe ever" and blamed it on the lowering of checks on employers by the Government.

See also
 Immigration and Protection Tribunal
 Minister of Immigration (New Zealand)
 New Zealand Customs Service
 Visa policy of New Zealand

References

Further reading

External links

Government agencies of New Zealand
Immigration to New Zealand
Border guards
Immigration services