[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Humanitarian principles

ch introduced the concept into international law to designate the status of a State which decided to stand apart from an armed conflict. Consequently, its applications under positive law still depend on the criteria of abstention and impartiality which have characterized neutrality from the outset."

The application of the word neutrality to humanitarian aid delivered by UN agencies or even governments can be confusing. GA Resolution 46/182 proclaims the principle of neutrality, yet as an inter-governmental political organization, the UN is often engaged in controversies of a political nature. According to this interpretation, the UN agency or a government can provide neutral humanitarian aid as long as it does it impartially, based upon need alone.

Today, the word neutrality is widely used within the humanitarian community, usually to mean the provision of humanitarian aid in an impartial and independent manner, based on need alone. Few international NGOs have curtailed work on justice or human rights issues because of their commitment to neutrality.

Controversy on Neutrality 
While neutrality is an important principle in the work of Humanitarian Aid, there is a long-standing controversy in the field on how it should be implemented.

The humanitarian principle of neutrality was formally established in 1991 by the UN General Assembly resolution 46/182. The principles were developed from the core principles used by the International Committee of the Red Cross and the National Red Cross/Red Crescent Societies. OCHA, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, defines neutrality as, "Humanitarian actors must not take sides in hostilities or engage in controversies of a political, racial, religious or ideological nature". This means that humanitarian workers should not take sides in a conflict. In a conservative interpretation, it also means that humanitarian workers do not speak out about what they see, even in the case of egregious human rights violations, including genocide. There are reasons that some prefer, and utilize, the more conservative interpretation of neutrality. First, some feel that a commitment to staying silent about what they witness allows them to access people in the most need of aid. Otherwise, leaders in areas of conflict may not permit humanitarian workers to access to provide aid. Staying silent can also act as a measure of protection for aid workers, further ensuring that aid is provided to those most in need. Lastly, some argue that staying silent is a way to ensure no discrimination in humanitarian aid. For this argument, choosing sides during a conflict amounts to discrimination, and works against the fundamental principles of humanitarian aid.

The other side of the debate highlights the moral imperative to speak up against egregious violations of human rights. Organizations on this side tend to also promote an understanding of the difference between neutrality and impartiality, another humanitarian principle. MSF, for example, explains that impartiality ensures that aid workers only consider a person's need in giving aid, and do not discriminate against someone because of their "nationality, race, gender, identity, religious beliefs, class or political opinions". On the other hand, neutrality "means not taking sides". However, MSF explicitly states that they will speak out about massive human rights violations, including genocide. They argue that the needs of the people experiencing mass violence come above the principle of neutrality.  In this, they do not violate impartiality and continue to provide humanitarian aid to individuals who need it most, regardless of sides.

Two of the major players in this debate are the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), and Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) (also known as Doctors Without Borders). Historically, the ICRC interpreted "neutrality" to mean no public criticism, unwilling to speak out about what they were seeing, in hopes of maintaining their ability to provide aid. A good example of this is WWII, where ICRC did not publicize or condemn the Nazi genocide. This is part of what sparked the continuing debate. However, since the 1990s, the ICRC has amended its interpretation of neutrality and promoted public denouncement of serious violations of humanitarian law. MSF, on the other hand, never adopted the policy of absolute confidentiality, and considers "'bearing witness to the plight of victims as an additional measure of protection". While they uphold the principle of neutrality, they state that, "impartiality and neutrality are not synonymous with silence".