[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# American Miners' Association

The American Miners' Association was the first national union of miners in the United States. Formed in 1861 at a  convention in St. Louis, Missouri, by English delegates from the bituminous fields of Illinois and Missouri, its short lived success and growth were primarily results of the Civil War. Through the leadership of Thomas Lloyd, first president of the organization, and Daniel Weaver, first secretary who wrote the Address that called for the organization and the constitution, the national union was able to spread itself into other mining districts in the United States.

The American Miners' Association published a periodical called the Weekly Miner.

The American Miners' Association began to fail due to disastrous strikes and internal dissensions during the period 1867–1868, and ceased to exist by 1869.

British Influence

First appearances of unions in the United States

Unions first garnered public attention in 1845 when British emigrant reformers flooded the American workforce and zealously spread the gospel of unionism. Since then, American corporate employers used newsletters to tarnish the reputation of unions and depicted them as “foreign importations.” As a result, union activists and members were unfavorably judged as individuals who were against the spirit of American institutions. However, it was the labor leaders who were oftentimes targeted and publicly denounced as “blatherskites” and “demagogues” who were “too lazy to work and unwilling to allow self-respecting men to work.”

The Chartist movement

The organizers who participated in the creation of the American Miners’ Association were working men of Great Britain who fled England in 1848 after the failed Chartist movement. Between 1838 and 1848, England faced a season of great depressions and was under the stimulus of the French Revolution. With all these events taking place, the working-class movement in England became excited to the point of rebellion and sought political reform. On April 10, 1848, Chartists leaders delivered a petition to Parliament asserting the rights of ordinary people. The petition contained an exaggeration of six million signatures to enact the "Six-Point Political Principles" of the Chartists in the National Constitution.  Originally taken from the American Constitutional System, these points included annual parliaments, universal suffrage, vote by ballot, abolition of property qualifications for membership in the House of Commons, payment of members, and equal electoral districts. Fearful of a rebellion, Queen Victoria dispatched thousands of soldiers and special constables who successfully suppressed the rebellion.

British mine workers, Thomas Lloyd and Daniel Weaver

Through the Chartist movement, British emigrants were taught the proper methods needed to obtain power through intelligent organization. Accustomed to better labor conditions in England, many Chartist and lieutenants of the well-formed Miners’ National Association of Great Britain arrived in United States and began to spread the gospel of unionism and labor rights among the American miners.  Many of these labor rights that they were accustomed to included; shorter work days, increased safety, better ventilation in mines, educational advantages for union members, higher wages and protection for union workers for the future state.

The most influential members who participated in the creation of the American Miners’ Association were Thomas Lloyd and Daniel Weaver. Thomas Lloyd, first president of the association, was a Welshman and Chartist veteran who settled on the Belleville Tract. As an energetic worker and forcible speaker, Lloyd was able to attract mass crowds and was the chief supporter of Weaver in getting the organization started. Equally influential was Daniel Weaver, an English Chartist veteran who was raised in the mines and was self-educated. He was the author of the address, which was the call for a national convention, and the constitution for the American Miners’ Association.

An attempt to organize miners' prior to the American Miners' Association

Prior to the organization of the American Miners’ Association, there was no need for an organization at a national level. However, organization at a local level was easily accomplished for two reasons. The first being that trade was easily controlled through organization without assistance from other districts.  Secondly, each district had its own market and therefore created no competition.   Although easily accomplished, these unions only lasted a short period of time due to public scrutiny and internal difficulties.