[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1877 in baseball

players will later admit this to club officials.
September 29 – Boston clinches the pennant with an 8–4 victory over Hartford.  Manager Harry Wright appears in his final game as a player.
September 30 – The Lowell Ladies' Men clinch the New England Association pennant posting a 33–7 won-lost record.

October–December
October 1 – The Syracuse Stars clinch the New York State Association pennant.
October 2 – The London, Ontario, Canada Tecumsehs win the first International Association championship with a 5–2 win over Pittsburgh.
October 3 – The Indianapolis Hoosiers clinch the League Alliance Western division title.
October 5 – Louisville wins its 4th consecutive game since Boston clinched the pennant.
October 4 – Several newspapers around the U.S. declare Boston (most games won) and the Lowell Ladies' Men (best W-L percentage) to be the 2 best teams of pro baseball.
October 15 – In an inter-league game played at Syracuse, New York, the New York State Association champion Syracuse Stars defeat National League champion Boston by a score of 6–0.
October 20 – Tommy Bond demonstrates proof that a curveball really does curve by throwing it around stakes driven into the ground before an exhibition game.
October 26 – Jim Devlin and George Hall are confronted by Louisville vice-president Charles Chase with charges of throwing games. Both players admit to the charges, and also implicate teammates Al Nichols and Bill Craver in the scandal.
October 27 – The Louisville Club formally drops Jim Devlin, George Hall, Al Nichols and Bill Craver for their involvement in the fixing of games. The players' remaining salaries are forfeited to the team. Devlin's testimony included statements that the team had paid umpire Dan Devinney (see August 6) extra to call games in Louisville's favor in roughly 20 games during the season. The club denied the charge as a lie by Devlin, but the method for choosing umpires was changed by the National League before the 1878 season began.
November 6 – The Lowell Ladies' Men, pennant winners of the New England Association, defeat NL champion Boston, 9–4, to win the 1877 Inter-League playoff between the champions of the 2 leagues, 3 games to 1.  Newspapers around the country did not use the term "World Series" yet, instead referring to the series sometimes as the "United States' Series" or the "Inter-League Exhibitions".
November 20 – The New York Clipper sporting periodical published a list of the results of interleague competition between the teams of the National League and the teams of the New England Association.  The NEA teams win the 48-game competition against the NL teams with 24 victories, 23 defeats and 1 tied contest.  In 50 decisions played between the National League and New York State Association teams, the NL teams win 33 games while the NYSA teams win 17. In 50 decisions between NL teams and the teams of the International Association the NL teams prevail winning 30 contests while the IA teams win 20 games.
November 24 – The New York Mercury prints an amazingly accurate prediction about the future of baseball. "The baseball mania is getting so bad that every city will soon have a mammoth structure like the Roman Coliseum to play in. This will be illuminated by electric lights so that games can be played nights‚ thus overcoming a serious objection at present existing."
December 4 – At its winter meetings, the National League formally confirms the expulsion of the 4 Louisville players. They also vote to throw out all of Cincinnati's games because they failed to pay their $100 league fee.
December 5 – The National League accepts the withdrawal of the St. Louis franchise from the league. Cincinnati is re-admitted while Indianapolis and Milwaukee are admitted as new teams for the 1878 season.
December 6 – William Hulbert is re-elected as president of the National League and limits are placed upon the amount of non-league games that teams may play. The league also strips Hartford of its membership due to continual financial problems.
December 7 – The Providence Rhode Islands jump leagues- going from the New England Association to the National League. The team formally joins the NL on January 16, 1878.
December 12 – Indianapolis and Milwaukee of the League Alliance announce their intention to join the National League for the 1878 season.
December 30 – The Lowell Spindle Citys (formerly Ladies' Men), Lynn Live Oaks and Manchester Reds leave the New England Association and join the International Association. The remaining NEA team, Fall River Cascades, disbands- effectively ending the NEA.
December 31 – The Auburn Auburnians, Binghamton Crickets, Rochester Flour Citys and Syracuse Stars leave the New York State Association and join the International Association – effectively ending the NYSA.