[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Kokmang Union Council

Kukmang is one of the 51 union councils of Abbottabad District in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan.

History
Most of the families living in Kukmang belong to Abbasi (Sararra, Dhund) and Qureshi clans. In the 700s, there were frequent clashes between the Umayyads and the Abbassids for the throne in the Arab world.As a result of these power struggles, many people of Arabia decided to migrate to different regions, including Pakistan( Kokmong).
The migration to Pakistan and other regions was primarily driven by a desire to escape the violence and chaos that was prevalent in the Arab world at the time.

Location 

Kukmang is located at 34°16'20N 73°25'30E and has an average elevation of 1208 metres (3966 feet). It is situated in the North East of the district, it borders Boi to the North . River Kunhar to its North East, Pattan Kalan to the East and Rankot to its West and Tandyani to its South West. To the east, beyond the Kunhar River, lies the fabulous snow-covered Pir Panjal mountain range of Kashmir.

Subdivisions
Kokmang Union Council is divided into the following areas:

 Kokmang
 Nakkar
Danna Masina 
Kanthiali

Weather
Kukmang features different climates due to its high altitude at one end e.g. from Haryala to Kukmar and low altitude at other end e.g. from Devli / Bandi to Palhair. The villages which are on higher altitude have cold and snowy winters, relatively cool summer with drastically escalated rain, in relation with lower altitudes, and frequent fog. The temperature can rise as high as 35 °C during the mid-summer in lower altitudes and drop below 0 °C during the winter months.

Notable people

Yasir Hameed from village Kukmar, Kukmang played for Pakistan Cricket Team at international level.

Sports 
Kukmang has a cricket stadium in the name of Late Sardar Walayat Khan with 48 teams forming a nursery of young cricketers.
kokmang is the union council where born international cricket player Yasir hameed .Yasir Hameed Qureshi is a former Pakistani cricketer, who played Tests and ODIs. He scored two centuries on his Test debut against Bangladesh, becoming only the second player to do so just after Lawrence Rowe. In February 2021, he began to undertake coaching courses with the Pakistan Cricket Board
.Last Test: 26 April 2010 v England
.Last ODI: 18 November 2007 v India

References

External links 
 Kukmang

Union councils of Abbottabad District

fr:Kukmang