[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dingtao Campaign

these reorganized division (possibly two) were annihilated, the nationalist thrust from Zhengzhou would be effectively neutralized.  With the main thrust gone, the other nationalist thrust from Xuzhou against the communists would not last long either, and the nationalist offensive would be crushed.

Therefore, communists decided to reinforce their local strength by redeploying the communist 2nd Column to the local Dingtao (定陶) region from northern Henan.  A total of four communist columns and additional local garrisons totaling around fifty thousand troops would achieve numerical superiority four times over planned targets, the Reorganized 3rd and 20th Brigades of the nationalist Reorganized 3rd Division.  After the two nationalist reorganized brigades had been annihilated in the region of Han's Village (Hanji, 韩集), its remaining brigade and the nationalist Reorganized 47th Division would then be attack and annihilated when the situation allowed.  The communist commanders consequently made their following plan:
A total of ten brigades would be gathered in the region to the west of Dingtao (定陶) to ambush and annihilate the nationalist Reorganized 3rd Division.
The right group would be consisted of communist 2nd Column (without its 4th Brigade) and 6th Column (without two regiments), totaling five brigades.
The left group would be consisted of communist 3rd Column (without its 9th Brigade) and 7th Column, totaling five brigades.
Two regiments of the communist 6th Column were tasked to lure the nationalist Reorganized 3rd Division to the site of the planned ambush.
The bulk of communist force of the 5th Military Sub-region of the communist Hebei – Shandong – Henan Military region and a single regiment of the 9th Brigade of the communist 3rd Column were tasked to check the advance of the nationalist Reorganized 47th Division, so that the gap between the nationalist Reorganized 3rd and 47th Division would be further increased.
Two regiments of the 9th Brigade of the communist 3rd Column a regiment of the 5th Military Sub-region of the communist Hebei – Shandong – Henan Military region were tasked to check the advance of the nationalist Reorganized 55th and 68th Divisions in the region to the south of Cao (曹) County.
The Independent 4th Brigade of the communist Southern Hebei Military Region was tasked to check the advance of the nationalist 41st Division.
The Independent Brigade of the communist Hebei – Shandong – Henan Military Region and the troops of the communist 3rd Military Sub-region were tasked to block the nationalist 5th Army in the region of Chengwu (城武).

1st Stage
On 2 September 1946, after suffering over fifteen hundred casualties, the nationalist Reorganized 3rd Division succeeded in taking Qinzhai (秦砦) and Peach Garden (Taoyuan 桃园) regions after driving out the two regiments of the communist 6th Column stationed there.  Meanwhile, the nationalist Reorganized 47th Division advanced to the regions of Luzhai (吕砦) and Yellow Water Mouth (Huangshuikou, 黄水口).  The relatively rapid advance caused the nationalist commanders to become overconfident, and Liu Zhi, the nationalist frontline commander-in-chief altered the original plan of taking Dingtao (定陶) by a joint attack by the nationalist Reorganized 3rd and 47th Divisions.  Liu split his force by ordering the nationalist Reorganized 3rd Division to take Heze and the nationalist Reorganized 47th Division to take Dingtao (定陶) by itself.  As a result, the gap between the two divisions was increased to 10 to 12.5 km from the original 7.5 to 10 km.  The rest of nationalist units was 40 to 100 km away from the two divisions, and they were respectively blocked by the enemy in the regions to the southeast of Dongming (东明), south of Cao (曹) County, east of Dan (单) County and Chengwu (城武).