[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 179]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

of all them that gave their names
to the Christ, whom hee preached to bee already come into the world; and
our Saviour instituted the same for a Sacrament to be taken by all that
beleeved in him. From what cause the rite of Baptisme first proceeded,
is not expressed formally in the Scripture; but it may be probably
thought to be an imitation of the law of Moses, concerning Leprousie;
wherein the Leprous man was commanded to be kept out of the campe of
Israel for a certain time; after which time being judged by the Priest
to be clean, hee was admitted into the campe after a solemne Washing.
And this may therefore bee a type of the Washing in Baptisme; wherein
such men as are cleansed of the Leprousie of Sin by Faith, are received
into the Church with the solemnity of Baptisme. There is another
conjecture drawn from the Ceremonies of the Gentiles, in a certain case
that rarely happens; and that is, when a man that was thought dead,
chanced to recover, other men made scruple to converse with him, as they
would doe to converse with a Ghost, unlesse hee were received again into
the number of men, by Washing, as Children new born were washed from
the uncleannesse of their nativity, which was a kind of new birth. This
ceremony of the Greeks, in the time that Judaea was under the Dominion
of Alexander, and the Greeks his successors, may probably enough have
crept into the Religion of the Jews. But seeing it is not likely our
Saviour would countenance a Heathen rite, it is most likely it proceeded
from the Legall Ceremony of Washing after Leprosie. And for the other
Sacraments, of eating the Paschall Lambe, it is manifestly imitated in
the Sacrament of the Lords Supper; in which the Breaking of the Bread,
and the pouring out of the Wine, do keep in memory our deliverance from
the Misery of Sin, by Christs Passion, as the eating of the Paschall
Lambe, kept in memory the deliverance of the Jewes out of the Bondage of
Egypt. Seeing therefore the authority of Moses was but subordinate, and
hee but a Lieutenant to God; it followeth, that Christ, whose authority,
as man, was to bee like that of Moses, was no more but subordinate to
the authority of his Father. The same is more expressely signified, by
that that hee teacheth us to pray, "Our Father, Let thy Kingdome come;"
and, "For thine is the Kingdome, the power and the Glory;" and by that
it is said, that "Hee shall come in the Glory of his Father;" and by
that which St. Paul saith, (1 Cor. 15.24.) "then commeth the end, when
hee shall have delivered up the Kingdome to God, even the Father;" and
by many other most expresse places.




One And The Same God Is The Person Represented By Moses, And By Christ

Our Saviour therefore, both in Teaching, and Reigning, representeth (as
Moses Did) the Person of God; which God from that time forward, but
not before, is called the Father; and being still one and the same
substance, is one Person as represented by Moses, and another Person as
represented by his Sonne the Christ. For Person being a relative to a
Representer, it is consequent to plurality of Representers, that there
bee a plurality of Persons, though of one and the same Substance.



CHAPTER XLII. OF POWER ECCLESIASTICALL


For the understanding of POWER ECCLESIASTICALL, what, and in whom it is,
we are to distinguish the time from the Ascension of our Saviour, into
two parts; one before the Conversion of Kings, and men endued with
Soveraign Civill Power; the other after their Conversion. For it was
long after the Ascension, before any King, or Civill Soveraign embraced,
and publiquely allowed the teaching of Christian Religion.




Of The Holy Spirit That Fel On The Apostles

And for the time between, it is manifest, that the Power
Ecclesiasticall, was in the Apostles; and after them in such as were by
them ordained to Preach the Gospell, and to convert men to Christianity,
and to direct them that were converted in the way of Salvation; and
after these the Power was delivered again to others by these ordained,
and this was done by Imposition of hands upon such as were ordained; by
which was signified the giving of the Holy Spirit, or Spirit of God, to
those whom they ordained Ministers of God, to advance his Kingdome.
So that Imposition of hands, was nothing else but the Seal of their
Commission to Preach Christ, and teach his Doctrine; and the giving of
the Holy Ghost by that ceremony of Imposition of hands, was an imitation
of that which Moses did. For Moses used the same ceremony to his
Minister Joshua, as wee read Deuteronomy 34. ver. 9. "And Joshua the son
of Nun was full of the Spirit of Wisdome; for Moses had laid his
hands upon him." Our Saviour therefore between his Resurrection, and
Ascension, gave his Spirit to the Apostles; first, by "Breathing on
them, and saying," (John 20.22.) "Receive yee the Holy Spirit;" and after
his Ascension (Acts 2.2, 3.) by sending down upon t