[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2nd Rhode Island Infantry Regiment

e Shenandoah.  The pursuit of the rebels was continued, first under General Wright, and then under General Sheridan, who had been appointed to the command of the department.  In the Battle of Winchester, September 19, the Regiment behaved with great gallantry, and had nine men wounded, one mortally.

After this battle the Regiment was detailed as part of the garrison of Winchester, to protect it against guerrillas, as well as to escort trains to the front. It was there when the Battle of Cedar Creek, October 19, was fought, and remained until December 1, when it rejoined the Army of the Potomac, and passed the winter of 1864 and 1865 in doing siege duty in the trenches in front of Petersburg, Va. The Regiment was engaged in all the skirmishes that took place during this period, the most important of which were Hatcher's Run, December 10, 1864; Hatcher's Run, February 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th, 1865; Fort Fisher, Va., March 25, and Fort Stedman, same day. In the attack on Petersburg, April 2, 1865, the Regiment took a prominent and important part.  The night before, the 6th Corps was massed in front of Fort Fisher, ready for the assault.  Just at daybreak, Sunday morning, the lines advanced under a heavy fire, and carried the enemy's main lines by storm.  The Second Rhode Island started in the second line, but were the first to reach the works, and planted its colors on the parapet.  The enemy fled in great confusion, after their lines were pierced.  Lieutenant Frank S. Halliday, acting Adjutant of the Regiment, with a small party, carried a rebel fort mounting two guns, and turned them upon the enemy.  The whole affair was a glorious success, and caused the evacuation of the city on Monday morning, April 3. In the Battle of Sailors' Creek, Thursday following the above, April 6, the Regiment displayed great prowess.  About 5 o'clock, P. M., the division to which it was attached, advanced on the enemy's lines, and the Second Rhode Island attacked a part of the Naval Brigade, commanded by officers of the late rebel fleet.  The Regiment charged to within a few feet of their lines, when it met a severe flank fire, which forced it to retire.  The action as so close that men were bayoneted, and knocked down with the butts of muskets.  In the confusion, the colors of the Regiment were captured, but were quickly retaken.  The place where it charged was swampy, with water at least three feet deep, but the men pushed gallantly forward, and regained all the ground lost, causing the enemy to flee in great confusion, who left a part of their wagons in Federal hands.  The loss was severe in officers and men, but there was a proud satisfaction in knowing that the efforts of the Regiment hastened the surrender of Lee and his army. Captain Charles W. Gleason and Lieutenant William H. Perry, both gallant officers, were killed.  They were loved and respected by the Regiment. They entered the service as enlisted men at the beginning of the war, and by merit rose to their positions as officers.  In this battle the conduct of officers and men was in the highest degree commendable. The new men, who went into action for the first time, fought-like veterans.

After the fall of Richmond, and the surrender of the rebel Northern Army, under Lee, the Regiment left that city for Washington, D. C., May 24, was mustered out of the United States service at Hall's Hill, Va., July 13, and left for Providence on the 15th.  It reached its destination by the train from New York at 12 o'clock, midnight, July 17, accompanied by the 11th and 58th Massachusetts regiments, bound to Readville.  The regiment was received with the cheers of waiting friends, the salute of the Marine Artillery, and the presented arms of Company A, Pawtucket Light Guard, Captain M'Cloy.  After the reception, they formed and were escorted to Washington Hall, where they partook of an ample collation, prepared by L. H. Humphreys, under the direction of Captain Henrie Crandall.

The Regiment had often been severely depleted by sickness, and by losses upon the battlefield.  After the Battle of Malvern Hill in 1862, it could number only 250 effective men.  It numbered on its return, 345 officers and men. Under general orders from the War Department, General Meade directed, March 7, 1865, the names of the following battles in which the Regiment had borne a meritorious part, to be inscribed upon its colors, viz:

First Bull Run     Salem Heights,          Petersburg,   Yorktown,            Gettysburg,             Fort Stevens,   Williamsburg,        Rappahannock Station,   Opequan,   Malvern Hill,        Wilderness,             Hatcher's Run,   Antietam,            Spottsylvania,          Sailors' Creek,   Fredericksburg,      Cold Harbor,       Appomattox,   Marye's Heights.

Losses
 Killed & Mortally Wounded: 9 Officers & 111 Men
 Died of Disease: 2 Officers & 74 Men
 Total: 196