[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eric Moonman

-fascist groups in music led to an interview with Joan Bakewell on Newsnight. According to the BBC's archives Moonman welcomed a "declaration by group 'Madness' that they have nothing to do with National Front & British Movement; extreme right see concerts as a potential market for their magazines".

In writings, he focused in particular on the influence of media and television. He published a report in October 1981 on the riots that summer called "Copycat Hooligans", which argued that: "Youths imitated television film of violence in Northern Ireland when they rioted in more than 20 British cities last summer... Eric Moonman, the centre's director and author of the report entitled Copy Cat Hooligans, said the rioters knew what to do because they had seen it on television.

In 1987, Moonman published a book called The Violent Society which included contributions from prominent terrorologists Paul Wilkinson and Richard Clutterbuck. Paul Wilkinson was identified in the contributors notes as a member of the advisory board of the Centre for Contemporary Studies. Insight, the Alumni magazine for Liverpool University, wrote that The Violent Society 'was well received and, surprisingly for Eric, marked another chapter in his life'. The article states that after the publication of The Violent Society'' Moonman 'began to take on consultancy work for ITN as an expert in counter-terrorism'.

In fact, Moonman's media presence as a terrorism expert does not seem to have taken off for another 15 years. The television archive contains only one item in the 1990s listing Moonman as a terrorism expert and the note does not contain an exact date. With the exception of that item, Moonman's first appearance seems to have been on a Channel Five Lunchtime Bulletin on 18 July 2002, after which he appeared dozens of times on UK television.

In 1998, Moonman was appointed as a member of the advisory board of the Centre for Counter Terrorism Studies at the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies. He appeared at an 'Executive Luncheon' hosted by the group on 26 November 2001. The panel was chaired by Yonah Alexander, the director of the International Center for Terrorism Studies and a fellow Zionist and seminal terrorism expert; and Michael Swetnam, CEO and chairman of the Potomac Institute. Moonman said he thought the media had been, "highly responsible and supportive of U.S. and international efforts to root out terrorism".  Of the critics of the War on Terror, Moonman said: "Many are Muslim, though most Muslims are friendly, good citizens who favor peace. Still, Taliban supporters are currently protesting and causing unrest in both England and the whole of Europe. Many of these dissidents are merely taking advantage of the situation, rather than genuinely pursuing the ideals of peace. Legitimate peace movement leaders, in fact, have actually spoken out against these protesters." He warned of "Usama bin Laden’s slick operation shows the extent to which public opinion can be bought with marketing and public relations expenditures," and argued that, "we must fight terrorists on their own terms. We can’t afford to abide by the Queensbury rules of war in the face of such a dangerous and unscrupulous threat."

Health policy
After his parliamentary career ended, Moonman became involved in health policy and was chairman of Islington Health Authority 1980–90. He created controversy within the Labour Party because of his support for privatisation within the National Health Service (NHS). He was able to win a vote in favour of privatisation by reintroducing the matter on a much-criticised pretext at a meeting at which his supporters were in the majority. In 1987, at the Annual conference of the Social Democratic Party, Moonman argued for a greater role for the private sector. According to BBC Archives: "Eric MOONMAN, Islington, must look at alternative funding for the NHS & consider working with private sector".

References

1929 births
2017 deaths
Councillors in the London Borough of Tower Hamlets
Labour Party (UK) MPs for English constituencies
National Graphical Association-sponsored MPs
King's Regiment (Liverpool) soldiers
English Jews
Jewish British politicians
UK MPs 1966–1970
UK MPs 1974
UK MPs 1974–1979
Alumni of the University of Liverpool
Alumni of the University of Manchester
Academics of City, University of London
British Zionists
Terrorism theorists
Military personnel from Liverpool