[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kengo Nakamura

the Emperor's Cup was marked by a 3-2 victory over reigning First Division Champions Yokohama F. Marinos on 10 December 2005, with Nakamura scoring the winner in the 97th minute of extra time to take Frontale to the quarter-finals, where they were knocked out by eventual winners, Urawa Red Diamonds.

Title contention (2006–2009) 
The 2006 season was seen as a breakthrough for both Nakamura and Frontale as a whole, as the team looked to expand on their 8th place finish the previous campaign. Nakamura continued to hold down his starting place in central midfield, scoring 10 goals as the ambitious Frontale became serious challengers for their first ever First Division trophy. Despite falling short to Urawa Red Diamonds and finishing second, the 2006 season was seen as one of many positives for the side and considered to be Nakamura's best yet, as he scored 10 goals from midfield and was named in the J League Best XI along with teammate Hiroyuki Taniguchi, marking the first time any Frontale players had been included. The 2007 season was less successful and saw Frontale's league form take a dip, as they finished fifth and seven points behind fourth place Shimizu S-Pulse. Their league form was however contrasted by a successful Nabisco Cup run to the final, with Nakamura playing in both the semi and eventual final on 11 March, where they lost to Gamba Osaka.

A rejuvenated Frontale bounced back to make another strong challenge for the First Division title in 2008, with Nakamura once again in a pivotal role as their midfield playmaker, providing 11 assists and four goals from midfield as Frontale went head to head with Kashima Antlers in the top two spots. It would however be another year of disappointment, as they missed out on winning the league by just three points. By 2009, Frontale were perennial title challengers as they looked to stop Kashima Antlers from winning a historic three First Divisions in a row. In another closely contended title race, Frontale were once again narrowly beaten by the Antlers, losing out on the first place by just two points. Nakamura enjoyed his most prolific season as a playmaker yet, providing 11 assists and 4 goals, as well as being part of the team that reached the final of the 2009 Nabisco Cup, earning a big quarter final win over Kashima on the way to the final, where they were defeated by F.C. Tokyo.

Injury and international recognition (2010–2012) 
By 2009, Nakamura was considered as Frontale's best known and most popular player, and despite making the J League Best XI three years in a row, was widely seen as one of the most underrated players in the First Division. Nakamura's consistent performances for club and country eventually attracted attention from overseas clubs, with Eredivisie club PSV Eindhoven making an offer for him in late 2009; Nakamura respectfully declined, citing feelings of debt toward Frontale as the club who took a chance on him and gave him the opportunity to become a professional. Nakamura was injured during an AFC Champions League game against Seongnam Ilhwa on 23 February 2010, suffering a Mandibular fracture, casting doubt over his eligibility for selection in the upcoming 2010 FIFA World Cup; Nakamura was however able to make a speedy recovery and was named in Japan's squad, but only made one substitute appearance as Japan were knocked out in the round of 16.

Club captain (2012–2017) 
At the start of the 2012 J1 season, Nakamura was named captain of Frontale for the first time ever, and arguably enjoyed his best season to date, scoring five goals and leading the league in assists with 13. The following season saw him placed in a prolific three man attacking partnership with new signings Yoshito Ōkubo and Renatinho, with Nakamura providing 7 goals and 8 assists as Frontale earned a return to the AFC Champions League for the first time in three years. The 2014 and 2015 seasons were less successful for both club and individual, as Nakamura suffered an ankle injury which would require surgery and caused him to miss the end of the 2014 season. Before his absence, however, Nakamura remained a highlight of the squad as he once again lead the league in assists with 14, and performed well again after his return from surgery in 2015, recording 8 more assists.

The 2016 season was widely seen as the best of Nakamura's career, as he provided ten assists and scored nine goals whilst captaining Frontale to a second place finish in the J1, the final of the 2016 Emperor's Cup and taking them through to the J1 Championship stage, where they lost in the semi-finals to third place Kashima Antlers. Despite this, Nakamura's efforts were recognised as he was named both J League MVP and Japanese Footballer of the Year, becoming the oldest recipient of either award at the age of 36.