[Source: PubMed]

52. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2014 Jan 31;63(4):73-6.

Rapidly building global health security capacity--Uganda demonstration project, 
2013.

Borchert JN, Tappero JW, Downing R, Shoemaker T, Behumbiize P, Aceng J, Makumbi 
I, Dahlke M, Jarrar B, Lozano B, Kasozi S, Austin M, Phillippe D, Watson ID, 
Evans TJ, Stotish T, Dowell SF, Iademarco MF, Ransom R, Balajee A, Becknell K, 
Beauvais D, Wuhib T; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Increasingly, the need to strengthen global capacity to prevent, detect, and 
respond to public health threats around the globe is being recognized. CDC, in 
partnership with the World Health Organization (WHO), has committed to building 
capacity by assisting member states with strengthening their national capacity 
for integrated disease surveillance and response as required by International 
Health Regulations (IHR). CDC and other U.S. agencies have reinforced their 
pledge through creation of global health security (GHS) demonstration projects. 
One such project was conducted during March-September 2013, when the Uganda 
Ministry of Health (MoH) and CDC implemented upgrades in three areas: 1) 
strengthening the public health laboratory system by increasing the capacity of 
diagnostic and specimen referral networks, 2) enhancing the existing 
communications and information systems for outbreak response, and 3) developing 
a public health emergency operations center (EOC) (Figure 1). The GHS 
demonstration project outcomes included development of an outbreak response 
module that allowed reporting of suspected cases of illness caused by priority 
pathogens via short messaging service (SMS; i.e., text messaging) to the Uganda 
District Health Information System (DHIS-2) and expansion of the biologic 
specimen transport and laboratory reporting system supported by the President's 
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Other enhancements included 
strengthening laboratory management, establishing and equipping the EOC, and 
evaluating these enhancements during an outbreak exercise. In 6 months, the 
project demonstrated that targeted enhancements resulted in substantial 
improvements to the ability of Uganda's public health system to detect and 
respond to health threats.

PMCID: PMC4584897
PMID: 24476978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]