[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Refugees (The Wire)

ith Donnelly to discuss Sherrod's poor attendance. Later, Bubbles watches the illiterate Sherrod pretend to read books from school. Sherrod takes out an algebra book and a French dictionary, claiming one to be a workbook that goes with the other. Bubbles isn't fooled but says nothing about the ruse.

Dukie, Randy, Namond and Michael spend time at Cutty's gym and discuss the box cutter incident. When Spider fails to show up for a training session, Cutty again offers to train Michael. The Deacon offers Cutty a janitor position at the boys' middle school. Sherrod joins Prez's class. When Prez tries to get his students to open up about the box cutter incident, Namond and other students instead impertinently interrupt and ask about his career as a police officer. Randy and Sherrod both use the disruption to leave the class; Randy is caught selling candy in the sixth grade cafeteria. When Randy is brought before Donnelly, she demands that he tell her who is responsible for a spate of graffiti at the school. Instead of a custodial position, Cutty finds himself being interviewed to work as an unofficial truant officer. He learns that the school rounds up truants to meet minimum attendance figures it needs to secure extra funding, rather than to ensure they are educated.

Colvin and Parenti meet with the school superintendent, Mrs. Conway, who agrees to fund their in-school program after being assured that the scheme will not bring bad publicity to the school board. At the school, Colvin and Parenti sign confidentiality agreements and safety waivers. Colvin meets with the eighth grade teacher Grace Sampson, who says that many teachers view the scheme as an unwelcome intrusion from City Hall. Colvin observes the students, seeing variation in how well classes perform with the best behavior in the younger grades. While the boys head home, they learn that someone "snitched" and got a student suspended over the graffiti. Prez learns that Chiquan will be scarred from the box cutter attack. Michael starts Bug on his homework and heads to Cutty's gym.
There, Michael agrees to attend a boxing match with Cutty and Justin. Afterwards, Michael avoids Cutty's attempts at conversation and refuses a lift to his house.

Production
Richard De Angelis makes his final appearance as CID Colonel Raymond Foerster.

The dialogue between Marlo and the security guard (specifically the "You want it to be one way" section) was sampled in Little Brother's 2007 album Getback on the song "Sirens".

Title reference
The episode title refers to the detectives fleeing the major crimes unit. It also refers to Bodie being on his own in the streets after the fall of the Barksdale organization.

Epigraph

Prez says this to his wife, referring to the game of football he is watching. This quote is almost certainly a reference to the 1975 film Night Moves, in which the protagonist says virtually exactly the same thing to his wife when she asks him who is winning a televised football game: "Nobody, one side is just losing slower than the other."

Credits

Starring cast
Although credited, Lance Reddick, Deirdre Lovejoy, and Seth Gilliam do not appear in this episode. This is the first episode of the series not to feature Reddick. Since Reddick was the only actor in every episode prior to this, from this point on, nobody has appeared in every episode.

Guest stars

Richard De Angelis as Colonel Raymond Foerster
Jermaine Crawford as Duquan "Dukie" Weems
Maestro Harrell as Randy Wagstaff
Julito McCullum as Namond Brice
Tristan Wilds as Michael Lee
Gbenga Akkinagbe as Chris Partlow
Robert F. Chew as Proposition Joe
Tootsie Duvall as Assistant Principal Marcia Donnelly
Dravon James as Mrs. Grace Sampson
Melvin Williams as The Deacon
Maria Broom as Marla Daniels
Brandy Burre as Theresa D'Agostino
Karen Vicks as Gerry
Alfonso Christian Lover as Old Face Andre
S. Robert Morgan as Butchie
Felicia Pearson as Snoop
Phillip Burgess as Security Guard
Justin Burley as Justin
Rashad Orange as Sherrod
Boris McGiver as Lieutenant Charles Marimow
Rick Otto as Detective Kenneth Dozerman
Delaney Williams as Sergeant Jay Landsman
Shamika Cotton as Raylene Lee
David Fonteno as Poker winner
Sheila Gaskins as Mrs. Anderson
Richard Hildebird as Claudell Withers
Dan DeLuca as Dr. David Parenti
Della Ford as Unknown
Cleo Reginald Pizana as Chief of Staff Coleman Parker
Lora Reed as Unknown
Tyreeka Freamon as School Receptionist
Alan V. Poulson as Developer
Frederick Strother as State Delegate Odell Watkins
Gregory L. Williams as Detective Crutchfield
Michael Willis as Andy Krawczyk

Uncredited appearances