[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tomas Osmeña

er councilor Joy Augustus Young for Vice Mayor and Rachel Marguerite del Mar as Congressman for the first district of Cebu City. He won by 57,923 votes against Jonathan Guardo of KUSUG. Osmeña was sworn in as the 3rd Congressman representing the second district of Cebu City on noon of June 30, 2010.

As a member of the 15th Congress, Osmeña authored 5 bills, 1 of which became a law, and co-authored 46 bills & resolutions. Below are the bills that he authored:
 House Bill 3152 which declares December 25–31 and January 1 as special non-working holidays.
 House Bill 4737 which converts the Babag-Sudlon I road in Cebu City into a national road and appropriating funds therefor.
 House Bill 4738 which converts the Tabunan-Sinsin road in Cebu City into a national road and appropriating funds therefor.
 House Bill 4795 which redefines "business" for local government tax purposes, amending section 131(D) of Republic Act No. 7160, as amended, otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991.
 House Bill 5775 which creates six (6) additional branches of the Municipal Trial Court in cities and an additional branch of the Regional Trial Court in the 7th judicial region to be stationed at the City of Cebu, further amending Batas Pambansa Bilang 129, otherwise known as the Judiciary Reorganization Act of 1980, as amended, and appropriating funds therefor. (Became into law as Republic Act No. 10570 on May 22, 2013)

Osmeña was the vice chairperson of committee on Appropriations and committee on Economic Affairs. He also served as member of the majority of committees on Information and Communications Technology; Legislative Franchises; National Defense and Security; Trade and Industry; and Transportation.

As Congressman, Osmeña was provided with a PHP 400 million Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) allocation for the south district of Cebu City on top of his PHP 75 million Priority Development Assistance Fund commonly known as pork barrel.

He initially allocated the said funds for two new flyovers in Cebu City but was opposed by then Mayor Michael Rama who said that it is "not the ultimate solution to the traffic congestion" in a letter to then President Noynoy Aquino. Rama also said that it would affect the businesses in nearby areas.

Due to Rama's opposition to the construction of flyovers, Osmeña decided to shift the fund to road concreting projects in the south district of Cebu City but was still opposed by Rama. Osmeña eventually decided to realign the said fund to the 1st district of Cebu to spend for road widening from Carcar to Sibonga.

Voting record
Here are some of the laws that passed in the 15th Congress and on how Osmeña voted on it during the third & final reading:

Rift with Mike Rama
During a gathering of barangay captains in March 2009, Osmeña accused then vice mayor Michael "Mike" Rama as a "drug protector" for intervening in a police operation on November 29, 2008 at the home of an alleged drug suspect Crisostomo Llaguno. Rama defended himself saying that he only warned the police under Supt. Jonathan Abella of Cebu City Intelligence Branch, because they had no search warrant against Llaguno. After Rama's call, the police returned the sacks of money they seized from Llaguno's home.

Despite this, Osmeña still reiterated his endorsement for Rama even if 56 barangay captains in Cebu City signed a manifesto endorsing Osmeña's wife Margot. His sister Minnie was also floated as an alternative candidate to Rama but did not materialized.

Rama, his anointed successor, won by a margin of 90,193 votes in the 2010 elections against former Cebu City Mayor Alvin Garcia, who was also a former partymate of Osmeña before their falling out leading to the 2001 elections.

A few months into Rama's term, Osmeña accused Rama of bullying Brian Lim, owner of Pyroworks Pyrotechnic Perfection, for not giving him a warning before PHP 3 million worth of their pyrotechnics were destroyed. These fireworks were found being sold outside South Road Properties which was identified as the designated area. Lim was a regular fireworks donor to the city for the Sinulog Festival.

When Rama refused to give financial assistance or relocation site to the displaced families in Mahiga Creek citing that it would encourage more squatters, its residents sued him and three other city government officials before the Ombudsman-Visayas office. The complainants were aided by Pagtambayayong Foundation headed by Francisco "Bimbo" Fernandez, Osmeña's city administrator during his term and were also provided with PHP 5,000 financial assistance per family by Osmeña even if Mahiga Creek is located in the north district. Rama criticized Osmeña for not being able to solve the issue in the latter's nine-year tenure as Mayor.