[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Girls Aloud: Off the Record

nd radio shows, including one that most of their hardcore Australian fans came to see. Their biggest Australian fans, Emily and Lang, won a competition to meet the girls at a visit to Taronga Zoo. At the zoo, the girls got close to the koalas and kangaroos, and Emily and Lang got close to the girls.

Relaxing by the pool after the promotion, Nadine got a phone call from Desperate Housewives actor Jesse Metcalfe, who invited her on a date. On the same night, the other girls went out to a bar in Sydney for a wild night of drinking, which finished early for Cheryl after the earlier problems she had with drink. Kimberley, Nicola and Sarah continued their night of fun, partying without fear of being noticed, until Kimberley and Nicola went back to the hotel at 2am, leaving Sarah on her own to continue clubbing. The next morning, Nadine revealed that her date with Jesse went well and that he gave her a bouquet of flowers. The promotional tour was over with great success – Girls Aloud had entered the Top 30 of the Australian chart.

Guest stars: Jesse Metcalfe (scenes deleted)

Episode 4: 2 May 2006
The Girls were in Athens for two corporate shows that are major paydays for the group. After having performed at the first show, the second show was not for another couple of days, so Sarah decided to fly back home to see her family, and then fly back to Athens for the second show. The other girls were bored doing nothing in their hotel, so their tour manager Drew decided to take them up to the highest vantage point in Athens – without the girls knowing where they were going. Unfortunately for Cheryl, she happened to be wearing spiked heeled shoes, which were not ideal for climbing up tall hills. Kimberley was not happy with the experience either, unusually for her. After they got back down the hill using a cable-car, they realised that they did not know how to get back to their hotel, so they had to cram into a regular taxi – not exactly glamorous travel for Girls Aloud. To make up for a miserable trip, Drew took the girls and their dancers to a Greek bar and restaurant, where they got drunk and merry, although according to Drew, not as much as usual.

Returning home, Nicola drove back to her home town of Runcorn to see her family. First she went to the local park to see her little brother Harry playing football for his local team, coached by their dad. Harry's team won the game, and Nicola in rather biased fashion gave the man of the match award to Harry, signing autographs for the other members of the team. Nicola then went home and cringed as she was shown old videos of her as a little girl. After that, she took Harry and her other younger brother Clayton to a restaurant for a day out, with Nicola talking about the importance of staying close to her family despite being famous, and valuing having a family to come back to after Girls Aloud.

The girls then went to film the TV show Fifth Gear at Silverstone – where they got to race a car round the famous British Grand Prix track to see who got the fastest time. The girls all had fun doing this, and while it was not revealed which girl recorded the fastest time (the laps were later broadcast on the 15 May 2006 episode of Fifth Gear), the experience did excite Sarah enough to ask the producers and track officials if she could do a lap in their Ferrari F355. However, once she got in, she proceeded to smash the Ferrari right into a people carrier before she had even left the car park. Sarah then took off down the track unaware of exactly how much damage she had done. The other girls were in hysterics when Sarah came back and realised just what she had done.

Episode 5: 9 May 2006
The girls flew to Shanghai, China along with Mayor of London Ken Livingstone to help promote London in China. Upon arrival, Cheryl and Nicola already felt homesick, complaining about the rain, the culture and the Chinese toilets. Nadine and Sarah were more upbeat, looking forward to experiencing Shanghai as they visited a temple, unsure of exactly how to pray. After rehearsals for the big show the next night, the girls talked about how big it was that they were asked to represent London, showing how far they had come in four years. The next day, after a photocall with Ken, Girls Aloud realised how popular the winner of Chinese Pop Idol was, with every fan at the venue there to see her, and hardly any of them knowing who Girls Aloud were. After the performance, Nadine felt it was the worst performance they had ever done, and the other girls were unsure about it, but both Ken and the other London officials loved the show, and felt that the project was a success.