[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mount Tabor, New Jersey

ng targets, thus controlling the varmint colony and keeping it from invading the town.

The sixties evidenced Mount Tabor's concern for its children. A playground was constructed in the main park, a basketball court was built at the golf course, and a skating rink was built below the old pump house.

In the decades of the 1970s and 1980s, the changes that were occurring in the US were reflected in Mount Tabor.  Many houses and buildings were not maintained as well as they should have been, and rebellious youth made their presence known.  Fortunately, this trend has been reversed in the last decades, and an appreciation for the past has become strongly evident.
In this period septic systems (some of which were under the buildings they served, some were community systems serving more than one residence) were filled in and replaced with a city sewer system. The unsightly steel tank next to the water tower was removed, and one by one, the CMA started refurbishing the buildings they owned to their former glory; so far the old firehouse, the Town Manager's house, and the Tabernacle have had facelifts and more.  In addition, through the cooperative efforts of the citizens of Mount Tabor, the Trinity Park fountain was installed.  The fountain was designed in the image of the previous fountain, which had been removed many years before.

In the early 1990s, Parsippany enacted an ordinance to designate the whole of Mount Tabor, along with a number of other sites, as having landmark status.  After opposition from a handful of residents to the blanket designation, the ordinance was eventually amended to exclude Mount Tabor.  This ordinance has been challenged and overturned since that time.  A major portion of the community was listed on the National Register of Historic Places as a historic district in 2015.

Community structure

Board of trustees
The Board of Trustees, composed of twelve resident leaseholders of Mount Tabor, manages affairs.  The trustees are elected by leaseholders at the annual meeting in groups of four for three-year terms; the terms are divided so that four trustees are  chosen each year. The officers of the CPO are President, Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer. Each officer is elected annually by the Board of Trustees.

Mount Tabor Fire Department
The Mount Tabor Fire Department was organized on June 11, 1910, to provide fire protection services to the community. Today, the department has expanded to include a large portion of Parsippany, but still covers Mount Tabor.  In addition to this, the Mount Tabor Fire Department has expanded beyond its single firehouse located on Simpson Avenue to a total of three fire houses throughout the southwest part of Parsippany. MTVFD is 1 of 6 fire districts in the Township of Parsippany Troy Hills

Mount Tabor Country Club
At the end of the summer of 1900, the Tabor Field Club was organized. Since its incorporation in 1904 the name has been changed to the Mount Tabor Country Club. In 1901, this Club opened a golf course consisting of six holes and used tin cans as cups!  In 1908, the lowest meadow, previously a marsh, was reclaimed and the golf course extended into nine holes. In the year 1911 the present club house was built.  The property is leased from the CMA by the Mount Tabor Country Club.

Mount Tabor Record
The Mount Tabor Record was a local newspaper published between 1877 and 1887. It described events and life in Mount Tabor, such as the Sunday sermons, and sketches of everyday life. It was published at various times in Dover and Morristown. It is available for viewing at the Drew University Library Catalogue. 

Today, a Mount Tabor Record is privately published by a resident.

Demographics
As of the 2020 United States census, the population was 1,244.

References

External links

 Mount Tabor Historical Society
 Mount Tabor Fire Department
 United Methodist Church at Mount Tabor
 There's No Place Like Tabor Lake (aka Powder Mill Pond)
 Tabor Record

Parsippany-Troy Hills, New Jersey
Census-designated places in Morris County, New Jersey
Census-designated places in New Jersey
Unincorporated communities in Morris County, New Jersey
Unincorporated communities in New Jersey
Historic districts in New Jersey
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in New Jersey
National Register of Historic Places in Morris County, New Jersey
Camp meeting grounds
Methodism in New Jersey