[Source: PubMed]

2. Ind Psychiatry J. 2024 Aug;33(Suppl 1):S268-S271. doi: 10.4103/ipj.ipj_46_24. 
Epub 2024 May 23.

Navigating a world in conflict: The mental health implications of contemporary 
geopolitical crises.

Ventriglio A(1), Ricci F(1), Torales J(2), Castaldelli-Maia JM(3)(4), Bener 
A(5), Smith A(6), Liebrenz M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Foggia, 
Foggia, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical Psychology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, National 
University of Asunción, San Lorenzo, Paraguay.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, Medical School, Fundação do ABC, Santo André, SP, 
Brazil.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Medical School, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, 
SP, Brazil.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, Medipol Faculty of 
Medicine Istanbul Medipol University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(6)Department of Forensic Psychiatry, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.

Throughout history, armed conflicts have profoundly affected individuals and 
societies, with recent events in Ukraine, the Middle East, and beyond bringing 
into sharp focus the severe mental health and humanitarian consequences of 
geopolitical crises. Such situations often result in mass fatalities, 
destruction, displacement, forced migration, and other critical life events. 
Amid these scenarios, the adverse outcomes for mental health and well-being in 
both the short and long term must be emphasized. As a conceivable example of the 
latter, the proposed concept of intergenerational trauma could have far-reaching 
implications. In particular, in certain regions, civilians have repeatedly 
experienced instances of violence and may have continually been exposed to 
critical life events and traumatic stress. In this context, the consequences of 
these events for individual well-being and global mental health will likely be 
registered for years to come. Accordingly, urgent help and actions to address 
the mental health burdens within contemporary conflicts should be accentuated in 
humanitarian, political, and diplomatic interventions. Equally, health policies 
must adopt a long-term approach to support initiatives under the purview of 
global and public mental health objectives.

Copyright: © 2024 Industrial Psychiatry Journal.

DOI: 10.4103/ipj.ipj_46_24
PMCID: PMC11553604
PMID: 39534168

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.