[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# January 1973

agrarian leader and independence fighter known for leading the Munda agitation from 1937 to 1939 against extortion
Speckled Red (stage name for Rufus Perryman), 80, African-American comedian, blues singer and musician known for his recordings of the improvised insult exchanges known as "The Dozens"

January 3, 1973 (Wednesday)
The 93rd United States Congress opened with the swearing in of new U.S. Representatives and U.S. Senators. The seats of Democratic Representatives Hale Boggs of Louisiana's 2nd district and Nick Begich of Alaska's At-Large district were declared "presumed dead" by House Resolution 1, nearly three months after the plane carrying both Congressmen was lost on October 16, 1972, over a remote region of Alaska. Although both Boggs and Begich won their re-elections while officially missing after the crash, the House resolution renders their seats vacant at the start of the 93rd Congress and orders special elections to fill both seats. Antonio Won Pat became the first delegate from the U.S. territory of Guam to have an office in the U.S. House of Representatives, appearing as the territory's non-voting delegate.
Daniel Ellsberg, a military analyst for the RAND Corporation who leaked top secret U.S. Department of Defense documents to multiple newspapers, went on trial for violations of the Espionage Act of 1917.  The documents, published as the "Pentagon Papers", led to Ellsberg's indictment.  Although initially barred from testifying in his own defense, Ellsberg would have the charges against him dismissed on May 11 because of prosecutorial misconduct including the wiretapping of his office and the burglary of his psychiatrist's office.
CBS, the Columbia Broadcasting System sold the New York Yankees baseball team for $10 million to a 12-person syndicate led by George Steinbrenner, with Robert Nederlander, E. Michael Burke, Lester Crown, John DeLorean, Nelson Bunker Hunt and Marvin L. Warner as junior partners. The price was $3.2 million more than the price paid by CBS for the team in 1965.
Ferdinand Marcos, the President of the Philippines, hosted a conference at the Malacañang Palace in Manila of 300 Muslim leaders from Mindanao in an effort to stopping the secessionist movement on that island.
The Golden Corral chain of steak restaurants opened its first of almost 500 locations in the United States, starting with a steakhouse in Fayetteville, North Carolina. 
U.S. Air Force General John C. Meyer, Commander-in-Chief of the Strategic Air Command, was booed by airmen at the Andersen Air Force Base in Guam, where he had paid a visit days after directing Operation Linebacker II, the "Christmas Bombing" that took place from December 18 to December 29, 1972.
Born: Dan Harmon, American TV producer known for Community and for Rick and Morty; in Milwaukee
Died: 
Howard R. Davies, 77, British motorcycle racer and designer who founded HRD Motors Ltd 
Christopher Chenery, 86, American engineer, businessman and racehorse owner whose thoroughbred Secretariat would win the U.S. Triple Crown of Horse Racing later in the year
Christine van Meeteren, 87, Dutch silent film actress

January 4, 1973 (Thursday)
The 29th Canadian Parliament opened its session with the swearing in of 264 members of the Canadian House of Commons and 102 Senators.  The Liberal government of Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau had only a 109 to 107 lead in Commons over the Progressive Conservative opposition, with other parties dividing the remaining 48 seats.
In Derry (also referred to as "Londonderry") in Northern Ireland, a crowd of almost 300 children threw stones and bottles at six British Army soldiers who had come to a Roman Catholic neighborhood to investigate a complaint.  Four soldiers were hurt before the patrol commander fired a rifle shot over the heads of the children.
Australia's new Minister for Immigration, Al Grassby, announced that the nation had officially ended what critics had called the "white Australia policy", eliminating the use of skin color as a factor in determining whether to admit immigrants, and specifically lifting the quota on nonwhites.  The phasing out of the policy had started after World War II, when Australia admitted a few nonwhites as immigrants and then permitted them to become citizens after 15 years residence.  In 1966, the residence requirement was reduced to five years.
The pilot episode of the longest-running TV comedy series in the world, Last of the Summer Wine, was broadcast in the United Kingdom as an episode of BBC's Comedy Playhouse.  Picked up as a series, Last of the Summer Wine would debut on November 12 and would continue to run for 295 episodes over 37 years, until August 29, 2010.
An annular solar eclipse took place, visible mostly over Chile and Argentina.
Born: Laia Marull, Spanish film actress; in Barcelona

January 5, 1973 (Friday)