[Source: PubMed]

59. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2024 Aug;166(2):580-595. doi: 10.1002/ijgo.15390. Epub
 2024 Jan 29.

Cardiotocography use for fetal assessment during labor in low- and middle-income 
countries: A scoping review.

Takeshita M(1), Toyomoto R(2), Marui K(1), Ito M(2), Eto H(3), Takehara K(4), 
Matsui M(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Informatics, Graduate School of Medicine / School of 
Public Health, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Health Promotion and Human Behavior, Graduate School of 
Medicine / School of Public Health, Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan.
(3)Department of Reproductive Health, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki 
University, Nagasaki, Japan.
(4)Department of Health Policy, Research Institute, National Center for Child 
Health and Development, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Global Health, Nagasaki University School of Tropical Medicine 
and Global Health, Nagasaki, Japan.
(6)Department of Public Health, Kobe University Graduate School of Health 
Sciences, Kobe, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The use of cardiotocography (CTG) to improve neonatal outcomes is 
controversial. The medical settings, subjects, utilizations, and interpretation 
guidelines of CTG are unclear for low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).
OBJECTIVES: To assess and review CTG use for studies identified in LMICs and 
provide insights on the potential for effective use of CTG to improve maternal 
and neonatal outcomes.
SEARCH STRATEGY: The databases Medline, CINAHL, EMBASE, and Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) were searched for published and 
unpublished literature through September 2023.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Publications were identified which were conducted in LMICs, 
based on the World Bank list of economies for 2019; targeting pregnant women in 
childbirth; and focusing on the utilization of CTG and neonatal outcomes.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Publications were screened, and duplicates were 
removed. A scoping review was conducted using PRISMA-ScR guidelines.
RESULTS: The searches generated 1157 hits, of which 67 studies were included in 
the review. In the studies there was considerable variation and ambiguity 
regarding the study settings, target populations, utilizations, timing, 
frequency, and duration of CTG. While cesarean section rates were extensively 
investigated as an outcome of studies of CTG itself and the effect of additional 
techniques on CTG, other clinically significant outcomes, including neonatal 
mortality, were not well reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Variations and ambiguities were found in the use of CTG in LMICs. 
Due to the limited amount of evidence, studies are needed to examine CTG 
availability in the context of LMICs.

© 2024 International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics.

DOI: 10.1002/ijgo.15390
PMID: 38287690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]