[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# University system

A university system is a set of multiple affiliated universities and colleges that are usually geographically distributed. Typically, all member universities in a university system share a common component among all of their various names. Usually, all member universities of a university system are governed by a system-wide governing body, such as a board of trustees or a board of regents. In the United States, many states have one or two state university systems under which many of their publicly funded universities are aligned, both in name and in governance. Additionally, for-profit universities, such as DeVry University, often have multiple campuses which share the same name; these may be, but are not always, described as a university system.

In Canada, university system usually refers to the collection of all universities within a jurisdiction, as distinguished from other post-secondary institutions. Used as a point of comparison, it may refer to the universities within a province or within a country. In the UK, university system has been used to refer to the policy and practise of integrated administration and infrastructure of the universities within the country.

In the Philippines, university system is a title granted by the Commission on Higher Education to a private or public higher education institution after complying certain requirements. The commission defines university system as an organized academic entity composed of separate but interrelated units, at least one of which has university level status. A single governing board is responsible for the formulation of system-wide policies and programs. A university system has its own system administration headed by a chief executive officer. Its function is to coordinate and integrate system-wide functions and activities. Each constituent unit has its own chief executive officer to whom broad powers is delegated by the governing board for the organization and operation of the constituent unit.

In Vietnam, university systems consist of many member institutions, with each institution equivalent to a regular specialized university. Vietnam currently exists 6 university systems, each university system divided into many member universities, member schools or member institutes specializing in training and researching a specific group of disciplines to create their own strengths. The head of a university system is called a president, and the head of a member university is called a rector.

List of university systems

Asia

India

 Indian Institutes of Technology A group of 23 public research universities specializing in engineering and sciences.
 National Institutes of Technology A group of 31 public research universities specializing in engineering and sciences.
 Indian Institutes of Management A group of 20 public universities specializing in business and management education.
 Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research A group of 7 public research universities focused on the fundamental and applied sciences.
 All India Institutes of Medical Sciences A group of 19 universities focused on medical education and research.
National Law universities A group of 23 universities focused on world class legal and judicial education and research

Iran
 Islamic Azad University (2 independent and 31 state Universities)
 Technical and Vocational University
 University of Applied Science and Technology
 Payame Noor University
 Farhangian University
 Academic Center for Education, Culture and Research

Malaysia
 Universiti Teknologi MARA System (1 main campus, 4 satellite campuses, 4 autonomous state campuses, 8 state branch campuses, 9 city campuses, 21 affiliated colleges, 1 international campus, 1 training hospital, and 2 training hotels)

Philippines
De La Salle Philippines (16 campuses)
Mindanao State University System (8 constituent universities, 3 attached colleges)
St. Paul University System (7 campuses)
University of Perpetual Help System (4 DALTA campuses, 5 JONELTA campuses)
University of the Philippines System (8 constituent universities, with 10 campus locations)
University of Santo Tomas System (5 campuses)

Taiwan
 University System of Taiwan (4 campuses)
 Taiwan Comprehensive University System (4 campuses)
 University System of Taipei (3 campuses)

Thailand
 Rajabhat University system (38 universities)
 Rajamangala University of Technology (9 universities)

Vietnam 

 Vietnam National University, Hanoi (9 universities, 3 schools)
 Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City (7 universities, 2 schools, 1 branch and 1 institute)
 University of Da Nang (6 universities, 2 schools and 1 branch)
 Hue University (8 universities, 3 schools and 1 branch)
 Thai Nguyen University (7 universities, 2 schools and 1 branch)

Europe