[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Graeme Lamb

ough known for his "blasphemous plain speaking" and a dislike of overly intellectual ideas, friends have declared that what he most values is clarity and robustness of thought. Lamb is well known for having achieved very close working relationships with various U.S. commanders, including McChrystal.

Counter-insurgency
Lamb has been credited with having exercised substantial influence over the evolution of counter-insurgency in Iraq from 2006 onwards. Recent contemporary histories of Iraq paint a favourable impression of Lamb as Senior British Military Representative (Iraq), suggesting that Lamb, influenced by his experiences in Northern Ireland, convinced his U.S. colleagues to adopt the principle of "limited war" — a process requiring "patience, subtlety, and a willingness to accept that Iraqis' own proclivities were going to drive much of the war's outcome", leading to Lamb's own "strategic engagement initiative' of 2006–7. Lamb's departure in July 2007 left "a tremendous gap in the command's institutional memory".

As part of limited war, Lamb has emphasised the importance of precision in the use of force; he is cited as inventing the "inverse ink-spot", which reverses the traditional ink- or oil-spot approach to counter-insurgency by attacking the middle-ranks of an insurgency movement. Other phrases associated with Lamb include the terms "reconcilable" and "irreconcilable", as more complex alternatives to "enemy" or "insurgent"; and the concept of a "squeeze box" to describe the effect of the pressure on ordinary Iraqis from extremists on both sides of the Shi'a and Sunni divide.

Lamb has always acknowledged the importance of targeted force in warfare; Lamb has been quoted as describing McChrystal's forces in Iraq as being "absolutely essential to setting the conditions that allowed the Awakening to move forward". Nonetheless, he has also stressed the importance of timing in the final outreach process. Lamb is quoted as suggesting that the timing of his strategic engagement initiative in Iraq was critical, stating that if "we tried to do it in mid-2004, it would have crashed and burned... [b]ecause at the end of the day, people hadn’t exercised their revenge. They hadn’t stood at the edge of the abyss and looked into it." In a similar vein, Lamb has stated that "certain things were possible in 2006 that would not have been possible in 2004 or 2005". Interviews in 2009 with Lamb have led to him being labelled as a pragmatist in terms of tribal engagement; he has noted that "...given the difficulties we were facing, the absolute inability of the Iraqis to cope themselves, and a violent insurgency that was approaching the tipping point, we really didn't feel we had much choice."

References

Bibliography
 Robinson, Linda. (2008) Tell me how this ends: General David Petraeus and the search for a way out of Iraq. New York: Public Affairs.
 Storrie, Sandy. "Talking To The 'Enemy' – Informal Conflict Termination in Iraq." in British Army Review, No.148, Winter 2009/2010, pp. 13–26.
 Urban, Mark. (2010) Task Force Black. London: Little Brown.

|-

|-

|-
 

1953 births
People educated at Rannoch School
British Army lieutenant generals
Living people
Queen's Own Highlanders officers
British Army personnel of the Iraq War
Graduates of the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst
Companions of the Distinguished Service Order
Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George
Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire
Recipients of the Commendation for Valuable Service
Officers of the Legion of Merit
British Army personnel of the Gulf War
British military personnel of The Troubles (Northern Ireland)