[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

e block, they knocked and entered the room where Kent was looking dishevelled and Lee was back on his lap.  Lee then left to use the toilet in the backyard.  Clayton followed her out of the room and they agreed for her to make another attempt, but this time Lee would try to take Kent's trousers off.

Clayton and Andrews left the room again and Lee recommenced working on the old man, but this time Kent was on his guard.  As she tried to loosen his pants he pushed her away.  Frustrated and angry, Lee grabbed an empty wine bottle and hit the old men on his head, the force of which broke the bottle and cut her finger.  She then picked up the leg of the chair Andrews had broken earlier in the evening and started beating Kent about the head and body.  Hearing the noises, the two men lurking in the hallway returned to the room.  They tore a strip from a sheet and tied Kent's hands behind his body, passing the strip up and around his neck.  The roll of notes was cut from his pocket and the three then systematically ransacked the room searching for more money.  When none was found, in impotent fury they commanded Kent to tell them where further money was hidden, and persisted on this track despite his denials of its existence.  Kent's thumbs were tied together with his shoe-laces and for about the next hour Clayton and Andrews tortured him, "ignoring his frantic pleas for mercy".  They slashed him about the face with a pocket-knife and pressed burning cigarettes onto his chest and back.  They punched and kicked him "until he lay in a twitching blood-soaked heap on the floor".

The beatings stopped when Mary McWilliam, a neighbour from across the street, knocked at the door.  McWilliam was accustomed to join Kent for a few drinks most nights of the week.  Andrews opened the door, eased into the passage and closed the door behind him.  While Andrews told the neighbour they were having a "private party", Clayton was choking 'Pop' Kent in an effort to stop him from calling out.  By the time Andrews returned to the room Kent was dead.  As Lee and the two men tried to work out what to do about their situation, there was another knock at the door.  May Howard, who lived in an adjoining apartment, had been hearing muffled noises during the evening.  She was aware that Kent had visitors and could hear their comings and goings.  She became suspicious when the noises and conversation suddenly ceased, but there had been no sound of the strangers leaving.  The silence convinced Howard that something was amiss so she went and knocked on Kent's door and called out to her neighbour and landlord; after there was no answer she turned the knob of the locked door.  Deeply suspicious, Howard left the building by the backyard and walked down the lane and back into Dorrit-street to get a view of Kent's window facing the street.  Soon afterwards, Lee, Clayton and Andrews left the room in darkness and locked the door behind them.  In the hallway Clayton called out, "Good night Pop, see you tomorrow".  In the street, May Howard watched as the three strangers departed from the boarding house.  After the strangers had left, Howard spoke to Bill Symons, another resident of the boarding-house, and together they knocked on Kent's door.  When there was no answer, they decided to call the police.  Symons was a one-legged war veteran, so it was Howard that walked to the public phone in Lygon-street and called the Carlton police station.  When the police entered the apartment they found Kent's body partially covered by a bloodied sheet and other items in the ransacked room, his hands and feet bound with strips of sheeting and his thumbs tied together with a bootlace.

After Lee, Clayton and Andrews had left Kent's apartment at around 9 p.m. they stopped at a phone booth and Clayton phoned Trans Australia Airlines (TAA) and booked three seats to Adelaide for the 7 a.m. flight the next morning.  They then travelled by taxi to their rooms in the Great Southern Hotel in Spencer-street, where they changed out of their blood-stained clothing.  Andrews joined the other two in the larger room where they drank a bottle of dry sherry.  Then they took a taxi to the TAA office in Swanston-street where Clayton and Andrews paid for the flights to Adelaide, while Lee waited outside in the taxi.  After obtaining the tickets they asked the taxi-driver where they could go to drink beer and were taken to the Copacabana nightclub in Collins-street, arriving there at about midnight.  Lee later gave evidence that they "stayed there until I was the worse for drink and was asked to leave".

Murder charges