[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Jewish resistance in German-occupied Europe

o officer died when kerosene was injected into his bloodstream while he was in hospital awaiting an operation. It is possible that some of the most successful Nokmim were veterans of the Jewish Brigade, who had access to military intelligence, transport, and the right to freely travel across Europe.

Nokmim also travelled to places such as Latin America, Canada, and Spain to track down and kill Nazis who had settled there. In one instance, they are believed to have confronted Aleksander Laak, responsible for killing 8,500 Jews at Jägala concentration camp, at his suburban Winnipeg home, and after telling him that they intended to kill him, allowed him to commit suicide.

In 1946, the Nokmim carried out a mass poisoning attack against former SS members imprisoned at Stalag 13, lacing their bread rations with arsenic at the bakery which supplied it. Approximately 1,200 prisoners fell ill, but no deaths were reported. The U.S. Army mustered its medical resources to treat the poisoned prisoners. Nokmin responses ranged from viewing this mass assassination attempt as a failure to claiming that the Allies covered up the fact that there had been deaths.

See also 

 Righteous Among the Nations
Jewish Resistance Against the Nazis (book)
 Anti-fascism
Defiance (2008 film)
Uprising (2001 film)
 Resistance during World War II
 Like sheep to the slaughter
 Armenian resistance during the Armenian Genocide

Notes and references

Further reading

Dov Levin. Fighting Back: Lithuanian Jewry's Armed Resistance to the Nazis, 1941–1945. (Holmes and Meier, 1985). 
Dov Levin and Zvie A. Brown. The Story of an Underground: The Resistance of the Jews of Kovno in the Second World War. (Gefen Publishing, 2014). 
Finkel, E. (2015). "The Phoenix Effect of State Repression: Jewish Resistance during the Holocaust." American Political Science Review, 109(2), 339–353.

External links 

Jewish Armed Resistance and Rebellions  on the Yad Vashem website
"Jewish Resistance: A Working Bibliography". The Miles Lerman Center for the Study of Jewish Resistance. Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. Washington, D.C. PDF version 
Jewish Resistance During the Holocaust from Holocaust Survivors and Remembrance Project
About the Holocaust 
Jewish Partisan Educational Foundation
Interviews from the Underground: Eyewitness accounts of Russia's Jewish resistance during World War II documentary film and website (jewishpartisans.net)
Jewish Resistance in the Holocaust, Organization of Partizans Underground and Ghetto Fighters
United States Holocaust Memorial Museum – Armed Jewish Resistance: Partisans