[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Das Kapital, Volume I

apacity. That is, the money that performs the functions of a measure of value is only imaginary because society has given the money its value. For example, the value of one ton of iron is expressed by an imaginary quantity of the money commodity, which contains the same amount of labour as the iron.

(b) Multiple Forms of Metallic Money 
As a measure of value and a standard of price, money performs two functions. First, it measures value as the social incarnation of human labour. Second, it serves as a price standard as a quantity of metal with a fixed weight. As in any case, where quantities of the same denomination are to be measured, the stability of the measurement is of the utmost importance. Hence, the less the unit of measurement is subject to variations, the better it fulfils its role. Metallic currency can only serve as a measure of value because it is a product of human labour.

Commodities with definite prices appear in this form: a commodity A = x gold; b commodity B = y gold; c commodity C = z gold, etc., where a, b, c represent definite quantities of the commodities A, B, C and x, y, z definite quantities of gold.

Despite the varieties of commodities, their values become magnitudes of the same denomination, namely gold-magnitudes. Since these commodities are all magnitudes of gold, they are comparable and interchangeable.

(c) Price 
Price is the money-name of the labour objectified in a commodity. Like the relative form of value in general, price expresses the value of a commodity by asserting that a given quantity of the equivalent is directly interchangeable. The price form implies the exchangeability of commodities for money and the necessity of exchange. Gold is an ideal measure of value only because it has already established itself as the money commodity in the exchange process.

Section 2. The Means of Circulation

(a) The Metamorphosis of Commodities 
In this section, Marx further examines the paradoxical nature of the exchange of commodities. The contradictions within the exchange process provide the structure for social metabolism. The process of social metabolism "transfers commodities from hands in which they are non-use-values to hands in which they are use-values". Commodities can only exist as values for a seller and use-values for a buyer. For a commodity to be both a value and a use-value, it must be produced for exchange. The exchange process alienates the ordinary commodity when its antithesis (the money commodity) becomes involved. During exchange, the money commodity confronts the ordinary commodity disguising the true form of the ordinary commodity. Commodities as use-values and money as exchange-value are now on opposite poles and exist as separate entities. In practice, gold or money functions as exchange-value while commodities function as use-values in the exchange process. A commodity's existence is only validated through the form of money, and money is only validated through the form of a commodity. This dualistic phenomenon involving money and commodities directly relates to Marx's concept of use-value and value.

 Commodity-Money-Commodity
 
Marx examines the two metamorphoses of the commodity through sale and purchase.  In this process, "as far as concerns its material content, the movement is C-C, the exchange of one commodity for another, the metabolic interaction of social labour, in whose result the process itself becomes extinguished".

 First metamorphosis of the commodity, or sale
 
In the sale process, the value of a commodity measured by socially necessary labour-time is then measured by the universal equivalent, i.e. gold.

 The second or concluding metamorphosis of the commodity purchase
 
Through the purchase process, all commodities lose their form by the universal alienator, i.e. money. Marx states that since "every commodity disappears when it becomes money", it is "impossible to tell from the money itself how it got into the hands of its possessor, or what article has been changed into it".

A purchase represents a sale, although they are two separate transformations. This process allows for the movement of commodities and the circulation of money.