[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chris Shuker

Christopher Alan Shuker (born 9 May 1982) is an English football coach and former player who made 402 appearances in a 14-year career as a midfielder in the English Football League.

He began his career at Manchester City, making his Premier League debut in 2002. He enjoyed loan spells out at Macclesfield Town, Walsall, Rochdale, and Hartlepool United, before signing a contract with Barnsley in March 2004. A key player at the club, he helped the "Tykes" to promotion out of the League One play-offs in 2006. He left the club after Barnsley withdrew their offer of a contract, and subsequently signed with Tranmere Rovers. He played 144 games for Rovers in league and cup competitions, before transferring to Morecambe for the 2010–11 season. He joined Port Vale on non-contract terms in February 2012, and helped the club to secure promotion out of League Two in 2012–13. He retired in May 2014 due to a chronic knee injury, but, having rejoined Tranmere Rovers as a coach in October 2014, returned to playing two months later.

Career

Manchester City
A right-sided midfielder from Huyton, Liverpool, Shuker left the Everton academy at age 16 to begin his career in the Premier League with Manchester City, signing professional forms at the age of 17. He was loaned out to Third Division club Macclesfield Town in March 2001, where he made his competitive debut under Gil Prescott on 24 March, in a 2–1 win over Blackpool at Moss Rose, after replacing Richard Tracey on 79 minutes. Prescott handed Shuker first start seven days later, in a 1–0 defeat at Carlisle United. He scored his first senior goal in his third appearance for the club, his header was the only goal of a 1–0 home win, and "capped off a fine all-round performance" against Kidderminster Harriers. He returned to Maine Road at the end of the 2000–01 season having made eight appearances for Macclesfield; during his absence Manchester City had lost their top-flight status.

He marked his "Blues" debut with a goal five minutes after coming onto the pitch, as Kevin Keegan put him on for Eyal Berkovic 59 minutes into a 4–2 win over Notts County in the League Cup on 11 September 2001. He played cameo roles in 3–0 wins over Walsall and Barnsley, but played a total of just three games in 2001–02, as City won promotion out of the First Division. He signed a new one-year deal in January, along with fellow youth team graduate Joey Barton.

After scoring past Rochdale and Tranmere Rovers in pre-season friendlies, he was given his Premier League debut on the opening day of the 2002–03 season, as City were beaten 3–0 by Leeds United at Elland Road. He got his first start for the club on 15 September, as City drew 2–2 at home to Blackburn Rovers; he was taken off for Danny Tiatto on 61 minutes. He made his final appearance for the club thirteen days later, as Michael Owen scored a hat-trick in 3–0 home defeat to Liverpool. He was sent out on a one-month loan to Colin Lee's Walsall in March 2003, and played five First Division games for the "Saddlers" before returning to Manchester. He signed a new one-year contract, despite raising concerns over a lack of first team opportunities.

He joined Alan Buckley's struggling Third Division Rochdale on a one-month loan at the start of the 2003–04 campaign, having scored against the club in a pre-season friendly. Booked in his first three games, he was sent off 67 minutes into a 2–2 draw with Cambridge United at Spotland. The loan was extended to three months, and on 30 September, he scored at former club Macclesfield, in a 2–1 defeat, as he "danced into the box before gleefully steering the ball into the far corner". He returned to Manchester in November after turning down the opportunity to add to his fifteen appearances for the "Dale", and was sent out on loan to Neale Cooper's Second Division Hartlepool United the following month. He played fifteen games for the "Pools", scoring one goal in a 5–2 thrashing of Port Vale at Vale Park.

Barnsley
He left Victoria Park in March 2004, and later in the month signed a short-term contract with Paul Hart's Barnsley, also of the Second Division. He played nine games for the "Tykes", to finish the campaign with 39 appearances spread across three different clubs.

On 10 August 2004, Shuker scored both of Barnsley's goals in a 2–1 win over Bristol City at Oakwell. He continued to impress, though was sent off in a 2–2 draw with Swindon Town on 23 October, after what the club website described as a "ridiculous refereeing decision". Playing despite suffering from mumps, he ended the 2004–05 League One campaign with eight goals in 48 games, including a  strike against Peterborough and a "beautiful volley" against Stockport County. For his performances, the club named him 'Player of the Season' and eventually offered him a new one-year contract, which he signed "after weeks of uncertainty".