[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Murray Waas

Udovitch, Matt Groening and Mark Alan Stamaty.

Waas first worked for columnist Anderson at age 18, the summer of his freshman year of college: "When I went out for interviews, the subjects took one look at me and just laughed... I was one of those 18-year-old kids who looked 15," he once recalled.

In an obituary of Anderson, The New York Times wrote that Anderson's column was "the nation's most widely read, longest-running political column." Anderson liked to boast that he and his relatively small staff of mostly young reporters had done daily "what Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein did just once when they dug out the truth of the Watergate scandal."

Idi Amin and economic sanctions 

It was while working for Anderson, that Waas wrote more than a dozen columns exposing business dealings between American corporations and the genocidal African regime of Idi Amin; and other columns advocating that the United States impose economic sanctions against his regime.

A number of historians and academicians have since concluded that the subsequent imposition of the sanctions led to the overthrow of the Amin regime and the end of genocide in that country. Several of the individuals involved in the political battle to have the sanctions imposed have credited Waas' reporting as indispensable to making the sanctions the law and official policy of the United States, without which Amin would have likely remained in power, and his genocide would have continued unabated.

The idea that economic sanctions might lead to Amin's overthrow was originally conceived by Bill Goold, who proposed such an embargo in a college paper he wrote as a student at Oberlin College. Immediately after graduation, Goold went to work for then-Rep. Don Pease, a Democrat of Ohio, who introduced legislation requiring that the U.S. impose economic sanctions against Amin. But as a freshman member of Congress, and Goold, as a young staffer to a freshman, Pease and Goold faced a daunting challenge in generating interest in their cause.  And when they did, the attention was often unfavorable: The State Department, The Washington Post editorial page, and the Jimmy Carter administration opposed such sanctions.

Amin ruled as military dictator of Uganda from 1971 to 1979, and has been described as "one of the most brutal despots in modern world history".  His rule was defined by torture, support for international terrorism, extrajudicial killings, the barbaric and random murders of ordinary citizens, and ethnic cleansing. Amin was believed to have murdered between at least 150,000 and 300,000 Ugandans in carrying out genocide against his own people. Amnesty International has estimated the number of people killed as high as 500,000.

Ralp Nurnberger, a former staffer on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and professor of international relations at Georgetown University,  concluded in a study for the African Studies Review that the economic sanctions imposed against Amin by the U.S. likely led to Amin's downfall. Nurnberger wrote that the congressional initiative to impose the sanctions had attracted scant attention or support outside a small number of members of Congress and congressional staff interested in the matter until "Jack Anderson assigned one of his reporters, Murray Waas to follow the issue" and to regularly write about it.

Nurnberger also characterized Waas' role as having "served as a useful contact for the congressional staff investigating this subject as well as Ugandan expatriates."

The tremendous reach of Anderson's column amplified Waas' reporting on Amin and his advocacy of sanctions. At the time, Anderson's columns were published in more than 1,000 newspapers, which in turn had 40 million readers. Waas was eighteen and nineteen years old at the time he wrote the series of columns.

The late Sen. Frank Church (D-Id.), a chairman of the Senate Foreign Committee, later said the congressionally imposed boycott "had a profound impact on the internal conditions [inside Uganda] and contributed to the fall of Idi Amin." Sen. Mark Hatfield (R-Or.), commented that the sanctions "provided the psychological and practical ingredients to complete a formula that would come to break Amin's seemingly invincible survivability."

In an article about the sanctions, published in 2003, Foreign Policy magazine concluded that the U.S.-imposed trade embargo "proved devastating to the Ugandan economy" and that "they helped set in motion the events that led to the fall of the regime."

During the Reagan administration, Waas was among a small group of reporters involved in breaking the story of the Iran-Contra affair.