[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ali Mohamed (double agent)

oyees of the United States of America. 

Count four charges a conspiracy to destroy buildings or property owned or leased by the United States government. The government proved that Ali attempted and planned to destroy or damage buildings or property owned or leased by the United States government. 

Finally, count five is the conspiracy to destroy national defense utilities of the United States government. Ali told the court that he had been involved with the Egyptian Islamic Jihad in the 1980s and was introduced to Osama bin Laden in the 1990s. “In 1992, I conducted military and basic explosives training for al Qaeda in Afghanistan. Among the people I trained were Harun Fadhl and Abu Jihad. I also conducted intelligence training for al Qaeda. I taught my trainees how to create cell structures that could be used for operations”. Ali then included information in the events leading up to the embassy bombings; “In the early 1990s, I assisted al Qaeda in creating a  presence in Nairobi, Kenya, and worked with several others on this project. Abu Ubaidah was in charge of al Qaeda in Nairobi until he drowned. Khalid al Fawwaz set up al Qaeda’s office in Nairobi. A car business was set up to create income. Wadih el Hage created a charity organization that would help provide al Qaeda members with identity documents”. Ali then told the court that he was asked by bin Laden to identify possible targets of which he conducted surveillance on the American Embassy building.

Speculated cooperation with U.S. intelligence 
In October 2001, the Raleigh News & Observer noted that Ali Mohamed may be cooperating with the U.S. government. "Defense lawyers and many other observers believe that Mohamed, who has not yet been sentenced, is now cooperating with the United States, though the government has never confirmed this. When he is sentenced he could receive as little as 25 years under his plea agreement." In his book The Mission, The Men, and Me: Lessons from a Former Delta Force Commander, former Delta Force commander Pete Blaber indicates he met Ali Mohamed who gave him information on how to infiltrate Afghanistan, find al-Qaeda commanders, and operate in country undetected in late 2001.

Further news sources in 2001 seem to suggest that Ali Mohamed is providing information on al-Qaeda in an attempt to reduce his sentence, and that his sentencing "has been postponed indefinitely." In 2006, Mohamed's wife, Linda Sanchez, was reported in 2006 as saying, "He's still not sentenced yet, and without him being sentenced I really can't say much. He can't talk to anybody. Nobody can get to him. They have Ali pretty secretive...it's like he just kinda vanished into thin air."

In 2011, former FBI agent Ali Soufan confirmed that Mohammed is still awaiting sentencing.

References 

 "By The Book", 60 Minutes II, CBS News, February 20, 2002

External links 
 Williams, Lance and Erin McCormick. "Al Qaeda terrorist worked with FBI, Ex-Silicon Valley resident plotted embassy attacks",San Francisco Chronicle, November 4, 2001. Accessed April 4, 2006
 Aita, Judy. "Ali Mohamed: The Defendant Who Did Not Go to Trial, Pled guilty to conspiracy in African embassy bombing case", International Information Programs, US Dept of State, May 15, 2001.  Accessed April 4, 2006
 

1952 births
American al-Qaeda members
American spies
Egyptian emigrants to the United States
Egyptian al-Qaeda members
United States Army soldiers
Egyptian military officers
Living people
American Sunni Muslims
Place of birth missing (living people)
American Muslims