[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Diplomatic and humanitarian efforts in the Somali Civil War

ns Frontières / Doctors Without Borders Efforts
Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) organized flood relief earlier in 2006, in an effort known as the Galgaduud Project. It focused on nutrition, non-food related deliveries, dealt with war-related suffering, as well as medical care.

On December 23, MSF Director of Operations Bruno Jochum expressed concern if military aircraft—especially US military aircraft—might be used to drop humanitarian aid because it risks misperceptions of connection between aid workers and the military, which might make it unsafe to continue working in Somalia.

On February 16, 2007, a gunman attacked two MSF Spain staff in Baardheere. MSF doctors and staff are in the town working to reopen the largest hospital, which had been closed for the past decade. The workers were uninjured. Local clan leaders pledged their support for the work of MSF in the region.

CARE
Paul Daniels is the Assistant Country Director for CARE-Somalia

CARE estimates 1.8 million people were pushed to the brink of starvation in the region due to drought, flood and civil war combined, while it could only provide food to 600,000 persons. Over 1 million lost their homes due to flooding.

Save the Children
Save the Children joined with other humanitarian NGOs to appeal to the warring factions to end the conflict. The organization also provided humanitarian relief during the 2011 Eastern Africa drought.

World Vision

 World Vision-Somalia - Contact Details (Reuters Alertnet)
Graham Davison - Operations Director, World Vision-Somalia

Mercy-USA
Relief Projects in Somalia
Help flood survivors in Somalia!

Norwegian Church Aid
On December 31, 2006, spokeswoman Kari Øyen of Norwegian Church Aid (NCA), a member of ACT, reported that 10,000 people had been displaced to Garbaharrey by recent fighting. NCA was dispensing blankets and relief supplies.

Notes

External sources
Somali Red Crescent Society (SRCS) / Ururka Bisha Cas
The ICRC in Somalia
Somalia Refugees in Yemen including Somalia Refugees Development Association (SOMDRA)
IRIN humanitarian news and analysis - Somalia

East African Community
Foreign relations of the African Union
Foreign relations of the European Union
Foreign relations of Somalia
History of the United Nations
International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement
Peacekeeping
United Nations operations in Somalia
Somali Civil War
Somali Civil War
Somali Civil War
Somali Civil War