[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Constructive set theory

follow the existence of the empty set  (also denoted ).
Within this conservative context of , the Bounded Separation schema is actually equivalent to Empty Set plus the existence of the binary intersection for any two sets. The latter variant of axiomatization does not make use of a formula schema.

For a proposition , a recurring trope in the constructive analysis of set theory is to view the predicate  as the subclass  of the second ordinal . 
If it is provable that  holds, or , or , then  is inhabited, or empty (uninhabited), or non-empty (not uninhabited), respectively.
Clearly,  is equivalent to the proposition  (in the model of the naturals this means  being smaller than  because, equivalently, ), while  is equivalent to  (so that, equivalently, ). The union that is part of the successor operation definition above may be used to express the excluded middle statement  as . In words,  is decidable if and only if the successor of  is larger than the smallest ordinal . The proposition   is decided either way through establishing how   is smaller: By  already being smaller than , or by  being 's direct predecessor. Another way to express excluded middle for  is as the existence of a least number member of the inhabited class .
If ones separation axiom allows for separation with , then  is a subset, which may be called the truth value associated with . Two truth values can be proven equal, as sets, by proving an equivalence. In terms of this terminology, the collection of proof values can a priori be understood to be rich. Unsurprisingly, decidable propositions have one of a binary set of truth values. 

The axiom schema of Predicative Separation is also called Bounded Separation, as in Separation for set-bounded quantifiers only. The scope of specified subsets that can be proven to exist is enriched with further set existence postulate. Bounded Separation is a schema that takes into account syntactic aspects of set defining predicates, up to provable equivalence. The permitted formulas are denoted by  in the set theoretical Lévy hierarchy, in analogy to  in the arithmetical hierarchy. (Note however that the arithmetic classification is sometimes expressed not syntactically but in terms of subclasses of the naturals. Also, the bottom level of the arithmetical hierarchy has several common definitions, some not allowing the use of some total functions. The distinction is not relevant on the level  or higher. Finally note that a  classification of a formula may be expressed up to equivalence in the theory.)

The schema is also the way in which Mac Lane weakens a system close to Zermelo set theory , for mathematical foundations related to topos theory. See also Kripke-Platek set theory.

No universal set 
By a remark in the section on merging sets, a set cannot consistently ruled out to be a member of a class of the form . A constructive proof that it is in that class contains information. Now if  is a set, then the class on the right is not a set. The following demonstrates this in the special case when  is empty, i.e. when the right side is the universal class.

The following holds for any relation , giving a purely logical condition by which two terms  and  non-relatable

The expression  is a bounded one and thus allowed in separation. By virtue of the rejection of the final disjunct above, , Russel's construction shows that . So for any set , Predicative Separation alone implies that there exists a set which is not a member of . In particular, no universal set can exist in this theory.

In a theory with the axiom of regularity, like , of course that subset  can be proven to be equal to  itself. As an aside, in a theory with stratification like Intuitionistic New Foundations, a universal set may exist because use of the syntactic expression  may be disallowed in proofs of existence by, essentially, separation.

Already the special case  implies that the subclass  of the universal class is proper as well.

Predicativity 
The restriction in the axiom is also gatekeeping impredicative definitions: Existence should at best not be claimed for objects that are not explicitly describable, or whose definition involves themselves or reference to a proper class, such as when a property to be checked involves a universal quantifier. So in a constructive theory without Axiom of power set, when  denotes some 2-ary predicate, one should not generally expect a subclass  of  to be a set, in case that it is defined, for example, as in
,
or via a similar definitions involving any quantification over the sets . Note that if this subclass  of  is provenly a set, then this subset itself is also in the unbounded scope of set variable . In other words, as the subclass property  is fulfilled, this exact set , defined using the expression , would play a role in its own characterization.