[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1987 Atlantic hurricane season

hwest of the Cape Verde Islands on August 30. Forecasters predicted would become the third tropical storm of the season. At 0600 UTC August 31, the depression was seemingly unchanged, with winds of averaging about . The depression was then located  west of Sao Taigo in Cape Verde, stirring up  seas.

The next day, Tropical Depression Six moved westward to a position more than  away from the Cape Verde Islands and the Lesser Antilles, too far away from land for the National Hurricane Center to send a reconnaissance flight into the depression. Tropical Depression Six was at the time not a threat to land and few ships were in the area. The depression degenerated into a tropical wave by September 2, though it was operationally considered a tropical cyclone until the following day.

Tropical Storm Cindy 

On September 1 a tropical wave exited the African coast, and moved westward across the Atlantic Ocean. A trough of low pressure moved southeastward through the tropics, and brought the wave more towards the north. Generally favorable conditions for development allowed the wave to organize into a tropical depression on September 5, and two days later it attained tropical storm status. Cindy continued northward, and peaked at  winds on September 8 before turning to the northeast. Strong upper-level shear weakened the storm, and after two days of struggling as a tropical storm, Cindy became extratropical on September 10 to the northwest of the Azores. Cindy did not affect any landmasses.

Tropical Depression Eight 

A tropical depression formed in the Caribbean on September 6. It tracked westward through the body of water, and reached peak winds of  on September 7. Despite its appearance, Tropical Depression Eight failed to develop further and early on September 8, the depression made landfall near Puerto Cabezas, Nicaragua, shortly before dissipating.

Tropical Depression Nine 

An upper-level cyclone in the northern Gulf of Mexico started tropical cyclogenesis offshore the southeast United States. Convection organized around a low-pressure area east of Florida, and it was declared Tropical Depression Nine on September 7. Initially poorly organized, the depression moved generally northward without strengthening, and quickly made landfall along the coast of South Carolina. It maintained its identity as it tracked through North Carolina and the Mid-Atlantic States, and on September 10 the depression merged with a frontal wave over New England. The cyclone dropped moderate precipitation along its path, peaking at  in central Virginia; stations in Maryland, the Carolinas, and Pennsylvania reported over  of rainfall. Flash flood warnings were issued in some localities due to the precipitation, and in Virginia over 50 roads were washed out. Slick roads caused three tractor-trailers to jackknife along a  portion of the Capital Beltway. Additionally, four people required rescue assistance after being trapped in swollen creeks.

Tropical Storm Dennis 

A tropical depression formed on September 8 off the coast of Africa. It tracked westward, passing to the south of the Cape Verde islands, and based on satellite imagery was estimated to have reached tropical storm status on September 10. Tropical Storm Dennis continued to gradually intensify, and on September 11 attained peak winds of  and a minimum pressure of . Subsequently, the cyclone weakened to minimal tropical storm status, and by September 14, Dennis was expected to immediately weaken to tropical depression status. However, Dennis remained a minimal tropical storm for four more days before deteriorating to a tropical depression on September 18, as reported by a hurricane hunters plane. The depression turned abruptly northwestward through a weakness in the subtropical ridge, suggesting a new low-pressure area developed. On September 19 it turned to the northeast, and on September 20 Dennis merged with an extratropical low.

Tropical Depression Eleven 

On September 14, a tropical depression developed about  southeast of Antigua. Tracking westward at , the depression maintained winds of about , and was deemed "no cause for alarm" for the Lesser Antilles. Failing to intensify further, the depression degenerated into a tropical wave on September 17 to the east of Antigua. No damage or fatalities were reported.

Hurricane Emily 

A tropical depression, the tenth of the season, formed on September 20. It soon became a tropical storm that day off the South American coast. Emily quickly strengthened becoming a hurricane less than 48 hours later on September 22.