[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jack Lowe Sr.

John B. Jack Lowe Sr. (July 22, 1913 – 1980) was a Dallas native who founded Texas Distributors Inc. in the back of his aunt's auto parts store. Lowe established the company's servant-leadership culture dedicated to help employees succeed. It remains part of the company's vision and values to this day.

While building the company, Lowe became involved with the lives of others. Lowe served as a chairman of the multiracial Dallas Alliance Education Task Force, which worked to develop a widely accepted school desegregation plan. The plan was adopted almost word-for-word by the United States federal courts. In 1976, Lowe was awarded Dallas' highest community service accolades—the Linz Award—for his work on the Dallas Alliance Education Task Force.

Lowe also helped strengthen the Greater Dallas Council of Churches and he served on the Citizens Council. He was active on the boards of the Community Relations Commission, Salvation Army, American Red Cross, Urban League, YMCA and Girl Scout Council. He also was a member and chairman of the Cotton Bowl Athletic Association, the Salesmanship Club of Dallas and the Dallas Kiwanis Club.

Lowe died in 1980 at the age of 67, leaving behind his wife Harriet sons Ed, Bob, and Jack and daughter Ann Williams.

Early life
Jack Lowe Sr.'s father, John Burford Lowe, was a traveling insurance salesman who often left his wife, Florence, and their infant son behind while travelling. In 1913 or 1914, J.B. Lowe left his wife and baby in New Orleans. Needing money, Mrs. Florence Lowe spoke to the owner of a grocery store, and he agreed to give her enough money for milk and food in exchange for her working at his store. However, she later fell too sick to work and earn money. The grocer got in touch with Mrs. Lowe's mother who moved Mrs. Lowe and baby to Farmerville, Louisiana.

The Lowes were back together in Dallas by 1923, and Florence went to work as a stenographer for Dallas Power & Light (DP&L). Three weeks later, her husband died from pneumonia. By 1924, Mrs. Lowe worked as secretary to C.W. Davis, who was then the general manager of DP&L but was soon to become president, and her fortunes improved gradually.

Lowe was obedient, respectful, and responsible with fair consistency . Mrs. Lowe was a very independent woman and taught Lowe pride and self-reliance. The things she did for her son, besides offering more or less constant moral support, instruction and encouragement, centered around feeding and clothing him, and putting him through college during the heart of the Great Depression. Part of her influence was also taught by example: Mrs. Lowe constantly studied anything that would improve her in her job and improve her mind.

High school and college years
Jack Lowe was the salutatorian of his class at North Oak Cliff High School, now titled Adamson. He was active in the Scholarship Club, Hi-Y, and was a member of the Oak Staff. He served as vice president of the National Honor Society and won the Efficiency Pin. In high school he belonged to the City Crack Company and the State Crack Company of 1927 that marched at the State Fair. Crack companies were drill teams, a part of the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) and was very popular in the years between the world wars.

Two months after Lowe began his senior year at North Oak Cliff High, the stock market crashed. Job opportunities for high school seniors were limited, but Lowe got a scholarship to Rice University. Lowe's involvement in clubs and school publications ceased abruptly at Rice, mostly because he held part-time jobs to help defray expenses.

Post-graduation
Lowe left Rice with a degree in electrical engineering and was assigned to the General Electric Company (GE)'s training facility at Schenectady, New York. GE had formed an Air Conditioning Department at Bloomfield, New Jersey in 1932, and Lowe was transferred there after completing training at Schenectady. The management put him to work at selling and overseeing the installation of large commercial units in the region just south of the Great Lakes. In 1938 at the age of twenty-five, Lowe was chosen to superintend the installation of an air conditioning system at Wolf and Dessars, the largest department store in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

While in Fort Wayne, Lowe married Harriet Fuelber, the daughter of a prominent local attorney, just three weeks after their first date. Jack Lowe Jr. was born in 1939. GE moved Lowe Sr. and Fuelber frequently, and Lowe and Fuelber were transferred to Dallas, where Lowe took on the job of finding more GE customers in North Texas. A year later, their second child, Ann, was born, and Lowe became district manager over air conditioning, just before the country went to war.