[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Stephen M. Schwebel

ntervention which has consisted not only in provision of great quantities of small arms until early 1981, but provision of arms, ammunition, munitions and supplies thereafter and provision of command and control centers, training and communication facilities and other support before and after 1981."

Schwebel views the court as not being even handed in its interpretation of evidence and testimony. He feels that the Court paid insufficient attention to the rights of both the U.S and Nicaragua's neighbors.  He found that emphasizing the rights of Nicaragua, while the U.S. claimed that Nicaragua was itself behind the guerrilla movement in El Salvador, "was incompatible with the principles of equality of States." Schwebel also notes that the name assigned to the case (Military & Paramilitary Activities in and Against Nicaragua) indicates inherent bias and predetermined judgment. Scholars have written that Schwebel was inhibited, however, in making a case for his view due to the withdrawal of the United States from the proceedings and, as a result,  the lack of an advocate in the Court to defend U.S. policy and to attack the evidence presented by Nicaragua.

Case: Oil Platforms (Islamic Republic of Iran v. United States of America) 

In Oil Platforms (Islamic Republic of Iran v. United States), Schwebel, acting as vice president of the ICJ, issued a dissenting opinion to the Court's 1996 preliminary judgement ruling that it could exercise jurisdiction over the dispute.  In the case, Iran challenged the U.S. Navy's destruction of three Iranian oil platforms in the Persian Gulf after an increase in tensions in 1987-1988.  The United States filed preliminary objections to the Court's jurisdiction and a counter-claim challenging Iran's attacks on vessels in the Persian Gulf.  Dissenting from the Court's preliminary ruling that it could exercise jurisdiction over the dispute, Schwebel reasoned that the scope of the compromissory clause of the 1955 Treaty of Amity, Economic Relations and Consular Rights between Iran and the United States – the alleged basis for jurisdiction – did not encompass the dispute because the parties did not intend, at the time of signing the Treaty of Amity, for disputes of such a nature to be covered by the clause.  He noted that the Treaty's purpose was to promote commerce and navigation between the parties, not to regulate uses of force between the parties.

Post International Court of Justice career

Since the end of his tenure on the International Court of Justice, Schwebel has acted as counsel, mediator and independent arbitrator in disputes that have involved commercial, corporate and public international law. He has been appointed in 67 arbitral proceedings that have included disputes between states and disputes between states and foreign investors. In October 2010, Schwebel was appointed by the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon as the Chairman of the Kishanganga/Neelum River Hydro-Electric Project (Pakistan v. India) Arbitration. He also acted as counsel and advocate for Colombia in its territorial and maritime delimitation dispute with Nicaragua and for Belize in its territorial, insular and maritime boundary dispute with Guatemala. In October 2007, Schwebel was appointed to a three-member tribunal tasked with determining whether or not to annul the award (on jurisdiction) rendered in the dispute between the UK registered firm Malaysian Historical Salvors and the Government of Malaysia.

Arbitral fora

Schwebel has been chairman or party appointed arbitrator in International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), American Arbitration Association (AAA), Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce (SCC), London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA), Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA), Japan Commercial Arbitration Association (JCAA) and United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL)  ad hoc proceedings.

Notable cases

Current positions

Judge, Administrative Tribunal of the World Bank,(Member, 2007–Present).
Member, Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA), The Hague, The Netherlands, 2006–Present.
Member, Board of Directors of the American Arbitration Association, 2006–Present.
Member, Panel of Arbitrators of the Japan Commercial Arbitration Association, 2003–Present.
Member, Institut pour le Arbitrage International, 2001–Present.
Member, Panel of Conciliators and of Arbitrators of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID), 2000–Present.
Member, International Centre for Dispute Resolution Roster of Neutrals of the AAA, 2000–Present.
Editor (honorary), American Journal of International Law, 1996–Present (Member of the Board of Editors, 1967–1981).
Member, Institute de Droit International, 1981–Present.
Council on Foreign Relations, 1956–Present.
Member, the American Society of International Law, 1956–Present.
Member, International Law Association, 1956–Present.