[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Danny Guthrie

Danny Sean Guthrie (born 18 April 1987) is an unattached English professional footballer who plays as a midfielder, who last played for Fram in Iceland. He has made more than 200 appearances in the Premier League and Football League and represented the England under-16s at international level in 2003. After running up gambling debts, he was declared bankrupt for six years in June 2022.

Early life
Born in Shrewsbury, Shropshire, Guthrie attended Thomas Telford School in Telford from the age of 11 until he was 16 while he was also a part of the Manchester United youth academy. He was a member of a very successful football squad at his school, winning many County Cups and reaching the semi-finals in the English School's National Football Tournament. Guthrie then left Shropshire to live on Merseyside at the age of 16 to further his footballing career at Liverpool.

Club career

Liverpool
Guthrie's first appearance with the Liverpool senior team came during the summer of 2006 in a pre-season friendly at Wrexham, where he played as a left midfielder. He made his competitive first-team debut in a Football League Cup third round tie against Reading on 25 October 2006, coming on as a 62nd-minute substitute for Mohamed Sissoko in a 4–3 victory at Anfield. On 29 November, he made his Premier League debut in a goalless home draw against Portsmouth, filling in for the last six minutes in place of Jermaine Pennant. He started his first match for Liverpool in the UEFA Champions League against Galatasaray on 5 December, a 3–2 away defeat for Liverpool.

Southampton (loan)
On 2 March 2007, Guthrie signed for Southampton on an emergency loan deal until the end of the month which was subsequently extended to the end of the season.

Bolton Wanderers (loan)
Guthrie spent the 2007–08 season with Bolton Wanderers, who at the start of the season were managed by former Liverpool player and coach Sammy Lee. Lee left the club by mutual consent in October, and there was speculation that Guthrie would not stay at Bolton for the rest of his loan spell. However, Gary Megson showed faith in Guthrie when he took over and he played intermittently. He scored on his Bolton debut against Fulham in the League Cup, his first professional goal. He was also in the starting XI for the Bolton team that drew 2–2 with Bayern Munich at the Allianz Arena during the UEFA Cup. Megson further showed faith in Guthrie by starting him in the line up in Megson's second league match, a victory at home to Manchester United. Guthrie completed the season with 25 Premier League appearances before returning to Liverpool.

Newcastle United
Guthrie signed for Newcastle on 11 July 2008 for an undisclosed fee, believed to be in the region of £2.5 million, on a four-year contract. His new manager, Kevin Keegan, compared him to former Newcastle favourites Rob Lee and Paul Bracewell. Guthrie made his debut for Newcastle in a pre-season game against Hartlepool United, where he came on at half time and managed to score one goal and create another. He added to this on 6 August by scoring against PSV Eindhoven at St James' Park on his home debut. On 17 August, Guthrie made his competitive debut alongside fellow debutants Jonás Gutiérrez and Fabricio Coloccini in a 1–1 draw against Manchester United at Old Trafford. On 13 September, Guthrie received a late red card, being sent off in a home loss to Hull City following a cynical hack at Craig Fagan, who was later revealed to have broken his leg. Guthrie scored his first Premier League goal for Newcastle on 14 December as part of a 3–0 away win against Portsmouth. His second goal came on 26 December from the penalty spot as part of a 2–1 away loss to Wigan Athletic.

During the 2008–09 season, Guthrie featured regularly and formed a midfield partnership with Nicky Butt, an opportunity granted to him after starter Joey Barton sustained an injury. For his performances during the season, he gained praise from the media and fans alike, becoming a surprise favourite with the Toon Army as a result.

Guthrie became a more regular starter during the 2009–10 season as Newcastle, relegated from the Premiership, were participating in the Football League Championship. He scored three goals in three games, netting in the 4–3 League Cup win over Huddersfield Town and then scoring the only goal in a 1–0 win over Leicester City, then in the 2–2 draw against West Bromwich Albion. Guthrie scored two goals and was voted man of the match in a 6–1 win over Barnsley. He had his best season with Newcastle during the year in the Championship, scoring five goals from 43 games and having his team's highest number of assists, with 13.