[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pritzker Military Museum & Library

podcasts. This website has over 400 of these programs available as episodes of Pritzker Military Presents, or original programming produced by the Museum & Library. The programs are downloaded at a rate of 2,000 per month per program. They are also broadcast on Chicago PBS affiliate WTTW Channel 11.

Citizen Soldier
The Museum & Library also produces Citizen Soldier. Each episode is originally a panel, conversation or interview that takes place at Pritzker Military Museum & Library. 
It is then edited into a 26-minute episode that is broadcast on Chicago Public TV station, WTTW Channel 11 and WTTW-Prime Channel 11–2. Seasons one and two can be viewed on the Museum & Library's website.  the show is in its third season.

Other programs
The Holt Oral History Program has collected stories from 71 US military veterans and posted a downloadable podcast. The full audio interviews and transcriptions are available on the Museum & Library's website. Kenneth Clarke, president and CEO of the library at the time, said one of the Library's goals is to provide a secure space for veterans to explore their experiences in war.

The Museum & Library also serves as a community resource, hosting commissioning and citizenship ceremonies.

Exhibitions

The Museum & Library has also hosted exhibitions by artists such as Steve Mumford, James Dietz, Don Stivers, and members of the Midwest Air Force Association. Other exhibitions have included Don't Be a Dope!: Training Comics from World War II and Korea and She's a Wow!: Women's Service Organizations in World War II. In May 2014, the Pritzker exhibited photography from Stephanie Freid-Perenchio: her work depicted Navy SEALs in training and during their service in Afghanistan; the exhibit also included independently loaned artifacts from the Navy SEAL Museum such as uniforms and equipment. In June 2019, the Museum & Library opened the D-Day+75 exhibition, to mark the 75th anniversary of D-Day. The exhibit featured images, letters and maps from the invasion in Normandy in addition to video and audio recording from D-Day veterans.

Awards program
In 2007, the Museum & Library awarded its first annual Pritzker Literature Award for Lifetime Achievement in Military Writing to Civil War historian James M. McPherson. The award includes a $100,000 honorarium. It is given in the Museum & Library's name by the Tawani Foundation.

Honorees

Critical reception
The Pritzker Military Museum & Library was named one of 10 recipients of the 2009 National Medal for Museum and Library Service. The annual award, made by the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS) since 1994, recognizes institutions for outstanding social, educational, environmental, or economic contributions to their communities.

The Museum & Library's 2006 schedule was named an Official Honoree of the 2007 Webby Awards. It was also named an Official Honoree in two categories, Live & Broadcast Events and Podcasts, in the 2008 Webby Awards.

Publications 

The museum publishes books, including:

See also 
 C. C. Beall – some works in collection
 Bill Mauldin – many of his works in collection

References

External links

 
 Front & Center with John Callaway archive at the Pritzker Military Museum & Library pdf
 John Callaway discusses The Politics of War with Bruce DuMont at the Pritzker Military Museum & Library
 Organizational Profile – National Center for Charitable Statistics (Urban Institute)

Libraries in Chicago
Military historiography
Museums in Chicago
Art museums and galleries in Illinois
Military and war museums in Illinois
Libraries established in 2003
2003 establishments in Illinois
Research libraries in the United States