[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 84]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

quite incredible, that a farthing just doubled a few
times, should amount to such a prodigious sum; however, I am determined
to learn arithmetic, that I may not be imposed upon in this manner, for
I think a gentleman must look very silly in such a situation.

Thus had Tommy a new employment and diversion for the winter nights--the
learning arithmetic. Almost every night did Mr Barlow, and Harry, and
he, amuse themselves with little questions that related to numbers; by
which means Tommy became, in a short time, so expert, that he could add,
subtract, multiply, or divide almost any given sum, with little trouble
and great exactness. But he did not for this forget the employment of
observing the heavens, for every night when the stars appeared bright,
and the sky was unclouded, Harry and he observed the various figures and
positions of the constellations. Mr Barlow gave him a little paper
globe, as he had promised, and Tommy immediately marked out upon the
top his first and favourite constellation of Charles' Wain. A little
while after that, he observed on the other side of the Pole-star another
beautiful assemblage of stars, which was always opposite to Charles'
Wain; this, Mr Barlow told him, was called _Cassiopeia's_ Chair, and
this, in a short time, was added to the collection.

One night as Tommy was looking up to the sky in the southern part of the
heavens, he observed so remarkable a constellation that he could not
help particularly remarking it; four large and shining stars composed
the ends of the figure, which was almost square, and full in the middle
appeared three more placed in a slanting line and very near each other.
This Tommy pointed out to Mr Barlow, and begged to know the name. Mr
Barlow answered that the constellation was named _Orion_, and that the
three bright stars in the middle were called his belt. Tommy was so
delighted with the grandeur and beauty of this glorious constellation,
that he could not help observing it, by intervals, all the evening; and
he was surprised to see that it seemed to pass on in a right line drawn
from east to west, and that all the stars he had become acquainted with
moved every night in the same direction.

But he did not forget to remind Harry one morning of the history he had
promised to tell him of Agesilaus. Harry told it in the following
manner:--


"HISTORY OF AGESILAUS."

"The Spartans (as I have before told you, Master Tommy) were a brave and
hardy people, who despised everything that tended to make them delicate
and luxurious. All their time was spent in such exercises as made them
strong and active, able to bear fatigue, and to despise wounds and
danger, for they were situated in the midst of several other nations
that frequently had quarrels with each other, and with them; and
therefore it was necessary that they should learn to defend themselves.
Therefore all the children were brought up alike, and the sons of their
kings themselves were as little indulged as anybody else."

_Tommy._--Stop, stop!--I don't exactly understand that. I thought a king
was a person that dressed finer and had less to do than anybody else in
the world. I have often heard my mamma and the ladies say that I looked
like a prince when I had fine clothes on; and therefore I thought that
kings and princes never did anything but walk about with crowns upon
their heads, and eat sweetmeats all day long.

_Harry._--I do not know how that may be, but in Sparta the great
business of the kings (for they had two) was to command them when they
went out to war, or when they were attacked at home--and that, you know,
they could not do without being brave and hardy themselves. "Now it
happened that the Spartans had some dear friends and allies that lived
at a distance from them across the sea, who were attacked by a great and
numerous nation called the Persians. So when the Spartans knew the
danger of their friends, they sent over to their assistance Agesilaus,
one of their kings, together with a few thousands of his countrymen; and
these they judged would be a match for all the forces that could be
brought against them by the Persians, though ever so numerous. When the
general of the Persians saw the small number of his enemies, he imagined
it would be an easy matter to take them prisoners or to destroy them.
Besides, as he was immensely rich, and possessed a number of palaces,
furnished with everything that was fine and costly, and had a great
quantity of gold and silver, and jewels, and slaves, he could not
conceive it possible that anybody could resist him. He therefore raised
a large army, several times greater than that of the Spartans, and
attacked Agesilaus, who was not in the least afraid of him; for the
Spartans, joining their shields together, and marching slowly along in
even ranks, fell with so much fury upon the Persians, that in an instant
they put them to flight."

Here Tommy interrupted the