[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Destrehan Plantation

nufacture shoes and clothes, and 25 years after his death a city was to be laid out on the grounds of the plantation and named Dunblane. The family contested the will; and after 12 years in litigation and an appeal to the Louisiana Supreme Court, the will was set aside based on a legal technicality.

Pierre Adolphe Rost (1797–1868)
Pierre Adolphe Rost, a justice of the Louisiana Supreme Court from 1845 to 1853, purchased the plantation from the Henderson estate in 1839. He and his wife, Louise Odile Destréhan, another daughter of Jean-Noël Destréhan, began to remodel the house in the then-popular Greek Revival style. Doors and windows were trimmed in Greek Revival details, the wood columns of the façade were encased in plastered brick, and the rear gallery was enclosed to create an entrance foyer.  Also, removed from the rear gallery, winding staircases were re-installed in the center hall; and on the exterior, the stucco was scored to resemble stone.

Upon the advent of the American Civil War, Rost offered his services to the Confederate States of America and was assigned as the C.S.A.'s diplomatic representative in Spain, where he stayed with his family for most of the war. After the Civil War ended in 1865, the plantation was seized by the Freedmen's Bureau, and the Rost Home Colony was established. The plan was for the freedmen to have access to medical and educational aid, in addition to working for wages or for a portion of the harvested crops. The Rost Home Colony was the most successful of those created in Louisiana and provided a profit to the Bureau.

Also in 1865, Pierre Rost returned from Europe, with a pardon from President Andrew Johnson, and demanded his property back. The Colony existed for an additional year, paying Rost rent, with the last colonist departing in December 1866.

Pierre Rost died in 1868 and his wife and son, Emile Rost, continued to live at Destrehan Plantation. Emile Rost sold the plantation in 1910, to the Destrehan Planting and Manufacturing Company, ending family ownership of the estate after 123 years.

American Oil Company
In 1914, the Mexican Petroleum Company, a predecessor of the American Oil Company, bought the property and built an oil refinery. The company tore down the ancillary buildings around the manor house and built employee housing. The mansion itself was used in a variety of ways including as a clubhouse. In 1959, American Oil tore down the refinery, abandoning the site; the following 12 years brought rapid decay for Destrehan Plantation house.

Due in part to an old legend that the privateer Jean Lafitte had hidden treasure in the house, treasure-seekers left gaping holes in the walls. Vandals also stripped the building of its Italian-marble mantels, cypress paneling, Spanish-style ceramic tiles, and glass window panes.  Fortunately, a local sheriff prevented the theft of the plantation's original 1840s iron entrance gates and a  marble bathtub, rumored to be a gift from Napoleon Bonaparte to the family.

River Road Historical Society
In 1971, American Oil donated the house and  of land to the River Road Historical Society, a nonprofit organization. The oil company continued its support in 1990 by donating monies for the installation of a fire sprinkler system and new roof, as well as gifting an additional  of surrounding land.

Through its volunteer efforts, the historical society was able to raise sufficient funds to halt the process of decay at the former plantation, restoring the house and grounds to their former beauty. Recent efforts have focused on authentically re-creating the plantation community which would have surrounded the manor house.

Destrehan Plantation is open daily for guided tours, which interpret the lives of the plantation's former residents — both free and enslaved. Period crafts such as dyeing with indigo, candle-making, and open-hearth cooking are demonstrated on most days.

Destrehan Plantation in popular culture
Destrehan Plantation was used as a location in the following feature films and television shows:

Feature films
 12 Years a Slave (2013)
 Interview with the Vampire (1994)
  Lemonade - Portions of Beyoncé's film were recorded at Destrehan Plantation (2016)

Television shows
 Flip My Food with Chef Jeff (2015)
 NCIS: New Orleans (2015)
 Ravenswood (2013)

Source:

See also
1811 German Coast Uprising
History of Louisiana
History of slavery in Louisiana
List of plantations in Louisiana
List of the oldest buildings in Louisiana
National Register of Historic Places listings in St. Charles Parish, Louisiana
National Register of Historic Places listings in Louisiana
Slavery in the colonial United States
Slavery in the United States

References

External links

Louisiana State Museum Map Database, Destrehan Plantation
Freedmen's Bureau, LA - Rost Home Colony