[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1977 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1977 in the United Kingdom. This year was the Silver Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II.

Incumbents
Monarch – Elizabeth II
Prime Minister – James Callaghan (Labour)
Parliament – 47th

Events

January
January–June – The United Kingdom holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union for the first time. 
January – The Ford Fiesta car goes on sale in the UK.
3 January – Roy Jenkins, the Home Secretary, announces he is leaving the House of Commons to become President of the European Commission.
6 January – After releasing only one single for controversial punk rock band the Sex Pistols, EMI terminates its contract with them in response to its members' disruptive behaviour last month on ITV's Today and two days ago at London Heathrow Airport. Their next contract (in March) with a record company lasts for 2 weeks.
10 January – Clive Sinclair introduces his new two-inch screen television set, which retails at £175.
14 January – Former Prime Minister Anthony Eden, Earl of Avon, dies aged 79 at Alvediston Manor, his Wiltshire home.
29 January – Seven Provisional Irish Republican Army bombs explode in the West End of London, but there are no fatalities or serious injuries.

February
4 February
 Fleetwood Mac's Grammy-winning album Rumours is released, featuring songs that include "The Chain", "Don't Stop", and "Go Your Own Way".
 Police discover an IRA bomb factory in Liverpool.
5 February – Twenty-eight-year-old homeless woman Irene Richardson is murdered in Leeds, at almost the exact location where sex worker Marcella Claxton was badly injured nine months earlier. Police believe that this murder and attempted murder may be connected, along with the murders of Wilma McCann, Emily Jackson and the attempted murders of at least three other women.
10 February
 Elizabeth II visits American Samoa.
 The three IRA terrorists involved in the 1975 Balcombe Street Siege in London are sentenced to life imprisonment on six charges of murder.
11 February – Queen Elizabeth II visits Western Samoa.
13 February – Anthony Crosland, Foreign Secretary, suffers a massive stroke, from which he will not regain consciousness. He dies six days later in hospital.
14 February – Elizabeth II visits Tonga.
15 February – The first Aardman Animations character, Morph, is introduced on BBC children's television programme Take Hart.
16–17 February – Elizabeth II visits Fiji.
17 February – George Newman, chairman of Staffordshire County Council, is sentenced to fifteen months in prison for corruption.
22 February – David Owen, 38, becomes the youngest post-Second World War Foreign Secretary, succeeding the late Anthony Crosland, who died three days earlier. 
22 February–7 March – Elizabeth II visits New Zealand.
28 February – State opening of the Parliament of New Zealand, by Elizabeth II.

March
1 March
James Callaghan threatens to withdraw state assistance to British Leyland unless it puts an end to strikes.
Long-term prohibition of directed herring fishing within the UK exclusive economic zone is introduced.
7–30 March – Elizabeth II visits Australia.
8 March – State opening of the Australian Parliament, Canberra by Elizabeth II.
12 March – The Centenary Test between Australia and England begins at the Melbourne Cricket Ground.
14 March – The government reveals that inflation has pushed prices up by nearly 70% within three years.
15 March – British Leyland managers announce intention to dismiss 40,000 toolmakers who have gone on strike at the company's Longbridge plant in Birmingham, action which is costing the state-owned carmaker more than £10,000,000 a week.
17–23 March – The Prince of Wales (now Charles III) visits Ghana.
19 March – The last Rover P6 rolls off the production line after 14 years.
23 March – The government wins a vote of no confidence in the House of Commons after James Callaghan strikes a deal with the leader of the Liberal Party, David Steel.
23–25 March – Elizabeth II visits Papua New Guinea.
29 March – Income tax is slashed to 33p in the pound from 35p in the budget.
31 March – Elizabeth II visits Muscat.

April
 April – Mike Leigh's comedy of manners Abigail's Party opens at the Hampstead Theatre, starring Alison Steadman.
2 April – Red Rum wins the Grand National for the third time.
8 April – Punk band The Clash's debut album The Clash is released in the UK through CBS Records.
11 April – London Transport's Silver Jubilee AEC Routemaster buses are launched.
 18–30 April – The Embassy World Snooker Championship moves to the Crucible Theatre, Sheffield, and attracts television coverage for the first time.
23 April
 National Front marchers clash with anti-Nazi protesters in London.
 Prostitute Patricia Atkinson is murdered in Bradford; she is believed to be the fourth woman to die at the hands of the mysterious Yorkshire Ripper.
29 April – British Aerospace is formed, to run the nationalised aviation industry.
30 April – Mid-Hants Railway reopens as a heritage line.

May