[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ignacio Hidalgo de Cisneros

e rather than pursuing his curriculum, as emergency measure the young Ignacio was transferred to Toledo, to the school managed by the Carlist friend of his late father, Cesáreo Sanz Escartín; unsuccessful also there, at unspecified date he finally completed the Madrid Academia de Révora.

Monarchist

Having completed his initial military education, in 1912 Hidalgo de Cisneros entered Academia de Intendencia in Ávila; the school was supposed to be just a stepping stone towards his aviation career. For the time being his military intendant training got him transferred to Andalusia, where at various locations he was serving in supply branch of the army, leading an enjoyable life of a young military bon vivant. Once his service duration enabled him to volunteer to Morocco, he immediately did so, serving in intendency and logistics some time between 1917 and 1919. Once the Spanish army commenced formal aviation training he was transferred to the Cuatro Vientos air base, where in 1919-1920 Hidalgo de Cisneros completed flying courses and joined the nascent Aviación Militar Española.  Shortly afterwards he was again commissioned to Morocco; stationed in Melilla he flew his first combat missions. Rapidly gaining experience in reconnaissance, bombing, assault and transport sorties, in the early 1920s, still a teniente, he already started to act as a flying instructor. At an unspecified date he was promoted to captain and just a year later to major, taking part in all key operations of the campaign. Following termination of the Rif War in 1925 Hidalgo de Cisneros was nominated deputy commander of the Alcala de Henares aviation school.

In 1927 Hidalgo de Cisneros was nominated "Commander of Air Forces in the Spanish Sahara", all his assets having been 10 aircraft. He was stationed first at Cabo Juby and later in Villa Cisneros; his task was about keeping the local native tribes in check by demonstrating Spanish military prowess, supervising postal operations, performing cartographic reconnaissance flights and ensuring safety of regular French trans-Atlantic services, which used the Spanish Sahara airfields as re-fuelling and supply outposts. He was also inevitably entangled in dealings with the natives, performing informal quasi-political functions. Having completed advanced courses he gained new skills. In 1929 he was transferred to the Mar Chica seaplane airbase near Melilla. 

Hardly concerned with politics and having long abandoned not only his juvenile Carlism but also his faith, as a young officer Hidalgo de Cisneros considered himself a patriotic Spaniard serving the cause of the king and the country; during service in Andalusia he was enraged by British presence in Gibraltar, claiming he would die of hunger rather than allow the English to stay on the Spanish soil. During the First World War he sympathised with Central Powers rather than with Entente, following the Annual disaster he was anxious to defend the glory of Spain and administer exemplary punishment to rebellious Berber tribes. He greeted the coup of Primo de Rivera with indifference, entirely unperturbed by end of liberal democracy and by coming of the dictatorship. Later on he started to lean towards some cynicism, possibly grown during the years spent on mortally dangerous warfare missions. Having met Primo de Rivera personally Hidalgo de Cisneros started to respect though not necessarily admire the dictator, crediting him for military competence and personal format, but gradually getting unsure about his political vision.

Republican

In the late 1920s Hidalgo de Cisneros grew increasingly skeptical about Spanish politics. Though far from militancy, he was irritated by adulation of Primo, incompetence and corporatism of the military, omnipresence of the Church, señoritismo culture among the upper strata and, last but not least, by social abyss diving the poor and the rich, especially in the South of Spain. Having befriended a number of opposition-minded individuals, especially other aviators Ramón Franco, Jose Legorburu and Miguel Nuñez de Prado, he developed indifference towards the monarchy in general and towards Alfonso XIII in particular, as he met and was unimpressed by the king. Hidalgo de Cisneros did not make a secret of his observations, instigating also minor demonstrations of dissent in his unit.