[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Turkish Kurdistan

ce names were changed and turkified, the use of Kurdish language was outlawed, the words Kurds and Kurdistan were erased from dictionaries and history books, and the Kurds were only referred to as Mountain Turks''. Politicians were often prosecuted and sentenced to prison terms for speaking Kurdish.

In 1983, a number of provinces were placed under martial law in response to the activities of the militant separatist Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK). A guerrilla war took place through the rest of the 1980s and into the 1990s. By 1993, the total number of security forces involved in the struggle in southeastern Turkey was about 200,000, and the conflict had become the largest counter-insurgency in the Middle East, in which much of the countryside was evacuated, thousands of Kurdish-populated villages were destroyed, and numerous extra judicial summary executions were carried out by both sides. More than 37,000 people were killed in the violence and hundreds of thousands more were forced to leave their homes. The situation in the region has since eased following the capture of the PKK leader Abdullah Öcalan in 1999 and the introduction of a greater degree of official tolerance for Kurdish cultural activities, encouraged by the European Union. However, some political violence is still ongoing and the Turkish–Iraqi border region remains tense.

Kurdification

When refugees from Caucasus reached the Ottoman Empire, Constantinople decided not to settle these in Kurdistan due to the extreme poverty and lack of material resources for the refugees. Yet after some time, the Ottomans started seeing the refugees as a chance to diminish the Kurdish claim to the region and allowed the refugees to settle in the region. 

From early stage on, some Caucasians went through a voluntary process of Kurdification and thereby had Kurdish as their mother tongue.

20th–21st century and PKK 
When the Kurdish question arose in Turkey, it also had an effect on their Caucasian neighbors. Even today, there is an aversion from joining the Kurds in their conflict against the Turkish state, but some individuals of Caucasian origin joined the Kurdistan Workers' Party. As part of their campaign, Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) won elections in most Caucasian villages in Turkish Kurdistan.

See also
 Armenian highlands
 Denial of Kurds by Turkey
 Western Armenia
 Zagros Mountains
 Mount Judi

References

External links
 Maps of Kurdish Regions by GlobalSecurity.org
 Map of Kurdish Population Distribution by GlobalSecurity.org

 
Kurds in Turkey
Kurdistan
Kurdish separatism in Turkey
Geography of Kurdistan
Regions of Turkey
Politics of Turkey
 
Eastern Anatolia Region
Southeastern Anatolia Region
Upper Mesopotamia