[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# John Rodgers Meigs

Shaver corroborated the second Union topographer's account, including the charge that Meigs fired first. He claimed Meigs was given fair warning that they were Confederates, but charged at them. He also said that he shot Meigs in the head, while Private F.M. Campbell shot Meigs in the chest.

Legacy

Burning of Dayton
It is unclear if the Union topographer's account was accurate or not. Noting that the Confederates were more than  behind Union lines, Sheridan was convinced that the scouts were actually spies visiting their homes by pretending to be Union soldiers. He ordered that Dayton and every house within  of town be burned to the ground. Realizing whom his men had killed, Wickham released his prisoner and sent him back to Sheridan in the hopes of telling a more accurate version of the story. This second assistant told Sheridan that the Confederates pulled their guns first, and captured Meigs and his men. With his cape concealing his movements, Meigs then pulled his pistol out and shot Private George Martin in the groin. The uninjured Confederates then shot Meigs.

Sheridan's men began to burn Dayton. Local townspeople pleaded for them to stop, and Union soldiers often helped them carry belongings out of the house before setting fire to it. Sheridan then ordered the burning of Dayton stopped. His motive is unclear, although both citizens of the town and his own subordinates asked him to rescind the order. Instead, Sheridan ordered that homes and barns around the area where Meigs died be burned, and all able-bodied men in the area were arrested as prisoners of war.

Brigadier General Montgomery C. Meigs was devastated by his son's death.  Believing John's death to be murder, he offered a $1,000 reward to anyone who would apprehend George Martin (whom he believed to be the real killer). For many years, Martin lived in hiding for fear of the Meigs' bounty.

Burial

Although the death of John Rodgers Meigs was similar to that of thousands of others who died during the Civil War, his death received national wide attention because of his father's status as Quartermaster General of the United States Army.

John Rodgers Meigs was originally buried at Oak Hill Cemetery in Washington, D.C. President Abraham Lincoln, Secretary of State William H. Seward, Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton, Army Chief-of-Staff Lieutenant General Henry Halleck, and numerous other dignitaries attended his funeral. Stanton eulogized him as "One of the youngest and brightest of the military profession, he has fallen an early victim to murderous rebel warfare".

Montgomery Meigs later had his son's body moved to Arlington National Cemetery, where it rests in a tomb next to his own and many others of the Meigs family. John Rodgers Meigs' tomb is covered by a distinctive bronze gisant by Theophilus Fisk Mills. The high relief sculpture depicts a two-thirds life-size John Rodgers Meigs, in his first lieutenant's engineer uniform, lying on his back in the mud. The hooves of the Confederate cavalrymen have trampled on the body and left imprints in the mud.

A marble column at West Point, erected in the memory of all graduates who fought for the Union cause, also bears his name.

A book of Meigs' letters were published in 2006 under the title A Civil War Soldier of Christ and Country: The Selected Correspondence of John Rodgers Meigs, 1859-64.

References

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links
Meigs Family Papers  at Hagley Museum and Library

1842 births
1864 deaths
United States Military Academy alumni
Union Army officers
People of Washington, D.C., in the American Civil War
Union military personnel killed in the American Civil War
Burials at Oak Hill Cemetery (Washington, D.C.) 
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery