[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Ai Weiwei

wei wanted to pay tribute to those people in worse conditions than him, including civil rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang who faces eight years in prison, imprisoned Nobel Peace Prize-winning poet Liu Xiaobo, journalist Gao Yu, women's rights activist Su Changlan, activist Liu Ping and academic Ilham Tohti.

2018
 In 2018, Ai Weiwei received Marina Kellen French Outstanding Contributions to the Arts Award granted by the Americans for the Arts.

2023
 In May 2023, Ai was elected as an Honorary Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge.

See also

 WeiweiCam
 Qingen Xu

Notes

References

Further reading
Medium,  Artists on the Cutting Edge, by Addison Fach, 1 December 2017
 WideWalls magazine, Excessivism – A Phenomenon Every Art Collector Should Know, by Angie Kordic
 Gallereo magazine, The Newest Art Movement You've Never Heard of, 20 November 2015
 The Huffington Post, Excessivism: Irony, *Imbalance and a New Rococo, by Shana Nys Dambrot, art critic, curator, 23 September 2015
 
 
 
 
 
 Spalding, David. @large: Ai Weiwei on Alcatraz, 2014. Print. @Large: Ai Weiwei on Alcatraz
 
 
 Ai, Weiwei; Anthony Pins. Ai Weiwei: Spatial Matters : Art Architecture and Activism, 2014. Print. Ai Weiwei: spatial matters : art architecture and activism

External links 

 
 Ai Weiwei exhibition at the Royal Academy of Arts London
 
 Ai Weiwei at De Pont Museum of Contemporary Art
 Ai Weiwei. Study of Perspective. Photographic series produced 1995–2011. Public Delivery

 
1957 births
Art Students League of New York alumni
Living people
Chinese contemporary artists
Chinese performance artists
Chinese architects
Chinese documentary film directors
Chinese male bloggers
Chinese art critics
Chinese curators
People's Republic of China writers
Writers from Beijing
Beijing Film Academy alumni
Parsons School of Design alumni
Chinese dissidents
Artists from Beijing
Film directors from Beijing
Prisoners and detainees of the People's Republic of China
Weiquan movement
Victims of human rights abuses
Political artists
Articles containing video clips
Honorary Members of the Royal Academy
Sports venue architects
Chinese art collectors
People from the East Village, Manhattan
Chinese emigrants to Germany
Chinese emigrants to England
Enforced disappearances in China
Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts
Chinese artists
Academic staff of the Berlin University of the Arts