[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# November 1976

the pre-prime time slots.
Born: James Dale Ritchie, American serial killer; in Anchorage, Alaska (killed in police shootout, 2016) 
Died: 
Edith Shackleton Heald, 91, British journalist
Massimo Dallamano, 59, Italian film director known for "Spaghetti Western" movies, was killed in an auto accident

Friday, November 5, 1976
India's Lok Sabha voted, 180 to 34 to postpone parliamentary elections for the second consecutive year.  The 1976 elections had been canceled later in 1975.  The ruling Congress Party was joined by India's Communist Party in approving the plan, while most opposition deputies continued their boycott of votes on legislation.  After the vote by the Lok Sabha, and the approval of the ceremonial upper house (the Rajya Sabha), the 1977 voting was postponed until 1978.
The first epidemic of Ebola virus was brought to an end as the last of 280 victims died.  By November 20, the World Health Organization announced that the virus was contained.  There would be no further epidemics until a new outbreak 19 years later in 1995.  On suggestion by virologist Karl Johnson, the nation's health agency gave the illness the name "Ebola virus disease", after the Ebola River valley on November 30.
Geoffrey Platt, a laboratory technician at the British Microbiological Research Establishment in Porton Down, Wiltshire, accidentally became the first European victim of the Ebola virus when he accidentally got pricked by a contaminated needle while handling samples from Africa.  Platt was successfully treated with human interferon and convalescent serum and he fully recovered.
Born: Park Jung-chul, South Korean television star; in Seoul
Died: Helen Purdy Beale, 83, American plant virologist known for her invention of the serology processes in identification of diseases that affect crops

Saturday, November 6, 1976
Dr. Zhores A. Medvedev, a prominent Soviet biochemist and dissident who was living in exile in London, revealed the occurrence of two disasters that had been kept secret by the Soviet Union's rulers, describing both in detail in the British scientific weekly New Scientist.  Medvedev was the first to report two incidents now known as the Kyshtym disaster of 1957, in which an explosion of stored nuclear wastes contaminated an area inhabited by 270,000 people, and the Nedelin catastrophe, a rocket engine explosion that killed numerous rocket scientists and high-ranking Soviet military officers.
Born:  
Pat Tillman, American NFL player who left sports in order to join the U.S. Army war against al-Qaeda; in Fremont, California (killed by friendly fire, 2004)
Carlos Quintana, Puerto Rican boxer and 2008 World Boxing Organization welterweight champion; in Moca, Puerto Rico
Iresh Zaker, Bangladesh actor and business executive; in Dhaka
Died: 
Dr. Alexander S. Wiener, 69, American hematologist known for his discovery of the Rh factor and blood transfusion techniques.
Patrick Dennis (pen name for Edward Everett Tanner III), 55, American novelist known for the bestselling Auntie Mame: An irreverent escapade

Sunday, November 7, 1976
The prototype of the Dassault Falcon 50 business jet made its first flight.  
The Party of Labor of Albania (Partia e Punës e Shqipërisë), the Communist party of Albania, completed its five-year Congress at Tirana and re-elected Enver Hoxha, who had been the party's leader since its founding 35 years earlier.  Hoxha, who had been the de facto leader of the Balkan nation for more than 30 years, was the last Stalinist in power in Eastern Europe.  All 12-members of the Party of Labor Politburo were re-elected by the Central Committee, including Prime Minister Mehmet Shehu.
Born:  Mark Philippoussis, Australian pro tennis player, 1999 and 2003 Davis Cup team winner, 1998 U.S. Open and 2003 Wimbledon finalist; in Melbourne
Died: Mathew Charles Lamb, 28, Canadian spree killer who shot four people in 1966 and then joined the Rhodesian Army after his release from custody, was accidentally killed by friendly fire from another member of his unit.

Monday, November 8, 1976
The British House of Commons voted confidence in the government of Prime Minister James Callaghan, on the issue of nationalizing Britain's shipbuilding and aircraft industries, by a margin of one vote, 311 to 310.  Two other bills, regarding treatment of private patients in government, and giving labor wider jurisdiction over cargo away from ports, passed by only three votes, 310 to 307.
Born: Brett Lee, Australian national cricket team bowler; 1999 to 2012; in Wollongong, New South Wales