[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Serena Deeb

Serena Deeb (born June 29, 1986) is an American professional wrestler currently signed to All Elite Wrestling (AEW).  She is well known for her first stint with WWE, appearing on the SmackDown brand and also known for her time with the developmental territory Florida Championship Wrestling, under the ring name Serena. She made appearances for National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) where she is a former NWA Worlds Women's Champion, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling and Ohio Valley Wrestling champion. Serena was a six-time Women's Champion, Shimmer Women Athletes and Wrestling New Classic and  a one-time WNC Women's Champion.

Early life 

Serena Deeb was born and raised in the Washington, D.C. suburb of Oakton, Virginia. Deeb's love of wrestling began when she was eleven after watching a World Wrestling Federation show. However, her main passion as a child, from the age of five until she actively pursued wrestling at 18, was soccer. Serena Deeb graduated from Oakton High School in nearby Vienna, Virginia in 2004. Though she began training for wrestling at age 18, she coupled this with an academic career, studying for her Bachelor of Arts in Spanish until graduating in 2008 from Indiana University Southeast. She has a desire to learn more languages, other than Spanish, and also enjoys Arabic, Thai, and Italian food which matches her interest in traveling.

Professional wrestling career

Ohio Valley Wrestling

Training and debut (2005–2006) 
Serena started her wrestling career in the OVW Wrestling School, training from March until November 2005 after relocating on her own money from Virginia to Kentucky to attend the school. She debuted on the November 4 OVW house show, teaming with Fuji Cakes in a losing effort against Shelly Martinez and Beth Phoenix. Beth Phoenix and Shelly Martinez also defeated her in January even with the new tag team partner of Venus (Rosa Salvage). She picked up her maiden victory over Shelly Martinez in February and over Beth Phoenix the following month. Her misfortune in tag team action continued though, as she and Fuji Cakes lost to Cherry Pie and Roni Jonah. Unhappy with the loss, Serena changed her partners and teamed with Roadkill and Kasey James for a mixed tag team match with The Untouchables, including Cherry Pie, but lost once more. Later that month, a dark match between her and Beth Phoenix ended in a no contest and was changed into a tag match, which Serena and Shelly Martinez lost to Beth Phoenix and Maria.

Serena then began to feud with ODB. In early June, Martinez guest refereed a tag team match where she and Daisy Mae defeated ODB and Sosay. At OVW's Six Flags event, ODB scored a return victory as she and Venus defeated Serena and Daisy. In her television debut at the June 21 tapings, Serena came out to save the participants of OVW's first bikini contest, who had been attacked by ODB. She defeated ODB in a singles match at another Six Flags show at the end of June but the two continued to feud, exchanging victories in mixed tag team and six-man tag team matches. Eventually, ODB declared herself the inaugural Women's Champion, supposedly after winning a tournament in Rio de Janeiro. ODB retained the title in an eight-woman Battle Royal on the September 6 television tapings but in a four-way match, Serena finally managed to win the Women's Championship during the main event of the September 13 episode of OVW TV involving ODB, Beth Phoenix and Katie Lea.

Women's Champion (2006–2008) 
When she became champion, Serena was targeted by Beth Phoenix. She managed to retain her title on September 16's house show but lost a televised rematch on October 4. Serena instantly set her sights on winning back the title and commandeered an all-female six-man tag team victory over Beth Phoenix and her team three days later before interfering in Beth's title defence, spearing her to end the match in disqualification just as Phoenix was about to pin ODB. Though she would continue to interfere with Phoenix, Serena never had the chance to win back the title as Katie 'The Kat' Lea won the championship in the penultimate round of a gauntlet match Phoenix had to contest, losing on the sixth match while a refreshed Kat only had Serena to defend against. Serena tried to contend with The Kat once more for the title but the match ended in disqualification. To settle their dispute, Serena, The Kat and Beth Phoenix closed out the year with a non-title no-disqualification three way, which Serena won.