[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Judge Rotenberg Educational Center

parent or guardian expresses interest in the center, a JRC recruiter will contact them to provide gifts and promotional materials. They will also help the parents sue their school district into paying the JRC's tuition and housing fees.

Salaries 
In 2007, Matthew Israel was paid $321,000.

Lawsuits

By JRC 
In 1986, the institute filed a lawsuit for $15 million against the director of the Massachusetts Office of Children, alleging that her attempt to shut the center down was a violation of the residents' rights. Several critics of the JRC claim that the center harassed them, and that it sued them for defamation or threatened to sue them if they did not revoke their statements. According to Disability Rights International, former residents, teachers, state officials, and legal advocates have expressed fear about publicly criticizing the JRC. The JRC has filed numerous other lawsuits.

By parents 
Some parents and former residents have filed lawsuits against the JRC. In 2006, the family of Evelyn Nicholson sued the center over the use of electric shocks, claiming that the treatment was inhumane and violated her civil rights. The lawsuit was later settled for $65,000. The mother of Andre McCollins sued the center, settling in 2012 for an undisclosed sum. Some parents have filed and won lawsuits against their local school districts to keep their children enrolled at JRC.

Enrollment 
Under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, the federal government requires that all states must provide a "free and appropriate" education to all students. Any school district that cannot provide an appropriate education to a student is required to send that student to an approved school that can. The JRC helps families sue their school district to send their children there. It also frequently sues school districts and states to keep individuals at the JRC after they turn 21.

Company culture 
Employees are encouraged to file anonymous reports against each other, and are forbidden from making casual conversation. The negative write-ups that result from these anonymous reports are called "performance improvement opportunities". Sometimes management will direct an employee to bait another into breaking the rules as a test to see if they will do it. For example, an employee might try to start a casual conversation with another employee at the direction of management. The conversation will be recorded so that staff caught breaking the rules may be disciplined.

Residents are also restricted from socializing with each other.

All employees must sign an agreement, which claims to be legally binding, not to talk publicly about the JRC, even after they no longer work there.

Resident demographics 
 nearly 90% of the center's residents were from New York City, and about 90% of the residents were racial minorities.

See also 
 Association for Behavior Analysis International
 Unethical human experimentation in the United States
 World Wide Association of Specialty Programs and Schools

Abuse 
 Disability abuse
 Institutional abuse

Torture 
 Medical torture
 Pain compliance
 Torture in the United States

Other human rights movements 
 Antipsychiatry
 Children's rights movement
 Human rights movement
 Psychiatric survivors movement

References

Journals
 
 
 

Books

Further reading

External links 
 

Ableism
Autism pseudoscience
Behavior modification
Educational institutions established in 1971
Human rights abuses in the United States
Medical controversies in the United States
Medical scandals in the United States
School violence
Special schools in the United States
Therapeutic boarding schools in the United States
Torture
Torture in the United States
Torture-related organizations
Violence against children
Violence against disabled people