[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Franceway Ranna Cossitt

of things was a great effort on the part of Cossitt to arouse the Church to take interest in the College. He and Rev. F. C. Usher, who was connected with him in the department of instruction, published a circular letter, in which earnest appeals were made to the ministers and members of the Church.

These efforts were continued to the meeting of the General Assembly, which occurred in May following, Its sessions were held at Elkton, Kentucky. When the Assembly met, it proposed raising one hundred thousand dollars for educational purposes. Fifty-five thousand dollars of that sum was to serve as a perpetual endowment of Cumberland College; thirty thousand was to be used in Pennsylvania, in the endowment of a college there; and the remaining fifteen thousand dollars was to constitute a sort of floating capital, to be used as circumstances might suggest. Several of the most popular young men in the Church were engaged as agents and Cossitt confidently believed that the College would be endowed and that the most liberal provision would be made for the education of candidates for the ministry. 

At the General Assembly of 1841 things seemed to be going forward smoothly. However, by the time of the General Assembly in 1842, Cumberland College was still in debt, and its property was under execution, and liable to be placed under the sheriff's hammer any day. A committee of churchmen, was appointed to consider the matter, and take action; they met in Nashville, on 1st July 1842, and determined to establish Cumberland College in Lebanon, Tennessee. Cossitt was elected to the presidency of the new College and the commencement of the College at Princeton in 1842, a position he held until 1860. The friends of the old Institution,  sold its property, paid its debts, and continued its operations with respectable success for a number of years.

Later life
In 1829 Cossitt travelled through some of the Middle and Southern States. He spent some time in Washington City, and while there published and circulated a pamphlet, setting out the character and claims of the College. He preached in several of the churches Washington as well as in  Baltimore and Philadelphia, receiving very respectful attention in both cities. He brought one young man from Baltimore, and two or three from Eastern Virginia, to the Institution. Two of them remained until they graduated. 

Early in 1830, the leading men connected with the College starting publishing the Religious and Literary Intelligencer, at Princeton. It was the first periodical of the Church. Cossitt was a principal contributor to its columns. It afterward became the Revivalist, and finally the Cumberland Presbyterian, in Nashville.

In 1839 he received the Doctorate of Divinity from Middlebury College, and also from the Trustees of Cumberland College, with which he was then connected.

In March 1840, he commenced the publication of the Banner of Peace, which was originally a monthly periodical. After a year, it became a weekly paper.

Early in the year 1843 Cossitt moved to Lebanon and took charge of Cumberland College at that place. In a short time, the Institution became what is now Cumberland University. He continued in the presidency of the College till the fall of 1844, when he resigned, and was succeeded by Rev. T. C. Anderson. He then focussed on the publication of the Banner of Peace until the close of 1849. His editorial valedictory is contained in the number of the 24th December 1849. The paper was transferred to Rev. W. D. Chadick and Mr. W. L. Berry. Mr. Chadick assumed control of the editorial department.

In 1853 Dr. Cossitt published his Life and Times of Finis Ewing.

In the same year, he was elected by the Trustees Professor of Systematic Theology at Cumberland University. He declined this appointment he declined, on the grounds of age and ill-health.

Personal life

Lucinda Cossitt died in 1833. On 19th January 1834, Cossitt married a second time, to Miss Matilda Edwards, of Elkton, Kentucky. During his time at Princeton he had also buried a daughter. After arriving at Lebanon, he had buried two more daughters, as well as his only son, and a son-in-law. 

In January 1863 he became ill and he died on the morning of 3 February 1863.

References

1790 births
1863 deaths
19th-century American clergy
19th-century American Presbyterian ministers
Cumberland University faculty
Cumberland Presbyterian Church ministers
Religious leaders from Tennessee