[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of South African slang words

PK  – flying poes klap, see poesklap
 ‘’gabba’’ - the section of anatomy between a man’s anus and scrotum. A combination of ‘gat’ and ‘ballas’: After cycling for five hours my gabba is a bit tender. Could also be used as a derogatory term to refer to a man.
 gat – lit. "hole". Also refers lit. to "arse". Can also be used as a shortened version of the word "gaan" (going to).
 gatkruip – lit. "arse creeping" or brown nosing
 gatvol – lit. annoyed enough to the brink of getting angry: Ek is gatvol vir jou kak. (I've had enough of your shit.)
 Gebruiker – cigarette
 gemorsjors – lit. "a messy person". refers to a person who is behaving, and/or dressing, in a very messy (gemors) manner.
 geit – (pronounced "gate", with the "g" sound in the back of the throat) It literally means "quirks". Usually a negative connotation in relation to a person being either: stubborn, fussy or demanding and sometimes also relating to hypochondriasis. Literal English translation will align it with "-ness" (a.i. hardness, stubbornness). An example is: "hardegat-geit" (lit. hard-arsed and cocky).
 gham – A word to describe someone that acts out in an uncivilzed manner, or refer to lower class person. (other words would be "tappit", :kommen: or when someone is gham it portrays them as being poor and or dirty.). "Ew, that guy is so gham!"
gin-en-gaap - An expression of unknown origin, describes a person who is wasting time by either laziness or being too slow. Gaap is Afrikaans for yawn.
 goffel – ugly girl or woman. For example, "What a G!". Also a degrading term for a person of coloured origin.
 gomgat – bumpkin, redneck (in the US sense, not to be confused with rooinek, the literal translation of redneck).
 goof, ghoef – swim, take a dip
 goofed, ghoefed – stoned
 gooi – throw, chuck or to "tune" (see below) someone
 goose – also chick, cherry: a young woman or girlfriend (used mainly during the 1950s, now dated). Also a famous line by South African comedian Barry Hilton.
 gril – (pronounced with the g-sound in the back of the throat) it refers to a person having an adverse sensory reaction to something that is considered disgusting, creepy or freaky in any way. The closest English equivalent would be "hair-raising". Usually used in the phrase "ek gril myself dood vir...." (i get freaked-out by...).
 gwai – also cigarette. derived from "give me a cigarette. Translated – "gee da n gwai"
 hardegat-, gheit – lit. "hard-arsed".  Describes the stubbornness of a person.
 Hier kom Groot Kak! – lit. "Here's comes big shit" Is an expression of revelation towards an often impending and undesired result.
 hoesit, hoezit – derived from "How is it going? – contracted to how's it? In South African English context, howzit is more a greeting of "hello" rather than "how are you?", similar to South African black slang's "eta" or "ola"
 hoer en remoer – lit "whoring around" by either throwing wild parties, or having casual sex with just about every attractive person you meet, applies to both genders.
 hokaai stop die lorrie! – lit. "Whoa there! Stop the lorry!". Often used to call an immediate halt in whatever is being done, usually in conjunction with a possible undesirable outcome.
 hol – lit. hollow. It also refers to "run very fast" ("Daai man hol so vinning"; "That man runs so fast"). Also refers to anus.
 holskeurend – lit. "anus-ripping". Refers to hysterical laughter.
 holvlos – lit. "arsehole-floss", refers to a G-string.
 honne – informal spelling and pronunciation of "honde" (dogs). 
 hottentot – derogatory term describing people of multiracial ethnic backgrounds, especially those of Malaysian-descent (i.e. the majority of Capetonians).  The word is derived from the early Dutch term for the Khoi-San people.  "Hottentotsgod," or Hottentots' god, is Afrikaans for a Praying Mantis).
 huistoegaantyd – lit. "time to go home". From "huis+toe" (to+home), "gaan" (go) and "tyd" (time).
 hy sal sy gat sien – lit. "he'll see his arse" fig. "He'll have his come-uppance"
 roomys-karretjie/ice-cream-karretjie – lit. "ice-cream car" refers to a purpose-modified vehicle that drives around and sells ice cream. Referred to in the U.S. as an "ice cream truck" and in the UK as an "ice-cream van". It also is considered a nickname for the Volkswagen Type 2 and Volkswagen Type 2 (T3), due to both vehicle's immense popularity in that configuration. Even though it is technically a panel van, it's still referred to as a "karretjie".
 in sy moer in – badly damaged, destroyed (rude, often considered profanity due to 'moer' to beat up). often used in conjunction with "moer-in".
 in sy glory in – same as above, considered to be less rude.
 innie/oppie – informal combined spelling of the phrases "in die" (in the) and "op die" (on the).
 in jou noppies – lit. "you are thrilled". Used to describe levels of excitement, similar to "tickled pink".
ipekonders – commonly pronounced as "iepie-corners", refers to Hypochondriasis. Unlike the actual disorder, it is often used to com