[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# T.I. vs. T.I.P.

number 9 on the Rhythmic Top 40 chart. In Canada the single entered the Canadian Singles Chart at number 61. The song was written by T.I. and produced by Wyclef Jean. The song was featured in the HBO series Entourage (Season 4, Episode 4) as the guys are in a club, it can be heard in the background.

"Hurt" was the third and final official single from the album. The single entered the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart at number 89, and at number 8 on the Hot Rap Tracks chart. The single features Busta Rhymes and newcoming Grand Hustle artist Alfamega. Production comes from Danja, which utilized horns for the song structure. The song did not do well due to lack of promotion caused by the arrest of T.I. Alfamega and Busta Rhymes performed the song at the BET Hip Hop Awards. Also at the Awards, the video for the song was nominated.

Critical reception

Upon its release, T.I. vs. T.I.P. received mixed reviews from music critics. It holds a score of 61 out of 100 on Metacritic, indicating generally favorable reviews from critics. AllMusic writer Andy Kellman gave the album a 3 out of 5 stars stating "the MC constructs an entire album around the penthouse and pavement concept, dividing the program into three acts: T.I.P. (seven tracks), T.I. (seven tracks), and T.I. vs T.I.P. (four tracks). This is also signified in the album's outer sleeve and booklet photos. After the sustained greatness through Trap Muzik, Urban Legend, and King, a fall-off of some degree had to be expected -- especially after reaching the top after a steady climb -- and that's exactly what happens. Though he undeniably remains one of the top MCs, T.I. tends to either reheat familiar material with less fire or tread dangerously close to unrelatable Kingdom Come-like "Look at who's obnoxiously shedding his underdog status!" routines (as on "My Swag"). The productions similarly do not match up to past successes, and even some of obvious choices for singles fall short of past tracks that were never thought to be released as singles. The album is generally enjoyable, and it's doubtful T.I. has to worry about being dethroned within the near future." Nathan Rabin of The A.V. Club stated "T.I.'s honey-dripping Southern drawl and outlaw swagger is irresistible in bite-sized doses, but it isn't enough to sustain an entire album. This holds true for his ambitious yet muddled new project, T.I. Vs. T.I.P, a three-act concept album that clocks in at just over 73 minutes. Sonically, the album has a frantic, indistinct busyness that all too often passes for excitement and momentum. The album's first third concentrates on T.I.P., the second on T.I., and the third on an epic battle between the rapper and his flamboyant alter ego. T.I.P. is ostensibly T.I.'s belligerent, untamed id, but in a blind taste test, nine out of 10 hip-hop heads would have difficulty telling them apart. In the grand hustling tradition of half-assed concept albums, Vs. boasts an overarching premise that's fuzzy to the point of meaninglessness until the climactic final confrontation. On Vs., one of the South's hottest rappers declares war with his dark side. Maybe next time he'll finally wage combat with a more worthwhile adversary, like bloated album lengths or the homogenizing effects of major-label politics."