[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby

Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby (March 1, 1961 – April 12, 2023) was a citizen of Libya who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States' Guantanamo Bay detention camps, in Cuba, from May 5, 2002, until April 4, 2016.
Joint Task Force Guantanamo counter-terrorism analysts reports that he was born on March 1, 1961, in
Zletan, Libya.

Personal life

According to historian Andy Worthington, the author of The Guantanamo Files, Gherebi had settled in Pakistan after fleeing Muammar Gaddafi's repressive regime in Libya.  He was married to a Pakistani woman, and had fathered several children.  He had worked as a teacher, teaching science at a primary school.

Official status reviews

Originally the Bush Presidency asserted that captives apprehended in the "war on terror" were not covered by the Geneva Conventions, and could be held indefinitely, without charge, and without an open and transparent review of the justifications for their detention.
In 2004, the United States Supreme Court ruled, in Rasul v. Bush, that Guantanamo captives were entitled to being informed of the allegations justifying their detention, and were entitled to try to refute them.

Habeas corpus

Salem was the first Guantanamo captive to challenge whether he should have access to US Civil Courts.
Human rights lawyer Stephen Yagman filed the appeal on Salem's behalf after being contacted by Salem's brother

Justice Matz ruled against Salim, but Matz's ruling was overturned on appeal, by the 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals, 
on December 18, 2003.

On February 20, 2007, two of the three judges on the US Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit ruled that when the Military Commissions Act stripped the right to use habeas corpus from the Guantanamo captives retroactively, and that appeals, like Salem's, which were in process, were vacated.

Office for the Administrative Review of Detained Enemy Combatants

Following the Supreme Court's ruling the Department of Defense set up the Office for the Administrative Review of Detained Enemy Combatants.

Scholars at the Brookings Institution, led by Benjamin Wittes, listed the captives still held in Guantanamo in December 2008, according to whether their detention was justified by certain common allegations:

 Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby  was listed as one of the captives who "The military alleges ... are members of Al Qaeda."
 Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby  was listed as one of the captives whose "names or aliases were found on material seized in raids on Al Qaeda safehouses and facilities."
 Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby  was listed as one of the captives who was an "al Qaeda operative".
 Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby  was listed as one of the "82 detainees made no statement to CSRT or ARB tribunals or made statements that do not bear materially on the military's allegations against them."

Formerly secret Joint Task Force Guantanamo assessment

On April 25, 2011, whistleblower organization WikiLeaks published formerly secret assessments drafted by Joint Task Force Guantanamo analysts.
His Joint Task Force Guantanamo assessment was 12 pages long, and was drafted on February 20, 2008.
It was signed by camp commandant Rear Admiral Mark H. Buzby.
He recommended continued detention.

Salem's legal representation

Salem's lawyer is Duke University professor Erwin Chemerinsky.
He handled Salem's writ of habeas corpus.

In 2002, Chemerinsky said he received death threats for his efforts on Gherebi's behalf:
"I've never done anything that's gotten the quantity of hate mail this has gotten,""I just feel it's so important for the United States to follow the law."

Transfer to Senegal

On April 4, 2016, Abu Bakr, and another Libyan Salem Abdul Salem Ghereby, were transferred to Senegal.
Citing his formerly secret Joint Task Force Assessment, published by the whistleblower organization WikiLeaks in April 2011, Fox News described Ghereby as someone who "has been involved in extremist activities since at least the mid-1990s."

Death
On April 12, 2023, Ghereby died in Libya after suffering from motor neurone disease.

References

External links

 Who Are the Remaining Prisoners in Guantánamo? Part Three: Captured Crossing from Afghanistan into Pakistan Andy Worthington, September 22, 2010

Detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp
Libyan extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
1961 births
2023 deaths