[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mössbauer spectroscopy

a mixture of magnetite (Fe3O4) and several iron carbides. The formation of carbides appears to improve catalytic activity, but it can also lead to the mechanical break-up and attrition of the catalyst particles, which can cause difficulties in the final separation of catalyst from reaction products.

Mössbauer spectroscopy has also been used to determine the relative concentration change in the oxidation state of antimony (Sb) during the selective oxidation of olefins. During calcination, all the Sb ions in an antimony-containing tin dioxide catalyst transform into the +5 oxidation state. Following the catalytic reaction, almost all Sb ions revert from the +5 to the +3 oxidation state. A significant change in the chemical environment surrounding the antimony nucleus occurs during the oxidation state change which can easily be monitored as an isomer shift in the Mössbauer spectrum.

This technique has also been used to observe the second-order transverse Doppler effect predicted by the theory of relativity, because of very high energy resolution.

Bioinorganic chemistry 
Mossbauer spectroscopy has been widely applied to bioinorganic chemistry, especially for the study of iron-containing proteins and enzymes.  Often the technique is used to determine the oxidation state of iron.  Examples of prominent iron-containing biomolecules are iron-sulfur proteins, ferritin, and hemes including the cytochromes.  These studies are often supplemented by analysis of related model complexes.  An area of particular interest is the characterization of intermediates involved in oxygen activation by iron proteins.

Vibrational spectra of 57Fe-enriched biomolecules can be acquired using nuclear resonance vibrational spectroscopy (NRVS), in which the sample is scanned through a range of synchrotron-generated X-rays, centered at the Mössbauer absorbance frequency. Stokes and anti-Stokes peaks in the spectrum correspond to low frequency vibrations, many below 600 cm−1 with some below 100 cm−1.

Mössbauer spectrometers

A Mössbauer spectrometer is a device that performs Mössbauer spectroscopy, or a device that uses the Mössbauer effect to determine the chemical environment of Mössbauer nuclei present in the sample. It is formed by three main parts; a source that moves back and forth to generate a Doppler effect, a collimator that filters out non-parallel gamma rays and a detector.

A miniature Mössbauer Spectrometer, named (MB) MIMOS II, was used by the two rovers in NASA's Mars Exploration Rover missions.

57Fe Mössbauer spectroscopy
The chemical isomer shift and quadrupole splitting are generally evaluated with respect to a reference material. For example, in iron compounds, the Mössbauer parameters were evaluated using iron foil (of a thickness less than 40 micrometers). The centroid of the six-line spectrum from metallic iron foil is −0.1 mm/s (for a Co/Rh source). All shifts in other iron compounds are computed relative to this −0.10 mm/s (at room temperature), i.e., in this case isomer shifts are relative to the Co/Rh source. In other words, the centre point of the Mössbauer spectrum is zero. The shift values may also be reported relative to 0.0 mm/s; here, shifts are relative to the iron foil.

To calculate the outer line distance from the six-line iron spectrum:

 

where c is the speed of light, Bint is the internal magnetic field of the metallic iron (), μN is the nuclear magneton (), Eγ is the excitation energy (14.412497(3) keV), gn is the ground state nuclear splitting factor (/(I), where Isospin I = ) and g is the excited state splitting factor of 57Fe (-0.15532/(I), where I = ).

By substituting the above values one would get V = .

Other values are sometimes used to reflect different qualities of iron foils. In all cases any change in V only affects the isomer shift and not the quadrupole splitting. As the IBAME, the authority for Mössbauer spectroscopy, does not specify a particular value, anything between 10.60 mm/s to 10.67 mm/s can be used. For this reason it is highly recommended to provide the isomer shift values relative to the source used, not to the iron foil, mentioning the details of the source (centre of gravity of the folded spectrum).

See also
 Alpha-particle spectroscopy
 Gamma probe
 Gamma ray spectrometer
 Isomeric shift
 Liquid scintillation counting
 Mass spectrometry
 Mössbauer effect
 Perturbed angular correlation
 Pandemonium effect
 Total absorption spectroscopy
 Scintillation counter
 X-ray spectroscopy

References