[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Craig Bryson

nd strikers Steve Davies and Theo Robinson. Bryson was a regular in the Derby team during the season, where he missed only 3 of the 49 games Derby played. Bryson's form was rewarded by winning the fans Player of the Season award. Bryson also won the Club & Supporter's Club player of the year awards.

2012–13 season
Bryson was a regular in the Derby side at the start of the 2012–13 season, however the season was disrupted by a knee injury which ruled him out of several games. Bryson return three weeks earlier than expected as he started and scored in a 2–0 win at Bristol City however Nigel Clough stated he was not fully fit and was doubt for the next game. Bryson was able to start the next three games, but missed the game at home to Middlesbrough on 1 January 2013 after picking scar tissue on his hamstring. Bryson returned to the team in mid-January and despite picking up a re-occurrence of his injury in early March, Bryson soon regained his place in the side and his performance alongside midfield partner Jeff Hendrick in Derby's 3–0 win over Bristol City on 29 March earned them both praise from first team coach Andy Garner. Bryson was named the 84th best player in the 2012–13 Football League Championship by the Actim Index and it was confirmed in May 2013 that the club were in talks to extend his contract at Pride Park, with Bryson signing a new three-year contract later that month.

2013–14 season
Ahead of the 2013–14 season, Bryson was expected to compete with Paul Coutts, Jeff Hendrick and Will Hughes for a central midfield role. Manager Nigel Clough stated his intention to rotate the squad, saying that it was "lovely to have that healthy competition" for places. In the event of the season, Bryson was an ever-present in the starting line-up in the league until the 32nd fixture.

His first goal of the season came in a 3–0 win at Yeovil Town on 24 August, which was quickly followed up by his first career hat-trick in a 5–1 win at Millwall on 14 September, which was also the first league hat-trick by a Derby player since Paul Simpson in April 1996. After a 1–0 defeat at Nottingham Forest, with the club having won only once in the last six matches, having failed to win at home, and lying in 14th place, manager Nigel Clough was sacked. Bryson was saddened by the move, saying it came as a "shock", adding that Clough "has been excellent for me, he brought me down from Scotland and gave me my chance in England. So obviously I was sad to see him go. But it happens in football and you just have to get on with it." Clough was replaced by Steve McClaren and Bryson said that he was looking forward to working with the new manager.

The next game was at home against Ipswich Town, with academy manager Darren Wassall in charge and McClaren watching from the stands. Bryson captained the side for the first time in the match and Derby ended the first half 4–1 down, but after a half-time team talk from McClaren, who also made two substitutions, Derby came back to draw 4–4, with Bryson scoring twice, including the last, an 88th-minute equaliser.

After a two-month barren spell, Bryson scored five goals in six games: one each in a 3–1 win at Wigan, in a 5–1 win against Blackpool, in a 2–0 win at Charlton, in a 3–1 win against Doncaster and in a 1–1 draw at Huddersfield. This coincided with an unbeaten run that saw The Rams win 8 and draw 1 out of 9 matches, moving from 11th in the table to 2nd. He did however miss the 1–0 home win over AFC Bournemouth on 22 February, the first and only league match he missed all season. His goal against Huddersfield coming on Boxing Day, Bryson didn't score again until 28 January 2014, getting the 2nd in a 3–2 win at home to Yeovil Town.

He next scored on 22 March, netting a hat-trick against Derby's local rivals Nottingham Forest in a 5–0 win, becoming the first Derby player to score a hat-trick against Forest since Steve Bloomer in 1898 and earning a recall to the Scotland squad. His final goal of the season came in a 3–1 win at Blackpool on 8 April. Overall, he scored 16 goals as Derby finished 3rd and qualified for the play-offs. He started the semi-final first leg, a 2–1 win at Brighton & Hove Albion, but was substituted in the 89th minute with a back injury, and missed the second leg, a 4–1 win that sent Derby through to the final. He recovered in time for the play-off final against Queens Park Rangers, but was named to the bench as the form of Will Hughes and Jeff Hendrick meant they kept their places. He came on for Hughes in the 68th minute and almost scored but for a good save from QPR keeper Robert Green. Derby went on to lose the game 1–0.

Bryson's performances throughout the campaign earned him the Derby County Player of the Year award and a place in the PFA Championship Team of the Season, alongside fellow Derby midfielder Will Hughes.

2014–15 season