[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# The Corps Series

ers and senior noncoms he worked with on classified projects. The Dawk had a soft spot in his heart for Pick Pickering, Billy Dunn, and Ken McCoy, going out of his way to assist them when they had difficulties dealing with higher authority, or (especially in Pick's case) found themselves in trouble.

 Major Jake Dillon, USMCR: former enlisted China Marine sergeant; a Vice President of Metro-Magnum Studios in peacetime with a wide circle of friends, from stuntmen to major movie stars. He returns to wartime duty in the Corps as a Major in the Public Affairs office. Major Dillon led a team of Marine combat correspondents during the Guadalcanal Campaign, and put together a documentary short subject from the footage shot by his men, from the preparations for the invasion to the Marines turning the island over to the U.S. Army to mop up the few remaining Japanese. Dillon was co-opted by General Pickering into the OSS because of his renowned skills as a problem-solver and troubleshooter. His resourcefulness was essential to the successful staging of Operation Gobi.

 Major (previously Lieutenant) Hon Son "Pluto" Do, USA: Signals & Cryptographic officer attached to MacArthur's headquarters in Australia. A graduate and PhD out of MIT, he was recruited into the Signal Corps by Brigadier General H.A. Albright, a cryptographic genius who reverse-engineered the German Enigma machine and set up the Special Channel communications system. Pluto is a gifted intelligence analyst as well as a crypto officer; and frequently is invited to play bridge with General and Mrs. MacArthur, much to the displeasure of the Bataan Gang at SWPOA headquarters.

 Lieutenant Colonel (previously Lieutenant) William Dunn, USMC: Executive officer, and later Acting CO, of VMF-229. After transitioning into F4U Corsairs, Dunn became the CO of VMF-262. In the Korean War, Lieutenant Colonel Dunn becomes the group commander of the three Marine fighter squadrons embarked in the escort carrier . Billy is a fighter ace, a superb combat commander, and frequently despairs of his scapegrace friend, former wingman, and subordinate aboard the Badoeng Strait, Pick Pickering.

 Eric Feldt, Lieutenant Commander, RAN: director of the Coastwatcher organization.

 Ellen Feller: wife of a Christian missionary in China, married to a homosexual minister. Ellen enters the story when she accompanies McCoy on a convoy sent out to seek intelligence on the Japanese. She seduces and uses McCoy for her own ends, then dumps him. She reappears as a civilian linguist & analyst, first attached to Naval Intelligence in Washington; later attached to MacArthur's Australia headquarters in connection with MAGIC. As a result of her sexual appetites and the military secrets she knows, when her actions threaten the security of MAGIC she is shipped back to the United States and confined to an insane asylum, presumably St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington, DC.

 Richardson Fowler: Junior Senator from California. Longtime friend of Fleming Pickering, President Roosevelt describes Richardson, who owns several newspapers and radio stations, as "the chief of my more-or-less loyal opposition."

 Captain (previously Technical Sergeant) Charles Galloway, USMC: Commanding Officer, VMF-229. Gets into serious trouble when he flies a fighter assembled from pieces of several wrecked F4F Wildcats at Pearl Harbor to the USS Saratoga enroute to Wake Island, that is not expecting him. Directly commissioned by Marine Commandant Holcomb personally, he is put in command of VMF-229. Flying Wildcats off Guadalcanal, Galloway became an ace. While there, he flew a modified C-47 Gooney Bird as part of the Buka rescue operation. Following transitioning into Corsairs, VMF-229 becomes the Corps' dumping ground for Marine Aviators regarded as screw-ups, including Pick Pickering. It was said Galloway took pilots no one else could handle and made superb pilots and officers out of them.

 Captain David Haughton, USN: Executive Assistant to the Secretary of the Navy. While his main function is to act as the gatekeeper to those wishing access to Frank Knox, he also is a sort of liaison officer to the Office of Management Analysis and the Office of Strategic Services via General Pickering. His performance in this role is superlative, though he would much rather be at sea in command of a ship, as he wistfully mentions from time to time.

 Lieutenant General (previously Major General) Thomas Holcomb: Commandant of the Marine Corps; later relieved by Lieutenant General Alexander Archer Vandegrift.