[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cedar Crest College

the school record of 13 season wins set in 1998–99, the last time the team made the playoffs.  The sixth-seeded Falcons beat Centenary College's women in the 2009 tournament's opening round. Donohue was subsequently named the Colonial States Athletic Conference Women's Basketball Coach of the Year.

Cynthia L. Blaschak Softball Field 
In the spring of 1997, Cynthia L. Blaschak made a donation to Cedar Crest to build a softball field. This was done as part of her support of the new NCAA Division III varsity softball team that was beginning their season that year. Blaschak was a student athlete herself while attending Cedar Crest. She participated in both basketball and badminton.

Notable alumni
 Jane Amsterdam, editor of Manhattan, inc. and the New York Post
 Rita Kogler Carver, theater and lighting designer
 Judy McGrath, former CEO of MTV
 Dorothy Page, former actress
 Suzanne Fisher Staples, author and international news reporter
 Blenda Wilson, former California State University-Northridge and University of Michigan chancellor

Notable faculty
 Chrystelle Trump Bond, former American dancer, choreographer, and dance historian
 Anthony S. Caprio, former president, Western New England University
 Richard Druckenbrod, former theology professor and Pennsylvania German language scholar
 Fred Benjamin Gernerd, former Congressman and former Cedar Crest trustee
 Frank Reed Horton, first national president of Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity
 Diane Moyer, former Olympic field hockey player and current associate professor in the psychology department
 Barton C. Shaw, historian
 Pauline Tompkins, former president of Cedar Crest College

References

External links

 Official website
 Official athletics website
 
 
 

 
1867 establishments in Pennsylvania
Buildings and structures in Allentown, Pennsylvania
Cedar Crest Boulevard
Educational institutions established in 1867
Education in Allentown, Pennsylvania
Private universities and colleges in Pennsylvania
Universities and colleges in Allentown, Pennsylvania
Women's universities and colleges in the United States