[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrew Barr

in the cabinet of new Chief Minister Katy Gallagher. Following Gallagher's resignation to run for the Senate, Barr was elected as Chief Minister on 11 December 2014. As leader, Barr led ACT Labor to a fifth consecutive general election win in October 2016.

Economic development and taxation reforms 

In 2012, following a review by former Treasurer Ted Quinlan, Barr announced a 20-year program to transform the ACT taxation system, with the intention of making the system fairer, simpler and more efficient. This program includes the abolition of stamp duty on property transfers and insurance premiums, with the foregone revenue replaced through the general rates system—an approach supported by most economists. New South Wales and Victoria have expressed support for similar reforms.

As Treasurer and Chief Minister, Barr has focused on the ACT's economic development, particularly encouraging private sector investment in higher education, trade, tourism, major events, arts and sport. Consequently, the ACT economy and employment has diversified away from its traditional public sector base.

In 2016, the ACT Government secured international flights for Canberra, with Singapore Airlines operating a 'Capital Express' route linking Singapore, Canberra and Wellington, and Qatar Airways operating flights via Sydney. In the same year, he established the Office of the Commissioner for International Engagement, with responsibility for building and cultivating international relationships for the economic, social and cultural benefit of the ACT.

Stage 1 of the Canberra light rail launched in April 2019, connecting Canberra's northern suburbs in Gungahlin with the city's centre via the Northbourne Avenue corridor. In October 2019, Barr launched the ACT Government's Infrastructure Plan outlining key health, transport, education and environmental infrastructure priorities including a new hospital and stadium, Canberra Institute of Technology (CIT) campus upgrades and stage 2 of light rail. Subject to Commonwealth approvals, construction of stage 2 to Woden will start in early 2021.

In 2020, Barr announced a major expansion of UNSW Canberra, with the establishment of a new campus in Canberra's centre on the existing CIT site.

Environment and Climate Change
Barr's government has continued its predecessors' environment and climate change policies, including reducing carbon emissions and increasing the use of renewable energy. Under its Climate Change Strategy, the ACT Government has a target of reducing emissions by 50–60% (from 1990 levels) by 2025 and net zero emissions by 2045.

In May 2019, the ACT joined other jurisdictions around the world in declaring a state of climate emergency, and called for urgent action to address climate change.

In September 2019, the ACT Government announced it would be the first major jurisdiction outside of the European Union to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions electricity supply with the commencement of an energy offtake agreement with Hornsdale Wind Farm in South Australia.

LGBTI rights 

Barr has been a strong supporter of same-sex marriage and LGBTI rights, voting in favour of anti-discrimination law reform, civil unions, civil partnerships and same-sex marriage laws.

His government has continued to champion measures to remove discrimination and promote inclusion of LGBTI communities. In 2017, Barr was a prominent advocate for the 'Yes' campaign in the Australian Marriage Law Postal Survey, in which the ACT had the highest Yes result (74%) and participation rate (82.5%) in Australia. The Government of the Australian Capital Territory took official positions supporting the "Yes" campaign. The move to offer official support was criticised by the Liberal Party opposition in the ACT.

In 2018, his government announced its intention to ban gay conversion practices in the ACT, and removed the ability for religious schools to discriminate against LGBTI teachers.

Personal life 
Barr married his long-term partner Anthony Toms on 13 November 2019, becoming the first leader of an Australian state or territory government to marry someone of the same-sex.

Barr has admitted to eating a pot brownie before.

See also

List of openly LGBT heads of government
List of LGBTI holders of political offices in Australia
2020 Australian Capital Territory general election

References

External links 

Andrew Barr Facebook page
 Andrew Barr ACT Election website