[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# First Battle of Charleston Harbor

cis W. Pickens to state his position: "As I understand it is the wish of all, people and government, that the city shall be defended to the last extremity."

Battle

Du Pont chose to mount the attack in the early part of April, in order to take advantage of the spring tides brought by the full Moon.

Minesweepers
As the date was nearing, a new device was introduced by the Navy Department. Because of Du Pont's often-expressed fears of torpedoes in the harbor, the department had called on the man who designed the monitors, John Ericsson, to provide some means of defense. He came up with a raft-like structure made up of heavy timbers that could be attached to a ship's bow. Each raft carried grappling hooks intended to snag the mooring lines of enemy torpedoes. It also carried its own torpedo, so it could blast its way through the obstructions. Two of the rafts were built and sent down to South Carolina in time for the attack. After considering the steering and handling problems the rafts would introduce, Du Pont's captains were unwilling to mount them on their ships. The torpedo was particularly worrisome, as collisions between ships in the narrow channel with unknown currents could be expected. Only one captain, John Rodgers of Weehawken, could be persuaded to carry the raft on his ship, and then only without the torpedo. In the event, the motion of the raft pounded his ship so severely that Rodgers decided to cast it loose before it had cleared any enemy torpedoes.

Final preparations
The fleet assembled off the mouth of the harbor on 5 April; on that day, Du Pont sent the buoy schooner  and the survey vessel , accompanied by Keokuk, to mark the entrance channel with buoys. The weather on the following day was hazy, making navigation difficult, so Du Pont postponed the attack for another day. The harbor was obscured by haze again on the morning of April 7, but it cleared up by noon, and the signal to attack was given.

Line of battle

Four monitors led the way; first was , under Captain John Rodgers. Getting under way, Weehawken's anchor fouled the grappling hooks on the torpedo raft, delaying the start by about an hour. She then could make only three knots (5.5 km/h), and the rest of the column had to follow at her slow pace. Second was , commanded by Charleston native Captain Percival Drayton. Third was , led by Commander John L. Worden; Worden was famed as the captain of  when she engaged CSS Virginia at the Battle of Hampton Roads. Next came , under Commander Daniel Ammen. These were followed by the flagship, , commanded by Commodore Thomas Turner; also aboard were Rear Admiral Du Pont and his fleet captain, Christopher Raymond Perry Rodgers. Then came three more monitors: , under Commander George W. Rodgers, brother of C. R. P. Rodgers and cousin of John Rodgers; , under Commander Donald M. Fairfax; and , under Commander John Downes. The experimental non-monitor ironclad , commanded by Commander Alexander C. Rhind, was at the end of the line.

Almost two hours elapsed between the time the ships got under way until the opening shots were fired. In that time, they found that New Ironsides had severe handling problems in the strong current and shallow water. She was forced to stop and anchor to avoid going aground, just about the time that the lead monitors were coming under fire. She dropped out of the line, and the four ships following her passed around, with some difficulty. The waiting Rebels could not have chosen a better place for New Ironsides to anchor, as she was directly over a 3000-pound (1360 kg) electrically triggered torpedo that would be activated by closing a switch on shore. Their high hopes were dashed, however, when the switch was closed and nothing happened. Two explanations for the failure have been offered. According to the one, an ordnance wagon had broken the wires by being driven over them. The other holds that the wires were simply too long, so the electric current would not be great enough to create a spark and detonate the charge.