[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Food and Agriculture Organization Corporate Statistical Database

2,3], following default (Tier 1) IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National GHG Inventories [4]. Emissions from agriculture comprise methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) gases released through microbial fixation and decomposition processes in crop fields and livestock systems, in the following sub-categories:
 Enteric Fermentation 
 Manure Management
 Rice Cultivation 
 Synthetic Fertilizers
 Manure applied to Soils
 Manure left on Pasture 
 Crop Residues
 Cultivation of Organic Soils
 Burning - Crop Residues
 Burning – Savanna
 Energy Use in Agriculture

The FAOSTAT data contributed to the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report [5].

Emissions-Land Use This FAOSTAT data domain contains estimates of GHG emissions for nearly 200 countries, for the reference period 1990-2010 [1, 2, 3], following default (Tier 1) IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National GHG Inventories [4]. The GHG data include emissions by sources and removals by sinks from Forestry and Other Land Use activities (FOLU), also referred to as Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry (LULUCF). Except for Biomass Burning, containing only non-CO2 emissions from anthropogenic fires, FOLU emissions and removals are dominated by CO2 lost or stored as a result of human intervention on the following four IPCC land use categories:
 Forest Land (net forest conversion, forest)
 Cropland (cropland organic soils)
 Grassland (grassland organic soils)
 Biomass Burning (biomass and peat fires)
Emissions and removals are calculated both within land categories (e.g. due to management) and for conversion between land categories (e.g. due to human-driven land use change). Data contribute to the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report [5].
Investment In the FAOSTAT investment domain, data can be found on private investment in agriculture, official development assistance to agriculture, and government spending.
Forestry FAOSTAT–Forestry provides annual production and trade estimates for numerous forest products, primarily wood products such as roundwood, sawnwood, wood panels, pulp and paper. For many forest products, historical data are available from 1961. The forestry domain covers: forestry production and forestry trade flows.
World Census of Agriculture This FAOSTAT data domain, entitled "Structural data from agricultural censuses," was launched in 2022. This domain contains structural data from agricultural censuses conducted since the 1930 decade, under the decennial World Programme for the Census of Agriculture. Structural data include the size and number of agricultural holdings, the holder’s gender, the type of land tenure, the legal status of holders, as well as information on land use, crop area and farm labour.

Data contained in FAOSTAT are also published in the FAO Statistical Yearbook in hard copy and online.

See also
 Regional Data Exchange System

References

 FAO, 2014. Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use Emissions by Sources and Removals by Sinks: 1990-2011 Analysis. FAO Statistics Division Working Paper Series, 14/01. UN FAO, Rome, Italy.
 Tubiello, F. N., Salvatore, M., Ferrara. A., Rossi. S., Fitton. N., and Smith. P., 2013. The FAOSTAT database of GHG Emissions from agriculture, Env. Res. Lett. 8 doi:10.1088/1748-9326/8/1/015009.
 IPCC, 2006. 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, Prepared by the National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme, Eggleston H.S., Buendia L., Miwa K., Ngara T. and Tanabe K. (Eds), IGES, Hayama, Japan.
 Smith, P., Bustamante, M., Ahammad, H., Clark, H., Dong, H., Elsiddig, E.A., Haberl, H., Harper, R., House, J., Jafari, M., Masera, O., Mbow, C., Ravindranath, N.H., Rice, C.W., Robledo Abad, C., Romanovskaya, A., Sperling, F., Tubiello, F.N., 2014. Agriculture, Forestry and Other Land Use (AFOLU). In Climate change 2014: Mitigation. Contribution of Working group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

External links
 

Online databases
Food and Agriculture Organization
Agricultural databases
Statistical databases
Statistical data sets