[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# St Etheldreda's Church, London

The upper church was reopened in 1879 on the Feast of Saint Etheldreda (23 June).

For many years, St Etheldreda's church was the oldest Catholic church building in England, but since 1971 it has been surpassed by the 12th-century church of Ss Leonard & Mary in Malton, North Yorkshire.

20th century

In 1925, the Royal Commission on Historical Monuments scheduled the chapel as an ancient monument.

In May 1941, during the Blitz, the church was hit by a bomb that tore a hole in the roof and destroyed the Victorian stained glass windows. It took seven years to repair the structural damage.

In 1952, new stained glass by Joseph Nuttgens was installed in the east window. It features the Trinity, the evangelists Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, as well as the Virgin Mary and Saints Joseph, Bridget of Kildare and Etheldreda. The stained glass windows in the south wall depict scenes from the Old Testament, and the ones in the north wall show scenes from the New Testament.

In the 1960s, two groups of four statues of English Catholic martyrs from the time of Henry VIII and Elizabeth I were installed along the north and south walls. They include Saint Edmund Gennings, Saint Swithun Wells, Saint Margaret Ward, Blessed John Forest, Blessed Edward Jones, Blessed John Roche, Saint Anne Line, and Saint John Houghton.

21st century
In 2011, the Catholic Church proposed that St Anne's Church, Laxton Place, be used as the principal church of the Personal Ordinariate of Our Lady of Walsingham. The journalist Damian Thompson, a prominent supporter of the ordinariate, called for St Etheldreda's to be used by the ordinariate, asserting that the church suffered a decline, both liturgically and as a parish community, in the early years of the 21st century.

Father Kit Cunningham, for some 30 years the rector of St Etheldreda's, was awarded the MBE in 1998. Cunningham returned the MBE before his death in 2010. It was subsequently revealed in June 2011 that Cunningham had sexually abused young boys at a school in Tanzania.

See also

 Embassy chapel
 Sardinian Embassy Chapel
 St James's, Spanish Place
 List of buildings that survived the Great Fire of London

Further reading
 St Etheldreda's, Ely Place: A Pitkin Guide, by Fr Kit Cunningham with Rosemary Nibbs (Norwich: Jarrold Publishing, 2003)
 A notice of Ely chapel, Holborn: with some account of Ely palace by Thomas Boyles Murray (1840)

References

External links

Information and  images
Article on St Etheldreda's on the Magical Statistics website
Description of St Etheldreda's on the Frommers website
"Mystery Worshipper" report about St Ethelredra's on the Ship of Fools website 
360° panorama of Church interiors

Saint Ethel
Roman Catholic churches in the London Borough of Camden
London
Churches in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Westminster
Buildings and structures in Holborn
Churches bombed by the Luftwaffe in London
Embassy chapels
London