[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Barry Robson

rdeen on 15 May 2014. Robson retired from professional football at the end of the 2015–16 season; he then took up a coaching position with Aberdeen.

International career
Robson won a call-up to the Scotland B team for the first time in December 2005, alongside fellow Dundee United player Mark Kerr.

Robson played in the Scotland Future team in March 2006. In August 2007, Robson received his first full international call-up when selected for the friendly against South Africa, making his début as a second-half substitute. He was subsequently called up for the following squad in September 2007 for the double-header against Lithuania and France but failed to make an appearance.

In September 2008, Robson was credited with his first international goal in the 2010 World Cup qualifying victory against Iceland in unusual circumstances. After James McFadden's second-half penalty kick was saved, both players chased the rebound. Though it appeared that McFadden touched the ball over the line, the goal was officially awarded to Robson. The SFA lobbied on McFadden's behalf, and in March 2009 FIFA re-credited the goal to McFadden.

Coaching career

Aberdeen
On 14 February 2022, Robson was appointed as caretaker manager of Aberdeen following the sacking of Stephen Glass, being temporarily promoted from his role with the U18s. Robson oversaw one match during his interim spell in charge, a 1–1 draw with St Johnstone, before the club made the permanent appointment of Jim Goodwin.

Robson was again put in caretaker charge of Aberdeen in January 2023, following the sacking of Jim Goodwin. Aberdeen confirmed on 29 March that Robson would continue as manager at least until the end of the 2022–23 season. Following a run of seven consecutive wins that pushed Aberdeen into third place in the 2022–23 Scottish Premiership, Robson signed a two-year contract to continue as manager on 1 May 2023.

Honours
Celtic
Scottish Premier League: 2007–08
Scottish League Cup: 2008–09

Aberdeen
Scottish League Cup: 2013–14

Career statistics

Club

International

Managerial record

 Initially caretaker in his second spell at Aberdeen; appointed until at least the end of the 2022–23 season on 29 March 2023 and on a two-year contract on 1 May 2023.

References

External links

International profile at Sporting-Heroes.net
Profile at Dundee United FC Historical Archive
Profile and stats at AFC Heritage Trust
Player profile at The Celtic Wiki

1978 births
People from Inverurie
Footballers from Aberdeenshire
Living people
Men's association football midfielders
Scottish men's footballers
Scottish expatriate men's footballers
Scotland men's B international footballers
Scotland men's international footballers
Rangers F.C. players
Inverness Caledonian Thistle F.C. players
Forfar Athletic F.C. players
Dundee United F.C. players
Celtic F.C. players
Middlesbrough F.C. players
Vancouver Whitecaps FC players
Sheffield United F.C. players
Aberdeen F.C. players
Expatriate men's soccer players in Canada
Scottish expatriate sportspeople in Canada
Scottish Premier League players
Scottish Football League players
English Football League players
Major League Soccer players
Designated Players (MLS)
Scottish Professional Football League players
Aberdeen F.C. non-playing staff
Scottish Professional Football League managers
Aberdeen F.C. managers