[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michigan Occupational Safety and Health Administration

his executive order, the Wage & Hour Division joined the Michigan Occupational Safety & Health Administration (MIOSHA).

Programs and Services

Enforcement Programs

MIOSHA has two enforcement divisions: the General Industry Safety and Health Division and the Construction Safety and Health Division.

The General Industry Safety and Health Division conducts safety and health inspections and investigations in all places of employment within the state of Michigan except those operations and activities covered by the Construction Safety and Health Division. This includes both private employers and all levels of public sector employers except facilities of the federal government. The division responds to complaints from employees or their representatives, investigates accidents including fatalities and catastrophes, and responds to referrals of unsafe conditions from other government agencies. In addition, the division conducts unannounced inspections at facilities throughout the state in accordance with current priority inspection guidelines. Citations, some with proposed penalties, may be issued to employers as a result of these inspections or investigations. Extensive tracking is done to ensure that the employers make the appropriate corrections to ensure the safety and health of their employees.

The Construction Safety and Health Division primarily conducts inspections to enforce occupational safety and health standards in the construction industry, and oversees licensing of asbestos abatement contractors and accreditation of asbestos workers. Enforcement of standards includes: inspection and hazard identification, issuance of citations for violations, and penalty assessment, if any. Types of inspections include: accidents (fatal and non-fatal), employee complaints, general scheduled, referrals, and follow-up. The division enforces safety and health standards in construction workplaces defined in the MIOSH Act as work activity designated in major groups 15, 16, and 17, of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual or code 23 of the North American Industry Classification System. All construction types are inspected including projects such as: road and bridge projects; sewer, water, gas, and electric utility lines; power plants; waste and water treatment plants; high rise construction; factory and other building additions; communication and power transmission towers; and single family homes.

Voluntary and Cooperative Programs

MIOSHA's Consultation Education and Training Division educates employers and employees in safety and health awareness.

Informal Conferences and Appeals

The MIOSHA Appeals Division provides employers, employees and the agency with services for resolution of contested MIOSHA cases. The MIOSH Act provides for a two-step appeal process for employers and/or employees to appeal any citations issued by the enforcement divisions. If the citations cannot be resolved through the informal conference process utilized by the enforcement divisions, the case is transmitted to the Appeals Division where pre-hearings and/or formal hearings are conducted.

Other MIOSHA Divisions & Services

The Management and Technical Services Division is responsible for a variety of services to MIOSHA staff and clients.  Its staff prepare and administer most of the grants and contracts related to the federal programs that MIOSHA supports and monitor budget activity.  The program areas include:
The Laboratory and Equipment Services Section includes an industrial hygiene laboratory, which is accredited by the American Industrial Hygiene Association, for analysis of air and material samples for occupational exposure to air and physical contaminants.  This section also includes an instrument calibration and maintenance program for providing field instrumentation to MIOSHA industrial hygienists and safety officers to assess exposure to chemical and physical hazards in the workplace.

The Management Information Systems Section is responsible for compilation of injury and illness data, provides information to MIOSHA clients about recordkeeping requirements, prepares statistical information and reports to programs about enforcement activities, monitors data related to MIOSHA strategic planning activities, and provides computer and software support to other MIOSHA programs.