[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Insurgency in Balochistan

r Turbat, Mastung, Naseerabad and Loralai districts but there was shortage of teachers in the area". Rice traders from Punjab have also been killed in target killing, this has resulting in higher prices of foods items in Balochistan. Almost 40 people of non-Balochi ethnic groups were killed in 2009.

MPA personal development budget
Funding for Balochistan's annual development programme in 2010–11 was R27 billion, as compared to R13 billion in 2007–08. This allowed each Member of the Provincial Assembly of Balochistan a personal development budget of 180 million for his or her constituency, with the figure increasing to 250 million in 2011–2012. However, critics argue that development funding is not a fix for deep political issues, and that MPAs have no incentive to find political solutions with the insurgents when they believe they will receive more funding as long as the insurgency continues. There have also been allegations that MPAs are exploiting the PSDP programme to arrange kickback schemes and other forms of corruption.

Gadani Energy Corridor
Four coal-fired power plants will be built Gadani, creating a power corridor in Balochistan based on the Houston Energy Corridor. This was announced by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif during a visit to the region. The Gadani Power Park and it is expected to generate 5200 MW. Some nationalist groups objected to the project, saying they had not been consulted and instead favored expanding access to electricity in the province rather than increasing capacity.

Farm subsidy
The Federal government announced it would transfer Rs4 billion subsidy to Provincial Government to be passed onto farmers in Balochistan to promote for tube-wells. The Provincial Government announced it would spend further Rs3 billion to support the Federal Programme. However, high levels of corruption amongst civil servants and senior ministers may mean the common man only gets partial benefit.

Army Education City at Sui
In January 2011 then Chief of Army Staff of Pakistan Army, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, announced the establishment of Education City in Sui. The military said it had built colleges in Balochistan, such as Balochistan Institute of Technical Education (BITE) and the Gwadar Institute of Technical Education (GITE) with approximately 1,673 graduates. Around 22,786 Baloch students attend military-run educational institutions.

See also
 Baluchistan (Chief Commissioner's Province)
 Baloch nationalism
 Las Bela
 Kharan
 Khanate of Kalat
 Baluchistan States Union
 Human rights violations in Balochistan
 Forced disappearance in Pakistan
 Balochistan Liberation Army

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links

 Unrest simmers in Pakistan province
 The real Balochistan by Sana Baloch
 Balochistan in focus by Rahimullah Yusufzai
 Ethnicity and Provincialism in Pakistan by Adnan Syed.

 
Government of Liaquat Ali Khan
Government of Yousaf Raza Gillani
Government of Shaukat Aziz
History of Balochistan
Imran Khan administration
Nawaz Sharif administration
Politics of Balochistan, Pakistan
Provincial disputes in Pakistan
Proxy wars
Separatism in Pakistan
20th-century conflicts
20th century in Afghanistan
20th century in Iran
20th century in Pakistan
21st-century conflicts
21st century in Afghanistan
21st century in Iran
21st century in Pakistan
Insurgency