[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# University of Eswatini

Science and Planning (GEP), Physics, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Mathematics, and Computer Science.

The undergraduate programmes offers are the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) and the Bachelor of
Engineering (B.Eng.) with the latter under the Electrical and Electronic Engineering department.

The undergraduate programme usually involves double major combinations from the departments for the B.Sc. degree. Examples are double majors in Physics and Mathematics, Chemistry and Biology and Mathematics and Computer Science.
The aim for the faculty was to train students with the goal of them being teachers, with some going on to study Engineering and Medicine outside the country.

The Faculty of Science offers two post-graduate courses leading to the Master of Science (M.Sc.) and these are in Chemistry (either Environmental/Analytical Chemistry or Natural Products and Medicinal Chemistry) and in Environmental Resource Management (ERM).

Research in the faculty of science is based on five themes namely, Environmental Conservation, Energy, Water Quality Management, Computational Science and Mathematical Modelling and Research in Indigenous Medicinal and Nutritious Food Plants. The faculty is home to the
Institute of Research in Traditional Medicine, Medicinal and Indigenous Food Plants. Future plans of the faculty are to establish new research centres for Computational Scienceand Mathematical Modelling, Energy, Environmental Conservation and Water Quality Management.

Faculty of Social Sciences
The faculty sciences is made up of the departments of Economics, Law, Political and Administrative Studies, Sociology and Statistics and Demography. The department of Law offers the only Law programme in the university and in the country. The Bachelor of Laws ( LL.B. ) is the main undergraduate programme in the law department and a Diploma in Law is offered through the Institute of Distance Education. There is no graduate law programme. The remaining departments offer undergraduate majors leading to the Bachelor of Arts (Social Science) or famously B.A.S.S. Double major combination are common in the departments with possibility of a combination with mathematics which is offered in the Faculty of Science.

Institute of Distance Education
The IDE is the main center for distance learning at the university and in the country. It is housed at the main campus at the IDE center. With the motto To Take University Education to the People rather than the People Come to the University, it serves academic departments by offering distance learning variants of the existing programmes.  IDE offers six qualifications which are: Certificate in French, Diploma in Commerce, Diploma in Law, Bachelor of Commerce, Bachelor of Arts in Humanities and Bachelor of Education in Adult Education.

Institute of Post-graduate Studies
The institute is responsible for all graduate programmes in the university.  The institute currently offers a number of Masters degrees and a Doctorate.
The masters programmes are offered in association with the departments of Adult Education, Agricultural Economics and Management, Agricultural Education and Extension, Chemistry, Crop Production, Curriculum and Teaching, Education Foundation and Management,
and History. The doctorate programme offered is in Agricultural Education under the Agricultural Education and Extension department at the Faculty of Agriculture.

Notable alumni
Patricia McFadden - Swazi author, Professor of Sociology, and African radical feminist.
Patrice Motsepe - South African mining magnate.
Lindiwe Sisulu - South African politician.
Elias Masilela - Chief Executive Officer, South Africa Public Investment Corporation.
Siyabonga Gama -  Director of Pan African Association for Port Co-Op (PAPC)
Naledi Pandor - South African politician.
Totsie Busisiswe Memela-Khambule - MD of Postbank.
Nandi Mayethula-Khoza - Gauteng MEC for Agriculture and Social Development
Tokyo Sexwale - South African politician and Non-Executive Chairman Mvelaphanda Holdings
Thuli Madonsela - Public Protector of South Africa

References

External links
  University of Swaziland
  The library at the University of Swaziland
 Sister school:  Taipei Medical University

 
Education in Eswatini
Universities and colleges established in 1982
1982 establishments in Swaziland