[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 128]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

g at length produced a tender and
intimate friendship.

"Sophron was larger and more robust of the two; his look was firm but
modest, his countenance placid, and his eyes were such as inspired
confidence and attachment. He excelled most of the youth of the
neighbourhood in every species of violent exercise--such as wrestling,
boxing, and whirling heavyweights; but his triumphs were constantly
mixed with so much humanity and courtesy, that even those who found
themselves vanquished could feel no envy towards their conqueror.

"On the contrary, Tigranes was of a character totally different. His
body was less strong than that of Sophron, but excellently proportioned
and adapted to every species of fatigue; his countenance was full of
fire, but displeased by an excess of confidence; and his eyes sparkled
with sense and meaning, but bore too great an expression of uncontrolled
fierceness.

"Nor were these two youths less different in the application of their
faculties than in the nature of them; for Tigranes seemed to be
possessed by a restless spirit of commanding all his equals, while
Sophron, contented with the enjoyment of tranquillity, desired nothing
more than to avoid oppression.

"Still, as they assisted their parents in leading every morning their
flocks to pasture, they entertained each other with rural sports; or,
while reposing under the shade of arching rocks during the heat of the
day, conversed with all the ease of childish friendship. Their
observations were not many; they were chiefly drawn from the objects of
nature which surrounded them, or from the simple mode of life to which
they had been witness; but even here the diversity of their characters
was sufficiently expressed.

"'See,' said Tigranes, one day, as he cast his eyes upwards to the
cliffs of a neighbouring rock, 'that eagle which riseth into the immense
regions of air, till he absolutely soars beyond the reach of sight; were
I a bird, I should choose to resemble him, that I might traverse the
clouds with a rapidity of a whirlwind, and dart like lightning upon my
prey.' 'That eagle,' answered Sophron, 'is the emblem of violence and
injustice; he is the enemy of every bird, and even of every beast, that
is weaker than himself; were I to choose, I should prefer the life of
yonder swan, that moves so smoothly and inoffensively along the river;
he is strong enough to defend himself from injury, without opposing
others, and therefore he is neither feared nor insulted by other
animals.'

"While Sophron was yet speaking, the eagle, who had been hovering in the
air, darted suddenly down at some distance, and seizing a lamb, was
bearing it away in his cruel talons; when, almost in the same instant, a
shepherd, who had been watching all his motions from a neighbouring
hill, let fly an arrow with so unerring an aim, that it pierced the body
of the bird, and brought him headlong to the ground, writhing in the
agonies of death.

"'This,' said Sophron, 'I have often heard, is the fate of ambitious
people; while they are endeavouring to mount beyond their fellows they
are stopped by some unforeseen misfortune.' 'For my part,' said
Tigranes, 'I had rather perish in the sky than enjoy an age of life,
basely chained down and grovelling upon the surface of the earth.' 'What
we either may enjoy,' answered Sophron, 'is in the hand of Heaven; but
may I rather creep during life than mount to commit injustice, and
oppress the innocent.'

"In this manner passed the early years of the two friends. As they grew
up to manhood the difference of their tempers became more visible, and
gradually alienated them from each other. Tigranes began to despise the
uniform labours of the shepherd and the humble occupations of the
country; his sheep were neglected, and frequently wandered over the
plains without a leader to guard them in the day, or bring them back at
night; and the greater part of his time was employed in climbing rocks,
or in traversing the forest, to seek for eagles' nests, or in piercing
with his arrows the different wild animals which inhabit the woods. If
he heard the horn of the hunter, or the cry of the hound, it was
impossible to restrain his eagerness; he regarded neither the summer's
sun nor the winter's frost while he was pursuing his game; the thickest
woods, the steepest mountains, the deepest rivers, were unable to stop
him in his career, and he triumphed over every danger and difficulty,
with such invincible courage as made him at once an object of terror and
admiration to all the youth in the neighbourhood. His friend Sophron
alone beheld his exploits neither with terror nor admiration. Of all
his comrades, Sophron was the only one whom Tigranes still continued to
respect; for he knew that, with a gentleness of temper which scarcely
anything could exasperate, he possessed the firmest courage and a degree
of bodily strength which rendered that courage invincible