[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USAF Air War College

School for National Security and Resource Strategy, is considered a de facto requirement for all lieutenant colonels (O-5) in the U.S. Air Force, to include the Air Force Reserve and the Air National Guard, to promote to colonel (O-6) and to be competitive for future selection as a general officer.

Course description
The Air War College is an advanced postgraduate program that functions as the senior professional military education (PME) school of the U.S. Air Force.  It emphasizes the development of joint knowledges, skills and attributes required of all Air Force, Sister Service, and international senior officers as well as Department of Defense and other National Security civilians, with special focus on their application to large organization and institutional leadership responsibilities.

The resident course is ten months in duration.  The college also offers a ten-month non-resident seminar program on select active USAF installations and at the Pentagon which mirrors the same ten-month academic schedule of the resident program.  There is also a non-resident Air War College CD-ROM/correspondence course that is typically completed in 24 months or less.

The Air War College's Mission is to:
"prepare students to lead in a joint, interagency and multinational environment at the strategic level across the range of military operations; to develop cross-domain mastery of joint air, space, and cyberspace power and its strategic contributions to national security; and to advance innovative thought on National Security, Department of Defense and Air Forces issues."

The AWC curriculum focuses on five learning areas of emphasis:

 Learning Area 1: Profession of Arms Emphasis. Graduates are capable of leading in a joint environment at the strategic level across the range of military operations.
 Learning Area 2: Warfare Studies Emphasis. Graduates make sound judgments on the cross-domain use of joint air, space and cyberspace power to maintain national security.
 Learning Area 3: Leadership Studies Emphasis. Graduates are prepared to exercise transformational leadership at group/wing command and above levels in service, joint, and coalition settings.
 Learning Area 4: International Security Studies Emphasis. Graduates are equipped to advance innovative thought on national security, Department of Defense and Air Force issues.
 Learning Area 5: Communication Studies Emphasis. Graduates can communicate complex information in a clear, concise and logical manner in both written and oral formats.

National Security Forum
Each year the Air War College (AWC) also hosts the National Security Forum (NSF), the NSF program being sponsored by the Secretary of the Air Force.  NSF began in 1954 as an expansion of the Civilian Outreach Seminars held from 1947 through 1949.

The purpose of the NSF is to expose influential citizens to senior U.S. and international military officers and civilian equivalents in order to engage each other's ideas and perspectives on Air Force, national and international security issues.  It is also an opportunity for the AWC students, as future military leaders, to interact with a broad cross-section of civilian leaders from businesses, industry, academia, public education, media, law, the clergy, and state and local governments, said civilian leaders possessing limited to no prior military experience.

Because of that latter caveat, retired career military personnel, military personnel serving part-time in the Reserve Components (to include the Army National Guard and Air National Guard), Department of Defense and U.S. Coast Guard civilian personnel, civilian spouses of military personnel, senior members of the Civil Air Patrol, and U.S. congressional members are precluded from being NSF attendees.

The NSF provides a frank and candid exchange of views on national security matters among NSF attendees, Air War College students, and senior military and civilian leaders.  The week is devoted to exploring the many issues that affect the current and future security of our country.  Specific objectives are:
 
• To provide an extended opportunity for candid engagement of ideas on future and current Air Force, national and international security issues among the Air War College students, faculty, and invited guests of the Secretary of the Air Force (e.g., the NSF attendees).

• To provide a unique forum in which experts on various aspects of national and international security may discuss their views with students, faculty, and our NSF attendees. The NSF is also intended to broaden perspectives and garner a mutual understanding of the U.S. Air Force and national and international security issues between NSF attendees and senior U.S. and international officers and civilian equivalents.