[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Erzgebirgisch

the following conventions have been established:

Consonants 
The rendering of the consonants follows the notation commonly used for Bavarian. The following table lists the phonemes of the most important Erzgebirgisch dialects, with the IPA value and the corresponding character used in this article.

 No subdialect shows phonemic contrast between postalveolar ) and retroflex ; they have one or the other.
 An important sound change in Erzgebirgisch is found with respect to . When  precedes a velar consonant, a  is inserted in between, as an example, Baarg (German  'mountain') is pronounced . Since this phonological process is completely regular, it is not reflected in orthography.
  is normally realized as a velarization of the preceding vowel. However, for the sake of clarity, this article will use  throughout.

Vowels 
The writing of the vowels presented here follows in part the official Schwyzertütsch orthography. The orthographic representation of a vowel follows after the IPA characters, if different.

 No subdialect has both  or .
  followed by  is pronounced as , but still written as .
 The close back vowels  are often rather unrounded.
 Vowel length is indicated by doubling the vowel sign in writing: , , , , , , .
 All vowels (with the exception of  and ) are , i.e. that the back vowels , ,  are more front, and the front vowels ,  und  more back than in Standard German.
 Short vowels preceding a stressed syllable are reduced to a schwa (e.g. gremàdig   'grammar').
 A short vowel preceding a r is lengthened (e.g. Aarzgebèèrgsch).
 In dialects spoken at higher altitudes,  is often realized like .
 The pronunciation as  is the default case for closed syllables. This might be due to overgeneralization of a pattern found in adjacent Saxonian dialects.

Stress 
Erzgebirgisch has lexical stress. There is a tendency to stress the first syllable even in French loanwords, where Standard German stresses the final syllable (e.g. biro   'office'), but loan words which follow the Standard German pattern are more numerous (e.g. dridewààr   'sidewalk' (from French )).

Morphology

Nominal morphology

Gender 
Erzgebirgisch numbers three genders, masculine, feminine and neuter. Most Erzgebirgisch lexemes have the same gender as their Standard German equivalents.

Case 

In distinction to Standard German, the Erzgebirgisch genitive is no longer productive. Other constructions have to be used to indicate possession. For animate possessors, a construction involving the possessor in the dative and an agreeing possessive pronoun is used (dem B sein A). For inanimate possessors, a construction involving  (German von) is used. A third possibility is compounding.

examples (North Western dialect):

The only case marking available for nouns is dative plural, which is marked by -n , but can often assimilate to other consonants. Nominative and accusative are not marked in the singular on nouns, but articles, adjectives and possessive pronouns help to disambiguate in these cases. Personal pronouns also have some special forms for nominative, accusative and dative.

The following table shows some Erzgebirgisch nominal declension paradigms.

For more information on articles, see below.

Number 
There are different ways to form the plural in Erzgebirgisch, a feature shared with Standard German. Next to the suffixes -e, -er, -n and -s, ablaut can also be used. Some suffixes trigger umlaut.

There are some nouns which differ in their plural marking between Erzgebirgisch and Standard German. E.g. Erzgebirgisch has -n for nouns ending in  in the singular, where Standard German most often has umlaut.

Examples (North Western dialect):

Articles 
Erzgebirgisch distinguishes three kinds of articles: emphatic definite article, atonal definite article, indefinite article. The emphatic definite articles are used where Standard German would use deictics like dieser and jener. The other two types closely resemble their Standard German counterparts.

All articles agree in gender, number and case with their head noun. The emphatic articles may also occur without a head noun and often replace the rarely used third person personal pronouns.

Erzgebirgisch has a negative indefinite article just like German, but the similarity to the positive indefinite article is less obvious.

The North-Western dialect has the following forms:

The article n assimilates in place of articulation to the preceding consonant. It is m before p, pf, f, w and m and ng before k, g, ch ( or ) and ng.

Examples:

Pronouns

Personal pronouns 
Personal pronouns distinguish emphatic and atonal forms, just like articles. The emphatic forms are used to highlight a participant. They are free words, whereas the atonal forms are phonologically reduced clitics.

There is no emphatic form for third person personal pronouns. The emphatic forms of the definite article have to be used instead. To outsiders this may often come across as impolite.