[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Anatoly Karpov

d. In May, a fundraising event took place in New York with the participation of Kasparov and Magnus Carlsen, who both supported his bid and campaigned for him. Nigel Short also supported Karpov's candidacy. On September 29, 2010, Kirsan Ilyumzhinov was reelected as president of FIDE, 95 votes to 55.

Style
Karpov's "boa constrictor" playing style is solidly positional, taking minimal risks but reacting mercilessly to the slightest error by his opponent. As a result, he is often compared to José Raúl Capablanca, the third world champion. Karpov himself describes his style as follows:Let us say the game may be continued in two ways: one of them is a beautiful tactical blow that gives rise to variations that don't yield to precise calculations; the other is clear positional pressure that leads to an endgame with microscopic chances of victory.... I would choose [the latter] without thinking twice. If the opponent offers keen play I don't object; but in such cases I get less satisfaction, even if I win, than from a game conducted according to all the rules of strategy with its ruthless logic.

Notable games

Viktor Korchnoi vs. Anatoly Karpov, Moscow 1973 Karpov sacrifices a pawn for a strong center and  attack.
Anatoly Karpov vs. Gyula Sax, Linares 1983 Karpov sacrifices for an attack that wins the game 20 moves later, after another spectacular sacrifice from Karpov and counter-sacrifice from Sax. It won the tournament's first . This was not the first time Karpov used the sharp Keres Attack (6.g4) – see his win in Anatoly Karpov vs. Vlastimil Hort, Alekhine Memorial Tournament, Moscow 1971.
Anatoly Karpov vs. Veselin Topalov, Dos Hermanas 1994 This game features a sham sacrifice of two pieces, which Karpov regains with a  variation, culminating in the win of an exchange with a technically won endgame.

Hobbies
Karpov's extensive stamp collection of Belgian philately and Belgian Congo stamps and postal history covering mail from 1742 through 1980 was sold by David Feldman's auction company between December 2011 and 2012. He is also known to have large chess stamp and chess book collections. His private chess library consists of 9,000 books.

Honours and awards
 Order of Merit for the Fatherland, 3rd class (2001) – for outstanding contribution to the implementation of charitable programmes, the strengthening of peace and friendship between the peoples
 Order of Friendship (2011) – for his great contribution to strengthening peace and friendship between peoples and productive social activities
 Order of Lenin (1981)
 Order of the Red Banner of Labour (1978)
 Order of Merit, 2nd class (Ukraine) (November 13, 2006) – for his contribution to the victims of the Chernobyl disaster
 Order of Holy Prince Daniel of Moscow, 2nd class (1996)
 Order of St. Sergius of Radonezh, 2nd class (2001)
 Medal "For outstanding contribution to the Collector business in Russia"
 Honorary member of the Soviet Philately Society (1979)
 Diploma of the State Duma of the Russian Federation No. 1
 Order "For outstanding achievements in sport" (Republic of Cuba)
 Medal of Tsiolkovsky Cosmonautics Federation of Russia
 Medal "For Strengthening the penal system", 1st and 2nd class
 Breastplate of the 1st degree of the Interior Ministry
 International Association of Chess Press, 9 times voted the best chess player of the year and awarded the "Chess Oscar"
 Order of Saint Nestor the Chronicler, 1st class
 Asteroid 90414 Karpov is named after Karpov
 Anatoly Karpov International Chess Tournament, an annual round-robin tournament held in his honour in Poikovsky, Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Okrug, Russia since 2000

Books
Karpov has authored or co-authored several books, most of which have been translated into English.
 Karpov, A.E.	Ninth vertical. 1978. Moscow: Molodaya Gvardia.

 (also a 1992 Simon & Schuster edition)

References

Further reading
 Fine, Rueben (1983). The World's Great Chess Games. Dover. .
 Hurst, Sarah (2002). Curse of Kirsan: Adventures in the Chess Underworld. Russell Enterprises. .
 

 Karpov, Anatoly (2003). Anatoly Karpov's Best Games. Batsford. .

 Winter, Edward G., editor (1981).World Chess Champions. Pergamon Press. .

External links

 Karpov's official homepage 
 
 
 
 Edward Winter, "Books about Korchnoi and Karpov", Chess Notes
 25 minute video interview with Karpov, OnlineChessLessons.NET, June 19, 2012
 "Anatoly Karpov tells all" (2015 interview by Sport Express, translated by ChessBase): part 1, part 2, part 3, part 4