[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Everyone Worth Knowing

black card.
Robert Robinson, Bette's father, a professor of ecology at Vassar College. His wife works for the college's health center. The two met at Berkeley in the 1960s, where they became the political radicals they remain today, to the point that they do not celebrate Thanksgiving and were once wanted by the FBI. Robert is a bit less stringent than her, however, secretly complimenting Sammy the night before the holiday for making the best meal he'd had in ages even if it wasn't strictly organic and vegetarian.

Since Kelly & Co.'s primary business is sponsoring parties to which many celebrities are invited, many real-life notables are depicted. Among the most prominent are Hugh Hefner, Jay-Z, James Gandolfini, Ashanti and Jerry Seinfeld.

There is a reference in a nightclub to "that ugly little lesbian troll blogger who can't stop writing about how much blow she does every night" which was believed to be a reference to Elizabeth Spiers of Gawker Media, in retaliation for a disparaging remark she denies making about Weisberger.

Major themes

Like The Devil Wears Prada, Everyone Worth Knowing is essentially a morality play in which an unglamorous young single woman is suddenly thrust into a glamorous New York industry and slowly starts to get comfortable in it, despite keeping herself at a distance, at the expense of her relationship with family and friends, only to decisively reject it and begin to get what she really needs. Unlike its predecessor, however, the novel depicts far more decadent behavior from its wealthy elite, including casual sex, the frequent use of various illegal drugs and women starving themselves to the point that they frequently pass out from sheer hunger.

Foreign titles
Although in most countries the book has the same title, or a direct translation, the title in some European countries is Gossip and Gucci, but in Spain the book is called How to be the coolest in New York, in Finland VIP-ihmisiä (VIP-people), in Sweden Alla var där (Everyone was there) and in Italy is Al diavolo piace Dolce (The devil likes Dolce "& Gabbana"). This has to do with the success of The devil wears Prada. The cover art in the Netherlands is also very similar to the movie's poster. The Polish title is Butler Wears Gabbana Suit.

Allusions and references to other works

Bette's guilty pleasure leads to many romance novel titles, possibly fictional, being mentioned, such as The Very Bad Boy and Her Royal Bodyguard. On the plane to Istanbul, the characters watch Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction.

Critical reception and sales
Weisberger's second novel received generally unfavorable reviews.  The New York Times Book Review described it as "fatuous, clunky." USA Today called it "lackluster imitation," and Entertainment Weekly said it was "ho-hum rehash."  Despite debuting on the New York Times Best Seller List at #10, it dropped off the list in two weeks and was noted for its disappointing, declining sales.  Publisher Simon & Schuster paid Weisberger $1 million for the novel.

Footnotes

2005 American novels
Chick lit novels
Novels set in New York City
Novels about public relations