[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sutton-on-Trent

Sutton-on-Trent  is a large village and parish in Nottinghamshire, situated on the Great North Road, and on the west bank of the River Trent.

The village contains 2,450 acres of land and according to the 2001 census it had a population of 1,327, increasing marginally to 1,331 at the 2011 census.

It is located  north of Newark-on-Trent, which takes approximately 20 minutes to reach by car, and  miles south of Retford, which takes approximately 22 minutes to reach by car.

Sutton Mill was a stone-built tower windmill, built in 1825. It was owned by the Bingham family of Grassthorpe from the 1860s until 1984. The four-storey tower has been converted to a house.

Sir Godfrey Hounsfield was born in Sutton-on-Trent on 28 August 1919, he went on to share the 1979 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine with Allan MacLeod Cormack for his part in developing the diagnostic technique of X-ray computed tomography (CT). The doctors Surgery on Hounsfield Way is named for him. He is buried in the cemetery on Ingram lane.

History

Dredging of the river has revealed fossilized mammoth's teeth and tusks, Roman and Anglo Saxon pottery.

The town is mentioned in the Domesday Book of 1086, and a Norman church was built in the 13th century.

Oliver Sutton, Bishop of Lincoln from 1280 to 1299, was from the Sutton branch of the influential Lexington family on his mother's side. He was an unusually popular bishop and officiated at the funeral of Queen Eleanor in 1290.

In May 1686 the manor and lordship of Sutton-on-Trent were sold to Richard Levett, later Lord Mayor of London, and his wife Mary.

In Far Holme Lane can be found the Old Manse and the Old Chapel - these are the remnants of the small Particular Baptist church that existed here from 1822 to the 1900s. Although some Baptist historical writing suggests that the church was founded by Alexander Jamieson with the support of the wealthy Haldane brothers of Glasgow in the period 1800–1810, there is fairly convincing evidence that it was actually 'planted' by the Collingham Baptist congregation under William Nichols. George Pope may then have become its own minister - before himself moving to Collingham. Nichols was active in the village as early as 1809. Nichols wrote an obituary of a Sutton woman in the Baptist Magazine, volume 7, 1815, which provides one of the few accounts of the life of an ordinary Sutton-on-Trent woman that we have and so is worth repeating verbatim:

JANE RICHARDSON of Sutton on Trent, near Newark, who died January 23d, 1815, aged 81 years.

On our first going to Sutton, to preach the gospel, in 1809, this old disciple was made known to us. She then expressed to me the joy and pleasure it afforded her that the gospel was brought to that wicked village —" Here I have been, like a poor speckled bird, ever since I came to it, shut out from hearing the word, which I had enjoyed in my former situation, though I had then to walk five miles on the Lord's day, and often to wade to the knees in water, but I found the word sweet to my soul, which made amends for all my trouble of getting to the house of God. O! how I have lamented the loss of those means of grace ; but I hope that Lord has not left me; and now I pray that the preaching here may be blessed to my soul, and to my neighbours, who are dead in trespasses and sins, though they know it not."