[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 103]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

his deliverer.

"I was merely waiting for you two ladies to move; I would have come on
with Mr. Fleming. I am extremely sorry," said the Professor.

He followed Lady Engleton down the path between the graves, with
something of the same set expression that had been on his face when he
came up the path of the cottage garden to admire the baby.

"It appears that we were all waiting for each other," said Lady
Engleton.

"This 'ere's the young woman's grave, sir--Ellen Jervis--'er as I was a
tellin' you of," said Dodge, pointing an earth-stained finger at the
mound.

"Oh, yes; very nice," said the Professor vaguely. Hadria's laugh
disconcerted him. "I mean--pretty spot--well chosen--well made."

Hadria continued to laugh. "I never heard less skilled comment on a
grave!" she exclaimed. "It might be a pagoda!"

"It's not so easy as you seem to imagine to find distinctive epithets. I
challenge you. Begin with the pagoda."

"One of the first canons of criticism is never to attempt the feat
yourself; jeer rather at others."

"The children don't like the new schoolmarm near so well as this 'un,"
observed Dodge, touching the grave with his broom. "Lord, it was an
unfort'nate thing, for there wasn't a better girl nor she were in all
Craddock (as I was a tellin' of you, sir), not when she fust come as
pupil teacher. It was all along of her havin' no friends, and her mother
far away. She used to say to me at times of an afternoon wen she was a
passin' through the churchyard--'Dodge,' says she, 'do you know I have
no one to care for, or to care for me, in all the world?' I used to
comfort her like, and say as there was plenty in Craddock as cared for
her, but she always shook her head, sort o' sad."

"Poor thing!" Lady Engleton exclaimed.

"And one mornin' a good time after, I found her a cryin' bitter, just
there by her own grave, much about where the gentleman 'as his foot at
this moment" (the Professor quickly withdrew it). "It was in the dusk o'
the evenin', and she was a settin' on the rail of old Squire Jordan's
grave, jes' where you are now, sir. We were sort o' friendly, and wen I
heard 'er a taking on so bad, I jes' went and stood alongside, and I
sez, 'Wy Ellen Jervis,' I sez, 'wot be you a cryin' for?' But she kep'
on sobbin' and wouldn't answer nothin'. So I waited, and jes' went on
with my work a bit, and then I sez again, 'Ellen Jervis, wot be you a
cryin' for?' And then she took her hands from her face and she sez,
'Because I am that miserable,' sez she, and she broke out cryin' wuss
than ever. 'Dear, dear,' I sez, 'wot is it? Can't somebody do nothin'
for you?'

"'No; nobody in the world can help me, and nobody wants to; it would be
better if I was under there.' And she points to the ground just where
she lies now--I give you my word she did--and sure enough, before
another six months had gone by, there she lay under the sod, 'xacly on
the spot as she had pointed to. She was a sinner, there's no denyin',
but she 'ad to suffer for it more nor most."

"Very sad," observed Professor Theobald nervously, with a glance at
Hadria, as if expecting derision.

"It is a hard case," said Lady Engleton, "but I suppose error _has_ to
be paid for."

"Well, I don't know 'xacly," said Dodge, "it depends."

"On the sex," said Hadria.

"I have known them as spent all their lives a' injurin' of others, and
no harm seemed to come to 'em. And I've seed them as wouldn't touch a
fly and always doin' their neighbours a kind turn, wot never 'ad a day's
luck."

"Let us hope it will be made up in the next world," said Lady Engleton.
Dodge hoped it would, but there was something in the turn of his head
that seemed to denote a disposition to base his calculations on this,
rather than on the other world. He was expected home by his wife, at
this hour, so wishing the company good day, and pocketing the
Professor's gratuity with a gleam of satisfaction in his shrewd and
honest face, he trudged off with his broom down the path, and out by the
wicket-gate into the village street.

"I never heard that part of the story before," said Lady Engleton, when
the gravedigger had left.

It was new to everybody. "It brings her nearer, makes one realize her
suffering more painfully."

Hadria was silent.

Professor Theobald cast a quick, scrutinizing glance at her.

"I can understand better now how you were induced to take the poor
child, Mrs. Temperley," Lady Engleton remarked.

They were strolling down the path, and Professor Theobald was holding
open the gate for his companions to pass through. His hand seemed to
shake slightly.

"I don't enjoy probing my motives on that subject," said Hadria.

"Why? I am sure they were good."

"I can't help hoping that that child may live to avenge her mother; to
make some man know what it is to be horribly miserable--but, oh, I
suppose it's like trying to reach the feelings of a rhinoceros!"

"There you ar