[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Progressive Canadian Party candidates in the 2006 Canadian federal election

The Progressive Canadian Party fielded several candidates in the 2006 federal election, none of whom were elected.  Information about these candidates may be found on this page.

Quebec

Outremont: Philip Paynter
Philip Paynter was a political science and economics student at Concordia University in 2006. He received 94 votes (0.23%), finishing seventh against incumbent Liberal cabinet minister Jean Lapierre.

Ontario

Beaches—East York: Jim Love

Love was born on February 24, 1956, in Port Arthur, Ontario.  He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in English from York University, and is now a management consultant in Toronto.  He is a managing partner in Performance Advantage, and also works with Innovate Inc. in the Kitchener-Waterloo area.  Love is a member of the Canadian Association of Management Consultants, and was awarded his Fellowship as a Certified Management Consultant (FCMC) in 2007 in recognition of his contributions to management consulting and his long record of community service.  Formerly, Love was a vice-president of the DMR group from 1997 to 2003 and prior to that a Principal with Ernst & Young.  He is also a musician, and received a Juno nomination for an album he recorded with the group Sphere.  He also has a gold record for the children's music hit song "Sharing".

Love joined the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada in 1995, and became president of its Beaches—East York association.  Love opposed the Progressive Conservative Party's merger with the Canadian Alliance in 2003-2004, and following the merger became one of 100 Progressive Conservatives to form the Progressive Canadian Party.  He was an organizer for the new party in the 2004 election, and became party president in 2005 by a unanimous vote of the national council.  He also chaired the party's National Election Campaign in the 2006.  Love has argued that the Progressive Conservative Party's merger with the Alliance was conducted to purge the party of David Orchard's growing influence, rather than to "unite the right" in Canada (Toronto Star, 12 November 2005).

He received 183 votes (0.36%) in 2006, finishing fifth against Liberal incumbent Maria Minna.

Lanark—Frontenac—Lennox and Addington: Jeffrey Bogaerts

Bogaerts has worked in Information Technology since 1978, and is the president of J.D. Bogaerts Enterprises Inc.  He has produced products for the provincial and federal governments, for NATO, and for private companies.

He campaigned for the Lanark—Carleton Progressive Conservative nomination in 2003, shortly before the party's merger with the Canadian Alliance (Ottawa Citizen, 25 June 2003).  Bogaerts supported the rights of local farmers who were shooting overpopulated deer herds that threatened area property, despite legal prohibitions against their actions (Kingston Whig-Standard, 16 June 2003).

Bogaerts's 2006 campaign website featured a prominent image of Sir John A. Macdonald, who represented the area during the 1880s.  Like his Conservative Party opponent, he called for the entrenchment of property rights in the Canadian Constitution.  He received 735 votes (1.24%) in 2006, finishing fifth against Conservative incumbent Scott Reid.

Sudbury: Stephen Butcher

Stephen L. Butcher is a graduate of the Aerospace Engineering Technology program at Ryerson University (now Toronto Metropolitan University).  He has worked at the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory, and operates Mid-North Water Purification and Pumps.  Butcher helped organize a Neighbourhood Watch program in the community of Copper Cliff, and is active with police and aviation issues.

Butcher was a member of the centre-right Progressive Conservative Party of Canada before that party merged with the more right-wing Canadian Alliance to create the Conservative Party of Canada in 2003.  He originally supported the merger, and was a candidate for the party in the 2004 federal election.  He attracted some controversy during this campaign for saying that Canada should exercise caution when bringing "foreign doctors" into Canada.  Butcher later clarified that he believed it was inappropriate for Canada to entice doctors to emigrate from medically underserviced areas in the global south.  Some took issue with his comments, arguing that Canada's medical system would collapse without doctors from other countries.