[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Radio Zamaneh

lands, but after negative reactions from the Iranian government, the project was halted. Proposals were put forward for promoting independent journalism in Iran and eventually the budget was divided between a number of projects, with Radio Zamaneh and Shahrzad News receiving the bulk of the funding.

In 2006, after three years of negotiations, the Radio Zamaneh board selected London-based Persian journalist and radio producer Mehdi Jami as the director of Radio Zamaneh. Jami moved to Amsterdam, where he held a workshop to initiate Radio Zamaneh's activities inviting more than 30 Iranian writers, journalists and bloggers from San Francisco, Washington D.C., Toronto, London, Paris, Berlin, Cologne, Prague and Tehran. Shahrokh Golestan, Abbas Maroufi, Mohammad-Reza Nikfar, Jamshid Barzegar, Nikahang Kowsar and Behzad Bolour were among them. After a 5-day workshop, Radio Zamaneh released a statement calling itself the "Voice of Persian Bloggers".

Beginning 
Internet broadcasting started on 4 August 2006 while satellite broadcasting started on 7 September. Short-wave broadcasting started in September 2006 and stopped in January 2008. 

A few days before starting the programs, Radio Zamaneh broadcast Iranian underground music. This act was warmly received by underground musicians in Tehran, but also criticized by many in the target audience because of the harsh language used in many of the songs. RZ gradually divided its musical broadcasts into "Persian Classical", "Persian Symphonic", "Persian Folk", "New Voices", "Western Classical", "Film Music" and "World Music".

Broadcasts 
Radio Zamaneh broadcasts 24 hours on its satellite channel. The daily programs are also available online on Radio Zamaneh's website. The core of its current affairs and cultural, social and economic program is broadcast 1.5 hours a day through internet and satellite. Daily broadcasts start at 18:00 Amsterdam time (20:30 Tehran time) and will be repeated 4 times.

Hacking and other cyber attacks 
In January 2010, hackers calling themselves the Iranian Cyber Army hijacked the website of Radio Zamaneh, several weeks after doing the same to China's Baidu Inc search engine and Twitter.

According to Reuters: "Since early Saturday [30th January 2010], visitors to the website of Dutch government-funded Radio Zamaneh, which reports on human rights and unrest in Iran, have seen the message "this web site has been hacked by Iranian Cyber Army" followed by a warning in Persian: "Iranian Cyber Army warns all treasonous mercenaries that it will not leave them at peace even in the bosom of their masters." 

The problem was solved after three days.

Attempts to hack and Ddos-attack Radio Zamaneh's websites and systems have since remained frequent, with a sharp increase of malicious activity since early 2012.

Organizing and support

Since 2006 to 2010 Radio Zamaneh has supported various cultural and human rights projects such as Iranian underground music Festival in Zaandam (2006), Tehran section of Rotterdam Film Festival in Rotterdam (2007), Noor Iranian Film Festival (2008), The documentary "Hayedeh: Legendary Persian Diva" (2009), European tour of Kiosk Band (2010), etc.

In December 2009 Radio Zamaneh organized a conference about "Human Rights and Press Freedom in Iran" at Amsterdam's Tropical Theatre. The women rights activist Shadi Sadr gave a lecture in this conference.

In November 2012, Radio Zamaneh hosted a conference in Amsterdam on the future role of media and online activism in Iran. Nobel Prize Laureate Shirin Ebadi was one of the keynote-speakers.

External links
 
Tribune Zamaneh (citizen reporting website)
Radio Zamaneh (English section)
Dutch national broadcasting network news NOS on Radio Zamaneh's work
Nobel Prize Laureate Dr. Shirin Ebadi speaking at Radio Zamaneh debate, November 2012
Persian radio in Holland gives Iranians news (AP)
The editor-in-chief, Farid Haerinejad: Zamaneh, Yesterday, Zamaneh, Tomorrow 
Radio Tehran - Volkskrant article in Dutch language 
Press Now Statement about Radio Zamaneh
Speech on openings party Radio Zamaneh from director Mehdi Jami
Dutch-Persians' open letter against Arjen de Wolff, "director of Radio Zamaneh"

References

Radio stations in the Netherlands
Persian-language radio stations