[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roy Alexander Gano

y during the Berlin build-up, the Cuban crisis and the critical periods in Southeast Asia. By his brilliant leadership, professional competence, and steadfast devotion to duty, Vice Admiral Gano rendered valuable and distinguished service and contributed greatly to the security of the United States.

Navy Cross citation:
The President of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting a Gold Star in lieu of a Second Award of the Navy Cross to Captain Roy Alexander Gano, United States Navy, for extraordinary heroism and distinguished service in the line of his profession as Commanding Officer of the Destroyer , attached to Destroyer Squadron TWENTY-THREE (DesRon 23), during a night engagement with the six enemy Japanese warships off Bougainville, British Solomon Islands, during the Battle of Empress Augusta Bay on 24 and 25 November 1943. Seeking out and fearlessly engaging a powerful enemy, Captain Gano fought his ship with resolute courage and daring aggressiveness, frequently risking his own personal safety to press home vigorous, unrelenting attacks upon Japanese surface forces. By his extreme valor and inspiring leadership, he evoked the indomitable fighting spirit which enabled the gallant officers and men under his command to contribute materially to the crushing defeat imposed upon the enemy in the sinking of four ships and the serious damaging of two others. An expert seaman and tactician, Captain Gano retired the Dyson from the engagement without loss or damage and his high devotion to duty and splendid conduct throughout the action were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.

Navy Cross citation:
The President of the United States of America takes pleasure in presenting the Navy Cross to Captain Roy Alexander Gano, United States Navy, for extraordinary heroism and distinguished service in the line of his profession as Commanding Officer of the Destroyer U.S.S. DYSON (DD-509), during an engagement with Japanese naval forces at Empress Augusta Bay, off Bougainville, Solomon Islands, on the night of 1–2 November 1943. With his Task Force engaging a Japanese surface force of superior fire power, Captain Gano hurled the full fighting strength of his ship against the enemy and, by his inspiring leadership and skilled combat tactics, aided his Task Force in sinking five hostile warships, in damaging four others and in completely routing the enemy, thereby contributing materially to the successful establishment of our beachhead on Bougainville Island. His determination, relentless fighting spirit and gallant devotion to duty upheld the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.

Legion of Merit with Combat V citation:
Awarded for Actions during World War II: Captain Roy Alexander Gano, United States Navy, was awarded the Legion of Merit with Combat "V" for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services to the Government of the United States during World War II.

Legion of Merit citation:
Awarded for Actions during the Cold War: Vice Admiral Roy Alexander Gano, United States Navy, was awarded a Gold Star in lieu of a Second Award of the Legion of Merit for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services to the Government of the United States.
   Navy Cross with Gold Star
   Navy Distinguished Service Medal
   Legion of Merit with Gold Star
   Bronze Star with Gold Star

References

 McLendon, Winzola (1964). "Admirals Setting Sail for Retirement Day." The Washington Post and Times-Herald. June 21.

External links

This article contains information from the Naval Historical Center and is in the public domain.
 Legion of Merit – Criteria, Background, and Images 
 
 Roy Alexander Gano at ArlingtonCemetery.net, an unofficial website
 Legion of Valor 
 

1902 births
1971 deaths
United States Navy personnel of World War II
United States Navy personnel of the Korean War
United States Navy vice admirals
United States Naval Academy alumni
Recipients of the Navy Cross (United States)
Recipients of the Navy Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
People from Pipestone, Minnesota
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
Military personnel from Minnesota