[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Die, Mommie, Die!

costumes in the film.

Release
The film debuted on January 20, 2003, at the 2003 Sundance Film Festival, with a wider release in October 2003. The region 1 DVD was released on June 29, 2004.

Reception
Busch won the Special Jury Prize for Performance for the film at the 2003 Sundance Film Festival.

Stage version
The original play—spelled and punctuated as Die! Mommy! Die!—was first produced in Los Angeles at the Coast Playhouse from July to September 1999. In addition to Busch as Angela and Barbara, the show starred Greg Mullavey as Sol, Dorie Barton as Edith, Wendy Worthington as Bootsie, Mark Capri as Tony and Carl Andress as Lance. Though initially scheduled to close in August 1999, the play's run was extended through September, with Playbill calling it a "smash hit". Writing for Variety, Robert Hofler called the play "Charles Busch's funniest, most accomplished and, without question, raunchiest work". Michael Phillips of the Los Angeles Times praised Busch as "peerless performer" who "is reason enough to see this show", but noted that "the satiric unevenness can't be disguised" and "the supporting cast disappoints". Michael Bottari and Ronald Case, longtime costume designers for Busch, created his wardrobe and, with designer Dione H. Lebhar, were nominated for an Ovation Award for the production. Barton was also nominated as Featured Actress in a Play.

Produced in New York for the first time in 2007, the show opened for previews on October 10 Off-Broadway at the New World Stages, officially opening on October 21, 2007. The cast included Busch recreating his original roles, Ashley Austin Morris as Edith, Kristine Nielsen as Bootsie, Van Hansis as Lance, Bob Ari as Sol and Chris Hoch as Tony. Directed by Andress, who played Lance in the 1999 production, the show closed on January 13, 2008. Mark Blankenship of Variety called Busch "radiant", praising his performance and writing, as well as the play's "ludicrous-yet-stylish tone". Busch's costumes by Bottari and Case won them a 2008 Lucille Lortel Award for Outstanding Costume Design alongside designer Jessica Jahn, and the three were also nominated for a Drama Desk Award, and an Outer Critics Circle Award.

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 Die, Mommie, Die!  at CharlesBusch.com
 

2003 films
2003 black comedy films
2003 independent films
2003 LGBT-related films
American black comedy films
American independent films
American LGBT-related films
American satirical films
Bisexuality-related films
Cross-dressing in American films
Films scored by Dennis McCarthy
Films about dysfunctional families
Films about singers
Sundance Film Festival award-winning films
American films based on plays
Films set in Los Angeles
Films shot in Los Angeles
Incest in film
LGBT-related black comedy films
Plays by Charles Busch
2000s English-language films
2000s American films