[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tommy Fraser

Thomas Francis Peter Fraser (born 5 December 1987) is an English former footballer who played as a midfielder.

Starting his career with hometown club Brighton & Hove Albion, Fraser was youth team captain and then a semi-regular in the first team for three seasons. In June 2009, he signed with Port Vale, where he was quickly made captain. He left the club in January 2011, and immediately joined Barnet. He remained with the club London club for ten months, before joining Whitehawk in December 2011. Fraser emigrated to Australia in February 2013, before returning to Whitehawk in the summer. He then had brief spells at Ebbsfleet United, Peacehaven & Telscombe, Lewes and Burgess Hill Town (over two spells), Whitehawk again and Bognor Regis Town.

Early life

Fraser's father, Frankie, was a youth team player at Brighton & Hove Albion before a knee injury ended his professional career; he went on to play for Whitehawk. He is also the grandson of former Richardson Gang member "Mad" Frankie Fraser. He has said: "I couldn't tell you anything he's done and I've never read a book about it. I'm not really interested – he's just my grandad as far as I'm concerned." Growing up in Brighton, Fraser attended Varndean School and Varndean College. He is an Arsenal fan.

Career

Brighton & Hove Albion
Fraser was born in Brighton and progressed through the youth ranks at League One side Brighton & Hove Albion, where he was awarded a professional contract in the summer of 2006. In March 2006, Fraser was sent on loan to Conference South side Bognor Regis Town, where he made only one appearance. On 9 September 2006, Fraser made his debut for Brighton at The New Den, coming off the bench; later in the game Fraser cleared off the line as Millwall looked to have scored, but Fraser's actions saved the club's clean sheet as Brighton won the match 1–0.

Fraser started life on the wing, before later taking up a position in the centre of midfield. At times he was also used as a defender, a role in which he earned praise off his teammate Matt Richards in February 2008, before he was offered a one-year contract two months later. After 102 appearances and 3 goals for the "Seagulls", Fraser left Brighton after the expiration of his contract in June 2009.

Port Vale
Fraser signed with Port Vale on a free transfer in June 2009, linking up with former manager Micky Adams for the 2009–10 season. He was appointed as club captain, after impressing in the pre-season. At twenty one years of age, and new to the club, his appointment came as a surprise to some, especially with more senior options in Sam Stockley, Marc Richards and Gareth Owen. However, Adams had faith in the young midfielder's vocal abilities and general leadership qualities. Putting in solid performances in Vale's unbeaten start to the season, he took to the field despite still suffering with an ankle injury. His first goal for the club seemed to come in a 4–0 home win over Grimsby Town on 5 September. However, after the match Marc Richards claimed the last touch and therefore took the credit for the goal. Fraser seemed to attract violence; on 25 August, Sheffield Wednesday's Francis Jeffers was sent off for head-butting Fraser, two weeks later Fraser and Aldershot Town captain John Halls almost came to blows before the match had even begun. He was transfer listed in late September, along with the entire Port Vale squad, after manager Micky Adams saw his team slip to a third consecutive defeat. He remained club captain and a first team regular though, striking up a midfield pairing with Anthony Griffith, who he also shared a house with. His performances as captain earned him public praise from assistant manager Geoff Horsfield, though the fans were critical at times of his inconsistency. He found himself the new focus of disgruntled supporters in early 2010, following Danny Glover's demotion to the reserves, and Marc Richards' rising goal tally. Fraser vowed to ignore the booing. He also retained the captain's armband for the next season, and vowed "to be more mature both on and off the pitch" in order to be a better captain.

At the start of the 2010–11 season, Fraser set the club a goal of promotion, saying that "I won't be happy until I've achieved promotion with Port Vale". The strong performances of Anthony Griffith and Gary Roberts left only an unfamiliar wide role for Fraser, and a minority of fans became dissatisfied with his performances on the wing and again began booing the young captain. Micky Adams left the club in December 2010, and was replaced by Jim Gannon. Two weeks into Gannon's reign Fraser left the club by mutual consent so as to find first team football, preferring this option to a loan deal.