[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pennsylvania Route 116

Pennsylvania Route 116 (PA 116) is an east–west route located Adams and York counties in southern Pennsylvania. The route begins at PA 16 in Carroll Valley in Adams County, heading northeast through rural areas and passing through Fairfield. PA 116 passes through the historic Civil War town of Gettysburg, where the Battle of Gettysburg was held. In Gettysburg, the route intersects U.S. Route 15 Business (US 15 Bus.) and US 30 in the town center. From Gettysburg, PA 116 heads southeast and comes to an interchange with the US 15 freeway in Straban Township as it heads into farmland and curves east. The route passes through Bonneauville and McSherrystown before it crosses into York County and heads into Hanover. Here, the route forms a concurrency with PA 194 and crosses PA 94 in the downtown area. PA 116 intersects PA 216 before it leaves Hanover and heads northeast through rural land. The route has an intersection with PA 516 near Spring Grove before it ends at US 30 in West Manchester Township, west of York. 

The section of the road in Adams County dates back to the 19th century, with Fairfield Road to the west of Gettysburg used by the Confederate States Army during the Retreat from Gettysburg. PA 116 was designated onto its current alignment between PA 16 in Carroll Valley and US 30 in West Manchester Township in 1928 as a paved road. In the 1930s and 1950s, the highway was widened in the Hanover area. The route was moved to a one-way pair in downtown Hanover along with PA 194 by 1965.

Route description

Adams County

PA 116 begins at an intersection with PA 16 in the borough of Carroll Valley in Adams County, heading north on two-lane undivided Fairfield Road. The road heads through forested areas with some housing developments to the west and the Liberty Mountain Resort to the east. The route runs through a mix of fields and residential subdivisions before heading into Hamiltonban Township and turning northeast through rural areas with some commercial development. PA 116 continues into the borough of Fairfield and passes homes along Main Street. The route heads back into Hamiltonban Township and becomes Fairfield Road again, continuing through agricultural areas with some woods and homes. The road enters Highland Township and passes through more rural areas, curving more to the east. PA 116 crosses the Marsh Creek into Cumberland Township, running through more farmland before rural residential and business development. The road runs near portions of Gettysburg National Military Park prior to entering the borough of Gettysburg and becoming West Middle Street. The route heads into residential areas and turns east, reaching the commercial downtown. Upon coming to the intersection with US 15 Bus. near the Adams County Courthouse, PA 116 turns north to form a concurrency with that route for a block on Baltimore Street. At the Lincoln Square traffic circle, PA 116 splits from US 15 Bus. and turns east to join US 30 on York Street, passing more downtown businesses. US 30 splits to the northeast and PA 116 heads east on Hanover Street, heading into residential areas. 

The route crosses the Rock Creek into Straban Township and becomes Hanover Road, running near a portion of Gettysburg National Military Park as it heads into areas of woods and farms with a few homes. The road comes to a diamond interchange with the US 15 freeway and continues through more agricultural areas with some residences as it continues into Mount Pleasant Township. Farther east, PA 116 enters the borough of Bonneauville and passes homes along with a few businesses. The route heads back into Mount Pleasant Township and passes through more farmland with occasional development, running through Square Corner. The road runs through a portion of Union Township and briefly becomes the border between Mount Pleasant Township to the north and Union Township to the south before crossing the South Branch Conewago Creek into Conewago Township. PA 116 runs through Brushtown and heads through a mix of farmland and residential development prior to curving northeast into the borough of McSherrystown. Here, the road becomes Main Street and is lined with several homes. PA 116 turns southeast onto 3rd Street, becoming the border between McSherrystown to the west and Conewago Township to the east. The route curves east fully into Conewago Township, passing several residences in the community of Midway.

York County