[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Business history

of defeating Germany in both world wars. The great capitalists of that period should, he argued, be viewed, not as 'robber barons', but as men whose economic self-interest  had played an essentially positive role in American history, and who had done nothing criminal by the standards of their time.

Historians have followed Nevins' lead in writing biographies of the major industrialists of the Gilded Age. These include:
 David Cannadine, Mellon: An American Life (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2006)
 Ron Chernow, The House of Morgan: An American Banking Dynasty and the Rise of Modern Finance (New York: Atlantic Monthly Press, 1990)
 Ron Chernow, Titan: The Life of John D. Rockefeller, Sr. (New York: Random House, 2007)
 George Harvey, Henry Clay Frick: The Man (Washington, D.C.: Beard Books, 2002)
 David Nasaw, Andrew Carnegie (New York: Penguin Press, 2006)
 T. J. Stiles, The First Tycoon: The Epic Life of Cornelius Vanderbilt (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 2009)
 Jean Strouse, Morgan: American Financier (New York: Random House, 1999)
Though these later biographers did not confer heroic status on their subjects, they used historical and biographical investigations to establish a more complex understanding of the American past, and the history of American economic development in particular.

In 1958 historian Hal Bridges finds that "The most vehement and persistent controversy in business history has been that waged by the critics and defenders of the 'robber baron' concept of the American businessman."  In terms of the Robber Baron model, by the end of the 20th-century scholars had mostly discarded it although it remained influential in the popular culture. Richard White, historian of the transcontinental railroads, stated in 2011 he has no use for the concept because it had been killed off by historians Robert H. Wiebe and Alfred Chandler. He notes that "Much of the modern history of corporations is a reaction against the Robber Barons and fictions."

Academic studies
Meanwhile, business history as an academic discipline was founded by Professor N. S. B. Gras at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, starting in 1927. He defined the field's subject matter and approach, wrote the first general treatise in the field, and helped Harvard build a tradition of scholarship as well as the leading library in the field. He edited a series of monographs, the Harvard Studies in Business History. He also served as editor of the Bulletin of the Business Historical Society (1926–1953), a journal which later became the Business History Review (1954-date).   N.S.B. Grass and Henrietta M. Larson, Casebook in American business history (1939) defined the field for a generation.

Business history in the U.S. took off in the 1960s with a high volume of products and innovative methodologies. Scholars worked to develop theoretical explanations of the growth of the business enterprise, the study of strategy and structure by Alfred Chandler being a prime example. The relationship between business and the federal government became a focal point of the study. On the whole, the 1960s affirmed the conclusions of the earlier decades regarding the close interrelationship between government and business enterprise.

Ranking entrepreneurs and management theorists
A 2002 survey of 58 business history professors gave the top spot in the history of American business entrepreneurs to  Henry Ford, followed by Bill Gates; John D. Rockefeller; Andrew Carnegie, and Thomas Edison.  Also included were Sam Walton; J. P. Morgan; Alfred P. Sloan; Walt Disney; Ray Kroc; Thomas J. Watson; Alexander Graham Bell; Eli Whitney; James J. Hill; Jack Welch; Cyrus McCormick; David Packard; Bill Hewlett;  Cornelius Vanderbilt; and George Westinghouse.

A 1977 survey of management scholars reported the top five pioneers in management ideas were: Frederick Winslow Taylor; Chester Barnard; Frank Bunker Gilbreth; Elton Mayo; and Lillian Moller Gilbreth.
An emphasis on expertise can be seen as defining an era of management work, shown in the works of Elton Mayo, Chester Barnard, Mary Parker Follett, Max Weber, Chris Argyris, and Peter Drucker.  Drucker introduced the term "knowledge work" in 1959 and has been described as "the founder of modern management".

Chandler
After 1960 the most influential scholar was Alfred D. Chandler Jr. (1918-2007) at the Harvard Business School.  In a career that spanned over sixty years, Chandler produced numerous groundbreaking monographs, articles, and reviews. Intensely focused on only a few areas of the discipline, Chandler nonetheless succeeded in establishing and developing an entirely new realm of business history.