[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Phelan (literary scholar)

earning Academic All-American honors in 1972.

In 1991 he wrote a memoir called Beyond the Tenure Track: Fifteen Months in the Life of an English Professor. Along with Frederick Aldama, Brian McHale, and David Herman, he founded Project Narrative, an initiative at Ohio State University.

References

Bibliography
 Narrative medicine: A Rhetorical Rx. New York: Routledge, 2023.
 Fictionality in Literature: Core Concepts Revisited.Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2022. Co-edited with Lasse Gammelgaard, Stefan Iversen, Louise Brix Jakobsen, Richard Walsh, Henrik Zetterberg-Nielsen, and Simona Zetterberg-Nielsen
 Debating Rhetorical Narratology: On the Synthetic, Mimetic, and Thematic Aspects of Narrative (with Matthew Clark). Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2020.
 Somebody Telling Somebody Else: Toward a Rhetorical Poetics of Narrative. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2017.
 Reading the American Novel, 1920-2010. Malden: Wiley-Blackwell, 2013.
 Narrative Theory: Core Concepts and Critical Debates. Co-authored with David Herman, Peter J. Rabinowitz, Brian Richardson, and Robyn Warhol. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2012.
 After Testimony: The Ethics and Aesthetics of Holocaust Narrative for the Future. Co-edited with Susan Suleiman and Jakob Lothe. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2012.
 Fact, Fiction, and Form: Selected Essays of Ralph W. Rader. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2011.
 Teaching Narrative Theory. Co-edited with David Herman and Brian McHale. New York: MLA Publications, 2010.
 Joseph Conrad: Voice, Sequence, History, Genre. Co-edited with Jakob Lothe and Jeremy Hawthorn. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2008.
 Experiencing Fiction: Judgments, Progressions, and the Rhetorical Theory of Narrative. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 2007.
 The Nature of Narrative. With Robert Scholes and Robert Kellogg. 2nd  Edition.  New York: Oxford University Press, 2006.*
 A Companion to Narrative Theory. Co-edited with Peter J. Rabinowitz.  Malden: Blackwell, 2005.
 Living To Tell About It: A Rhetoric and Ethics of Character Narration. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2005.
 The Tempest:  A Case Study in Critical Controversy. Co-edited with Gerald Graff. Boston: Bedford/St. Martin's, 2000.
 Narrative as Rhetoric: Technique, Audiences, Ethics, Ideology. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 1996.
 Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: A Case Study in Critical Controversy. Co-edited with Gerald Graff. Boston: Bedford Books, 1995.
 Understanding Narrative. Co-edited with Peter J. Rabinowitz. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 1994.
 Beyond the Tenure Track: Fifteen Months in the Life of an English Professor. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 1991.
 Reading People, Reading Plots: Character, Progression, and the Interpretation of Narrative. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1989.
 Reading Narrative: Form, Ethics, Ideology. Editor. Columbus: Ohio State University Press, 1989.
 Worlds from Words: A Theory of Language in Fiction. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1981.

1951 births
American academics of English literature
University of Chicago alumni
Ohio State University faculty
Living people
Place of birth missing (living people)
Members of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters