[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002

s possessing select agents. It requires information on registered persons to be submitted to the attorney general to determine if they are within any restricted categories. It requires prompt notification of the Secretary and law enforcement agencies of the theft or loss of listed agents and toxins.

A "restricted person" is a person who fits any of the following criteria:
is under indictment for a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year
has been convicted in any court of a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year
is a fugitive from justice
is an unlawful user of any controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802))
is an alien illegally or unlawfully in the United States
has been adjudicated as a mental defective or has been committed to any mental institution
is an alien who is a national of Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Sudan or Syria, or any other country to which the Secretary of State has made a determination that such country has provided support for acts of international terrorism
has been discharged from the Armed Services of the United States under dishonorable conditions

As in Subtitle A, there are exemptions for clinical and diagnostic laboratories, products, investigational use, agricultural emergencies, and public health emergencies.

It sets forth rules governing disclosure of information, penalties for violators, and reporting requirements.

Subtitle C: Interagency Coordination Regarding Overlap Agents and Toxins
This states that the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human Services are to coordinate activities regarding overlapping agents and toxins.

Subtitle D: Criminal Penalties Regarding Certain Biological Agents and Toxins
It amends federal criminal code provisions concerning possession of listed biological agents and toxins to provide that whoever knowingly transfers a select agent to a person they believe is not registered, or knowingly possesses a select agent for which a person has not obtained the required registration shall be fined, or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both.

Title III: Protecting Safety and Security of Food and Drug Supply
Title III details the methods of protection of the nation's food supply against contamination or other threats.

Subtitle A: Protection of Food Supply
The President's Council on Food Safety, with the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of the Treasury, other relevant federal agencies, the food industry, and scientific organizations, develop a communication and education strategy with respect to bioterrorism threats to the food supply.

It amends the FFDCA to direct the DHHS to give high priority to increasing the number of inspections to enable the inspection of imported food with the greatest priority given to inspections to detect the intentional adulteration of food, to give high priority to making improvements to the information management systems of the FDA for information related to imported food, to improve cooperation with other regulatory agencies that share responsibility for food safety, and to provide for research into the development of methods to test food to rapidly detect adulteration.

It permits an employee of the FDA to detain any food that is found during an inspection, if the employee has information that it presents a threat of serious adverse health consequences or death, but only if the Secretary or an official designated by the Secretary approves the order.

It requires that any facility engaged in manufacturing, processing, packing, or holding food for consumption in the US be registered with the Secretary, and allows for the debarment of importers with a history of repeated or serious food import violations.

Permits the Secretary, if the Secretary has a reasonable belief that an article of food is adulterated and presents a threat of serious health consequences or death to humans or animals, to have access to and copy all records that are needed to assist the Secretary in determining whether the food is adulterated and presents a threat. It requires the Secretary, if they have information that a shipment of imported food presents a threat of serious adverse health consequences or death to humans or animals, to provide notice regarding such threat to the appropriate States.

It requires food importers to give the Secretary prior notice of the importation of any food for the purpose of enabling the food to be inspected.

It permits the Secretary to require the owner or consignee of food refused admission into the United States, but not ordered destroyed, to affix to the container of the food a label that clearly and conspicuously bears the statement: UNITED STATES: REFUSED ENTRY, and it prohibits an importer from port shopping with respect to food that has previously been denied entry.