[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sizewell nuclear power stations

cted to reach full capacity in 2015. In April 2016, the building was inaugurated. This will enable spent nuclear fuel produced from autumn 2016 until at least 2035 to be stored until a deep geological repository is available. In March 2017, the first cask containing spent nuclear fuel was installed.

In 2021, Sizewell B had an extended outage for maintenance and safety related issues. The Times reported that excessive wear on some stainless steel "thermal sleeves" in the control rod mechanisms had been discovered.  The maintenance period was extended to over four months to evaluate the cause and extent of the wear to decide how many to replace.

Sizewell C

Since the sale of British Energy to Électricité de France (EDF) in February 2009, plans for a further twin-unit reactor to be built at Sizewell have looked increasingly likely. Sizewell already has a connection agreement in place for a new nuclear power plant to be built. The government revealed that the 1,600MW projected units, to be called Sizewell C, would, together with the planned units at Hinkley Point C, contribute 13% of UK electricity in the early 2020s. EDF plans to use Framatome's EPR design for any new-build reactors in the UK, this being the design of reactors currently being built in Olkiluoto, Finland, Flamanville, France and Taishan, China.

On 18 October 2010, the British government announced that Sizewell was one of the eight sites which it considered suitable for future nuclear power stations.

On 21 October 2015, it was reported that Britain and China had reached Strategic Investment Agreements for three nuclear power plants, including one at Sizewell, though no specific financing plans for Sizewell are agreed.  The final investment decision for Sizewell C is only likely to take place after the Hinkley Point C build has started.

In May 2020, the  Energy for Humanity issued an open letter calling for the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy to support the project as without nuclear the "action on climate will be more difficult, more expensive, and more likely to fail". It also called for lessons to be drawn from Hinkley Point C as well as the UK's offshore wind programme to ensure a timely procurement schedule.

Concerns have been expressed regarding one of the shareholders in the consortium, 
China General Nuclear Power Group. CGN is owned by the Chinese government and has been blacklisted by the US Department of Commerce for attempting to acquire advanced US nuclear technology and material for diversion to military use.

EDF submitted its planning application in May 2020, declaring 25,000 job opportunities and 70% of investment being spent in UK. The plant will largely replicate Hinkley Point C design to reuse experience, lower cost and ensure high levels of safety. The proposal was welcomed by Unite the Union.

On 27 May 2020, EDF Energy announced that it had submitted a development consent order application. However EDF have yet to organise financing, and cannot take on more construction risk in the UK. EDF is looking to the UK government to assist on financing either by offering a regulated asset base (RAB) model used on less risky infrastructure, though that puts an immediate cost burden on end consumers or through other approaches such as a government equity stake in the development.

On 30 June 2020, EDF Energy announced that it had applied to the Office for Nuclear Regulation (ONR) for a licence to build and operate Sizewell C. The ONR is responsible for the safe operation of nuclear sites in the UK and for permitting new nuclear site licencesone of the key regulatory requirements for building and operating a new power station.

In March 2022, it was announced that the UK government and EDF would each take a 20% stake in the project, with infrastructure investors and pension funds expected to take up the remaining 60%.

See also

 Nuclear power in the United Kingdom
 Energy policy of the United Kingdom
 Energy in the United Kingdom
 List of nuclear reactors#United Kingdom
 Hilda Murrell
 Proposed nuclear power stations in the United Kingdom

References

Further reading

External links

 Magnox Limited, Sizewell A
 EDF Energy – Sizewell B
 International Atomic Energy Agency power station performance data: Sizewell A1, Sizewell A2, Sizewell B
 Sizewell B, Nuclear Engineering International wall chart, December 1982

Buildings and structures in Suffolk
Power stations in the East of England
Nuclear power stations in England
Électricité de France
Nuclear power stations with proposed reactors
Leiston