[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pechora Sea

a result of this continental position and abundance of ice, the Sea's water column is stratified, its sediment is heterogeneous and its pelagic productivity is low.

Seafloor sediment

-wide fast ice covers the floor of the Sea's coastal zone. On top of it is flaw polynya.

Biogeography and ecology

It supports a unique benthic ecosystem. The productive benthic environment fostered by the Pechora River holds more than 600 fauna. At the Kara and Yugor Straits, the total biomass is more than , the highest in the Barents Sea. This benefits benthic organisms such as walruses. The Pechora River, the main input for the Pechora Sea, has an average yearly runoff of . The Pechora Sea has 70 fish species, the most abundant being Boreogadus saida. This species is important for the cryopelagic ecosystem.

The fisheries of the Barents Sea, in particular the cod fisheries, are of great importance for both Norway and Russia. There is a diversity of benthic fauna on the Pechora Sea floor. In addition, there is a genetically distinct polar bear population associated with the Barents Sea. The Karskaya group of beluga whales migrate into Pechora Sea for wintering. Various species such as walruses are threatened by possible pollutions.

Flora and fauna

There are about 600 taxa in the Pechora Sea. Various anadromous fishes inhabit the Sea. One of the largest Northern European stocks of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) as well as other fish populations from surrounding areas migrate throughout the Pechora Sea each autumn to spawn, a process which they complete under the ice. Additionally, the only stock of Coregonus autumnalis in Northern Europe, and one of the region's largest, spawns in the Pechora's estuary.

The Pechora Sea is the main 'staging and moulting ground for king eiders. Long-tailed ducks scoters and most other waterfowl species use the Sea as a stopover point.

At the Kara and Yugor Straits, the total biomass is more than , the highest in the Barents Sea. The most abundant phyla are Annelida, Bryozoa, Crustacea, Echinodermata, Mollusca and Sarcomastigophora.

Pollution

Relative to the rest of the Barents Sea, the water quality of the Pechora Sea is poor.

Economy

Oil and gas

, the Pechora Sea is one of the most developed places in the Arctic with regard to petroleum exploration.

In current times there is some oil drilling in the Pechora Sea at the Dolginskoye and Prirazlomnoye oil fields. The negative ecological impact of such industrial exploitation in the Pechora Sea coast is significant. According to Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund Gasprom is not prepared to deal adequately with a spill associated with oil production. As such, in September, 2013, Greenpeace staged a confrontation with the Russian Coast Guard in which Greenpeace activists approached and attempted to scale a Gasprom drilling platform.

Notes

References

Sources

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Benthic fauna: 
 C. Michael Hogan (2008) Polar Bear: Ursus maritimus, Globaltwitcher.com, ed. Nicklas Stromberg
 Oil and Gas Resources in North-West Russia (2008) 
 S. A. Ogorodov (2004) Human impact on coastal stability in the Pechora Sea 
 Leonid Sverdlov, (Member of the Russian Geographic Society), RUSSIAN NAVAL OFFICERS AND GEOGRAPHIC EXPLORATION IN NORTHERN RUSSIA.
 C. Raymond Beazley, The Russian Expansion Towards Asia and the Arctic in the Middle Ages (to 1500). The American Historical Review

European seas
Seas of the Arctic Ocean
Bodies of water of the Barents Sea
Bodies of water of Nenets Autonomous Okrug
Seas of Russia