[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hogle Zoo

an spider monkey. The exhibits were specifically designed for each species. The large central exhibit for the colobus monkeys, which is 5,100 square feet and reaches a central height of 18 feet, offers trees where the primates can jump from. Each exhibit also has water features.

Elephant Encounter 

The push for a new elephant habitat was issued by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums' new 2001 guidelines for elephant care. While many AZA zoos opted to relocate their elephants, Hogle Zoo already had plans for a new facility. In 2003, Salt Lake County voters approved Proposition #1, a bond that allotted Hogle Zoo $10.2 million to redo the zoo's elephant and feline exhibits. The following year, construction began on the $5.5 million Elephant Encounter, an exhibit that would increase the elephant's habitat by 400 percent. The exhibit opened in June 2005, completing the zoo's largest major animal exhibit in 25 years. The new home featured three female African bush elephants Hi-Dari, Christie, and Misha, as well as southern white rhinoceros half-siblings Princess and George. The exhibit received great praise even from the president of AZA at the time, Bill Foster, noting, "Hogle Zoo is leading. They are ahead of the curve. (Hogle) Zoo will be known globally for the advancement that it's making now."

Elephant Encounter features two natural outdoor exhibits. The first habitat is a large Serengeti inspired yard with a swimming channel that spans 10.5 feet deep and holds over 110,000 gallons of water. A second "working yard" allows guests to see how zookeepers train and care for the large mammals. This habitat also features overhead heaters and heated concrete floors to ensure the elephants are comfortable in winter months. Guests view this habitat from the African Lodge, a 2,600 square foot open-air African structure, constructed of wood and thatch materials. The Convergys Corporation pledged $200,000 to become the title sponsor of the structure. A kopje replica allows guests to come face-to-face with the zoo's rhinos in a third habitat.

Starting in 2006, attempts were made by a team of German veterinary scientists from the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research in Berlin to artificially inseminate female elephant Christie. The team used samples from a male elephant named Jackson at the Pittsburgh Zoo. On the third attempt, Christie became pregnant. After a 22-month-long gestation, Christie gave birth to a healthy 251-pound female calf on August 10, 2009. The calf was named Zuri meaning "beautiful" in the Swahili language.

Pushback
In 2020, the animal activist group In Defense of Animals added Hogle Zoo onto their list of 10 Worst Zoos for Elephants. The group called upon Utah's harsh winter climate and the zoo's unnatural herd dynamics. With the passings of Misha in 2008 and Hi-Dari in 2015, the zoo's herd is down to just Christie and her daughter Zuri. Current AZA regulations mandate that herd sizes should be no less than three. A Hogle Zoo spokesperson assured that the zoo is "working closely" with the AZA and Species Survival Plan "to increase the size of our herd, but that takes time. Our current master plan calls for a greater investment in elephants, with bigger barn, additional yards, and large walking paths. We are committed to the species."

End of an era
In May 2023, Hogle Zoo officials announced a pause to their elephant program. After caring for elephants for over 100 years, the Hogle Zoo decided that the best plan for their current elephants, Christie and Zuri, would be to relocate them in the fall of 2023 to another accredited facility. The plan came after a comprehensive evaluation that was animal-driven giving the elephants the opportunity to live in a more behaviorally natural environment and have the chance to breed.

The zoo's Chief Executive Officer Doug Lund was quoted as saying,

"Utah's Hogle Zoo is progressing through an exciting and transformational planning process to help ensure we meet the changing needs of our community and the complex needs of animals in the Zoo's care. We have talked to many professionals, consultants, community members, and our staff as we carefully assessed what is best for all our animals, including elephants Christie and Zuri. The ultimate choice to move Christie and Zuri is to provide them both the best chance to have a calf in the important social dynamic of a multigenerational herd."

The zoo noted that the possible return of elephants will be evaluated in a new master plan which is currently being developed. The zoo has yet to announce which facility the elephants will be sent to or what will be housed in Elephant Encounter once the animals leave.

Asian Highlands