[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 61]
# The Republic — Plato

it was undignified for him to be
taken in by a woman, he said: “She has not taken me in, I have taken
her.” Being also blamed for eating very dainty foods, he answered:
“Thou dost not spend as much as I do?” and being told that it was true,
he continued: “Then thou art more avaricious than I am gluttonous.”
Being invited by Taddeo Bernardi, a very rich and splendid citizen of
Luca, to supper, he went to the house and was shown by Taddeo into a
chamber hung with silk and paved with fine stones representing flowers
and foliage of the most beautiful colouring. Castruccio gathered some
saliva in his mouth and spat it out upon Taddeo, and seeing him much
disturbed by this, said to him: “I knew not where to spit in order to
offend thee less.” Being asked how Caesar died he said: “God willing I
will die as he did.” Being one night in the house of one of his
gentlemen where many ladies were assembled, he was reproved by one of
his friends for dancing and amusing himself with them more than was
usual in one of his station, so he said: “He who is considered wise by
day will not be considered a fool at night.” A person came to demand a
favour of Castruccio, and thinking he was not listening to his plea
threw himself on his knees to the ground, and being sharply reproved by
Castruccio, said: “Thou art the reason of my acting thus for thou hast
thy ears in thy feet,” whereupon he obtained double the favour he had
asked. Castruccio used to say that the way to hell was an easy one,
seeing that it was in a downward direction and you travelled
blindfolded. Being asked a favour by one who used many superfluous
words, he said to him: “When you have another request to make, send
someone else to make it.” Having been wearied by a similar man with a
long oration who wound up by saying: “Perhaps I have fatigued you by
speaking so long,” Castruccio said: “You have not, because I have not
listened to a word you said.” He used to say of one who had been a
beautiful child and who afterwards became a fine man, that he was
dangerous, because he first took the husbands from the wives and now he
took the wives from their husbands. To an envious man who laughed, he
said: “Do you laugh because you are successful or because another is
unfortunate?” Whilst he was still in the charge of Messer Francesco
Guinigi, one of his companions said to him: “What shall I give you if
you will let me give you a blow on the nose?” Castruccio answered: “A
helmet.” Having put to death a citizen of Lucca who had been
instrumental in raising him to power, and being told that he had done
wrong to kill one of his old friends, he answered that people deceived
themselves; he had only killed a new enemy. Castruccio praised greatly
those men who intended to take a wife and then did not do so, saying
that they were like men who said they would go to sea, and then refused
when the time came. He said that it always struck him with surprise
that whilst men in buying an earthen or glass vase would sound it first
to learn if it were good, yet in choosing a wife they were content with
only looking at her. He was once asked in what manner he would wish to
be buried when he died, and answered: “With the face turned downwards,
for I know when I am gone this country will be turned upside down.” On
being asked if it had ever occurred to him to become a friar in order
to save his soul, he answered that it had not, because it appeared
strange to him that Fra Lazerone should go to Paradise and Uguccione
della Faggiuola to the Inferno. He was once asked when should a man eat
to preserve his health, and replied: “If the man be rich let him eat
when he is hungry; if he be poor, then when he can.” Seeing one of his
gentlemen make a member of his family lace him up, he said to him: “I
pray God that you will let him feed you also.” Seeing that someone had
written upon his house in Latin the words: “May God preserve this house
from the wicked,” he said, “The owner must never go in.” Passing
through one of the streets he saw a small house with a very large door,
and remarked: “That house will fly through the door.” He was having a
discussion with the ambassador of the King of Naples concerning the
property of some banished nobles, when a dispute arose between them,
and the ambassador asked him if he had no fear of the king. “Is this
king of yours a bad man or a good one?” asked Castruccio, and was told
that he was a good one, whereupon he said, “Why should you suggest that
I should be afraid of a good man?”

I could recount many other stories of his sayings both witty and
weighty, but I think that the above will be sufficient testimony to his
high qualities. He lived forty-four years, and was in every way a
prince. And as he was surrounded by many evidences of his good fortune,
so he also desired to have near him some memorials of his bad fortune;
therefore the manacles with which he was chained in prison are to be
s