[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Supreme Court of Bangladesh

are usually summarised in the Bangladesh Supreme Court Digest. There are also many law reports which publish the judgments and orders of the Supreme Court. All these law reports are in printed volumes. The Chancery Law Chronicles offers the online service of judgments of Supreme Court of Bangladesh.

Language 
Although Bengali is the only state language of Bangladesh in accordance with the article 3 of the Constitution of Bangladesh, the verdicts given by the judges at the Supreme Court of Bangladesh are frequently in English following the colonial tradition of the British rule, violating the Bengali Language Implementation Act, 1987. Sheikh Hasina, the incumbent and longest serving Prime Minister of Bangladesh, suggested that the judges should deliver their verdicts in Bengali so that every Bangladeshi can read them, and, later on if need be, the verdicts could be translated into English. Muhammad Habibur Rahman, a former Chief Justice of Bangladesh stated that if justice is a virtue and a service to the people, then verdicts should be given in Bengali. He also stated that if the people of the country want that all works in the Supreme Court must be operated in Bengali, then the representatives of the people in the Jatiya Sangsad  (Parliament of Bangladesh) must enact and implement law to ensure the use of Bengali in the Supreme Court.

Justices

Sitting justices of the Appellate Division

Sitting Permanent Judges of the High Court Division
Madam Justice Salma Masud Chowdhury
Justice Muhammad Abdul Hafiz
Justice Dr. Syed Refaat Ahmed
Justice A. K. M. Asaduzzaman
Justice Zubayer Rahman Chowdhury
Justice Md. Emdadul Haque Azad
Justice Md. Ataur Rahman Khan
Justice Syed Md. Ziaul Karim
Justice Md. Rezaul Haque
Justice Sheikh Abdul Awal
Justice S. M. Emdadul Hoque
Justice Mamnoon Rahman
Madam Justice Farah Mahbub
Justice Md. Moinul Islam Chowdhury
Madam Justice Naima Haider
Justice Md. Rezaul Hasan
Justice Abdur Rob
Justice Dr. Quazi Reza-Ul Hoque
Justice A. K. M. Zahirul Hoque
Justice Sheikh Md. Zakir Hossain
Justice Md. Habibul Gani
Justice Gobinda Chandra Tagore
Justice Sheikh Hassan Arif
Justice J. B. M. Hassan
Justice Md. Ruhul Quddus
Justice Md. Khasruzzaman
Justice Farid Ahmed
Justice Md. Nazrul Islam Talukder
Justice M Akram Hossain Chowdhury
Justice M Ashraful Kamal
Justice K. M. Kamrul Kader
Justice Md. Mozibur Rahman Miah
Justice Mostofa Zaman Islam
Justice Mohammad Ullah
Justice Muhammad Khurshid Alam Sarkar
Justice Shahidul Karim
Justice Mohammad Jahangir Hossain
Justice Abu Taher Mohammad Saifur Rahman
Justice Ashish Ranjan Das
Justice Mahmudul Haque
Justice Badruzzaman Badol
Justice Zafar Ahmed
Justice Kazi Md. Ejarul Haque Akondo
Justice Md. Shahinur Islam
Madam Justice Kashefa Hussain
Justice Khizir Ahmed Choudhury
Justice Razik-Al-Jalil
Justice Bhishmadev Chakrabortty
Justice Md. Iqbal Kabir
Justice Md. Salim
Justice Md. Shohrowardi
Justice Md. Abu Ahmed Jamadar
Justice A. S. M. Abdul Mobin
Justice Md Mostafizur Rahman
Madam Justice Fatema Najib
Justice Md. Kamrul Hossain Molla
Justice S. M. Kuddus Zaman
Justice Md. Atowar Rahman
Justice Khizir Hayat
Justice Shashanka Shekhar Sarkar
Justice Mohammad Ali
Justice Mohi Uddin Shamim
Justice Md. Riaz Uddin Khan
Justice Md Khairul Alam
Justice S. M. Moniruzzaman
Justice Ahmed Sohel
Justice Sardar Mohammad Rashed Jahangir
Justice Khondaker Diliruzzaman
Justice K. M. Hafizul Alam
Justice Muhammad Mahbub-Ul-Islam
Justice Shahed Nuruddin
Justice Md Zakir Hossain
Justice Md Akhtaruzzaman
Justice Md Mahmud Hasan Talukder
Justice Kazi Ebadoth Hossain
Justice K. M. Zahid Sarwar
Justice A. K. M. Zahirul Huq
Madam Justice Kazi Zinat Hoque

Sitting Additional Judges of the High Court Division
Justice Mohammad Showkat Ali Chowdhury 
Justice Md. Atabullah
Justice Biswajit Debnath
Justice Md. Aminul Islam
Justice Md. Ali Reza
Justice Md. Bazlur Rahman
Justice K. M. Emrul Kayesh
Justice Fahmida Quader
Justice Md. Bashir Ullah
Justice S M Masud Hossain Dolon
Justice A. K. M. Rabiul Hassan

Former Chief Justice Surandra Kumar Sinha was the first justice appointed from Monipuri or any minority Ethnic groups in Bangladesh. Former Justice Bhabani Prasad Sinha is also from the same community.

Madame Justice Nazmun Ara Sultana was the first ever female justice, and Madame Justice Krishna Debnath is the first female Hindu justice of Bangladesh. There are currently seven female justices in the supreme court.

Controversy
In 2004, Justice Syed Shahidur Rahman was terminated by President Iajuddin Ahmed on corruption allegation.

Former Chief Justice Mohammad Fazlul Karim withheld the oath taking of Justice Md. Ruhul Quddus (Babu) as he was involved in the murder of Aaslam, a pro-Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh student of Rajshahi University, on 17 November 1988, when he was a leader of Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal (JSD), and Justice Mohammad Khosruzzaman was overtly involved in contempt of court on 30 November 2006.