[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Thiago Silva

layer of the Year award, alongside teammates Blaise Matuidi and Zlatan Ibrahimović. Over the course of the season, Silva committed an extremely-low 14 fouls, which was mentioned as an excellent total for a defender in Le Parisien. Silva was considered the best defender in Ligue 1 by France Football.

2013–14: Individual success and domestic treble
Silva's season began with a 2–1 victory in the Trophée des Champions against Bordeaux; Silva was voted as man of the match for his display. It was the first time Paris Saint-Germain had won the trophy since 1998. On 22 August 2013, it was announced that Silva had signed a one-year extension to his contract, keeping him at the club until 2018. In the rematch with Bordeaux at the Stade Chaban-Delmas, Silva put in another good performance as PSG won 2–0. Silva was forced off the field in the 16th minute against Monaco due to a left hamstring injury, which ultimately kept him out for six weeks. Coming back from his injury, Silva played extremely well against Nice, out-dueling the league's second top-scorer, Darío Cvitanich. Silva had an unusual run of scoring form, netting three times in seven matches. Silva scored in PSG's 4–0 victory over Lyon, 5–0 victory over Sochaux, and 4–0 victory over Nantes. France Football rated Silva as the best central defender in Ligue 1 at the half-way point of the season. At the end of the 2013 football year, Silva was inducted into the 2013 UEFA Team of the Year for the third consecutive year, making him joint-fifth in all-time appearances. Silva was also voted by his fellow professionals in the 2013 FIFPro Team of the Year for the first time in his career.

On 15 January 2014, Manchester United central defender Rio Ferdinand claimed that Silva was, by a distance, the best defender in the world. Silva was imperious in PSG's 2–0 win against Bordeaux at the Parc des Princes, where he covered for the errors of teammate Gregory van der Wiel and was even close to scoring himself. This performance was followed by another strong performance against Monaco; despite scoring an unlucky own-goal, Silva made crucial interventions throughout the match, including a last-man block against striker Emmanuel Rivière. In PSG's comprehensive 4–0 win in the Champions League over Bayer Leverkusen, Silva was regarded by Le Parisien as having "dominated" then Bundesliga leading-scorer Stefan Kießling. Marseille defender Lucas Mendes said that Silva was the best defender in the world, and that Silva was his role model as a footballer. On 16 February, Ronaldo, the three-time FIFA World Player of the Year, compared the qualities of Silva to legendary German sweeper Franz Beckenbauer. Silva managed another accomplished display in Le Classique, marshaling the club's defence to a clean sheet and helping extend its lead to eight points at the top of the Ligue 1 table.

In the Champions League quarter-finals against Chelsea, Silva conceded his first penalty in over three years, but recovered well in the 3–1 first leg victory — Silva's overall defensive effort was well-recognised by both English and French media. In the second-leg, however, Chelsea prevailed on away goals after a late goal from substitute Demba Ba. On 19 April, Silva captained PSG to a 2–1 victory in the 2014 Coupe de la Ligue Final, the first time the club had won the competition since 1998. Despite losing 1–2 to Rennes, PSG clinched the league title; Silva had captained the club to their second consecutive league title, and their first double. Silva again was shortlisted for Ligue 1 Player of the Year, and named in the Ligue 1 Team of the Year for the second consecutive season. Silva was rated by France Football as the league's fifth-best player, as well as the best defender in Ligue 1.