[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Robert Malley

onal and as un-based in facts as some of these have been." While he loved and respected his father, he said, their views sometimes differed, and it is "an odd guilt by association" fallacy to criticize him based on his father's views. Simon Malley was called a sympathizer of the PLO by Daniel Pipes.

In response to what they called "vicious, personal attacks" on Malley, five Jewish, former U.S. government officials—former National Security Advisor Sandy Berger, Ambassador Martin Indyk, Ambassador Daniel C. Kurtzer, Ambassador Dennis Ross, and former State Department Senior Advisor Aaron David Miller—published a letter (dated February 12, 2008) in the New York Review of Books defending Malley. They wrote that the attacks on Malley were "unfair, inappropriate, and wrong", and objected to what they called an attempt "to undermine the credibility of a talented public servant who has worked tirelessly over the years to promote Arab–Israeli peace and US national interests." This view is also shared by M.J. Rosenberg, a former editor at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee and a controversial critic of Israeli policies, who condemned the attacks on Malley, writing that Malley is "pro-Israel" and the only reason he is being criticized is because he supports Israeli–Palestinian negotiations.

In October 2022, following a massive demonstration by Iranians in Berlin and elsewhere including Washington, D.C. in support of protests in Iran, Malley tweeted that "Marchers in Washington and cities around the world are showing their support for the Iranian people, who continue to peacefully demonstrate for their government to respect their dignity and human rights." He came under fire by Iranians and non-Iranians for undermining the protests in Iran to a mere demand for respect and some asked him to step down from his position. In response, he accepted that his words "were poorly worded.". In his interview with Iran International, he stressed that "“It is not up to me; it is not up to the US government what the brave women and men who have been demonstrating in Iran want. It is up to them.”. Despite Malley's apology, Masih Alinejad, Iranian-American journalist and human right activist started a petition to remove him from his post as Special US Envoy for Iran. The petition demands that President Biden "appoint a new Special Envoy that the people in the U.S. and in Iran can trust and respect as a symbol of America’s commitment to freedom and democracy."

Published books
 The Call from Algeria: Third Worldism, Revolution, and the Turn to Islam, Berkeley: University of California Press (1996),

Selected published articles
 Robert Malley, The Gaza time bomb, The International Herald Tribune, January 21, 2008
 Robert Malley & Hussein Agha, "Middle East Triangle", The Washington Post, January 17, 2008
 Robert Malley & Hussein Agha, "The Road from Mecca", New York Review of Books, May 10, 2007
 Robert Malley, "Forget Pelosi. What About Syria?", The Los Angeles Times, April 11, 2007
 Robert Malley & Henry Siegman, "The Hamas Factor" , The International Herald-Tribune, December 27, 2006
 Robert Malley & Peter Harling, "Containing a Shiite symbol of hope", The Christian Science Monitor, October 24, 2006
 Robert Malley, "Mideast: Avoiding failure with Hamas", The International Herald-Tribune, April 10, 2006
 Robert Malley & Gareth Evans, "How to Curb the Tension in Gaza", The Financial Times, July 5, 2006
 Robert Malley & Peter Harling, "The enemy we hardly know", The Boston Globe, March 19, 2006
 Robert Malley, "Making the Best of Hamas' Victory", Common Ground News Service, March 2, 2006
 Robert Malley & Hussein Agha, "Hamas has arrived - but there are limits to its advance", The Guardian, January 24, 2006
 Robert Malley & Hussein Agha, "A durable Middle East peace: Oslo didn't achieve it, nor has the Bush "road map." So what would satisfy both sides?",American Prospect, November 1, 2003
 Robert Malley & Hussein Agha, "Camp David and After: An Exchange (A Reply to Ehud Barak)", New York Review of Books, June 13, 2002
 Robert Malley, "Rebuilding a Damaged Palestine", The New York Times, May 7, 2002
 Robert Malley, "Playing into Sharon's Hands", The New York Times, January 25, 2002
 Robert Malley & Hussein Agha, "Camp David: The Tragedy of Errors", New York Review of Books, August 9, 2001

See also 
 List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 6)

References

External links
 Robert Malley at the International Crisis Group
 
 
 
 Malley's Testimony to the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations SubCommittee on Near East Affairs, November 8, 2007