[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of coups and coup attempts

men Civil War.
1962 Ceylonese coup d'état attempt: Christian officers in Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) failed to overthrow the government of Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike.
1962 Burmese coup d'état: A coup led by General Ne Win overthrew the constitutionally elected government of Prime Minister U Nu.

1963
Guatemala: Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes was overthrown by the military. Enrique Peralta Azurdia took power and established the Institutional Democratic Party until elections took place in 1966.
Dominican Republic: The military overthrew President Juan Bosch in September 1963, only seven months into his term as the first democratically elected president in the Dominican Republic since 1924. Bosch was replaced by a junta until it was overthrown in 1965.
Turkey: A military coup attempt failed in Turkey.
1963 South Vietnamese coup: A group of officers in the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, supported by the United States, deposed President Ngô Đình Diệm and the Personalist Labor Revolutionary Party.
Ecuador: A military coup occurred.
1963 Togolese coup d'état in Togo: Coup leaders including Emmanuel Bodjollé, Étienne Eyadéma (later Gnassingbé Eyadéma), and Kléber Dadjo took over government buildings, arrested most of the cabinet, and assassinated Togo's first president, Sylvanus Olympio, outside the American embassy in Lomé. Nicolas Grunitzky and Antoine Meatchi, both exiled political opponents of Olympio, formed a new government.
1963 Dahomeyan coup d'état: Christophe Soglo took control of the Republic of Dahomey (later Benin).
Ramadan Revolution (also known as the 8 February Revolution) in Iraq: The Ba'ath Party's Iraqi wing overthrew Prime Minister Abd al-Karim Qasim.
1963 Syrian coup d'état (also known as the 8 March Revolution): The military committee of the Syrian Regional Branch of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party seized power, overthrowing President Nazim al-Kudsi and beginning Ba'athist rule in Syria.
 1963 Honduran coup d'état: The military overthrew the democratic government of Honduras ten days before a scheduled election. Oswaldo López Arellano took power from Ramón Villeda Morales, preventing the likely succession of Modesto Rodas Alvarado.
November 1963 Iraqi coup d'état: Pro-Nasserist Iraqi officers within the Ba'ath Party led a successful coup.

1964
 Piano Solo in Italy: A plot for an Italian coup was created in 1964 at the request of then president of the Italian Republic, Antonio Segni.
 Zanzibar Revolution: Local revolutionaries overthrow Sultan Jamshid bin Abdullah, ending the Sultanate of Zanzibar and establishing the People's Republic of Zanzibar and Pemba.
 1964 Brazilian coup d'état: Humberto Castelo Branco was installed as president after a military coup overthrew João Goulart.
 January 1964 South Vietnamese coup: A military coup overthrew Dương Văn Minh's military junta.
1964 Bolivian coup d'état: Vice President René Barrientos and General Alfredo Ovando Candía overthrew President Víctor Paz Estenssoro.
 1964 Gabonese coup d'état: Gabonese military officers overthrew President Léon M'ba and established a provisional government with Jean-Hilaire Aubame as president. The provisional government was toppled shortly afterwards with the help of France, and M'ba was reinstated.
 1964 Laotian coups: Policemen of the Directorate of National Coordination overthrew the Royal Lao Government in April, but the successful coup was overturned five days later by U.S. Ambassador Leonard Unger. In August, a second coup was attempted when Defense Minister Phoumi Nosavan tried to take over Vientiane with a training battalion; this was quickly quashed by the Royal Laotian Army's troops.