[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Late Summer Blues

Late Summer Blues is an Israeli feature film directed by Renen Schorr, written by Doron Nesher and produced by Ilan de Vries. Initially released in 1987, the film was a box office hit and went on to become an Israeli classic. In 2016, after undergoing extensive digital image and sound restoration, it was rereleased to cinemas, becoming the first Israeli film to do so.

Plot and characters 
Set just after the Six-Day War, in the shadow of the War of Attrition with Egypt, Late Summer Blues follows a group of high school graduates during the summer before they're conscripted into the army. Restored after thirty years, this Israeli classic portrays the paradox of Israeli adolescence in raw, deeply human terms: the uncertainty, confusion, and playful embrace of the present are constantly tainted by the shadow of military service and the razor's edge of anxiety, only somewhat tempered by days at the beach and rock music. Drawing from his own experiences, director Renen Schorr and writer Doron Nesher create a powerful and bitterly funny anti-war message by drawing on the restlessness of the young men and women as they cope with their growing fatalism as well as the crushing defeat of Israel at the hands of Egypt in the 1973 October War.

The film is divided into four episodes, each named after its protagonist:
 Zvillich – An innocent, adored friend. The first of his class to be drafted.
 Araleh – A pacifist contemplating if to draft or draft-dodge. He protests by spraying anti-war graffiti around the city.
 Mossi – A gifted musician whose high physical profile requires he be drafted to combat service, although he dreams of serving in a military variety group.
 Margo – A diabetic who due to his illness cannot serve in the military. He documents the group with his Super 8 camera.

Cast

Development and production 
Renen Schorr first wrote the film's outline in 1976, while still a student at Tel Aviv University's film department. It was based on his experiences with his own class, who wrote the famous "Senior's Letter" in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem in 1970, during the War of Attrition. The letter, addressed to Prime Minister Golda Meir, stated that the class would willingly draft (military service is mandatory in Israel), but only under the condition that the government will commit to reach peace as soon as possible and by all means necessary. By writing this letter, they in effect publicly doubted the government's commitment to peace. This was the first time an organized group of high school seniors in Israel stood up and asked the government questions, instead of being conformists like their parents..

Two years later, Doron Nesher, then a young Israeli actor who had already taken part in George Roy Hill's The Little Drummer Girl, joined Schorr in writing the screenplay. Nesher and Schorr wrote seven drafts between 1978 and 1985, all rejected by the Israel Film Fund. Parallel to that, they weren't able to raise funds from private investors, as the screenplay was much different than the other films depicting youth produced in Israel at the time. Pacifist protagonists and political discussions were considered "box office poison". Moreover, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, who financed the grants for Israeli cinema at the time, refused to grant basic support to the film, implying that it was "anti-Israeli and catering to the PLO's interests."

In 1985, the Israel Film Fund, supported by the Ministry of Education and Culture, finally approved the film's production. That winter, the film began shooting with a low budget of $150,000, and was the first full-length film for most of the cast and crew.

While casting, Schorr searched for actors with a "typical" Israeli look, and wasn't afraid to cast unknown actors and "non-actors", hoping to create a "fuller" Israeli experience. A large part of the film's concept was connecting with Israeli and Tel Avivian culture, out of pride of it, and despite commercial considerations. The music and songs that accompany the film were chosen due to their iconic status in Israeli culture, each triggering emotions and thoughts deep in Israel's collective psyche.

During rehearsals, to connect the young cast to the 1960s feeling of "changing the world", Schorr and Nesher shared and studied a large collection of records (Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen, Jimi Hendrix, The Doors, Janis Joplin), books (by Herbert Marcuse, Viktor Frankl and more) and films (Rebel Without a Cause, Hair, The Deer Hunter Alice's Restaurant, Breaking Away and more) with them.