[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Khomeinism

ternational tenents

Spread of Islam

Khomeini strongly supported the spread of Islam throughout the world.  In one of his speeches, Khomeini declared:

We shall export our revolution to the whole world. Until the cry 'There is no god but Allah' resounds over the whole world, there will be struggle.

Spreading of Islam would not exclude warfare.
Once we have won the war [with Iraq], we shall turn to other wars. For that would not be enough. We have to wage war until all corruption, all disobedience of Islamic law ceases [throughout the world]. The Quran commands: “War! War until victory!” A religion without war is a crippled religion... Allah be praised, our young warriors are putting this command into effect and fighting. They know that to kill the infidels is one of the noblest missions Allah has reserved for mankind.

Not just as a faith but as a state.

Establishing the Islamic state world-wide belong to the great goals of the revolution.

Which he believed would replace both capitalism and communism

... `We have often proclaimed this truth in our domestic and foreign policy, namely that we have set as our goal the world-wide spread of the influence of Islam and the suppression of the rule of the world conquerors ... We wish to cause the corrupt roots of Zionism, capitalism and Communism to wither throughout the world. We wish, as does God almighty, to destroy the systems which are based on these three foundations, and to promote the Islamic order of the Prophet ... in the world of arrogance.

Khomeini held these views both prior to and following the revolution. The following was published in 1942 and republished during his years as supreme leader:

Jihad or Holy War, which is for the conquest of [other] countries and kingdoms, becomes incumbent after the formation of the Islamic state in the presence of the Imam or in accordance with his command. Then Islam makes it incumbent on all adult males, provided they are not disabled and incapacitated, to prepare themselves for the conquest of [other] countries so that the writ of Islam is obeyed in every country in the world... those who study Islamic Holy War will understand why Islam wants to conquer the whole world. All the countries conquered by Islam or to be conquered in the future will be marked for everlasting salvation... Islam says: Whatever good there is exists thanks to the sword and in the shadow of the sword! People cannot be made obedient except with the sword! The sword is the key to Paradise, which can be opened only for Holy Warriors! There are hundreds of other [Qur'anic] psalms and Hadiths [sayings of the Prophet] urging Muslims to value war and to fight. Does all that mean that Islam is a religion that prevents men from waging war? I spit upon those foolish souls who make such a claim.

Some scholars compared his ideas on using revolution to bring worldwide Islamic rule, to those of Bolshevik revolutionaries. Khomeini saw his revolution as Islamic, not Shia and the Islamic Republic as "the base for a global Islamic movement" led by him, according to Vali Nasr, "in much the same way that Lenin and Trotsky had seen Russia as the springboard country of what was meant to be a global communist revolution." 
Olivier Roy writes that Khomeini did "extoll" Shiism and see a special role for the Shi'a, but not one of privilege. He thought of Shia, "the way Marx thought of the proletariat: a particular group that brings about the emancipation of all humanity," by leading a revolution to form a new world order.

Unity of the Ummah

Khomeini made efforts to establish unity among Ummah and "bridge the gap between Shiites and Sunnis", especially during the early days of the Revolution, according to at least Vali Nasr because "he wanted to be accepted as the leader of the Muslim world, period". One way to do this was to focus on issues that united Muslims — anti-Imperialism, anti-Zionism, anti-Americanism, and "the battle against outsiders" — rather than "religious questions that were likely to divide them". He forbade Shia to criticize the Caliphs that preceded Ali (who Shia believe should not have been chosen instead of Ali), and "declared it permissible for Shiites to pray behind Sunni imams." He supported "Islamic Unity week"  (which includes the day when Sunnis believe the  prophet Muhammad was born -- 12 Rabi' al-Awwal -- and the day most Shia believe he was -- 17 Rabi' al-Awwal), and International Day of Quds.

Shortly before he died, the famous South Asian Islamist Abul Ala Maududi paid Khomeini the compliment of saying he wished he had accomplished what Khomeini had, and that he would have like to have been able to visit Iran to see the revolution for himself.