[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kuroneko

onagh called the film "darkly seductive" and "sleek, hair-raisingly graceful, and ready to take its place alongside the other landmarks of Japanese horror history".

On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 95% based on , with a rating average of 8.1/10.

Themes
Yūsuke Suzumura of Hosei University has speculated that the film's title was deliberately intended to allude to the Ryūnosuke Akutagawa story In a Grove (Yabu no naka in Japanese), as well as Akira Kurosawa's film version of the story. Although the Japanese title literally means "a black cat in a bamboo grove", the phrase yabu no naka in Japanese is also used idiomatically to refer to a mystery that is difficult to unravel. Suzumura also identified the legends of Minamoto no Raikō as an influence on the film: since Raikō himself appears in the film, it is likely that the film's protagonist's name  refers to the name of Raikō's legendary follower .

In an essay about Kuroneko, film critic Maitland McDonagh highlighted the roles cats play in Japanese folklore—particularly the bakeneko, a yōkai (or supernatural entity) thought to have the ability to take the form of a human victim, often eating the victim in the process. Kuroneko is one of a number of Japanese "monster cat" horror films (kaibyō eiga or bake neko mono), a subgenre derived primarily from the repertoire of kabuki theatre.

Other theatrical elements observed in Kuroneko include the film's implementation of spotlights; the use of smoke to create a ghostly atmosphere, which is characteristic of kabuki theatre; the dance movements of the mother's spirit, based on dances in Noh theatre; and the resemblance of the spirits' jumping and flying movements to chūnori, a visual trick used in kabuki theatre in which actors are made to "fly" in mid-air through the use of wires. Additionally, lead actor Kichiemon Nakamura was a kabuki performer, and Hideo Kanze, who played the Mikado in Kuroneko, specialized in Noh theatre.

Legacy
Kuroneko was screened at a 2012 retrospective on Shindō and Kōzaburō Yoshimura in London, organised by the British Film Institute and the Japan Foundation.

Awards
In Japan, the film won two awards from the Mainichi Film Concours. Nobuko Otowa won the award for Best Actress for her work in Kuroneko and Operation Negligee, and Kiyomi Kuroda won the award for Best Cinematography for this and Operation Negligee.

Notes

References

Bibliography

See also
 Japanese horror

External links
 
 
 
 
 

1968 horror films
Films directed by Kaneto Shindo
Films set in Kyoto
Jidaigeki films
Japanese horror films
Japanese supernatural horror films
1968 films
Existentialist films
Period horror films
Films about cats
1960s ghost films
Japanese ghost films
Rape and revenge films
1960s Japanese films