[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kursk Nuclear Power Plant

rete mix is proposed to be laid in the foundation slab of the reactor building, while the works are expected to be completed by June 2018.

The NPP construction works also included the engineering networks – steam pipelines, hot water supply pipelines for the construction base, and heating networks.

Five 40t GIRAFFE TDK-40.1100 pillar cranes will be used for constructing the internal and boundary walls of the reactor unit of the first power unit of Kursk II. DEMAG CC 6800, a heavy-duty crane, will also be used for constructing the building structures at the reactor buildings.

First concrete for the NPP was poured in April 2018, marking the start of construction of the nuclear island building foundations. The first VVER-TOI reactor. Kursk-II-1 and II-2 will replace Kursk 1 and 2 RBMK which are approaching end of life. As two more VVER-TOI Units are planned, they will eventually replace all four RBMK reactors at Kursk I. The first Kursk RBMK reactor shut down in December 2021 while the first Kursk II Unit is expected to be commissioned by the end of 2022, while the second unit is scheduled to come online in 2023.

First concrete for the NPP was poured in April 2018, marking the start of construction of the nuclear island building foundations. 

The two 3+ generation reactors of Kursk NPP II will be the pilot units of the VVER-TOI project and include a turbine plant featuring a low-speed turbine-generator, manufactured by Power Machines PJSC. The new design will increase the reactor capacity by an additional 25%, when compared to the conventional VVER-1000 reactors. A PS330/10kV substation will provide electric energy for the construction works and to the site’s facilities. The new substation will be connected from 330kV operating outdoor switchgear (OSG) to 330kV overhead power line (OPL).

In January of 2023, the steel dome was set on the unit 1 containment building. Weighing in at 235 tonnes it will serve as a key barrier between the reactor and the environment. This lift raised the overall height of the reactor building to its final height of 64.5 meters (211 feet). The steel dome will then be covered in a thick layer of reinforced concrete forming the containment building.

Reactor data 
The Kursk Nuclear Power Plant has 3 operational units:

See also

 Nuclear power in Russia
 List of nuclear reactors#Russia

References

External links

 Kursk NPP home page at Energoatom (English version).
 About Kursk NPP at Bellona Foundation.

Nuclear power stations built in the Soviet Union
Nuclear power stations in Russia
Nuclear power stations using RBMK reactors