[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Shaman King characters

en and Team Funbari Onsen and worrying about his position on Ren's position. Though he argues frequently with Ren, he is nevertheless dedicated to his friends and expresses his serious side only in the most dangerous situations when he can no longer afford to restrain himself with his hotheadedness.

Horohoro's guardian ghost is Kororo ("Corey" in the 4Kids English dub of the 2001 anime), a Koropokuru spirit who allows him to generate ice and form an Over Soul with Horohoro's snowboard and an Ikupasi talisman that Pirika makes for him. While he admits that he is not particularly intelligent or good with numbers, he has a strong understanding of the flow of nature, allowing him to excel at the FumonTonkou (the "Shamanic Oracle") technique, and is highly resourceful even with a low amount of furyoku, as seen when he utilizes Kororo and the Icemen's three spirits in battle. He has a strong relationship with Kororo, particularly after learning her original identity was that of his friend Damuko. In the manga, he is recognized as one of the Five Grand Elemental Spirits by Lady Sati and gains the Spirit of Rain. He is regarded as the third strongest member of the Five Grand Elemental Spirits. Several years after the Shaman Fight, Horohoro returns to Hokkaidō where he works on a farm, which appears to include a butterbur field.  While his entrepreneurial effort to market a blue candy-flavored marimo ball is a commercial failure, he works hard at fighting against illegal logging companies.

Joco McDonnell

 is an African-American shaman from New York who is uses puns to make people laugh. He was originally a member of street gang known as Shaft after losing his parents on Christmas, with Camel Munzer among the many people he killed. But Joco encountered Orona and adopted his philosophy and dreams to save the world through laughter as Shaman King. Joining Yoh's group, he becomes the third member of Team The Ren. When he is confronted by Redseb and Seyram Munzer, who seek to avenge their father, after the children's Golem has killed his old friends, Joco accepts responsibility as he is killed by the Golem. He meets Orona within the Great Spirit and is convinced to face his own guilt before being resurrected by Lady Sati, asking her to take his sight as part of his atonement as he becomes one of the five legendary warriors and eventually acquires the Spirit of Wind during the final battle with Hao. Following the end of the Shaman Fight, Joco turned himself in to the authorities for a seventeen year sentence as a model prisoner before arrangements were made for him to reunite with the others at the Funbari Hot Springs.  The 2001 anime altered Joco's backstory to be an orphan that encountered Orona.

Joco's medium to make his Over Soul "Black Jaguar" are metal claws he named Shaft, using a variant of Integration to utilize Mic's claws and eyes with black markings all over his body to give a similar resemblance to that of a Jaguar, hence the name. Joco acquired Pascal Avaf during his first death, using him in conjunction with Mic to evolve his Over Soul into an armor Over Soul, Jaguarman. In this Over Soul Joco gains a new attack called "Jaguar Shaft". In the 2001 anime, after training using the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu, Joco's Over Soul evolved into a giant Mic with wings.

The English release of the manga edits Joco's lips so that they match those of the other main characters to avoid a blackface stereotype resemblance, though his lips remain unedited in the 4Kids and Jetix versions of the 2001 anime along with the credits for the video game Shaman King: Master of Spirits. Joco is later given a less exaggerated and more normalized design for the 2021 anime reboot.

Lyserg Diethel

 is a young shaman from London who comes from a family of shamans who make a liviing as detectives, striving to become a great detective as his father. Lyserg entered to Shaman Fight to kill Hao for murdering his parents during his sixth birthday. Though he is intelligent and kindhearted, he has poor judgment in situations involving children and their parents as a result of his own personal experience. Lyserg's name is a reference to lysergic acid diethylamide, while Morphine is also a drug reference, with both referring to Sherlock Holmes' drug addictions.