[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# UK deaths in custody

Deaths in custody, including police and prison custody, are subject to great concern for a number of reasons, including the intrinsically vulnerable nature of some of those in custody, and the power imbalance inherent in the situation. Deaths in custody in England and Wales are looked at by inquests, and when it is possible that the state failed to protect the deceased's life are scrutinised using the 'right to life' (Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights).

Inquest is an independent charity focusing predominantly on deaths in custody. Working in England and Wales the charity supports families bereaved by state related deaths, including deaths in police and prison custody. They are the only charity of their kind in the UK.

Statistics 
The Independent Police Complaints Commission publishes annual reports on deaths during or following police contact.

The Ministry of Justice publishes quarterly 'Safety in Custody statistics' looking at deaths and incidents of self-harm and violence in prisons in England and Wales. In the year up to March 2017 this statistical report showed the highest number of deaths in prison on record, with the rate of self-inflicted deaths more than doubling since 2013, and the number of incidents of self-harm reaching a record high. There were 113 self-inflicted deaths in the 12 months up to March 2017, 10 of which were in the female estate.

The charity Inquest monitors statistics and updates on deaths in police custody, prison and immigration detention, regularly updating live statistical tables on their website.

The Home Office does not regularly publish information on deaths in immigration detention, but campaigners and monitoring bodies keep track and found 2017 has been the deadliest year on record of immigration detainees.

The Youth Justice Board (YJB) reports on deaths of children in child prisons (Young Offenders Institutions and Secure Training Centres) and secure children's homes in their remit.

Independent Review into Deaths and Serious Incidents in Police Custody, 2017 
In October 2017 the UK government published the first ever Independent review on deaths and serious incidents in police custody, known as the Angiolini Review, after the author Dame Elish Angiolini QC. Inquest's director Deborah Coles was special adviser to the review. The report made over 100 recommendations on policing, mental health provision, and post-death investigations and inquests including that such deaths should be investigated "with the same haste and mindset as homicides" and that families bereaved by a death in custody should receive non means-tested public funding for legal representation during investigations and inquest's into custody deaths.  Other recommendations included: 
 Strengthening systems and structures of accountability, holding the police to account at an individual and corporate level.
 National Oversight and learning from deaths, such as through an 'Office for Article 2 Compliance' which would monitor and report on recommendations arising from deaths.
 Improved investigation, including through the phasing out of Ex-police officers as lead investigators within the IPCC.
 Tackling discrimination, through recognition of the disproportionate number of deaths of BAME people following restraint and the role of institutional racism, both within IPCC investigations and police training.
 Better treatment of vulnerable people, including through proper resourcing of national healthcare facilities to accommodate and respond to vulnerable people in urgent physical or mental health need coming into contact with the police.
The report was commissioned in July 2015 by Theresa May in her former role as Home Secretary. She announced the review after meeting the families of Sean Rigg and Olaseni 'Seni' Lewis, saying: "As Home Secretary, I have been struck by the pain and suffering of families still looking for answers. That is why I set up this independent review and I'm grateful to Dame Elish and Deborah Coles, as special advisor to the chair, for agreeing to take on this important work."

The charity Inquest advised the review after years of lobbying for it to take place. They welcomed the report as "an opportunity to save lives". However the report was due to be published in January 2017 and the Home Office faced widespread criticism from Inquest and other charities and campaigners for delaying its publication, including in an open letter to Amber Rudd (the Home Secretary who took over from Theresa May) published in the Guardian in July 2017 which was signed by over 30 organisations. During the 10-month delay to publish the review, the deaths of Rashan Charles and Edson Da Costa in contact with London's Metropolitan Police reignited widespread public concern about deaths in custody, particularly those concerning restraint related deaths of young Black men.