[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# StandWithUs

"serious negotiations". SWU views the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as territorial rather than existential. Lessons by SWU have highlighted that Palestinian refugees "were not the result of Israel's founding but of the war Arab nations launched against Israel", a position Israeli historians contest.

SWU is opposed to J Street, a self-declared "dovish" pro-Israel lobby. In a debate with J Street President Jeremy Ben-Ami, Rothstein accused him of thinking that he knows "better than the Israelis" how to achieve peace with the Palestinians. She also complained that J Street primarily pressures and criticizes Israel and not the Palestinians. Ben-Ami faulted her for taking a black-and-white approach to the conflict and concluded that there was little common ground between them. Rothstein is also opposed to Breaking the Silence, an organization of former Israeli soldiers opposed to the occupation. She has described as disingenuous groups that profess love for Israel but blame it for the lack of peace while refusing to address Palestinian anti-peace behavior. Rothstein believes supporters of Israel should support whatever government is elected in Israel and that Zionists who are publicly critical of the state of Israel for its treatment of Palestinians do not support the country.

SWU actively opposes the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement, which it considers antisemitic. SWU is a proponent of anti-BDS laws, which are intended to discourage boycotts of Israel by requiring state contractors to promise that they are not boycotting Israel, and does not believe that they impinge on freedom of speech. SWU claims that BDS's true objective is "the elimination of Israel and the end of Jewish self-determination" and calls the movement "a dangerous new front that has opened in the war against Israel". SWU believes that anti-Israel views, often masked in "human rights language", risk gaining influence in the American political system, and that they are easier to spot on the far right than on the far left, according to the group's Midwest executive director Peggy Shapiro.

In April 2021, SWU praised The Associated Press (AP) for changing the spelling of "anti-Semitism" to "antisemitism". They described it as an important move, saying that in doing so, the AP had joined the collective effort against Jew hatred. The organization has endorsed and advocated for adopting the IHRA definition of antisemitism.

Pro-Israel activism training 
The organization offers two one-year programs to train students in pro-Israel activism, distributes pamphlets and "fact sheets" on Israel, and sets up pro-Israeli lectures. According to Haaretz journalist Judy Maltz, no organization compares with SWU for "turning up the heat on the Israel-Palestinian debate at universities", and its tactics in doing so are controversial. 

SWU established and funds its own network of "fellows", students trained to use cameras, videos, and robots to film events that are considered anti-Israel at universities, and whose role is said to be one of acting as SWU's "eyes and ears" on campuses. According to Maltz, the presence of SWU activists at anti-Israel demonstrators has often provoked clashes that, in her view, serve the organization's interests. Students are taught to warn anti-Israel demonstrators when their disruptions may be violating the law.

The Emerson Fellowship program, created in 2007, trains college student leaders from 90 universities throughout North America to be pro-Israel advocates on their campuses. As of 2020, the program is offered to North American, British, and Brazilian students. The number of students enrolled in the program has grown from 38 in 2007 and 2008 to 107 in 2020. SWU also offered a Hispanic Emerson Fellowship. A year-long UK Emerson fellowship, based on its American fellowship, launched in September 2018. The fellowship launched in South Africa in November 2022.

The group is also involved in training high school students. Created in 2012, the StandWithUs High School Internship is a program directed at North American high school students in 11th and 12th grade and had 125 students enrolled in 2020. It prepares students for challenges potentially faced in college regarding pro-Israel advocacy.

Other educational programs include Shagririm (meaning "ambassadors"), a program directed at young adult Israeli-Americans in southern California with the objective of connecting people to generate pro-Israeli initiatives. In 2012, the program included 54 students from southern Californian universities. Unlike Emerson Fellows, Shagririm was open only to Israeli-Americans. The program was sponsored and run by the Milstein Family Foundation's Israel Leadership Council, later rebranded as the Israeli-American Council.