[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 110]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

not know how to _sit_ quiet at a play, he would have
the honour of teaching him to _lie_; and that if he offered to stir, he
would trample him to pieces;" a threat which was very evident he could
find no difficulty in executing.

This unexpected incident struck a universal damp over the spirits of the
little gentry; and even Master Mash himself so far forgot his dignity,
as to supplicate in a very submissive manner for a release; in this he
was joined by all his companions, and Harry among the rest.

"Well," said the farmer, "I should never have thought that a parcel of
young gentlemen, as you call yourselves, would come into public to
behave with so much rudeness; I am sure that there is ne'er a ploughboy
at my house but what would have shown more sense and manners; but, since
you are sorry for what has happened, I am very willing to make an end of
the affair; more especially for the sake of this little master here, who
has behaved with so much propriety, that I am sure he is a better
gentleman than any of you, though he is not dressed so much like a
monkey or a barber." With these words he suffered the crestfallen Mash
to rise; who crept from his place of confinement, with looks infinitely
more expressive of mildness than he had brought with him; nor was the
lesson lost upon the others, for they behaved with the greatest decency
during the rest of the exhibition.

However, Master Mash's courage began to rise as he went home, and found
himself farther from his formidable farmer; for he assured his
companions, "that, if he had not been so vulgar a fellow, he would
certainly call him out and pistol him."

The next day at dinner Mr Merton and the ladies, who had not accompanied
the young gentlemen to the play, nor had yet heard of the misfortune
which had ensued, were very inquisitive about the preceding night's
entertainment. The young people agreed that the performers were
detestable, but that the play was a charming piece, full of wit and
sentiment, and extremely improving. This play was called _The Marriage
of Figaro_, and Master Compton had informed them that it was amazingly
admired by all the people of fashion in London.

But Mr Merton, who had observed that Harry was totally silent, at length
insisted upon knowing his opinion upon the subject, "Why, sir," answered
Harry, "I am very little judge of these matters, for I never saw a play
before in my life, and therefore I cannot tell whether it was acted well
or ill; but as to the play itself, it seemed to me to be full of nothing
but cheating and dissimulation; and the people that come in and out do
nothing but impose upon each other, and lie, and trick, and deceive.
Were you or any gentlemen to have such a parcel of servants, you would
think them fit for nothing in the world; and therefore I could not help
wondering, while the play was acting, that people would throw away so
much of their time upon sights that can do them no good, and send their
children and their relations to learn fraud and insincerity." Mr Merton
smiled at the honest bluntness of Harry; but several of the ladies, who
had just been expressing an extravagant admiration of this piece, seemed
to be not a little mortified; however, as they could not contradict the
charges which Harry had brought against it, they thought it most prudent
to be silent.

In the evening it was proposed that all the little gentry should divert
themselves with cards, and they accordingly sat down to a game which is
called Commerce. But Harry, who was totally ignorant of this
accomplishment, desired to be excused; however, his friend Miss Simmons
offered to teach him the game, which, she assured him, was so easy, that
in three minutes he would be able to play as well as the rest. Harry,
however, still continued to refuse; and at last confessed to Miss
Simmons, that he had expended all his money the day before, and
therefore was unable to furnish the stake which the rest deposited.
"Don't let that disturb you," said she; "I will put down for you with a
great deal of pleasure." "Madam," answered Harry, "I am very much
obliged to you, I am sure; but Mr Barlow has always forbidden me either
to receive or borrow money of anybody, for fear, in the one case, I
should become mercenary, or in the other, dishonest; and therefore,
though there is nobody here whom I esteem more than yourself, I am
obliged to refuse your offer." "Well," replied Miss Simmons, "that need
not disturb you; for you shall play upon my account, and that you may do
without any violation of your principles."

Thus was Harry, though with some reluctance, induced to sit down to
cards with the rest. The game, indeed, he found no difficulty in
learning; but he could not help remarking, with wonder, the extreme
solicitude which appeared in the face of all the players at every change
of fortune. Even the young ladies, all but Miss Simmons, seemed to be
equally sensible of the