[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Morteza Avini

ial policy of Avini in his documentary series. He worked with a crew of young amateur volunteers. As he had based his works on the break with the imperial past, he could not work with a team formed under the Mohammad Reza Shah or use older Iranian television methods, which drew from American styles.

Avini has stated that his film crews tried to avoid the "sloppy fakery" of most TV News reports. He had his teams stay at the set for long periods of time, taking the time to discover and encounter "the other." He tried to maintain realism by minimizing the use of cinematic effects, and worked to avoid depicting the habits that combatants had adopted when they were being filmed. Avini rarely filmed major victories and was hardly interested in strategy or military issues; his documentaries were almost exclusively devoted to how volunteers (bassijis) viewed the conflict and their participation in it.

Ravayat-e Fath 
Ravayat-e Fath (Narration of Victory) was a "lifelong" documentary of the Iran–Iraq War which focused on the daily life of Iranian soldiers. It consisted of five series and dealt with the spiritual aspect of the war. It depicted "a lifetime spiritual experience" through its ideological narration.

Theoretical works 
He wrote a series of articles in Sureh magazine critiquing Western civilization, a subject which was later the focus of his film Sarab (Mirage).

According to Devictor, Avini was an intellectual and theorist who worked on reconciling the Iranian Islamic regime with political and aesthetic modernity. Avini's work had similarities to that of 19th century thinkers in the Muslim world who felt it was necessary to employ Western political, economic, or cultural techniques in the service of spiritual art. However, Avini said that artists needed to be able to subdue what he described as the profane nature of modern techniques to use them in spiritual revolutionary art. At a conference at the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance, he said that Western art was a container that could accept any content, and that it was possible to insert religious thought without changing or betraying it.

Death and legacy 

Avini was killed by shrapnel from a landmine explosion in Fakkeh, in northwest Khuzestan Province, on 9 April 1993, while producing a documentary. He was dubbed a shahid, or "martyr," after his death. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of Iran, described him as "the master of martyred literati" () on the 20th day of Farvardin, which was declared the day of "Islamic Revolution art" on the Iranian calendar.

Selected films 

Sources:

Bibliography

See also 

 Sacred Defense Cinema
 Culture of Iran
 Islamic art
 Iranian art
 Iranian art and architecture
 List of Iranian artists
 Martyr Avini Literary Award
 Occidentalism

References

External links 

 Martyr Aviny institution of cultural and art
 Avini Collection, University of Andrews

1947 births
1993 deaths
People from Ray, Iran
Iranian photographers
University of Tehran alumni
Deaths by explosive device
Recipients of the Holy Defense Year Book Award
Iranian documentary filmmakers
Burials at Behesht-e Zahra
Jihad of Construction personnel of the Iran–Iraq War