[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sound, Cheshire

ajority of the terrain is relatively flat, with an average elevation of around 60 metres; near the northern parish boundary and adjacent to the Weaver in the southwest the land is more undulating in character. There are several areas of woodland within the parish, including Sound Heath and Asphodel.

The small scattered settlements of Sound () and Sound Heath () are centred on the junction of Sound Lane and Wrenbury Heath Road. The hamlet of Newtown () lies adjacent to the A530, between Newtown Road and Wrenbury Heath Road. Occasional farmhouses and cottages also lie along Sound Lane and Wrenbury Heath Road. The area is predominantly rural, with the major land use being agricultural. Dairy farming predominates, but there is also sheep pasture, horse paddocks and some arable fields. There is an abattoir at Red Lion Farm in Sound Heath. A few small industrial and service enterprises operate within the parish, including television and video repairs (Sound Heath), metal fabricators (Sound Lane) and secretarial services (Newtown).

The A530 runs along the south-east edge of the civil parish. Three unclassified roads run from the A530. Wrenbury Heath Road runs westwards towards Wrenbury Heath, where it joins the lane from Nantwich to Wrenbury. Sound Lane initially runs westwards, joining Wrenbury Heath Road at , and then turns northwards towards Ravensmoor, where it also joins the lane to Nantwich. Newtown Road connects the A530 and Sound Lane.

The Welsh Marches railway line runs through the parish from the south-west to the north-east, crossing Wrenbury Heath Road at  and Sound Lane at . Two further railway bridges serve Sound Hall () and Bridge Farm (), with no public right of way. The National Cycle Network Regional Route 75 runs westwards from the A530 along Newtown Road and then follows Sound Lane.

Sound Heath

The parish includes the Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) and Local Nature Reserve of Sound Heath, also known as Sound Common. The designated site comprises two distinct areas totalling 4.8 Ha, the larger centred at  and the smaller at . The habitat is varied, with damp and dry lowland heath, grassland, scrub and young woodland. There are many permanent or seasonal pools, which originate from sand extraction.

Sound Heath is one of the most important sites in Cheshire for freshwater invertebrates. Pond-dwelling species that are rare in the UK which have been observed here include the mud snail, great raft spider and a species of water scavenger beetle. The beautiful snout moth is another nationally scarce species which has been recorded at Sound Heath. The area is also an important breeding site for a wide range of birds.

Places of worship
Broomhall and Sound Methodist Chapel is in Newtown at . Founded in 1838 as Broomhall Church, it belonged successively to the Wesleyan Methodist Association, United Methodist Free Churches and United Methodist Church. In 1973, it amalgamated with Sound Heath Chapel. It is a white rendered building with an apse at one end, which was extended in 1980. It belongs to the Audlem section of the Nantwich Circuit.

Other landmarks

Sound Oak Farmhouse on Sound Lane () dates from the early 17th century and is listed at grade II. The two-storey, timber-framed building is on an H-shaped plan with a tiled roof. The two end bays are gabled and have small jetties. The grade-II-listed Fulhurst Hall, also on Sound Lane (), dates originally from the mid-17th century. The two-storey, T-shaped building is partly timber-framed with a 20th-century brick extension and a tiled roof.

A former red-brick malt kiln stands opposite Sound Hall on Wrenbury Heath Road (). Such buildings were common in around 1800, but very few examples are still standing. A long low wing forms the former drying area, where malt and hops were dried; six sets of wooden shutters on each of the two floors were used to adjust the airflow. An adjoining wing with a higher roof was used for brewing. The building was substantially unaltered and in use as a barn in 2006, but was being converted into residential use in 2010.

Demography

In 2006, the total population of the civil parish was estimated as 220. The 2001 census recorded a population of 233, in 88 households. The historical population figures were 192 (1801), 261 (1851), 234 (1901) and 237 (1951).

Education

Sound and District Primary School is on the A530 at . It serves the civil parish of Sound, as well as Austerson, Baddington, Broomhall, Coole Pilate and Newhall.

The school building dates from 1876 and is listed at grade II. A single-storey building of three bays with a bell turret forms the school, with an adjoining two-storey schoolmaster's house; both are in red and blue brick with a blue tile roof.

The parish falls within the catchment area of Brine Leas High School in Nantwich.

See also

Listed buildings in Sound, Cheshire

References