[Source: PubMed]

38. J Infect Dis. 2023 Aug 16;228(4):368-370. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiad026.

Now is the Time to Scale Up Birth-Dose Hepatitis B Vaccine in Low- and 
Middle-Income Countries.

Thompson P(1), Parr JB(2), Boisson A(3), Razavi-Shearer D(4), Ezechi OC(5), Wang 
SH(6)(7), Tucker JD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of 
North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(3)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global Public 
Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA.
(4)Center for Disease Analysis Foundation, Lafayette, Colorado, USA.
(5)Centre for Reproductive and Population Health Studies, Nigerian Institute of 
Medical Research, Lagos, Nigeria.
(6)World Hepatitis Alliance, London, United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center, Florham 
Park, New Jersey, USA.

Fewer than half of the world's infants have access to the birth dose of 
hepatitis B vaccine (HBV), which prevents mother-to-child transmission of HBV 
and subsequent liver cancer. Now is the time to expand access for infants born 
in low-resource settings.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of 
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiad026
PMCID: PMC10686687
PMID: 36722048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. P. T. and J. B. 
P. report research support from Gilead Sciences and nonfinancial support from 
Abbott Laboratories; P. T. also reports research support from the American 
Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene/Burroughs-Wellcome fund and Merck. All 
other authors report no potential conflicts. All authors have submitted the 
ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest. Conflicts that the 
editors consider relevant to the content of the manuscript have been disclosed.