[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Shaparak Khorsandi

r hang-ups and her general mental health", although he added that the performance had the "merciful addition of an arsenal of great jokes". The show commended by Victoria Lee of The Daily Telegraph for Khorsandi being "more open than previously" in her routine, which contained "old-fashioned filth".

In 2016, Khorsandi appeared with her son on Big Star's Little Star. Also that year, along with other celebrities, she toured the UK to support Jeremy Corbyn's bid to become Prime Minister. Her new stand-up show that year, Oh My Country! From Morris Dancing to Morrissey, which Jay Richardson of The Scotsman summarised as "a passionate love letter to the England she calls home". The Times critic Dominic Maxwell commented that Khorsandi's "playfully oversharing manner couches a passion for her topic and a knack for getting plenty said in an apparently conversational aside".

Khorsandi was a contestant on the seventeenth series of I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! in November 2017 and, following a public vote, was the first contestant to be eliminated. She remarked that she felt isolated during the show, and had not enjoyed it, and her experience there had helped her realise that she was content with her usual life.

Her show Mistress and Misfit combined material about Khorsandi's life with biographical details about Emma Hamilton. In The Guardian in 2018, Logan wrote that he saw no clear reason for the mixture, and wrote that some of the jokes were reused from Khorsandi's earlier shows. Skittish Warrior...Confessions of a Club Comic saw Khorsandi reflecting on twenty years as a stand-up comedian, including her own undermining of herself in the early years.

It was the 90s! (2021–2022) examined changes in attitudes since the 1990s, and Khorsandi's own experience of being a ladette. Lloyd Evans, in the Australian edition of The Spectator criticised Khorsandi in 2021, writing that, "Her material is not especially strong and her greatest asset is a combative stage presence which, as she admits, springs from a deep need to show off in front of strangers."

Her other television appearances have included Have I Got News for You, Friday Night with Jonathan Ross,. Mock the Week, 8 Out of 10 Cats, Celebrity Antiques Road Trip, and Blankety Blank.

Books
Khorsandi's memoir, A Beginner's Guide to Acting English, was published by Ebury Press in 2009. The book describes how she experienced England as a young girl. The narrative begins with her attending nursery school, The Kings' International Nursery School, with her brother, Peyvand. Throughout the book, she explains how the Persian language differs from English: "They called me 'poppet'. Iranians said 'jaan' or 'azizam. Other themes include her experiences with English food and customs. Historian Sharif Gemme felt that "While one can hear her distinctive, resonant voice reaching the punchlines at the end of the paragraphs, the final result is not impressive: neither particularly amusing nor genuinely observant."

Her second book and first novel, Nina is Not OK, was published in 2016. The titular character is a teenager living with alcohol abuse. It was nominated for the Jhalak Prize, a literary award for Black, Asian, and minority ethnic writers. However, Khorsandi asked for it to be removed from consideration, telling an interviewer, "For once in my career I'd done something not about identity ... and I get a sticker for being brown." Khorsandi's young adult fiction novel Kissing Emma, published in 2021, was inspired by the life of Emma Hamilton. Her autobiographical Scatter Brain (2023) is subtitled How I finally got off the ADHD rollercoaster and became the owner of a very tidy sock drawer.

Tours and live shows

Television and radio appearances

Publications

Awards, honours and nominations

See also
Iranian stand-up comedy

References

External links

Shappi Khorsandi at Comedy CV
Iranian diaspora: Shappi Khorsandi at BBC News Online
Chortle account

1973 births
Living people
Alumni of the University of Winchester
Bisexual novelists
Bisexual women writers
British bisexual writers
British stand-up comedians
British women comedians
British people of Iranian descent
Comedians from London
People from Ealing
British atheists
British humanists
British women novelists
Iranian emigrants to the United Kingdom
Bisexual comedians
Iranian bisexual people
Iranian LGBT novelists
British LGBT novelists
Entertainers from Tehran
20th-century British comedians
21st-century British comedians
Labour Party (UK) people
British LGBT comedians
People with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder