[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Philadelphia in the American Civil War

. In 1862, after expressing antiwar sentiments, former Democratic Representative Charles Jared Ingersoll was arrested for discouraging enlistments. The arrest of the well-respected politician caused local Republicans embarrassment, and he was released after direct orders from the federal government.

The city's Democrats used Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus and his Emancipation Proclamation as ammunition against Republicans. However, many in Philadelphia agreed with The Philadelphia Inquirer, which claimed in a July 1862 article that "in this war there can be but two parties, patriots and traitors." Democrats did poorly in the 1862 election with Democratic Representative Charles John Biddle losing to Charles O'Neill, leaving only one Democrat from Philadelphia in the US House of Representatives. Samuel J. Randall, the only Democrat from Philadelphia in the House, was closer to Republicans than his own party. Henry, running on the National Union Party ticket, was elected to a third term as Philadelphia mayor.

Invasion threat
In June 1863, General Robert E. Lee invaded Pennsylvania in the Gettysburg Campaign. As word reached Philadelphia that the Confederate Army was marching on Harrisburg some 100 miles to the west, Philadelphians felt no urgency to prepare the city to defend itself. On June 26, Major-General Napoleon Jackson Tecumseh Dana took command of the military district of Philadelphia and began to build defensive entrenchments, with the help of volunteers recruited by  Mayor Henry. At the beginning of July, Pennsylvania Governor Andrew Gregg Curtin came to the city in the hope to rally the city out of its lack of urgency.

Philadelphia's Twentieth Pennsylvania Emergency Regiment and its First City Troop were among the militia that helped prevent the Confederate forces from crossing the Susquehanna River at Wrightsville by burning the Columbia-Wrightsville Bridge. The threat of invasion ended on July 3, when Lee's Army of Northern Virginia was defeated by the Army of the Potomac, commanded by George Meade, in the three-day Battle of Gettysburg.

After Gettysburg
After the Gettysburg Campaign, support for the war grew, and hopes for antiwar elements to make headway in the city diminished. After the victories at Gettysburg and Vicksburg, patriotic feelings grew, more people enlisted in the army, and Philadelphia voted for the re-election of Republican Governor Curtin over the Peace Democrat George Washington Woodward. In July 1863 the draft began to be enforced in the city. Mayor Henry and General George Cadwalader, who replaced Major-General Dana as the commander of Philadelphia military district, quietly suppressed any disturbances to prevent riots similar to the draft riots in New York City.

In June 1864, the Philadelphia division of the United States Sanitary Commission organized a large fair to raise money to buy bandages and medicine. The Great Central Fair lasted two weeks and was held in temporary buildings covering several acres of Logan Square. Thousands of works of art were lent for display, and many were donated for auction. Among the visitors was Lincoln. The Sanitary Fair raised $1,046,859.

In the 1864 election, most Philadelphians voted to re-elect Lincoln and the four representatives from Philadelphia. The National Union Party also gained majority in both houses of the Philadelphia City Council.

In December 1864, Philadelphia's streetcar companies began either allowing African Americans on the streetcars or running streetcars specifically for African Americans. The companies capitulated after African Americans and others put pressure on the companies because African American soldiers were reporting late for duty and soldiers' wives experienced trouble visiting their wounded husbands in the hospitals. The city's streetcars were not fully integrated until 1867, when they were required by a law passed by the Pennsylvania General Assembly.

Military contribution

Many soldiers from New England and New Jersey came through Philadelphia while they were heading south. Many soldiers moved through New Jersey via the Camden and Amboy Railroad and then the Delaware River by ferry. The ferry would drop them off at Washington Avenue, where they would march to waiting trains of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad. Local residents formed two organizations, the Union Volunteer Refreshment Saloon and the Cooper Shop Refreshment Saloon, to greet the arriving soldiers with refreshments and letter-writing materials.

The first Philadelphia regiment sent out of the city was a volunteer formation, the Washington Grays, which was dispatched to help defend Washington, DC. The unit made it to Baltimore, Maryland, where it was attacked by a secessionist mob in the Baltimore riot of 1861. The brigade retreated to Philadelphia, where George Leisenring, a German-born private, died and became Philadelphia's first war casualty.