[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Terrorism in New Zealand

nnMall, West Auckland. He injured seven people and was being followed by police at the time. He was shot dead by officers at the scene about two minutes after the attack began. According to a statement by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, Samsudeen held a violent ideology inspired by the Islamic State.

Counter-terrorism
The principal government agencies responsible for countering the threat of terrorism are the New Zealand Police (who have responsibility for direct action) and the SIS (who have responsibility for providing information on which action can be based). The counter-terrorism capabilities of the Police have been expanded in response to the 11 September attacks in the United States, and counter-terrorism also takes up a significant proportion of the SIS's budget. One observer has argued that New Zealand "already had in place a very comprehensive set of counter-measures" before that point.

2007 anti-terror raids

Seventeen people were arrested in co-ordinated raids on 15 October 2007 by Police Armed Offenders Squads and Special Tactics Group. Those arrested included environmental activists and Māori separatists, including noted activist Tame Iti, but the raids also included roadblocks in the Urewera area by armed police who searched and questioned everyone who passed through.

After lengthy legal proceedings, none of those arrested were convicted of anything more serious than violation of gun license rules under the Arms Act. Although the search warrants used indicated that terrorism related offences were involved, no charges were laid under the 2002 Terrorism Suppression Act—with the Solicitor-General describing the legislation as "complex and incoherent". Major amendments to the Act were being pushed through Parliament at the time of the raids, as well as legislation creating the charge of "participation in an organised criminal group", justified as necessary to address gang violence, a charge which was unsuccessfully applied to four of those arrested.

Operation Strand
In early September 2021, Police arrested a North Shore resident for plotting to stage a terror attack against non-Muslims in Auckland. The defendant had first taken an interest in ISIS at the age of 16 years. In 2021, an undercover Police officer posing as an ISIS sympathiser befriended the defendant via social media. Over a one month period, the defendant had discussed his plans with the undercover officer to stage a terrorist attack in Auckland including 80 potential targets and methods including camouflage clothing and two knives. The defendant was arrested following the 2021 Auckland supermarket stabbing. In March 2023, Justice Rebecca Edwards of the Auckland High Court sentenced the 21-year old defendant to two years and five months' imprisonment for plotting to killing 20-30 non-Muslims.

See also
 List of massacres in New Zealand
 Crime in New Zealand
 Politics of New Zealand

References

 
Politics of New Zealand
New Zealand
Human rights abuses in New Zealand