[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nepalese democracy movement

nes relating to freedom of speech, expression, press, movement and rights to peaceful protest. The then prime minister Deuba’s government stayed in office and ruled through government decrees until dismissed by Gyanendra due to a perceived inability to hold elections and quell the Maoist insurgency.

Deuba was replaced by Lokendra Bahadur, a former Panchayat politician and Nepalese royalist who failed to negotiate a peace deal with the Maoists and faced the rise of a popular pro-democracy movement joined by major Nepali political parties, including the Nepali Congress, Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) (UML), Rashtriya Prajatantra Party, Nepal Congress Party (Democratic), United Left Front, Nepal Workers and Peasants Party.

After the reappointment of Deuba as prime minister the Nepali Congress (Democratic), UML and Rashtriya Prajatantra Party left the civil movement and joined the government. The TADO legislation was further renewed and has contributed to Nepal’s record numbers of unexplained forced disappearances in 2002 and 2003 (Malagodi 2013, p. 187). Following a brief period of political stability, King Gyanendra dismissed the Deuba government and assumed full executive control over the country through the declaration of a State of Emergency under the laws of the 1990 Constitution.

Loktantra Andolan 

In 1996 the Maoist insurgency launched a violent campaign to overthrow the political-economic status quo, redistribute land and affect a ‘proletarian revolution’ in Nepal. The ensuing civil war caused human rights violations and killings of more than 13,000, as well as a decline in Nepal's GDP growth rate, fuelled by a drop in tourist arrivals and the destruction of infrastructure. Following the assassination of King Birendra and his family in 2001, the multi-party democracy was placed under a State of Emergency by the preceding King, tightly controlling the opposition, censoring news and media organisations, and shutting down telecommunications in parts of the country. The civil war developed into a military and political stalemate that ended in 2005. Protests against the political and economic situation drew an estimated 100,000 to 200,000 in Nepal's capital Kathmandu and 5 million in the entire country.

An alliance of seven political parties developed a coalition government, abolished the monarchy and signed a peace agreement with Maoist insurgents in 2006. This was achieved through cooperation between main-stream political parties and the Maoist insurgency facilitated though a 12-point agreement which outlined the democratic framework to be instituted after the abolition of monarchy. This framework set out the formation of an internationally monitored interim government, holding free and fair elections in a system of governance which guarantees civil, political and human rights, as well as the rule of law.

Furthermore, the Constitution was redrafted to:

 remove the right and role of the monarch;
 shift executive power to the Council of Ministers of the incumbent government therefore abolishing of the Raj Parishad, the royal advisory body;
 remove terms that referred to the monarch as the leader of Nepal, such as "his majesty's government";
 establish accountability for the Council of Ministers through the House of Representatives;
 bring all executive organs of government, such as police, army and administration under the influence of the republican government;
 compel the king to pay taxes on fortunes and estates;
 integrate the Palace Service into the state civil service;
 declare Nepal as a federal republic;
 declare Nepal as a secular state;
The Royal Nepalese Army has been accused of suppressing the demonstrations with an unproportional use of force leading to a high-level investigation into law enforcement brutality towards the 2006 protests. After the release of the Rayamajhi Commission the government implemented its recommendations and dismissed the chiefs of Nepal's police organisations.

Following elections in 2008, the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) won 38% of the votes contrary to international predictions. Furthermore, the election increased the representation of women and ethnic minorities.

See also
 1951 Nepalese revolution
 2006 Nepalese revolution

References

 
History of Nepal (1951–2008)
Politics of Nepal
Democracy movements by country