[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Constructive set theory

ady explained that  and so one wants to prove excluded middle for the latter. This  is defined using the clause , so that any given  fulfills the disjunction . Now let  be the postulated member with the empty intersection property. If , then , while otherwise . This establishes excluded middle for .

Demanding that the set of naturals is well-ordered with respect to it standard order relation imposes the same condition on the inhabited set . So the least number principle has the same non-constructive implication.

Arithmetic 
The four Peano axioms for  and , characterizing  as a model of the natural numbers in the constructive set theory , have been discussed. The order "" of natural numbers is captured by membership "" in this von Neumann model and this set is discrete, i.e. also  is decidable. But the theory does actually not enable primitive recursion in  for function definitions of what would be  (where "" here denotes the Cartesian product of set, not to be confused with multiplication above). Indeed, despite having the Replacement axiom, the theory does not prove the addition function  to be a set function. 

The first-order theory of Heyting arithmetic  has the same signature and non-logical axioms as Peano arithmetic . In contrast, the signature of set theory does not contain addition "" or multiplication "". Next, it is clarified which set theory axiom may be asserted to prove existence of the latter as a function set, together with their desired relation to zero and successor. Far beyond just the equality predicate, the obtained model of arithmetic then validates

for any quantifier-free formula. Indeed,  is -conservative over  and double-negation elimination is possible for any Harrop formula.

Arithmetic functions from recursion 
Going a step beyond , the axiom granting definition of set functions via iteration-step set functions must be added: For any set , set  and , there must also exist a function  attained by making use of the former, namely such that  and . This iteration- or recursion principle is akin to the transfinite recursion theorem, except it is restricted to set functions and finite ordinal arguments, i.e. there is no clause about limit ordinals. It functions as the set theoretical equivalent of a natural numbers object in category theory.
This then enables a full interpretation of Heyting arithmetic  in our set theory, including addition and multiplication functions.

With this,  and  are well-founded, in the sense of the inductive subsets formulation. Further, arithmetic of rational numbers  can then also be defined and its properties, like uniqueness and countability, be proven.

Recursion from set theory axioms 
Recall that  is short for , where  is short for the total function predicate, a proposition in terms of uses bounded quantifiers. If both sides are sets, then by extensionality this is also equivalent to . (Although by slight abuse of formal notation, as with the symbol "", the symbol "" is also commonly used with classes anyhow.) 

A set theory with the -model enabling recursion principle, spelled out above, will also prove that, for any naturals  and , the function spaces

are sets. Indeed, bounded recursion suffices, i.e. the principle for -defined classes. Conversely, the recursion principle can be proven from a definition involving the union of recursive functions on finite domains. Relevant for this is the class of partial functions on  such that all of its members have a return values only up to some natural number bound, which may be expressed by . Existence of this as a set becomes provable assuming that the individual function spaces  all form sets themselves. To this end

With this axiom, any such space is now a set of subsets of  and this is strictly weaker than full Separation. Notably, adoption of this principle has genuine set theoretical flavor, in contrast to a direct embedding of arithmetic principles into our theory. And it is a modest principle insofar as when further assuming full induction or full exponentiation, taking  to function spaces , or to n-fold Cartesian products, does preserve countability.

In  plus finite exponentiation, the recursion principle is a theorem. Moreover, enumerable forms of the pigeon hole principle can now also be proven, e.g. that on a finitely indexed set, every auto-injection is also a surjection. As a consequence, the cardinality of finite sets, i.e. the finite von Neumann ordinal, is provably unique. Powersets of finite sets exist. The finitely indexed discrete sets are just the finite sets. In particular, finitely indexed subsets of  are finite. Taking quotients or taking the binary union or Cartesian product of two sets preserve finiteness, sub-finiteness and being finitely indexed.