[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# A Difficult Life

nymore, only economic security. "It's easy to make money like all these people do. What is more difficult, to write an ugly novel, or to sell household appliances?" he asks. Elena storms away and Silvio vents his bitterness by spitting on luxury cars circulating in the town and shouting at tourists.

Many years later in 1961, the funeral of Elena's mother Amalia takes place in Lombardy. Silvio, to everyone's surprise, shows up behind the wheel of a luxury car. He begs Elena to take him back, stating that he has found a permanent job and set aside his political ideas to seek economic stability. Elena is moved at seeing the mill where they had spent happy days and decides to return with him.

The film ends with a party organized by the businessman Bracci, who hired Silvio as a secretary. Silvio is now able to afford luxuries like a fur coat and a car, but is forced to perform all kinds of humiliating tasks for his boss. Bracci ridicules Silvio in front of the guests and Elena by spraying seltzer in his face. Unable to bear this last affront, Silvio slaps Bracci, making him fall into the pool. He and Elena leave the party and walk home.

Cast

 Alberto Sordi: Silvio Magnozzi
 Lea Massari: Elena Pavinato
 Franco Fabrizi: Franco Simonini
 Lina Volonghi: Amalia Pavinato 
 Claudio Gora: Commendator Bracci
 Antonio Centa: Carlo
 Loredana Nusciak: Giovanna
 Daniele Vargas: Marquis Capperoni
 Franco Scandurra: President of the examination board
 Mino Doro: Ragana

Production
Filming took place in part on Lake Como in Lenno (Tremezzina) and between Lierna and Varenna. The film opens at the Golfo di Venere beach. The town by the windmill where Elena and Silvio spent their first months together was filmed at Cerano d’Intelvi near the Telo River. The famous scene of spitting on cars, although in the film it is said that it is set in Viareggio, was actually shot on the seaside avenue of Ronchi, in the district of Marina di Massa.

The actor playing the German soldier killed by Elena was Borante Domizlaff. During the Second World War, he served in the SS security service (SD) as a Sturmbannführer (major). During the German occupation of Rome, Domizlaff participated in the organization and execution of the massacre of the Fosse Ardeatine under the orders of Lieutenant Colonel Herbert Kappler. Domizlaff was one of the defendants in the trial held after the war, which ended in 1948 with a sentence of life imprisonment of Kappler alone. Domizlaff and the rest of Kappler's officers were acquitted.

Famous scenes 
Some scenes are famous in the history of Italian cinema: the dinner at the princess' palace during the referendum of the Italian Republic; when Silvio asks a shepherd guard, "Dimmi, pastore, tu sei felice?" (Tell me, are you happy?); when a drunken Silvio spits at all the cars that drive by on the road after his wife had escaped from a night club; when Silvio visits Cinecitta and asks famous actors to make a movie of his book.

References

External links

1961 films
1961 comedy films
Italian black-and-white films
Commedia all'italiana
Films directed by Dino Risi
Films set in Italy
Films set in Rome
Films set in Tuscany
1960s Italian-language films
Films produced by Dino De Laurentiis
Films scored by Carlo Savina
1960s Italian films