[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Energy policy of Canada

e federal government and the provincial governments in Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan agreed to deregulate the prices of crude oil and natural gas. Offshore oil Atlantic Canada is administered under joint federal and provincial responsibility in Nova Scotia and Newfoundland and Labrador.

Provincial regulation
Provincial regulation of oil and natural gas activities, pipelines, and distribution systems is administered by provincial utility boards. The producing provinces impose royalties and taxes on oil and natural gas production; provide drilling incentives; and grant permits and licenses to construct and operate facilities. The consuming provinces regulate distribution systems and oversee the retail price of natural gas to consumers. The key regulations with respect to the wholesale and retail electricity competition are at the provincial level. To date, two provinces (Alberta and Ontario) have initiated retail competition. In Alberta, the electricity sector is largely privatized, in Ontario the process is ongoing. In other provinces electricity is mostly generated and distributed by provincially owned utilities.

Fossil fuel subsidies in Canada
According to the 2 May 2019 International Monetary Fund (IMF) report, in 2015, Canada paid US$43 billion in post-tax energy subsidies which represents 2.9 percent of the GDP and an expenditure of US$1,191 per capita. On the eve of the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21) held in Paris, CBC news reported that G20 countries spend US$452 billion annually on fossil fuel subsidies. In the fiscal year 2013–2014, the federal government gave the petroleum industry approximately US$1.6 billion. The combined federal and provincial support for the petroleum industry during that period totalled almost US$2.7 billion. The CBC article cite the Overseas Development Institute 2015 report on G20 subsidies to oil, gas and coal production. The leaders of the G20 countries had pledged in 2011 to phase-out fossil fuel subsidies. In 2013–2014, Canada also provided a "high level of public finance"—several billion dollars—for fossil fuel production abroad. This included subsidies for oil and gas and fossil fuel-based electricity for state-owned enterprises (SOE), such as, Oil India, JOGMEC in Japan, KNOC in Korea, and EDF in France. The ODI report noted that as the global price of oil decreased, about 30 countries introduced fossil fuel consumer subsidy phase-out in 2014 and 2015. During that same period, fossil fuel-extracting companies in Canada "increased their pressure on governments" for help in remaining "competitive" by giving them "more tax breaks and other support."

In 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published The OECD Inventory of Support Measures for Fossil Fuels 2015 and a Companion to the inventory.  Canada prepared a Study of Federal Support to the Fossil Fuel Sector  and the Office of the Auditor General of Canada compiled a report as part of a parliamentary enquiry in 2012. in 2013-2014 Canada spent US$2,738 million on subsidies for "upstream oil and gas, oil and gas pipelines, power plants and refining, multiple fossil fuels or unspecified, coal mining, and coal-fired power."

The ODI reported that by late 2015, the Canadian federal government was phasing out some subsidies to oil, gas and mining. By January 2015, the Athasbaska oil sands "were no longer eligible for accelerated depreciation."  They were "subject to the same tax regime as other oil, mining and gas development." The Atlantic Investment Tax Credit was also in the process of being phased out. The federal government introduced new fossil fuel subsidies in the form of "tax breaks for LNG production in the form of increased capital cost allowance rates that allow companies to deduct capital spending more quickly than was previously possible."

The Export Development Canada (EDC), Canada's export credit agency spent about $2.5 billion per year in 2013 and 2014 in the energy industries.