[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Molokele

nternational (TIZ).

During his Bulawayo years from June 1999 to December 2003, Molokele was actively involved in the setting up of various organisations such as the Christian Legal Society (CLS), Gospel Music Association (GMA) and the Christian Leadership Forum (CLF), Bulawayo Agenda, among others.

Molokele relocated from Bulawayo to Johannesburg in January 2004. Prior to that, Molokele had changed his legal name from Fortune Mguni to Fortune Daniel Molokela-Tsiye in 2000, after a personal quest to reclaim his original family identity. His father's family only started using the Mguni surname after the death of his grandfather in the early 1970s. The process culminated in him being re-united with his father's original people, the Molokele clan in Mafikeng, South Africa, in September 2004.

During his early years in South Africa, Molokele continued his activism and was actively involved with various organisations and platforms. These included the Peace and Democracy Project (PDP), Zimbabwe Diaspora CSOs Forum, Zimbabwe Diaspora Development Chamber (ZDDC) and the Global Zimbabwe Forum. (GZF) In fact, it was due to his active role at the GZF that he was seconded to set up its office at Geneva in Switzerland between May and December 2008.

Molokele has also been employed by various other organisations in South Africa over the years. These include among others, Zimonline Media Trust, Doctors without Borders (MSF), Southern Africa Editors Forum (SAEF), World AIDS Campaign International (WACI), Southern African Regional Programme on Access to Medicines and Diagnostics (SAPAM) and Accountability International (AI)

He was based at Cape Town between May 2009 and April 2011 where he was instrumental in the mobilisation of the Zimbabwean community there under the local chapter of the GZF.

In recent years, Molokele has been actively involved with such platforms as the Zimbabwe Diaspora Support Initiative (ZDESI), Learnmore and Rutendo Jongwe Memorial trust, Friends of Nora Tapiwa, Highlanders FC Bosso South Africa branch and also the Southern Africa regional offices for the Crisis in Zimbabwe Coalition.

Molokele has also been actively involved with the local South Africa civil society. In particular, he has sat in the national boards for such organisations as Transparency International South Africa, Amnesty International South Africa and MISA-South Africa. He has also been an active member of the South African Institute of International Affairs, Freedom of Expression Institute of South Africa and the Gender Media Network of Southern Africa.

Career in writing

Molokele has always regarded himself as a creative writer. He has over the years written several unpublished works and manuscripts ranging from biographies, fictional stories, poetry and movie scripts. Added to that, he has also written regularly in various media forums in South Africa such as the Mail & Guardian and Zimonline.

In particular, he has written personal column articles in such publications as Moto magazine, NewZimbabwe.com and The Zimbabwean.

Molokele is an active Christian. In this regard he has been also actively involved in the setting up of both the Johannesburg and Cape Town branches of the Victory Fellowship Church that is originally from Bulawayo. He now attends the His People Church at Johannesburg.

Molokele has also managed to further his studies and now holds a Masters in Human Rights Litigation degree from the University of South Africa and also a Masters in Business Administration from the African Leadership University

He was until the end of May 2014 based at Rosebank at Johannesburg where he was working as the Civil Society Partnerships Programme Manager for the Southern Africa Regional Programme on Access to Medicines and Diagnostics (SARPAM)

From July 2014 to Nov 2016 he worked at AIDS Accountability International (AAI).

During the early part of 2017, Molokele relocated to his hometown of Whange in Zimbabwe.

In July 2018 he was elected as the Member of Parliament for Whange Central constituency as a candidate of the MDC Alliance

Molokele now serves as the Chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee for Higher and Tertiary Education, Innovation, Science and Technology Development

In June 2019, Molokele was appointed as the Spokesperson or Secretary for Communications under the MDC Alliance that is led by President Advocate Nelson Chamisa.

Family

He has also been married to a supportive partner, Doctor Samukeliso Dube since November 2001 and they have a daughter called Matilda-Jane, who was born on 1 April 2006.

References

Happy Birthday Mr Mugabe!
The Zimbabwe I Don't Want
Zimbabwe and Malawi: the eternal bond that binds us
Open Letter to Didymus Mutasa

1975 births
Living people
Zimbabwean democracy activists
Zimbabwean expatriates in South Africa
Zimbabwean lawyers
Zimbabwean exiles
People from Bulawayo
University of Zimbabwe alumni