[Source: PubMed]

13. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 8;11(7):e0156278. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156278. 
eCollection 2016.

How Personality Affects Vulnerability among Israelis and Palestinians following 
the 2009 Gaza Conflict.

Canetti D(1), Kimhi S(2), Hanoun R(3), Rocha GA(4), Galea S(5), Morgan CA 
3rd(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Political Science, University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel.
(2)Department of Psychology, Tel-Hai College, Tel-Hai, Israel.
(3)Faculty of Educational Science, An-Najah National University, Nablus, 
Palestine.
(4)Carolinas Biofeedback Clinic, Charlotte, North Carolina, United States of 
America, and Doctors Making Housecalls, Durham, North Carolina, United States of 
America.
(5)School of Public Health, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts, United 
States of America.
(6)National Security Program, University of New Haven, New Haven, Connecticut, 
United States of America, and School of Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, 
Connecticut, United States of America.

Can the onset of PTSD symptoms and depression be predicted by personality 
factors and thought control strategies? A logical explanation for the different 
mental health outcomes of individuals exposed to trauma would seem to be 
personality factors and thought control strategies. Trauma exposure is necessary 
but not sufficient for the development of PTSD. To this end, we assess the role 
of personality traits and coping styles in PTSD vulnerability among Israeli and 
Palestinian students amid conflict. We also determine whether gender and 
exposure level to trauma impact the likelihood of the onset of PTSD symptoms. 
Five questionnaires assess previous trauma, PTSD symptoms, demographics, 
personality factors and thought control strategies, which are analyzed using 
path analysis. Findings show that the importance of personality factors and 
thought control strategies in predicting vulnerability increases in the face of 
political violence: the higher stress, the more important the roles of 
personality and thought control strategies. Thought control strategies 
associated with introverted and less emotionally stable personality-types 
correlate positively with higher levels of PTSD symptoms and depression, 
particularly among Palestinians. By extension, because mental health is key to 
reducing violence in the region, PTSD reduction in conflict zones warrants 
rethinking.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0156278
PMCID: PMC4938394
PMID: 27391240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.