[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 55]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

nnot resent that. Ah, Hadria, why will you not listen to me?" He bent
forward, covering his face with his hands in deep dejection. His hope
had begun to wane.

"You know what I think," said Hadria. "You know how I should act if I
married. Surely that ought to cure you of all----."

He seized her hand.

"No, no, nothing that you may think could cure me of the hope of making
you my wife. I care for what you _are_, not for what you _think_. You
know how little I cling to the popular version of the domestic story. I
have told you over and over again that it offends me in a thousand ways.
I hate the _bourgeois_ element in it. What have we really to disagree
about?"

He managed to be very convincing. He shewed that for a woman, life in
her father's house is far less free than in her own home; that existence
could be moulded to any shape she pleased. If Hadria hesitated only on
this account her last reason was gone. It was not fair to him. He had
been patient. He had kept silence for many months. But he could endure
the suspense no longer. He took her hand. Then suddenly she rose.

"No, no. I can't, I can't," she cried desperately.

"I will not listen to denial," he said following her. "I cannot stand a
second disappointment. You have allowed me to hope."

"How? When? Never!" she exclaimed.

"Ah, yes, Hadria. I am older than you and I have more experience. Do you
think a man will cease to hope while he continues to see the woman he
loves?"

Hadria turned very pale.

"You seemed to have forgotten--your sister assured me--Ah, it was
treacherous, it was cruel. She took advantage of my ignorance, my
craving for companionship."

"No, it is you who are cruel, Hadria, to make such accusations. I do not
claim the slightest consideration because you permitted those practices.
But you cannot suppose that my feeling has not been confirmed and
strengthened since I have seen you again. Why should you turn from me?
Why may I not hope to win you? If you have no repugnance to me, why
should not I have a chance? Hadria, Hadria, answer me, for heaven's
sake. Oh, if I could only understand what is in your mind!"

She would have found it a hard task to enlighten him. He had succeeded,
to some extent, in lulling her fears, not in banishing them, for a
sinister dread still muttered its warning beneath the surface thoughts.

The strength of Temperley's emotion had stirred her. The magic of
personal influence had begun to tell upon her. It was so hard not to
believe when someone insisted with such certainty, with such obvious
sincerity, that everything would be right. He seemed so confident that
she could make him happy, strange as it appeared. Perhaps after all----?
And what a release from the present difficulties. But could one trust? A
confused mass of feeling struggled together. A temptation to give the
answer that would cause pleasure was very strong, and beneath all lurked
a trembling hope that perhaps this was the way of escape. In apparent
contradiction to this, or to any other hope, lay a sense of fatality, a
sad indifference, interrupted at moments by flashes of very desperate
caring, when suddenly the love of life, the desire for happiness and
experience, for the exercise of her power, for its use in the service of
her generation, became intense, and then faded away again, as obstacles
presented their formidable array before the mind. In the midst of the
confusion the thought of the Professor hovered vaguely, with a dim
distressing sense of something wrong, of something within her lost and
wretched and forlorn.

Mrs. Fullerton passed through the room on the arm of Mr. Gordon. How
delighted her mother would be if she were to give up this desperate
attempt to hold out against her appointed fate. What if her mother and
Mrs. Gordon and all the world were perfectly right and far-seeing and
wise? Did it not seem more likely, on the face of it, that they _should_
be right, considering the enormous majority of those who would agree
with them, than that she, Hadria, a solitary girl, unsupported by
knowledge of life or by fellow-believers, should have chanced upon the
truth? Had only Valeria been on her side, she would have felt secure,
but Valeria was dead against her.

"We are not really at variance, believe me," Temperley pleaded. "You
state things rather more strongly than I do--a man used to knocking
about the world--but I don't believe there is any radical difference
between us." He worked himself up into the belief that there never were
two human beings so essentially at one, on all points, as he and Hadria.

"Do you remember the debate that evening in the garret? Do you remember
the sentiments that scared your sister so much?" she asked.

Temperley remembered.

"Well, I don't hold those sentiments merely for amusement and
recreation. I mean them. I should not hesitate a moment to act upon
them. If things grew intolerable, according to