[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1916–17 NHA season

when he had the chance' and Rosenthal left the envelope unopened until NHA Secretary Frank Calder called Rosenthal to ask if they had received any notices of Livingstone's legal actions. On March 18, Livingstone was granted a restraining order against the other teams to prevent the sale of the team.

Livingstone also sent a statement to newspapers claiming that the Wanderers had 'tampered' with the Toronto players by offering them employment in Montreal in the coming season for the Wanderers. Wanderers' president Sam Lichtenheim challenged Livingstone to come up with proof or he would seek libel charges against Livingstone.

Final standings

Playoff

Montreal qualified for the two-game total-goal playoff by winning the first half of the schedule. Ottawa defeated Quebec 16–1 in the final game of the schedule to take the second half title on the basis of goals, as both teams finished with 8–2 records for the second half.

In the first game, held in Montreal, Bert Corbeau scored in the first to put Montreal ahead. The teams traded goals in the second period on goals by Frank Nighbor of Ottawa and Didier Pitre of Montreal. Eddie Gerard scored early in the third for Ottawa to tie the game again, but former Quebec player Tommy Smith scored 20 seconds later to put Montreal back in the lead. Montreal's Pitre and Newsy Lalonde then scored in the next three minutes to clinch the game for Montreal. Nighbor was knocked out by Smith in the second period and he remained out until the third period. He was knocked out again after Smith's goal but returned after the Canadiens had taken their three-goal lead. Nighbor was slashed across the face by Lalonde with one minute to go and was carried off for the third time. It was Lalonde's second match foul of the season and he was suspended for the second match of the playoff.

In the second game, held in Ottawa before 7,500 fans, Nighbor played despite the injuries of the first playoff game. Jack Darragh of Ottawa scored a power-play goal to open the scoring in the first period. Darragh broke in on a breakaway but was driven wide by Montreal's goaltender Georges Vezina. Darragh then shot the puck out front of the net off a Canadiens' player and into the net. In the second, Bert Corbeau scored to put Montreal two goals ahead on the playoff. George Boucher scored before the second period ended to bring Ottawa back within a goal. In the third, Cy Denneny replaced Eddie Gerard and from a pass by Nighbor scored on Vezina to tie the playoff. With three minutes to play, Nighbor and Darragh broke in on Vezina, who stopped the shot and passed it out to Reg Noble. Noble brought it to the Ottawa line and shot it wide of the net. Ottawa goaltender Clint Benedict then set up the puck for an Ottawa player to pick up, but it was instead taken by Montreal's Smith. Benedict attempted to clear the puck, but Smith was able to poke it into the net to put Montreal ahead again to stay on the playoff.

The Montreal Canadiens won the O'Brien Cup, but lost to the Seattle Metropolitans of the PCHA in the Stanley Cup Finals.

Schedule and results
First half

Second half

‡ Ottawa lost game on use of ineligible Cy Denneny.
† Wanderers given win for this game in revised second half.
& Quebec given win for this game in revised second half.
* 228th was ordered overseas. Toronto club was suspended by league.

Player statistics

Scoring leaders

Leading goaltenders

† Totals includes two 228th Battalion games played in second half, not counted in standings.

See also
National Hockey Association
List of pre-NHL seasons
List of Stanley Cup champions

References

Bibliography

Notes

 
NHA
National Hockey Association seasons