[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Snyder's Bluff

The Battle of Snyder's Bluff was fought from April 29 to May 1, 1863, during the Vicksburg Campaign of the American Civil War. Federal Major General Ulysses S. Grant had decided to move most of his army down the west bank of the Mississippi River and then cross south of Vicksburg, Mississippi, at Grand Gulf as part of his campaign against the city.  To cover his planned crossing, Major General William T. Sherman took Francis P. Blair Jr.'s division of his XV Corps on a maneuver up the Yazoo River to feint at Confederate defenses at Snyder's Bluff and Drumgould's Bluff.

Along with a naval force commanded by Lieutenant Commander K. Randolph Breese, Sherman's men entered the Yazoo River on April 29, and the next day approached the Confederate defenses.  Breese's ships bombarded the Confederate defenses in the morning, while in the afternoon, a land assault accomplished little and failed to convince the Confederates that the Yazoo River expedition was anything more than a distraction.  On May 1, more infantry probes were made, but Sherman received orders from Grant to return to the main Federal force as a result of operations in the Grand Gulf area. A gunboat bombardment on the afternoon of May 1 caused more damage than the previous day's.  The operation failed to convince the Confederates that it was anything more than a feint.  While reinforcements to Grand Gulf were delayed, this was not caused by Sherman's operation.  Federal naval element had been unable to silence Confederate defenses at Grand Gulf in the Battle of Grand Gulf on April 29, but Grant simply moved his crossing further downriver.  The campaign ended in a Federal victory on July 4 and represented a major turning point in the war.

Background

Early in the American Civil War, Federal military leadership developed the Anaconda Plan, which was a strategy to defeat the Confederate States of America. A significant component of this strategy was controlling the Mississippi River.  Much of the Mississippi Valley fell under Federal control in early 1862 after the capture of New Orleans, Louisiana, and several land victories.  The strategically important city of Vicksburg, Mississippi was still in Confederate hands, serving as both a strong defensive position by commanding the river and as the linchpin between the two halves of the Confederacy. Federal Navy elements were sent upriver from New Orleans in May to try to take the city, a move that was ultimately unsuccessful.  In late June, a joint army-navy expedition returned to make another campaign against Vicksburg.  Federal Navy leadership decided that the city could not be taken without more infantrymen, who were not forthcoming. An attempt to cut a canal across a meander of the river, bypassing Vicksburg, failed.

In late November, about 40,000 Federal infantry commanded by Major General Ulysses S. Grant began moving south towards Vicksburg from a starting point in Tennessee.  Grant ordered a retreat after a supply depot and part of his supply line were destroyed during the Holly Springs Raid and Forrest's West Tennessee Raid.  Meanwhile, another arm of the expedition under the command of Major General William T. Sherman left Memphis, Tennessee on the same day as the Holly Springs Raid and traveled down the Mississippi River.  After diverting up the Yazoo River, Sherman's men began skirmishing with Confederate soldiers defending a line of hills above the Chickasaw Bayou.  A Federal attack on December 29 was defeated decisively at the Battle of Chickasaw Bayou, and Sherman's men withdrew on January 1, 1863.

Prelude
By late March, further attempts to bypass Vicksburg had failed.  Grant then considered three plans: to withdraw to Memphis and retry the overland route through northern Mississippi; to move south along the west side of the Mississippi River, cross below Vicksburg, and then strike for the city; or to make an amphibious assault across the river against Vicksburg.  An assault across the river risked heavy casualties, and a withdrawal to Memphis could be politically disastrous if the public perceived such a movement as a retreat. Grant then decided upon the downstream crossing.  The advance along the west bank of the Mississippi began on March 29, and was spearheaded by Major General John A. McClernand's troops.  The movement down the river was masked by decoy operations such as Steele's Greenville expedition, Streight's Raid, and Grierson's Raid.  Confederate regional commander John C. Pemberton fell for the Federal decoys (especially Grierson's Raid), and lost touch with the true tactical situation, believing Grant was withdrawing.