[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Lakiya

Lakiya, or Laqye (, ) is a Bedouin town (local council) in the Southern District of Israel. In  it had a population of .

History
Lakiya was founded in 1985 as part of a government project to settle Bedouins in permanent settlements. It is one of the seven original government-planned Bedouin townships in the Negev desert.

In 1999 the first local council elections were held, with Sheikh Ibrahim Abu Maharab elected as council head. Abu Maharab was later succeeded by Khaled al-Sana.

Since 2016, the Trans-Israel Highway 6 serves Lakiya, connecting the town to Highway 6 through both the Lakiya Interchange and Shoket Interchange.

Demographics
According to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), the population of Lakiya was 9,943 in December 2010 (7,600 in December 2004). Its annual growth rate is 3.1%. Lakiya's jurisdiction is 5,728 dunams (5.7 km²).

There are several Bedouin clans residing in Lakiya, al-Sana being the largest among them. Other families are: Al-Assad, Abu Ammar and Abu Maharab. Some clans don't live inside Lakiya, but on adjacent territory.

Economy
In 2013, Arab-Bedouin women from Lakiya and other Bedouin towns participated in a sewing course for fashion design at the Amal College in Beer Sheva, including lessons on sewing and cutting, personal empowerment and business initiatives.

The Lakiya Negev Weaving Project was founded in 1991 to empower Negev Bedouin women by applying their traditional weaving skills to the manufacture and sale of woven products. It is based on the unique Bedouin heritage passed on from mother to daughter. Approximately 130 Bedouin women are involved  in all the stages of the production from initial wool treatment, weaving the rugs, cushion covers and pouches, and sales. The women were provided with professional guidance and hands-on assistance in  marketing, branding, sales, the business's organizational structure and business plan, fundraising and networking. The aim was to create a  profitable and financially independent cooperative business. Several retailers and chains now sell the goods  in Israel and abroad. 

The Desert Embroidery Project is another women's empowerment program in Lakiya Some 20 women completed their professional entrepreneurial and business training and guidance and initiated a project based on the design and production of the traditional Bedouin costume jewelry. They are producing this embroidery at home with traditional Bedouin motifs and decorations. The women also hold Bedouin embroidery workshops and events based on the Bedouin tradition. Their workshop also serves as a visitors' center.

Notable people

 Ismael Abu-Saad, professor of education, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev
 Amal Elsana Alh'jooj, feminist and peace activist
 Roz Willey as-Sana, Bedouin Weaving project coordinator
 Taleb el-Sana, an Israeli politician, the longest serving Arab member of the Knesset

See also
 Arab localities in Israel

References

External links
 Lakiya Negev Weaving - website of one of Lakiya's main businesses
 Lands of the Negev, a short film presented by Israel Land Administration describing the challenges faced in providing land management and infrastructure to the Bedouins in Israel's southern Negev region

Bedouin localities in Israel
Arab localities in Israel
Local councils in Southern District (Israel)
Populated places in Southern District (Israel)
1982 establishments in Israel