[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iberian worm lizard

reus has made up for its lack of sight through the development of a chemosensory signaling systems.  Chemosensory signaling is mediated by the extremely sensitive vomeronasal organ on the head of the B. cinereus.  The response to individual chemical stimuli can be measured by counting tongue flicks.

Prey signaling
Cotton swabs exhibiting prey specific chemical indicators elicit tongue flick responses by the B. cinereus. However, there is no difference in this response between prey and non-prey signals.  In contrast, tests with live prey instead of cotton swabs have shown that B. cinereus can clearly discriminate between live prey and live non-prey based on the chemicals given off by the individuals. A consistent and direct correlation has been seen in testing between higher average of tongue flicks in the presence of live prey than in the presence of non-live prey.  The distinction between cotton swab and live prey testing suggests the ability of B. cinereus to distinguish live prey and non-prey chemical signals.

Predator signaling
Cotton swab studies emitting predatory chemosensory signals have also been performed in order to quantify the Iberian worm lizard's anti-predatory response mechanisms.  Swabs exhibiting signals from predators like the southern smooth snake, Coronella girondica, the scolopendromorph centipede (Scolopendra), and the Bedriaga's skink, Chalcides bedriagai were all tested.  Again, the amount and rate of tongue flicks was used to quantify the anti-predatory response, as well as any defensive acts taken upon the swab.  High rates of tongue flicks were seen for all three predator chemicals with defensive biting by B. cinereus subjects on the swabs smelling like snake or centipede.  While a conclusive statement cannot be made about the hierarchy of predators based on tongue flicks, the self-defense response would indicate the skink as being the greatest threat to B. cinereus.

Habitat signaling
Evidence has also been seen for a chemosensory signaling response between the Iberian worm lizard and its environment.  This phenomenon has been seen in the time it takes for the anti-predatory response of burrowing into the soil in familiar and unfamiliar locations.  A delay is seen in the burrowing of B. cinereus upon predatory signaling in an unfamiliar location, but as soon as the B. cinereus is returned to its familiar habitat its burrowing response is greatly increased. Precloacal secretions from males and females include long chain waxy-type esters of carboxylic acids that are thought to be secreted along tunnels to help multiple Iberian worm lizards find their way.

Sex differentiation signaling
Chemosensory signaling is especially important in sex-distinction between Iberian worm lizards.  The pheromones released from the precloacal glands of the male and female are sex specific in composition.  The secretions from these precloacal glands have been isolated and its contents identified for both male and female.  The compound squalene is secreted in high concentrations from males, while tocopherol is specific for female secretions.  The role of squalene in male secretions has been proved to be enough for a male recognition, while tocopherol is only suspected to be based on its high concentrations in female excretions and not males.

Phylogeny
Very little is known about the origins of amphisbaenians, and even less for the Iberian worm lizard.  Phylogenetic analysis of two nuclear genes from the tissue of a modern amphisbaena specimen and that from museum fossil samples has shed some light on the origins of amphisbaena.  The data would suggest a widespread convergence of limb loss as well as skull morphology from Rhineuridae and Bipedidae lineages.  DNA analysis would suggest that there were three separate incidences of limb loss all convergent for amphisbaena formation.  This evidence, as well as a look into mitochondrial and genomic DNA of B. cinereus has led some experts to believe there ought to be two distinct taxonomic clades within B. cinereus located on the Iberian peninsula.  While morphological characteristics are less defined between the two proposed clades, the genetic variation is incontrovertible and significant enough to make gene flow unlikely.  Experts attribute these divergent potential clades, and their potential to continue to differentiate, to constraints of subterranean life.  The clades are distinguished based on their locations with B. cinereus being located centrally on the peninsula and the second proposed clade Blanus mariae located on the southwestern side of the Iberian peninsula.

References

Further reading
Arnold, E.N., and J.A. Burton. 1978. A Field Guide to the Reptiles and Amphibians of Britain and Europe. Collins. London. 272 pp. . (Blanus cinereus, pp. 182, 192 + Plate 33 + Map 100.)

External links

 
 

Blanus
Endemic reptiles of the Iberian Peninsula
Reptiles described in 1797
Taxa named by Domenico Vandelli
Taxonomy articles created by Polbot