[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Goler T. Butcher

Goler Teal Butcher (July 13, 1925 – June 9, 1993) was a lawyer, scholar, advocate, and professor in the field of international law.

Early life and education
Butcher was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania, with a BA in 1946. She was a member of Phi Beta Kappa at Penn. She earned law degrees at Howard University School of Law in 1957, and an LLM at the University of Pennsylvania in 1958, with a thesis titled "The Choice of Law Rules Applied to International Sales Transactions". At Howard she was editor-in-chief of the school's law review.

Career
Butcher's long term teaching post was at Howard University School of Law, where she created the Goler Teal Butcher Award to attract students in international law to the university.

Butcher's public work began in 1963 as attorney at the Office of the Legal Advisor, Department of State. From 1971-1974, she was a consultant to the House Foreign Affairs Committee's Subcommittee on Africa.  She also served as Assistant Administrator for Africa, Agency for International Development under the Carter Administration, and head of the Clinton Transition Team for the Agency of International Development in 1992.

At the forefront of Butcher's human rights advocacy was her passion for ending global hunger and apartheid in South Africa. Butcher's advocacy of the right to freedom from hunger, specifically "starvation, chronic hunger, malnutrition," always followed by encouraging the privileged world to act on their duty to help in ending hunger.   She recognized "[h]unger is not a mere matter of geography or of distribution of food. It relates to powerlessness, financial, economic and political powerlessness of individuals and social classes within nations and within the international community."

Butcher's Approach to Ending Global Hunger

Butcher believed that there were two approaches to solving the problem of global hunger, a short-term and long-term approach.  The short-term approach is providing food to hungry people and the long-term approach is aiding the country to produce and develop its own food and move towards changing terms of trade.   With regard to the long-term approach, Butcher promoted the idea that there is an affirmative duty on the richer or donor countries, "to adjust -- insofar as congruent with the needs of their own countries -- the terms of trade so that they are equitable and permit the countries where large groups of hungry peoples exist to have the necessary funds (a) to buy both food and the technological assistance, training and various inputs necessary for them to produce food themselves and (b) to be able to have the financial resources to move forward in their development efforts."  The negative duty on donor countries is for them to exclude their agricultural sectors from international negotiations and trade liberalization because of the negative effects of industrialized countries dumping of food surpluses on developing countries, the effect on prices for agricultural products and on country imports.

In addition to the duty on the donor countries, the developing countries also have a duty to "establish new laws, amend existing laws, adapt the administrative and regulatory machinery of the state to effectuate the desired economic and development programs, to implement the priorities of the government generally and with respect to agriculture pricing and marketing patterns, the agriculture sector, foreign exchange rates, both as to food and cash crops through budgetary allocations and national investment policies."

Butcher's Influence on the United States Foreign Policy on Global Hunger