[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Jonathan Kimmel

Jonathan Kimmel (born November 4, 1976) is an American television and film director, writer, producer, actor and composer. He is the younger brother of Jimmy Kimmel. He is married to writer and lecturer Carly Hirsch, and is the father of Wesley Kimmel and Beatrix Kimmel.

Early life and career 

Kimmel's writing credits include six seasons of South Park, during which the show won three Emmy Awards and a Peabody Award. He has also contributed several voice-overs for South Park, including the voice of Peter the Family Guy, Gandalf, John Travolta, the Israeli Egg Assassin, and his brother Jimmy in the "Fishsticks" episode. After that, he served as co-executive producer and head writer for MTV's The Andy Milonakis Show. Additionally, he assisted on Crank Yankers, where he was also a composer and voice-over performer. Other writing credits include: That's My Bush!, Drawn Together, and The Bonnie Hunt Show.

Kimmel's performing credits include: SXSW feature "The Prank" starring Rita Moreno, ABC's "Trophy Wife" ABC's Life with Bonnie; the character Xavier on the ABC pilot "Let Go"; the voice of Scab in Disney's The Wild; the Singing Ass in Sarah Silverman's Jesus Is Magic; the voice of the King on Drawn Together; the Boneologist and as The Fog on Minoriteam, as well as dozens of voices and characters on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!". Kimmel has also guest-starred in several roles on The Sarah Silverman Program. He directed the music video for The Killers' ninth charity Christmas single, "Joel the Lump of Coal", which features his brother Jimmy (who also co-wrote the song).

Kimmel is executive producer, director and showrunner on the reboot of Crank Yankers, for Comedy Central.

Kimmel is executive producer and co-showrunner of the Kelly Ripa hosted Generation Gap, for ABC.

Personal life 
Kimmel currently resides in Los Angeles, and works as a segment director on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" (after three years as a writer on the program).

Kimmel is an alumnus of Arizona State University's long-running Farce Side Comedy Hour troupe. He also directed, performed and wrote for the show.

Filmography

Film

Television

References

External links 
 

1976 births
American male film actors
American male television actors
American male voice actors
American people of German descent
American people of Italian descent
American television producers
Arizona State University alumni
Living people