[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Boumediene v. Bush

ust have sufficient authority to conduct a meaningful review of both the cause for detention and the Executive's power to detain."

Following the Boumediene decision, federal judges began closely scrutinizing the quality of evidence offered by the government. Government lawyers started losing cases.

In 2010 the D.C. Circuit Court began requiring federal judges to stop submitting the government's evidence to such rigorous examination. The appeals court said judges must embrace a pro-government presumption that the Guantánamo evidence is reliable. Government lawyers had argued that such a presumption was justified because much of the evidence against the detainees was collected under battlefield conditions amid the "fog of war." Specifically, the US appeals court required federal judges hearing Guantánamo cases to accord a special presumption of accuracy to US intelligence reports being used to justify continued detention.

This ruling by the appeals court provoked strong criticism from attorneys representing detainees at Guantanamo as well as from within the appeals court. Lawyers said such a special presumption does not comply with the requirements set by the Supreme Court in its Boumediene decision.

"The court of appeals through its actions in this and other cases has created a regime in which Guantánamo habeas cases are becoming exercises in futility", wrote the Washington lawyer S. William Livingston, in his brief on behalf of Adnan Farhan Abdul Latif. "The entire point of the habeas hearing is to force the government to justify its detention of people who have been neither charged nor convicted, not to allow it to skate by with presumption," Livingston said.

Appeals Court Judge David Tatel wrote a dissenting opinion in the Latif case. He said the appeals court's requirement of a pro-government presumption in favor of US intelligence reports "comes perilously close to suggesting that whatever the government says must be treated as true."

According to a study by legal scholars at the Center for Policy and Research at Seton Hall University School of Law, between 2008 and July 2010, Guantánamo detainees won 56 percent of their habeas challenges in federal court. After July 2010 and the appeals court ruling, the win rate fell to 8 percent. That means that prior to July 2010, a federal judge agreed with 19 of 34 detainees who claimed there was insufficient evidence to justify his open-ended detention at Guantánamo and ordered the release of each. After July 2010, a federal judge agreed with only 1 of 12 detainees. The change is attributed to rulings by the federal appeals court, which has taken up 19 of the Guantánamo habeas cases and reversed or remanded every case in which a federal judge ordered a detainee's release.

Release to France
On May 15, 2009, Boumediene was transferred to France, where he has relatives. His wife and children, who had moved from Bosnia to Algeria following his arrest, have joined him in France since his release.

Detainees whose cases were consolidated with Boumediene v. Bush
 Belkacem Bensayah
 Saber Lahmar
 Mohammed Nechle
 Mustafa Ait Idir
 Lakhdar Boumediene
 Hadj Boudella

See also
 Algerian Six
 List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 553
 Ex Parte Quirin
 Ex Parte Milligan
 Johnson v. Eisentrager

References

External links
 
 
 Petitioner's attorney's website with all the briefs
 Audio: complete oral arguments before the court from Oyez.org

United States Constitution Article One case law
United States Supreme Court cases
Suspension Clause case law
2008 in United States case law
Guantanamo captives' habeas corpus petitions
United States Supreme Court cases of the Roberts Court
Bosnia and Herzegovina–United States relations