[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Naval Review

zabeth II, which included USS Forrest Royal and

Gerald Ford 
1976 - New York Harbor – Fourth International Naval Review in honor of the United States Bicentennial. 
Set to coincide with Op Sail 1976, which included  as host ship on whose flight deck on 4 July the President rang in the Bicentennial.

American ships were joined with vessels from the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, France, Italy, West Germany, Norway, Sweden, Spain, Portugal, the Soviet Union, Israel, Egypt, Venezuela, Peru, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, South Africa, The Netherlands, & Romania.

Ronald Reagan 
1986 - On July 3–4, the Fifth International Naval Review commemorating the rededication of the Statue of Liberty was held in New York Harbor. Repeating the model from 1776, the warships came in on July 3 and anchored along the channel and the Tall Ships sailed up the Hudson River to the George Washington Bridge past , where Reagan and other VIPs gathered to review the fleet.

Bill Clinton 
3–9 July 2000, New York City – Sixth International Naval Review, set to coincide with Op Sail 200, included the following U.S naval vessels:

Reviewing Ships
  (Clinton's flagship) 
 USS John F. Kennedy
 
 

Parading Vessels

RIMPAC

First held in 1971, RIMPAC is the world's largest international maritime warfare exercise. Hosted and administered by the United States Navy's Indo-Pacific Command in conjunction with the Marine Corps, the Coast Guard, and Hawaii National Guard. It is described by the US Navy as a unique training opportunity that helps participants foster and sustain the cooperative relationships that are critical to ensuring the safety of sea lanes and security on the world's oceans.

Although the 2020 RIMPAC exercise was curtailed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, 25,000 naval personnel and 52 ships and submarines from 26 countries participated in the 2018 exercises, with forces representing Australia, Brazil, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Colombia, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Peru, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Tonga, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Vietnam.

References

External links

 

United States Navy