[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nathan Jones (Welsh footballer)

. Stoke made a bad start to the 2019–20 season gaining only a point from the first six matches. Jones was dismissed on 1 November 2019 after winning just two of the first 14 matches of the 2019–20 season. Despite his dismissal, Jones later stated that he did not regret leaving Luton to manage Stoke.

Return to Luton Town
On 28 May 2020, Jones was reappointed as Luton Town manager, almost 18 months after originally leaving the club to manage Stoke. He replaced the outgoing Graeme Jones, who left by mutual consent the month before. In his first press conference, Jones spoke of his "regret" and "remorse" over the way he initially left the club and that he understood the mixed fan reaction to his exit and return, with hopes that he could earn fans' trust back. Jones went on to successfully guide Luton to Championship safety on the final day of the season with a 19th place finish, despite the club lying in 23rd when Jones re-joined. In the following season, Jones achieved a 12th place finish after scoring 62 points – Luton's highest points total in the second tier since the 1981–82 season.

In January 2022, Jones signed a new contract with Luton until 2027. Results continued to improve under Jones, with him leading the club to finish 6th and qualify for the playoffs at the end of the season. Though the club ultimately lost 2–1 on aggregate to Huddersfield Town in the semi-final, Jones was widely praised for his management and was named the 2021–22 EFL Championship Manager of the Season at the league's annual awards ceremony.

Southampton
On 10 November 2022, Jones was appointed manager of Premier League club Southampton, succeeding Ralph Hasenhüttl, and signed a three-and-a-half-year contract with the club. He lost his first game as Southampton manager to Liverpool on 12 November 2022. On 20 December 2022, Jones secured his first competitive victory in Southampton’s 2–1 win against Lincoln City in the EFL Cup. On 14 January 2023, Jones secured his first Premier League victory in a 2–1 victory against Everton. On 12 February 2023, following a 2–1 defeat against Wolverhampton, Jones was sacked by Southampton. Jones left the club with just one league win in eight matches, leaving Southampton bottom of the league. He was the shortest serving non-caretaker manager in Southampton's history.

Personal life
Jones is a devout Christian who credits his faith with getting him through bad times. He has several religious tattoos on his body including praying hands and the crucifixion on his left biceps and forearm, Jesus Christ on his right biceps, and Michaelangelo's 'The Creation of Adam' across his back.

Nathan Jones does not hide his faith and is very open to mentioning it during press conferences, occasionally appending 'God willing' to his hope that his tactics work.

Jones is bilingual, able to speak both English and Spanish.

Career statistics

Club

Managerial

Honours

As a player
Brighton & Hove Albion
Football League Third Division: 2000–01
Football League Second Division: 2001–02
Football League Second Division play-offs: 2004

As a manager
Luton Town
EFL League Two runner-up: 2017–18

Individual
EFL League One Manager of the Month: December 2018
EFL League Two Manager of the Month: October 2017, November 2017, April 2018
EFL Championship Manager of the Season: 2021–22

References

External links

1973 births
Living people
People from Treherbert
Footballers from Rhondda Cynon Taf
Welsh men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders
Maesteg Park A.F.C. players
Ton Pentre F.C. players
Merthyr Tydfil F.C. players
Luton Town F.C. players
CD Numancia players
CD Badajoz players
Southend United F.C. players
Scarborough F.C. players
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Segunda División players
Segunda División B players
English Football League players
Welsh expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Welsh expatriate sportspeople in Spain
Welsh football managers
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. managers
Luton Town F.C. managers
Stoke City F.C. managers
Southampton F.C. managers
English Football League managers
Premier League managers
Charlton Athletic F.C. non-playing staff
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. non-playing staff