[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 2nd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment

r and mobility necessary to facilitate the engineers' protected reconstruction. Intimately supported by Combat Engineers, Construction Engineers and Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technicians to make up Combat Team (CT) Spear, the STG was the fundamental enabler for the protected reconstruction effort.

The Combat Team conducted five major operations during its deployment, effectively expanding the ISAF and ANSF's permanent influence in the Chora Valley and into the Baluchi Pass. The Combat Team sustained casualties early in the deployment with Trooper David 'Poppy' Pearce being killed by an IED in the Dorufshan and Sergeant Michael Lyddiard being seriously wounded whilst defusing an IED in the Chora Valley. The Combat Team was able to take the fight to the enemy during several engagements, most notably in the Sorkh Morghab region where all elements of the Combat Team engaged the enemy over several days allowing the construction of a patrol base and the Afghan Army to move into an area previously considered a Taliban stronghold.

In June 2011, the Battalion deployed to Urozgan Province, Afghanistan as the Battle Group Headquarters and Combat Teams of Mentoring Task Force Three (MTF-3). This included the Battle of Doan as well as many other engagements with the Taliban. The Battalion returned to Australia in February 2012. MTF–3 handed over responsibility for the mission to the soldiers from the Brisbane-based 8/9 RAR who made up MTF–4 on 24 January 2012. Two members of the Battalion were killed during this rotation.

Restructure under Plan Beersheba

Under a restructuring program known as Plan Beersheba announced in late 2011, 2 RAR has formed the core of the Army's amphibious force. This has seen 108th Battery relocate from 4th Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery to 2 RAR as a sub-unit, being the only full-time infantry battalion with its own organic artillery battery.

On 15 October 2017, 2 RAR transferred from the 3rd Brigade to report directly to the headquarters of the 1st Division. The battalion remains based at Lavarack Barracks in Townsville, and become the division's specialist amphibious infantry battalion. The battalion's primary role is to provide specialist capabilities to conduct pre-landing activities for other elements of the Army. It includes small boat operators and reconnaissance and sniper teams as well as command, communications and logistics elements. 2 RAR has a strength of around 350 personnel, which is smaller than the RAR's infantry battalions.

A 2017 article in the Australian Infantry Magazine stated that in its specialist role, 2 RAR "will be responsible for amphibious reconnaissance and surveillance, small boat operations, battle space shaping and limited scale raiding in support of a Joint Amphibious Task Force". The battalion's main function will be to collect information for the commander of the ADF's Amphibious Task Group and other decision-makers. It is to be responsible for reconnoitring and seizing beaches, helicopter landing zones and airfields for the Australian Amphibious Force's main ground combat element. Following the completion of amphibious operations, the battalion will either re-embark or remain ashore as a reconnaissance unit. In the latter role, it is to be capable of conducting reconnaissance patrols well behind enemy lines and providing information to other units.

As part of this change, 2 RAR transitioned to a new structure in January 2018 which comprises a battalion headquarters, a security company with four infantry platoons, a support company and an administration company. The battalion is planned to generally deploy as the main element of the Australian Amphibious Force's Joint Pre-Landing Force (JPLF). It is planned that the 2 RAR elements generally assigned to the Pre-Landing Force (PLF) will be a command and control node, elements from the Reconnaissance and Sniper and Small Boat Platoons, two infantry platoons, a joint fires team and a signals detachment. The JPLF will also comprise Army geospatial and survey teams, electronic warfare teams, amphibious beach teams, Royal Australian Navy clearance divers and other specialist elements. Other elements of the Army, including an infantry battalion, form the Amphibious Ready Group's Ground Combat Element (GCE), and rotate through this role on an annual basis.

Current composition

As of 2014, 2 RAR consisted of:

 Battalion Headquarters
 2 Rifle Companies – 'A' & 'B'
 Support Company
 Small Boat Platoon
 Administration Company
 108th Battery (Observation Post) – 4th Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery

Since January 2018, 2 RAR has comprised:
Battalion headquarters
'A' Company
Four infantry platoons
Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Company
Reconnaissance and Sniper Platoon
Small Boat Platoon
Signals Platoon
Joint Fires Team
Administration Company