[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# John Brennan (CIA officer)

ollusion that took place constituted criminally liable conspiracy, whether obstruction of justice occurred to cover up any collusion or conspiracy, and how many members of 'Trump Incorporated' attempted to defraud the government by laundering and concealing the movement of money into their pockets."

Following the announcement, 15 former senior intelligence officials and 60 other high-ranking former CIA officers protested the Trump decision in an open letter saying, "... former government officials have the right to express their unclassified views on what they see as critical national security issues without fear of being punished for doing so." Calling Brennan "one of the finest public servants I have ever known," retired Navy admiral William H. McRaven addressed President Trump in an op-ed saying, "I would consider it an honor if you would revoke my security clearance as well, so I can add my name to the list of men and women who have spoken up against your presidency."

In an extensive interview on August 17, Brennan responded to Trump's decision to remove his security clearance, expressing alarm for the nation's national security in the statement: "[the country] is in a crisis in terms of what Mr. Trump has done and is liable to do. Are the Republicans on the Hill who have given him a pass -- are they going to wait for a disaster to happen before they actually find their backbones and spines to speak up against somebody who clearly, clearly, is not carrying out his responsibilities with any sense of purpose and common sense from the standpoint of national security?"

On August 19, Brennan told the host of NBC's Meet the Press that he was considering legal action to prevent Trump from doing the same to others.

The New York Times reported in May 2019 that the administration had not followed through on the bureaucratic process to revoke Brennan's clearance.

Durham investigation 
In March 2019, attorney general Bill Barr appointed United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut John Durham to investigate the origins of the FBI Crossfire Hurricane investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 elections, which involved some Trump associates. In December 2019, The New York Times reported that Durham was specifically scrutinizing Brennan's role. Durham interviewed Brennan for eight hours on August 21, 2020, after which a Brennan advisor said Durham told Brennan he was not a subject or target of a criminal investigation, but rather a witness to events.

Hunter Biden Emails 
In October of 2020, Brennan was one of a group of 51 former senior intelligence officials who released an open letter stating that the Hunter Biden Laptop Controversy "has all the classic earmarks of a Russian information operation".

Personal life 
Brennan is married to Kathy Pokluda Brennan. Together they have three children. He is agnostic.

Books 
  (Available 10/06/2020)

References

External links

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 Nomination of John O. Brennan to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency: Hearing before the Select Committee on Intelligence of the United States Senate, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session February 7, 2013, March 5, 2013

Interviews
 
 
 

|-

|-

1955 births
American chief executives
American intelligence analysts
American people of Irish descent
Directors of the Central Intelligence Agency
Fordham University alumni
George W. Bush administration personnel
Living people
Obama administration personnel
People from North Bergen, New Jersey
United States National Security Council staffers
United States presidential advisors
University of Texas at Austin College of Liberal Arts alumni
People associated with Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections
MSNBC people
21st-century American memoirists