[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bad Nenndorf interrogation centre

ign Secretary Ernest Bevin: "I doubt if I can put too strongly the parliamentary consequences of publicity.  Whenever we have any allegations to make about the political police methods in Eastern European states, it will be enough to call out in the House 'Bad Nenndorf', and no reply is left to us".

The interrogation centre's highly secret nature was another complicating factor.  The Army cautioned against allowing the Soviets to discover "how we apprehended and treated their agents", not least because it might deter future defectors.  However, the affair was still brought before Army courts martial, though some of the evidence was heard behind closed doors to ensure that security was safeguarded.  The interrogation centre was closed down in July 1947.

Courts martial
Four British Army officers were indicted for a number of offences against the Army Act.  Charges were brought against Lieutenant Colonel Robin Stephens, the commandant of No. 74 CSDIC; Lieutenant Richard Oliver Langham, Royal Armoured Corps (RAC); Captain John Stuart Smith, Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC), and Captain Frank Edmunds, Intelligence Corps (IC).  Stephens was charged on four counts: conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline, failure in his duty as supervisor of the facility, and two counts of disgraceful conduct of a cruel kind.  Langham and Edmunds were charged with two counts of disgraceful conduct of a cruel kind, though Edmunds' case was abandoned on a technicality before his court martial began.  Smith, the interrogation centre doctor, faced the most serious charges; two counts of manslaughter and fourteen of professional neglect.  Stephens, Langham and Smith were ordered for trial by courts martial in three separate proceedings held in Britain and Hamburg between March and July 1948.  All of the defendants pleaded not guilty.

Langham
Lieutenant Richard Oliver Langham of the Royal Armoured Corps (RAC), who was originally a German citizen, was a member of an interrogation team which included Captain Frank Edmunds of the Intelligence Corps (IC).  He was accused of having mistreated two former members of the Schutzstaffel (SS): Horst Mahnke and Rudolf Oebser-Roeder, who were suspected of helping to organise acts of terrorism.  The two prisoners claimed to have been beaten up, tortured with lighted cigarettes, doused in cold water, and subjected to threats.  Langham denied the claims, and cited medical records that showed that Roeder had not made any mention of his alleged mistreatment to the German doctor at the interrogation centre.  For his part, Roeder claimed that he had not complained because he had thought the doctor was too "timid".  Former Company sergeant major (CSM) Samuel Mathers testified that there had been no torture, though he admitted to having "pushed [the prisoners] around for a few minutes".  Sergeant Edmund Sore told the court martial that he had been given orders by Mathers to "drive [Roeder] round the cell for about two hours", and Lance corporal A.R.S. Hunt testified that the reason given for the treatment was that the two Germans were "part of an organisation which was to start a rising on Hitler's birthday".

Langham's defence complained that the prosecution had failed to prove that Langham had anything to do with the "curious things" that had admittedly occurred at Bad Nenndorf.  According to his lawyer, there were numerous inconsistencies between the two prisoners' claims, and there was no evidence at all of the more extreme "tortures" ever having been carried out.  Langham was said to have had no part at all "in the brutality of April 17, 1946, whether he was duty officer at that time or not".

The court martial accepted Langham's arguments, and on 31 March 1948 he was acquitted on both counts.

Smith
The court martial of Captain John Stuart Smith of the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC) opened on 7 April 1948 in Hamburg, West Germany.  He was accused of having abused nine German detainees during the exceptionally harsh winter of 1946-47, allowing prisoners to be subjected to cruel treatment, including having cold water thrown over them, depriving them of boots, and making them continually scrub the cell floors.  Two of the nine detainees were said to have died from this treatment.

Over 40 witnesses were called by the prosecution and defence.  The court martial heard accounts of physical abuse from a number of prisoners, some of whom sustained serious physical injuries such as frostbite.  One of the former interrogators at Bad Nenndorf testified that some of the Army warders at the camp were themselves ex-convicts.  For his part, Smith denied any responsibility for the abuse, and described the camp as a "bestial hole" which was "full of people who, unknown to him, were being brutally treated".  He testified that he had been sent one prisoner who was suffering from meningitis, but had been unable to obtain an ambulance to transport him to hospital.