[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# May 1974

acional de Gobierno, 1959 to 1960 
Tyree Glenn, 61. American jazz trombonist of the big band era
Xenia Makletzova, 81, Russian ballet dancer
Dan Topping, 61, American sports executive, former part owner and president of the New York Yankees, died of complications of emphysema.

May 19, 1974 (Sunday)

Valéry Giscard d'Estaing was elected President of France, defeating François Mitterrand by less than 425,000 votes out of more than 26 million cast, in what remains, as of the last vote in 2022, the closest presidential election in French history.
A policeman in Belém, Brazil, fired on rioting fans at a soccer match between Clube do Remo and Paissandu-Belém. One fan was killed and three were critically injured.
The Philadelphia Flyers won the 1974 Stanley Cup Finals, defeating the Boston Bruins 1 to 0 to win the series and the National Hockey League title, four games to two. The Flyers, created in 1967 when the National Hockey League expanded from six teams to 12, became the first expansion team to win the Cup.
On the same day, the Houston Aeros won the Avco World Trophy, defeating the host Chicago Cougars for the championship of the World Hockey Association in winning game four of the best-4-of-7 series, by a score of 6 to 2.
Australia won the 1974 Federation Cup women's tennis tournament, held in Naples, Italy, defeating United States in the final.
Born:
Andrew Johns, Australian rugby league player with 26 caps for the Australia national team; in Kurri Kurri, City of Cessnock, New South Wales
Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Indian film actor, 2016 Filmfare Awards winner for The Lunchbox; in Budhana, Uttar Pradesh

May 20, 1974 (Monday)
U.S. District Judge John J. Sirica ordered President Nixon to surrender 64 tape recordings of White House conversations that had been subpoenaed by the special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski. Addressing concerns of national security raised by Nixon's attorney, Sirica stated in his order that he would listen to individual tapes to determine whether they should be withheld from release. The U.S. Supreme Court would ultimately affirm Sirica's ruling in United States v. Nixon on July 24, leading to the release of the June 23, 1972, "smoking gun" tape and Nixon's resignation.
Former Portuguese Prime Minister Marcelo Caetano and President Americo Thomaz, who had both been arrested after deposed on April 25 in the Carnation Revolution coup d'etat, were sent into exile in Brazil along with their families. The former leaders boarded a Boeing 707 of the Portuguese Air Force at the Portuguese resort of Madeira and were flown to Viracopos International Airport in Brazil and driven to São Paulo, where they were provided with apartments on the 27th floor of the São Paulo Hilton hotel.
The government of the Philippines and President Ferdinand Marcos gave formal recognition of the Sulu Sultanate with the issuance of Memorandum Order 427, with Mohammed Mahakuttah Abdullah Kiram. Zamboanga City was acknowledged as the capital of the self-governing monarchy on the Sulu island archipelago.
Fretilin (Frente Revolucionária de Timor-Leste Independente), the Revolutionary Front for an Independent East Timor, was founded in the Portuguese colony one month after the Carnation Revolution in Portugal, as the Timorese Social Democratic Association (ASDT).
The U.S. Department of Defense created the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization as an office consolidating all U.S. ballistic missile defenses, to replace the Safeguard Program.
The U.S. Army abolished the office of Provost Marshal General, ending the term of Major General Lloyd B. Ramsey as Provost Marshal.
Fire destroyed the Cody Enterprise newspaper building in Cody, Wyoming, killing a reporter and a volunteer firefighter. The fire rekindled from ashes left in the building's rafters from an arson fire in a neighboring alley the previous night.
Died: Cardinal Jean Daniélou, 69, French Roman Catholic cardinal, appointed as a professor of theology and "one of the few priests to be named a cardinal without having served as a bishop or in any other administrative function".