[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Tostan

their families and give back further to their communities, in addition to giving them the chance to make use of the knowledge and skills gained over the course of the CEP. The funds are controlled and distributed by the CMCs, which decide interest rates and the length of loans that they will grant.

The Child Protection module, designed in 2010, provides special training for Community Management Committees on how to handle issues that relate to the well-being of children. It aims to build consensus around children's rights while simultaneously building awareness of the various moral, social, and legal norms that affect children.

In 2013, a new project called Ndimaagu (Pulaar word for 'dignity'), was piloted in 55 communities in Tambacounda, a city in the southeast of Senegal. The project integrates additional classes on gender into the CEP, offers trainings on violence prevention for local authorities, traditional and religious leaders, and builds partnerships between Community Management Committees, non-governmental organizations, governmental institutions, community leaders, and service providers responding to gender-based violence in Senegal.

In 2017, Tostan piloted a new module called Bridging the Gap, which aims to foster closer relationships between local communities and newly decentralized local government structures in Senegal. With the support of UNICEF, Tostan led trainings in local languages for local government officials on human rights and responsibilities, corruption, good governance, and local-level budgeting, while also adding a training for Community Management Committees on how to best collaborate with local government to ensure community needs are responded to in local budgets.

Other programming 
Tostan offers several additional programs to communities that have successfully completed the CEP. These programs aim to help communities retain the knowledge gained in the CEP and contribute to the development of conditions in which that knowledge can be put to its fullest use. The Peace and Security Project (P&S) was launched in April 2012 and seeks to establish links between community-led initiatives promoting peace and regional policy makers, in order to contribute to peace and security at all levels. This module expands the CEP's core program to include conflict analysis and prevention, mediation and communication techniques, and the role of women in peace and security. It has since been implemented in Senegal, Guinea-Bissau, and Guinea.

The Reinforcement of Parental Practices (RPP) module, which aims to help parents and the wider community stimulate early childhood brain development in order to better prepare children for school, was first implemented in 232 communities in Senegal in 2013. The module tries to overcome certain social norms and traditional practices which have been shown to hinder the brain development of infants. Many West Africans in both rural and urban areas believe that infants must be protected from dangerous spirits, and, in order to protect them, certain parents avoid looking newborn babies in the eye and speaking regularly and directly to them, actions which recent advances in neuroscience have shown to be crucial to the development of intellectual faculties in young children. Over the course of the RPP Module, "facilitators share...techniques that enrich interactions between parents and their young children and are all linked to children’s basic human rights to education and health. These techniques include speaking to their young children using a rich and complex vocabulary, asking their children questions and helping them respond, playfully copying their children, telling them stories, and describing objects in detail to them." The RPP Module was evaluated by researchers from Stanford University in 2016, which showed, among other results, that children whose caregivers had gone through the RPP Module had increased the number of their utterances by 32% more than their peers in control settings, and it was also found that children in RPP communities made significantly greater gains in language milestones and expressive vocabulary than children in non-RPP communities.

Through the Solar Power Project, in partnership with the Barefoot College in India, Tostan has given rural African women who have completed the CEP the opportunity to train as solar power engineers. Following six months of training at the Barefoot College, the women return home with skills that enable them to bring power to their communities and earn an income for themselves and for their Community Management Committee. From 2009 to 2016, 25 Tostan participants attended classes at the Barefoot College, including 13 women from Senegal, five from Guinea-Bissau, 5 from Djibouti, and 2 from The Gambia.