[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

. Jr. Boulevard runs by the Copper Sky Recreation Center.
 Sierra Vista: Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway runs east to west between Moorman and Arizona State Route 90, passing Veteran's Memorial Park.
 Tucson: M L King Jr. Way at the UA Tech Park at The Bridges, south of 36th Street near Kino Parkway.

Arkansas
 Bentonville: S.E. Martin Luther King Jr. Pkwy. runs approx. 0.7 mi. from S.E. 5th St. at its southern end, crossing E. Central Ave. (AR-72) and becoming N.E. Martin Luther King Jr. Pkwy., ending at N.E. John Deshields Blvd. at its northern end. 
 Fayetteville: Fayetteville City Council voted in January 2008 to officially rename Sixth Street, which passes through the city's historically black neighborhood as well as the southern boundary of the University of Arkansas campus, to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. Part of the road is designated as Arkansas Highway 180.
 Forrest City: The former Honeysuckle Lane in Forrest City was renamed Martin Luther King Drive.
 Hot Springs: Sections of US 270 and US 70 are named Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway.
 Jonesboro: Commerce Drive (Arkansas Highway 18 Spur) between East Highland Drive (Arkansas Highway 18) and Interstate 555 (Joe N. Martin Expressway) was officially renamed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Drive in December 2019. Future extensions of Commerce Drive will be renamed in MLK's honor. An overpass on Red Wolf Blvd/Stadium Blvd (US Highway 49/Arkansas Highway 1) interchange over Interstate 555 was also named for Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in August 2011.
 Kensett: East and West MLK Drive runs northwest–southeast through most of Kensett.
 Little Rock: In 1992, High Street was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Drive. The street, which begins next to the Arkansas State Capitol building, is home to parades and community events. Martin Luther King Jr. Interdistrict Magnet Elementary School is located on the street.
 Malvern: US 270 Business Loop is named Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. It becomes Oliver Lancaster Boulevard when crossing into the neighboring city of Rockport. As the cities' boundaries meet multiple times, a driver can be on MLK Jr. Blvd., then Lancaster Blvd., then back on MLK Jr. Blvd. without ever turning off the highway.
 Texarkana: See Texarkana, Texas.
 West Memphis: Martin Luther King Drive runs from US 70 to Mound City Road. It junctions with I-55 and I-40 and is also where all the truck stops in West Memphis are.

California
 Bakersfield: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard travels from California Avenue south to Brundage Lane.
Chico: Martin Luther King Pkwy. Between East 20th St and E. Park Ave
 Hayward: Martin Luther King Drive in Hayward travels north–south from Cannery Park to Winton Avenue.
 Long Beach:  Martin Luther King, Jr. Avenue (shortened as Martin L. King Avenue) runs north–south in the Eastside of Long Beach between East 7th Street and East 21st Street.  This portion was originally named California Avenue, although the former name is still in use; Martin L. King Avenue continues as California Avenue once it enters the enclave of Signal Hill before re-entering Long Beach, retaining the original name.
 Los Angeles: In 1983, Santa Barbara Avenue in the South Region of Los Angeles was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard, three years before U.S. President Ronald Reagan signed a law to declare Martin Luther King's birthday a national holiday. That event was celebrated by the first ever Kingdom Day Parade; years later the event was made an annual tradition. It is held on the street between Crenshaw Boulevard and Western Avenue either turning point at the Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza shopping mall. Due to the length of Dr. King's name, the roadway name is often abbreviated as King Blvd. on its traffic signs and sometimes called MLK Blvd.  Running east–west, MLK Boulevard begins as a major thoroughfare at Obama Boulevard (formerly Rodeo Road), running until Central Avenue.  From Central Avenue, it continues as a residential street in two discontinuous segments due to the presence of Jefferson High School:  between Central and Hooper avenues, and then from Compton Avenue to Alameda Street.
 Lynwood:  A portion of Century Boulevard was renamed Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard within the Lynwood city limits.
Merced, California. Formerly J Street, Martin Luther King, Jr. Way is the north/south State Route 59.
 Modesto: runs east–west from a dead end as Elm Ave. then curves to run north–south as Martin Luther King Dr. and sometimes abbreviated to S M.L.K. Dr. to change name to Sutter Ave. after crossing Paradise Rd. to a dead end on the west side.
 Oakland and Berkeley: Grove Street, which stretched for several miles north from Downtown Oakland into North Berkeley, was renamed Martin Luther King, Jr. Way in 1983-84. Berkeley made the change by resolution of the city council on November 8, 1983.  The street had once represented the dividing line between neighborhoods where minorities could and could not live or buy property