[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Isaiah 53

, produced by Christians, were dependent upon the Septuagint and are of limited use for recovering the Hebrew.

Parashot
The parashah sections listed here are based on the Aleppo Codex. Isaiah 53 is a part of the Consolations (Isaiah 40–66). {P}: open parashah; {S}: closed parashah.
 {S} 53:1-12 {P}

Interpretive Options Concerning the Servant's Identity
The central interpretive question to be answered for the passage concerns Isaiah's intended referent for the servant. Important related questions include the Isaiah 53 servant's relationship with the servant(s) mentioned in the other servant songs, as well as the servant's relationship with the one preaching good news in Isaiah 52:7. Three major classes of interpretation have been proposed for the servant of Isaiah 53:

Individual
The individual interpretation states that the intended referent for the servant is a single Israelite man. The passage's third-person masculine singular nouns and verbs are cited as evidence for this position. Sometimes the entire pericope is interpreted concerning an individual, and in other cases only selected verses are so interpreted. Several individual referents have been proposed:
 Jesus of Nazareth (the New Testament and Christian tradition)
 Rabbi Akiva (y. Shekalim 5:1)
 Moses (b. Sotah 14a)
 The Jewish Messiah (but not Jesus): (Targum Jonathan, b. Sanhedrin 98a-b, Ruth Rabbah 5:6, Midrash Tanchuma Toldot 14, Yalkut Shimoni 476, Midrash Tehillim 2:7, Maimonides)
 Jeremiah (Saadia Gaon)

A Righteous Israelite Remnant
Some interpretations state that the servant is representative of any Israelites who meet a particular standard of righteousness, such that the passage applies to some Israelites and not others. Examples include:
 Whoever the Lord is pleased with, he crushes with suffering (b. Berakhot 5a)
 Whoever is sick and has a seminal emission (b. Berakhot 57b)

National
This interpretation states that the servant is a metaphor for the entire nation of Israel. The sufferings of the servant are seen as sufferings of the nation as a whole while in exile. This interpretation first appears with unnamed Jews familiar to Origen in the third century CE (see below), and it subsequently became the majority position within Judaism from the medieval period until today. Sometimes this view is combined with the "righteous remnant" view (e.g. Rashi on 53:3 and 53:8) Representative commentaries include:
 Rashi
 Ibn Ezra
 Radak

History of Interpretation 

A wide variety of sources across many centuries include interpretations of the chapter. This section will highlight some of the key interpretive sources organized by date of textual origin.

Dead Sea Scrolls (3rd century BCE - 1st century CE) 
The Dead Sea Scrolls include both biblical and non-biblical scrolls that reflect the text and the themes of Isaiah 53.

1QIsaa, the Great Isaiah Scroll 

In their article on the interpretation of Isaiah 53 in the pre-Christian period, Martin Hengel and Daniel P. Bailey noted a striking messianic reading in the Great Isaiah Scroll for Isaiah 52:14. They wrote,

Because this reading indicates God anointed the servant "beyond that of any (other) man," it is likely that the scribe who penned the Great Isaiah Scroll interpreted the servant as Messiah.

Another variant is present in two Qumran manuscripts and the LXX. Martin and Hengel write, "The most important variant that Scrolls A and B have in common (see also 4QIsad) is the phrase יראה אור (“he will see light”) in 53:11, attested also in the LXX." This variant adds a vivid descriptor to the servant's experience after his persecution and death.

It is likely that the Qumran community saw Isaiah 52:7 as the beginning of the pericope, and 52:13 starting a subsection within it. Second Temple Judaism scholar Craig Evans notes that 1QIsaa includes a siglum in the margin at 52:7, just as it does in other major breaks of thought. Evans writes, "Although of uncertain meaning, this manuscript feature likely indicates the beginning of a new section." He notes that the Masoretic Text includes a samek (for seder) at the same verse, and a small samek after 52:12. Evans writes, "Accordingly, both the Great Isaiah Scroll of Qumran and the MT appear to view Isaiah 52:7-12 and 52:13-53:12 as two related units, perhaps with 52:7-12 introducing the hymn." The Qumran community interpreted Isaiah 52:7 messianically (see below), which may have bearing on the servant's identity, if the passages are to be linked.

4Q541 Fragment 9 
A portion of 4Q541 includes themes about an individual that will atone for his generation, despite his generation being evil and opposing him. Hengel and Bailey reviewed this fragment and others, noting, "As early as 1963, Starcky suspected that these portions of 4Q540 and 541... 'seem to evoke a suffering Messiah in the perspective opened up by the Servant Songs.'" The text of 4Q541 Fragment 9 reads,