[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

n.  Prior to his challenge race with Alita, Jashugan receives a good luck necklace from Shumira and tells her to marry Ido.  He then sedates her, nullifying any effect to resuscitate him should he have another flatline attack.  Shumira thus does not see her brother's final race and subsequent death.

Two years after Alita quits Motorball, Shumira is working as a waitress at Bar New Kansas.  She narrowly misses being killed by Zapan when he arrives in search of Alita, and survives the destruction of the bar.  Along with the Bar New Kansas barkeep Master and his adopted daughter Koyomi, she winds up at a refugee camp on the outskirts of the Scrapyard, where she meets her future husband, a soup server.  Shumira stays with the volunteer group and eventually she and her husband have eight children.

Koyomi

Portrayed by Lana Condor

 started out as an orphan adopted by the barkeep of the Bar Kansas, Master, then becoming a member of the rebel army Barjack, and then a freelance photographer who publishes a bestselling photo journal.  The manga never reveals her family history nor her surname.  Koyomi first appears as a baby when Daisuke Ido and Alita visits Bar Kansas, and she is subsequently kidnapped by Makaku in order to lure Alita into a fight, only to be saved by her father's dog, Duke Fang.  She later forms a bond with Fury, Murdock's cyborg dog and in turn softens Murdock himself.  At age 13, Koyomi ran away from home with Fury after argument with her alcoholic adopted father, encountering Kaos and reaching the underground ruins of a city from the previous era and eventually, meeting Den.  Convinced by what Den says about Tiphares’ evils, Koyomi joins the Barjack and participates their campaigns, drawing closer and closer to the Scrapyard where B.B. Buick gives her his camera just before he dies.  A year after Den's defeat, Koyomi compiles Buick's photos into a book titled Barjack War Chronicle that becomes the Scrapyard's greatest bestseller on record.

Koyomi appears in Last Order as a 14-year-old boarding with her father in a southern district antiques shop when she witnesses Kaos being run over by a taxi and subsequently helps him.  She later witnesses Kaos's transformation (when he receives the paper airplane that Alita had thrown from Tiphares) and Vector's subsequent agreement to fund the Tower of Tiphares.  Koyomi is the focus of the side story "Barjack Rhapsody", in which she acts on a tip that a resurrected Den has been ambushing Scrapyard supply convoys.  As a result of her dealings with the eccentric Geriperi and the ambitious manager of Farm 3, Eakins, she eventually discovers a purpose in life.  The side story further reveals that Koyomi is a celebrity among the Barjack because of a photograph Buick took of her and Fury, which he subsequently sold.

In the 2019 live-action film, Koyomi is already a teenager who hangs out with Hugo and Tanji.  She does not display any of her photography skills and does not seem to be aware of their side business.

Motorball-affiliated

The following fictional characters are affiliated with the sport of Motorball.

Jashugan

Portrayed by Jai Courtney

Jashugan, known in Japan as , is the reigning Top League champion of Motorball, the most popular sport in the western district of Scrapyard, which is a cross between gladiatorial combat and speed skating.  Jashugan is perhaps the one opponent in the series whom Alita respects the most, largely because they are similar in many respects. The two also "see each other as competitive rivals instead of hated enemies".  Jashugan's only family is his slow-witted younger sister Shumira, who comes back with Ido and Alita to the eastern district to work as a waitress in Bar New Kansas.

Jashugan's background prior to his Motorball career is not revealed, nor how long he has been competing in the sport.  In ES 571, five years before Ido found Alita in the Tiphares junkyard, Jashugan was a rookie in the highest Motorball league, the Top League.  He and his rival Esdoc were involved in a deadly accident in which Jashugan sustained massive brain damage.  He would have died had not Desty Nova intervened and performed reconstructive brain surgery on him.  Using a Tipharean technology called Gehirnumbau (German for "brain rebuild"), Nova used nanomachines to rebuild the column structure of Jashugan's cerebral cortex and strengthen his neurons with artificial proteins.  The reconstruction not only helped Jashugan survive, but also enhanced his reflexes and allowed him to become the Motorball champion. This was in stark contrast to Ed, who also survived but became dependent on acceleration drug injections to stay competitive, which resulted in a side effect called "Terminal Frost" which forced his eventual retirement.  The relationship between the two is cordial, but deep down Ed still seeks to surpass Jashugan, and tries to do this vicariously through Alita after he becomes her manager years later in ES 578.