[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Deep Throats

When performing for the Quahog Talent Competition, one of the lyrics to Peter and Lois' song was scheduled to be "God would do her from behind, even do it a second time," but it was never used. Sound mixer Patrick Clark organized the format of the credits, which were different from the regular set.

Peter singing "Ding Fries are Done" was shortened for the televised version of the episode, with an extended version on the DVD. Cleveland sticking his middle finger up to Brian after he fails to stop in his taxi was allowed on the televised version of the episode. This was permitted because MacFarlane rang the show's broadcasting standards and asked for their explicit permission, explaining that it was very distant, and they allowed it. After smoking marijuana, Peter and Lois are shown lying on top of each other on the sofa; in the television version, they are wearing underwear, but are completely naked on the DVD, Adult Swim, and TBS versions. Similarly, Lois' comment during the scene, "Brian, he's knocking on the back door, what should I do? Should I let him in?" was censored from Fox airings, as it is a reference to anal sex, but remains intact on Adult Swim and TBS airings.

In addition to the regular cast, voice actors H. Jon Benjamin and Frank Welker, and actress Kate Jackson guest starred in the episode. Recurring voice actors Lori Alan, Ralph Garman, and Mike Henry, writers Chris Sheridan, Danny Smith, and John Viener, and actor Adam West, who portrays an exaggerated version of himself, also made minor appearances.

Cultural references
The episode takes its title from a scene when an anonymous informant (later revealed to be Kermit the Frog) secretly meets Brian in an underground parking lot. Brian calls the informant "Deep Throat," in a reference to the anonymous informant Deep Throat. The meeting itself is a reference to the meeting with Deep Throat or to the 1976 film All the President's Men. The part-time job Peter had wherein he sings a song "Ding Fries are Done," was based on a song that was popularized by Doctor Demento in the 1990s concerning Burger King, and is a parody of the popular Christmas song "Carol of the Bells". The Noid attempting to ruin Mayor West's pizza is a reference to the Noid from former Domino's Pizza television advertisements. The scene where Cleveland runs off as a black panther when he notices Meg and Brian looking at him as he destroys Brian's cab with a crowbar is a reference to Michael Jackson's "Black or White" second ending known as the Panther Dance. Stewie references his cousin, Stewie Cruise, showing him jumping up and down on Oprah's couch while shouting "I'm in love with Katie Holmes! I'm not gay!" When Lois mentions to Peter that it would be fun to be in the community talent show, Stewie says "You know what else is fun? Watching Mr. Belvedere without people talking so loudly!". He then proceeds to sing the theme song loudly. When Peter is being driven around by Brian, he refers to him as Bitterman, a reference to the chauffeur in the 1981 film Arthur. The song Mayor West and Meg are listening to in the hotel together is the theme song to Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles from the 1987 series. In the DVD version of the episode, Stewie and Brian bump into Scooby-Doo and the gang from Scooby-Doo, Where Are You?. Fred Jones and Stewie argue about who got to City Hall first, but then Stewie sends them off by humming a familiar tune.

References

External links

2006 American television episodes
American television episodes about cannabis
Family Guy (season 4) episodes