[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Non-intervention in the Spanish Civil War

ritish Admiralty believed that a significant control effort was the best solution of four that were put forward in response to attacks on British shipping. On 27 August, the Committee decided that naval patrols did not justify their expense and would be replaced, as planned, with observers at ports.

The Conference of Nyon was arranged in September 1937 for all parties with a Mediterranean coastline by the British despite appeals by Italy and Germany for the committee to handle the piracy and other issues the conference was to discuss. It decided that French Navy and the British Royal Navy fleets would patrol the areas of sea west of Malta and attack any suspicious submarines. Warships that attacked neutral shipping would be attacked. On 18 September, Juan Negrín requested for the League of Nations' Political Committee to examine Spain and demanded an end to non-intervention. Eden claimed that non-intervention had stopped a European war. The League reported on the Spanish situation by noting the 'failure of non-intervention'. On 6 November, the Committee met once again with a plan to recognise the Nationalists as belligerents once significant progress had been made was finally accepted, which was caused partly by Eden's patience. The Nationalists accepted on 20 November and the Republicans on 1 December. The former suggested 3,000 would be a reasonable number, which was really the number of sick and unreliable Italians whom Franco wished to withdraw. That was countered by British suggestions that 15,000 or 20,000 might be enough. The talks were subsumed by bilateral Anglo-Italian discussions. In trying to protect non-intervention in the Anglo-Italian meetings, which he grudgingly did, Eden would end up resigning from his post in the Foreign Office. On 17 March 1938, France reopened the border to arms traffic to the now-weakened Republic. Between mid-April and mid-June, 21 British seamen were killed by attacks on British shipping in Spanish waters as well as several Non-Intervention Committee observers.

On 27 June 1938, Maisky agreed to send of two commissions to Spain, enumerate foreign volunteer forces and bring about their withdrawal. That was estimated to cost £1,750,000 to £2,250,000, which was borne by member countries of the committee. The Nationalists wished to prevent the fall of the favourable Chamberlain government in the United Kingdom and so were seen to accept the plan. With much bemoaning, the Republicans also accepted the plan. The Nationalists demanded belligerent rights and then withdrawals of 10,000 from each side, which amounted to a rejection of the plan. Following the Munich Agreement, which was judged by Chamberlain to have been a success, Britain would host similar mediation in Spain. Negrín would propose the removal of the International Brigades, most of whom were now Spaniards, at the last meeting of the League of Nations, thereby showing his contempt for the committee. Similarly, Italians would leave Spain under the Anglo-Italian agreement, not through the committee.

Britain and France recognised the Nationalist government on 27 February 1939. Clement Attlee criticised the way it had been agreed, calling it 'a gross betrayal... two and a half years of hypocritical pretence of non-intervention'.

References

Notes

Citations

Sources
Books

Journals

External links
 Jennifer L. Foray, Dutch Involvement in the Spanish Civil War, Columbia Historical Review (Spring 2001)
 Spartacus Educational summary
"Trabajadores: The Spanish Civil War through the eyes of organised labour", a digitised collection of more than 13,000 pages of documents from the archives of the British Trades Union Congress held in the Modern Records Centre, University of Warwick

Spanish Civil War
Germany–Spain relations
Non-interventionism