[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Conservation and restoration of new media art

future use. Those steps can involve the preservation strategies and tools described above, but the piece can only be preserved if it exists in a state where curators can access and modify it. For example, if it exists on a software that is already obsolete, it cannot be migrated.

Metadata standards

Media Art Notation System (MANS)
The Media Art Notation System is a formal notation system introduced by Richard Rinehart, Digital Media Director and Adjunct Curator, Berkeley Art Museum/Pacific Film Archive, in 2007. It was developed in response to a need for a "new approach to conceptualizing digital and media art forms". Rinehart compares MANS to a musical score. An ensemble can change out the instruments, but it will still be the same piece of music as long as they follow the score. In the same way, digital media can be separated from its software and still produce the same computational result. When digital media is presented using a different hardware or software, it may appear slightly different, but it will still be the same piece of media art.

MANS uses XML to present the metadata specifically because it allows the coder to define the framework of the digital media while allowing for variations in how it presents itself. This is particularly useful for conservation because it allows future users to examine the document in a system that works for multiple different pieces of art. If the software or materials for one piece of art becomes obsolete, future researchers will be able to examine the new media art via XML and map it onto a newer schema.

MANS has three levels of implementation. The first level is Score which is mostly metadata with minimal XML. The second level is the machine-processable Score. It includes sub-component description, more XML, and even images and other media. The third level is the machine-processable Score that serves as a working model of the original. This level contains technical metadata, bitstreams, very granular description, and structural markup.

Exhibiting new media art 
New media art is unique from other types of art in that the tools and strategies used to create the art are often the same tools and strategies used to display or exhibit the art. Because of this, exhibiting new media art becomes a part of conserving new media art. Often, a curator or specialist will be on site at the exhibit to ensure the art is being displayed and used correctly by audiences. It would be easy to assume a computer is for administrative use when really the coding on the computer is part of the exhibit. This everchanging medium is difficult to conserve, restore, and exhibit.

Because of the innovative nature of new media art, it is very common for exhibits to include audience interaction. Artists will create work that is only fully complete during audience interaction such as movement, tactile pieces, or even changes made by audience members. This creates a unique challenge where only the initial artist-created portion of the piece can be conserved and the audience-interaction portion of the piece will change overtime and depending on the actions of the audience members.

It is considered best practice when conserving or restoring new media art to consider the relationship with the audience. Often the aspect that sets new media art from other types of art is the "liveliness" that is represented by the relationship between the piece and the audience. In order to exhibit this type of art, curators and repositories must first accept this relationship as a type of art, and thus, worth exhibiting. Then, they will attempt to conserve the relationship built between the art and the audience.

Relationship to other preservation efforts

The catchall term sometimes applied to such genres, variable media, suggests that it is possible to recapture the experience of these works independently of the specific physical material and equipment used to display them in a given exhibition or performance. As the nature of multi-media artworks calls for the development of new standards, techniques, and metadata within preservation strategies, the idea that certain artworks incorporating an array of media elements could be variable opens up the possibility for experimental standards of preservation and reinterpretation.

Nevertheless, many new media preservationists work to integrate new preservation strategies with existing documentation techniques and metadata standards. This effort is made in order to remain compatible with previous frameworks and models on how to archive, store and maintain variable media objects in a standardized repository utilizing a systematized vocabulary, such as the Open Archival Information System model.