[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Luis Alfonso de Alba

Luis Alfonso de Alba Góngora (born March 1, 1957) is a Mexican diplomat.

De Alba has been a diplomat since 1983 and was first appointed Ambassador in December 2001. Over the course of his career, he has participated in numerous multilateral meetings, both at the global and regional levels, which has allowed him to gain substantive knowledge on the work and functioning of multilateral organizations, particularly those of the United Nations. In these fora, he has actively pursued the advancement of human rights, humanitarian issues and the rule of law, disarmament, the fight against climate change, and the promotion of development, including through the strengthening and improvement of the relevant international mechanisms.

In 2018, United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres appointed De Alba as his Special Envoy for the 2019 Climate Summit; in this capacity, he is to work closely with Robert C. Orr, Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Climate Change; Peter Thomson, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for the Ocean; and Michael Bloomberg, Special Envoy of the Secretary-General for Climate Action.

Early life and education
Born in 1957, De Alba holds a degree in International Relations from the Institut d´Étude des Relations Internationales in Paris.

Career
From 1983 to 1986, De Alba was posted to the Mexican Permanent Mission to the UN in New York, where he was responsible of the Decolonization Committee and member of the Council for Namibia. He followed political issues such as the peace process in Central America (Contadora Group) and the situation in the Middle East.

In 1986 De Alba served as Head of the Political Department for the United Nations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and from 1991 to 1994, as Director for Social Issues at the UN section of the Ministry. During this period he participated in the 1993 World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna, as well as in several sessions of the Commission on Human Rights, and the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, in which he worked particularly on the situation of Human Rights in El Salvador and the protection of migrants and other vulnerable groups.

From 1994 to 1998, De Alba was Deputy Permanent Representative of Mexico to the Organization of American States (OAS), where he promoted important initiatives, such as the negotiation of the Inter-American Convention on the Elimination of Violence against Women, and the Interamerican Convention against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Fire Arms, Ammunition, Explosives, and other Related Materials (CIFTA). He also served as the Facilitator of the Declaration of the Summit on Sustainable Development (Santa Cruz, Bolivia, 1996) and in the preparation of the Summits of the Americas (Miami, 1994 and Santiago, 1998).

De Alba was General Director for the United Nations System of the Mexican Ministry of Foreign Affairs from 1998 to 2001. Among other tasks, he coordinated the participation of the Mexican Delegations to different international meetings, in particular the 2001 World Conference against Racism in Durban, South Africa, and the Special Session of the General Assembly on Children (2002). He was a member of the Mexican Delegation to the United Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms (2001), where he promoted a multidimensional approach in order to include humanitarian and human rights concerns. He took part in the negotiations of the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime (UNTOC) and its Optional Protocols on trafficking in persons, smuggling of migrants, and the illicit manufacturing and trafficking in firearms.

In 2002 De Alba promoted the yearly General Assembly resolution on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism, a first step that, combined with the resolutions of the Commission on Human Rights and the Human Rights Council, led to the establishment of the Special Rapporteur of the Council on that matter. In his capacity as Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations Security Council during that period, those efforts were accompanied by the promotion of human rights within the Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) of the Security Council.

From 2002 to 2004 De Alba was Deputy Permanent Representative of Mexico to the United Nations in New York. He promoted the Mexican initiative to elaborate the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including the establishment of the negotiating Committee. He also pursued and achieved several measures that granted full participation of civil society, and particularly of persons with disabilities, in the elaboration of the Treaty.