[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Alita (Battle Angel Alita)

ly regrets giving Alita the trigger, as he cannot bear being saved by her selflessness, and goes completely mad. Five years later, Kiyomi and Figure encounters a senile, insane Nova, who lures them in to a cavern deep in Ketheres, where they find Alita reborn from the Tree of Life with a human body.

Last Order 
The original ending of Battle Angel Alita is retconned in Last Order, where Alita wakes up in the new Imaginos Body only to find Nova has died a week earlier. A pre-recorded video message then reveals that Nova exposed the brain bio-chip conspiracy to the Tipharean population, resulting in mass insanity quickly spreading and devastating the floating metropolis, culminating in a chaotic two-week civil war. His assistant Roscoe also goes crazy and kills Nova, disembowelling him and looting his two brain bio-chips, which later fall into Alita's hands.  However, it is later revealed that Nova has already invented the Stereotomy process, which allows him to create reincarnations of himself, making him effectively an immortal presence. Going into space with new and old companions alike, to look for her lost friend Lou Collins and to find out more about her forgotten past, Alita is caught up in an interplanetary struggle between the major powers of the colonized solar system. Along the way, she forms an alliance with three of the Alita Replicas who have now begun to think for themselves, an unsavory superhacker, and Nova himself when she enters the Zenith of Things Tournament (Z.O.T.T.), a fighting competition held every ten years. Later on, Super Nova (one of reborn versions of Nova) reveals that the Alita in the story is actually a replica android with a brain bio-chip that contains the same memories and combat abilities, while her original organic brain is actually sealed inside a box that she was tasked to safeguard the whole time.  When the android Alita was revived by Melchizedek, she chooses to let her organic brain be reborn into a genetically reconstructed organic body and live a normal peaceful human life with Figure Four, while the android Alita goes on to discover her past life and explore her new destiny.

Mars Chronicle 
Three years after the 10th ZOTT, Alita visits Mars to honor the slaughtered inhabitants of the orphanage she lived at during childhood. At the Mariama memorial site, she re-encounters her childhood friend and fellow Künstler Erica, who became an undead Necro-Soldier – the infamous assassin known as "Frau X" – and is immediately drawn into a Martian power struggle. Determined to save her childhood companion from the control of the Einherjar, Alita vows to unveil the truth and discover the cure for Necro-Soldiers.

Appearances

In anime 
In the 1993 OVA Battle Angel, Gally (known as Alita in the Manga Entertainment UK and European releases) is immediately given a variant of the Berserker Body after being discovered by Ido. She is voiced by Miki Itō in the Japanese version, Amanda Winn-Lee in the ADV Films dub, and Larissa Murray in the Manga UK dub.

In film 

Rosa Salazar portrays Alita through performance capture in the 2019 live-action adaptation Alita: Battle Angel, produced and co-written by James Cameron and directed by Robert Rodriguez.  Alita's design was noted for retaining the big eyes of the manga's art, which Rodriguez stated was an intent to "bring a true manga and anime character to life.”  In the film, she is given the name Alita by Dr. Dyson Ido (played by Christoph Waltz) after his late daughter, as well as given a cyborg body that was originally meant for said daughter. While traveling with Hugo (played by Keean Johnson) and his friends to a ruined Martian warship, Alita acquires a highly advanced Berserker body and brings it home, but Ido refuses to transplant her into it, fearing the consequences of combining lost Martian technology will trigger her instinct for conflicts.  However, after her body is destroyed by the giant cyborg killer Grewishka (played by Jackie Earle Haley), Ido proceeds to transplant her into the Berserker body, which brought back more of her lost memories.

In video game 
Gally is the main character in the 1998 Sony PlayStation video game Gunnm: Martian Memory.

Further reading

References 

Battle Angel characters
Comics characters introduced in 1990
Female characters in anime and manga
Fictional bounty hunters
Fictional gynoids
Fictional characters with post-traumatic stress disorder
Fictional female martial artists
Fictional female sportspeople
Fictional Martians
Fictional swordfighters in anime and manga
Fictional super soldiers
Female soldier and warrior characters in anime and manga
Martial artist characters in anime and manga
Fictional skaters