[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Antonio Maldonado

me Deputy Director for Operations, National Military Command Center, the Pentagon. On September 1 of that same year, he was promoted to the rank of Brigadier General becoming the second Air Force Officer from Puerto Rico and the first from a Puerto Rico University to reach the general officer ranks.

In July 1989, Maldonado was named Chief, U.S. Office of Defense Cooperation, Madrid, Spain, becoming the senior Department of Defense representative to that country. His responsibilities included providing overall direction to U.S. elements in Spain on status of forces, security assistance programs and other defense and base agreement matters. He also provided overall coordination for US offensive operations out of Spain during the 1991 Persian Gulf War.
Brigadier General Maldonado retired from the United States Air Force on September 1, 1991, with more than 4,000 hours of flight, after 27 years of service of active duty service.

Later years
After Maldonado retired from the Air Force in 1991, he was named President of "Fomento Industrial de Puerto Rico" (Puerto Rico Industrial Development Company) by the Government of Puerto Rico, a position which he held until January 1993. In 1993 he became the CEO of the American Red Cross, Puerto Rico Region. In 1999 he became Executive Director of Palmas Del Mar Homeowners Association, in Humacao, Puerto Rico. Maldonado is a board member of the US National Marrow Donor Program and a member of the Board of Governors PR Aqueducts Authority. Maldonado is married to Ilia Lopez from Humacao, Puerto Rico, and has four daughters Carmen Zaydee, Joyce, Suzy and Elsie Oshiry and grandchildren Calvin, Isabella, Gabriella, Allegra, Spencer and Antonio.

Awards and recognitions
Among Brigadier General Antonio Maldonado's decorations and medals were the following:

Badges:
   US Air Force Command Pilot Badge
   Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Identification Badge

See also

 List of Puerto Ricans
 List of Puerto Rican military personnel
 Hispanics in the United States Air Force

References

Further reading
Puertorriquenos Who Served With Guts, Glory, and Honor. Fighting to Defend a Nation Not Completely Their Own; by : Greg Boudonck; 

1941 births
Living people
Air War College alumni
United States Air Force personnel of the Vietnam War
American Red Cross personnel
United States Air Force generals
People from Comerío, Puerto Rico
Recipients of the Air Medal
Recipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States)
Recipients of the Gallantry Cross (Vietnam)
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
Recipients of the Meritorious Service Medal (United States)
Puerto Rican United States Air Force personnel
Puerto Rican aviators
Puerto Rican military officers
Recipients of the Defense Superior Service Medal
Puerto Rico National Guard personnel