[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Vuk Jeremić

tial election of May 2012, and Jeremić lost his ministerial role. His last day in office was 27 July 2012, and his final state visit in his capacity as Foreign Minister was to Moscow, where he spoke with Russia's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sergey Lavrov.

United Nations General Assembly presidency

For the United Nations General Assembly's 67th session (commencing in September 2012), the office of President of the General Assembly was slated to be occupied by an individual from Eastern Europe, one of the five regional groups of UN member states. Jeremić ran against Lithuania's Dalius Čekuolis, and was elected president by a simple majority of votes (99–85) among members of the General Assembly. The election marked the first time since 1991 that the General Assembly had to vote in order to select its next president. Jeremić became the youngest president in the General Assembly's history. In his acceptance speech, he stressed the need for international unity in tackling the problems that accompany conflict and instability:

During Jeremić's tenure, on 29 November 2012, Palestine was granted non-member observer status in the General Assembly by a vote of 138–9. On 2 April 2013, Jeremić facilitated the General Assembly's adoption of the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT), which was aimed at regulating international conventional weapons commerce. The ATT was passed by a vote of 154–3, with North Korea, Syria and Iran as the only country's voting against it.

To mark Pakistani activist Malala Yousafzai's 16th birthday, Jeremić convened a United Nations Youth Assembly on 12 July 2013. At the Youth Assembly, Yousafzai delivered her first public remarks after being attacked by the Taliban. Jeremić's tenure also saw the General Assembly unanimously adopt Resolution 67/296, proclaiming 6 April as the annual International Day of Sport for Development and Peace. Proclaiming the International Day of Sport was a joint initiative by Jeremić and Jacques Rogge, the president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Rogge and UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador Novak Djokovic attended the session as special guests and addressed the General Assembly, Djokovic speaking on behalf of world athletes and Rogge on behalf of the International Olympic Committee. Jeremić's last day as president was 17 September 2013, at which point he was succeeded by John William Ashe of Antigua and Barbuda.

CIRSD founder and member of Serbian Parliament
After his mandate as the President of the General Assembly expired, Jeremić founded the Center for International Relations and Sustainable Development (CIRSD) in November 2013. In May 2014, he joined the Leadership Council of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN), which was launched by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in August 2012.

Jeremić was elected to his country's National Assembly during the 2012 parliamentary election, and his time as Democratic Party legislator overlapped with his tenure as President of the General Assembly. Following the elections, Tadić left the Democratic Party, which came under the leadership Dragan Đilas. As a member of the pro-Tadić camp, Jeremić stepped down from all his positions within the party, though he retained nominal membership. He was expelled from the party on 14 February 2013. He subsequently filed a suit before the Constitutional Court of Serbia, claiming the party's decision was unconstitutional. His appeal was rejected by the Constitutional Court; Jeremić complied with the court's decision and left the party, but kept his parliamentary seat as an independent.

United Nations Secretary-General selection

As early as October 2012, a number of UN diplomats were mentioning Jeremić as a potential candidate to succeed Ban Ki-moon as secretary-general. On 19 November 2013, former Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos described Jeremić as the best candidate for the post, saying "his election would be great news for the 21st century." He added that Jeremić would "succeed in changing the current structure of the UN and enable it to play a new role in the world." On 12 April 2016, the Government of Serbia officially backed Jeremić's candidacy for UN Secretary-General. Following a General Assembly town hall meeting on 13 April 2016, Jeremić emerged as one of the favourites to win. He put forth a 53-point platform describing the measures he would push for if elected, making him the only candidate to do so. Between July and September, the Security Council held a number of informal, closed-door straw polls where members of the council were asked to indicate whether they "encouraged", "discouraged" or had "no opinion" regarding each of the candidates. He finished the race with the second highest cumulative number of positive votes in the six rounds of straw polls carried out by the UN Security Council, behind eventual winner António Guterres. By the same measure, he was first among Eastern European candidates.