[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Politics of Cambodia

of age.

The National Assembly is led by a president and two vice presidents who are selected by the assembly members prior to each session.

, the Cambodian People's Party holds all 125 seats in the National Assembly.

Political parties and elections

2018 general election results

Judicial branch

The judicial branch is independent from the rest of the government, as specified by the Cambodian Constitution. The highest court of judicial branch is the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. Other, lower courts also exist. Until 1997, Cambodia did not have a judicial branch of government despite the nation's Constitution requiring one. In 2003, Judge Kim Sathavy was in charge of establishing the first Royal School for Judges and Prosecutors to train a new generation of magistrates and legal clerks for Cambodia.

The main duties of the judiciary are to prosecute criminals, settle lawsuits, and, most importantly, protect the freedoms and rights of Cambodian citizens. However, in reality, the judicial branch in Cambodia is highly corrupt and often serves as a tool of the executive branch to silence civil society and its leaders. There are currently 17 justices on the Supreme Council.

Foreign relations

Cambodia is a member of the ACCT, AsDB, ASEAN, ESCAP, FAO, G-77, IAEA, IBRD, ICAO, ICC, ICRM, IDA, IFAD, IFC, IFRCS, ILO, IMF, IMO, Intelsat (nonsignatory user), International Monetary Fund, Interpol, IOC, ISO (subscriber), ITU, NAM, OPCW, PCA, UN, UNCTAD, UNESCO, UNIDO, UPU, WB, WFTU, WHO, WIPO, WMO, WTO, WToO, WTrO (applicant)

International rankings

Provincial and local governments

Below the central government are 24 provincial and municipal administration. (In rural areas, first-level administrative divisions are called provinces; in urban areas, they are called municipalities.) The administrations are a part of the Ministry of the Interior and their members are appointed by the central government. Provincial and municipal administrations participate in the creation of nation budget; they also issue land titles and license businesses.

Since 2002, commune-level governments (commune councils) have been composed of members directly elected by commune residents every five years.

In practice, the allocation of responsibilities between various levels of government is uncertain. This uncertainty has created additional opportunities for corruption and increased costs for investors.

Citations

References

External links 
 Global Integrity Report: Cambodia reports on corruption and anti-corruption in Cambodia

Royalty
King of Cambodia, Norodom Sihamoni Official Website of King Norodom Sihamoni
King of Cambodia, Norodom Sihanouk Official Website of former King Norodom Sihanouk

Official
Cambodia.gov.kh Official Royal Government of Cambodia Website (English Version) (Cambodia.gov.kh Khmer Version)
CDC Council for the Development of Cambodia
Conseil Constitutionnel du Cambodge Constitution council of Cambodia
Department of Fisheries
Food Security and Nutrition Information System Cambodia
Ministry of Commerce
Ministry of Culture and Fine Arts
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport
Ministry of Environment
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
Ministry of Public Works and Transport
Ministry of Tourism
NiDA National Information Communications Technology Development Authority
Ministry of Planning
NIS National Institute of Statistics of Cambodia
Ministry of Interior
N.C.C.T National Committee for Counter Trafficking in person

Other
 Constitution of Cambodia

 
Government of Cambodia
Cambodia