[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carl Schurz High School

national governing body for freestyle and Greco-Roman Wrestling.
 George E. McNally was a city official and briefly the 87th Mayor of Mobile, Alabama.
 William S. Paley was a radio, recording industry, and television executive who built the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) into a national broadcasting and recording power.
 Abram Nicholas Pritzker was a businessman and philanthropist who was instrumental in founding the Hyatt Corporation and Marmon Group.
 Lenny Sachs was a pro football player and Loyola basketball coach. He was a 1961 inductee in the Basketball Hall of Fame.
 Vic Schwall was an NFL running back (1947–50) selected in the first round of the 1947 NFL Draft.  He played his entire career for the Chicago Cardinals, and was a member of their 1947 NFL Championship team.
 Ken Silvestri was a Major League Baseball catcher (1939–41, 1946–47, 1950–51), who later coached and briefly managed the Atlanta Braves (1967).
 Don Stonesifer was an NFL wide receiver (1951–56) playing his entire career for the Chicago Cardinals.
 Gene Sullivan was the head basketball coach at Loyola University and was the athletic director at Loyola and DePaul University.
 Norm Swanson briefly played with the NBA Rochester Royals.
 Stan Szukala, NBL player for the Chicago Bruins and Chicago American Gears.
 Waid Vanderpoel was the Chief Investment Officer of the First National Bank of Chicago and the two–time president of Citizens for Conservation.
 Thaddeus Weclew was a co–founder of the Academy of General Dentistry.
 Alvin Wistert was a collegiate tackle for the University of Michigan.  He is the oldest football player ever to be named an All-American.  He and his brothers Francis and Albert all have their uniform numbers retired at the University of Michigan, and are all in the College Football Hall of Fame.
 Whitey Wistert was a collegiate tackle for the University of Michigan who briefly pitched for Major League Baseball's Cincinnati Reds.  He is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame.
Richie Woit was an NFL defensive back (1955), playing his entire career for the Detroit Lions.

References

External links

 Official website
Illinois Great Places - Carl Schurz High School
Society of Architectural Historians SAH ARCHIPEDIA entry on Carl Schurz High School

1910 establishments in Illinois
Educational institutions established in 1910
Chicago Landmarks
Public high schools in Chicago
School buildings completed in 1910
School buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Chicago
Chicago school architecture in Illinois