[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ngarlejy Yorongar

in opposition parties, and he instead campaigned for a "no" vote. The referendum nevertheless passed according to official results. Yorongar boycotted the May 2006 presidential election, along with most of the opposition, considering it a masquerade intended only to legitimize Dèby's continued rule.

The FAR was the only major opposition party to not sign an agreement on August 13, 2007 that provided for improved electoral organization ahead of the next parliamentary election, now planned for 2009. Yorongar criticized the agreement as inadequate and said that signing it would be a "waste of time". He said that there should instead be a dialogue involving the entire political scene, including rebels, the exiled opposition, and civil society, and that a credible election could not be conducted while a rebellion was taking place in part of the country. Yorongar was also critical of the fact that the independent electoral commission would be subject to the decisions of the Constitutional Council, which he alleged is controlled by Déby, and of the management of the electoral census by the government instead of the electoral commission.

2008 arrest
During a battle between government forces and rebels in N'Djamena, soldiers reportedly surrounded Yorongar's house and arrested him on February 3, 2008. On February 9, Yorongar's son Roukoulmian Yorongar said that he was afraid for father's life, recalling the effects of his 2001 torture and saying that his father was already in poor health. Roukoulmian said that his father could not have been working with the rebels, because he had supported inclusive dialogue rather than violence as a means of achieving change. The government claimed on February 22 that Yorongar had resurfaced in the Moursal district of N'Djamena, but this was disputed, with Yorongar's son and an opposition lawyer saying that no one in the district reported seeing Yorongar. The lawyer,  Mahamat Hassan Abacar, said that the government was only trying to give assurances to the French in hopes that French President Nicolas Sarkozy would visit Chad.

On March 1, 2008, Afrique Education magazine published an interview with Yorongar, which it said he had given by telephone from neighboring Cameroon. In this interview, Yorongar described being arrested (and simultaneously beaten) by soldiers on February 3, and he said that he was subsequently held in a secret prison, along with two other arrested opposition leaders, Lol Mahamat Choua and Ibni Oumar Mahamat Saleh. He was held in a small cell and his legs were chained together, until on February 21 he was taken to a cemetery and forced to lie down between two graves. His blindfold and chain were then removed; his captors fired two shots near him and drove away. Yorongar said that he then fled across the border to Cameroon. In the interview, he insisted that he had no links with the rebels. He was flown from Maroua in northern Cameroon to Yaoundé on March 2, and on March 6 he arrived in Paris. He said that he was in very bad condition as a result of his treatment in captivity and was worried that he might have been poisoned; he also said that he believed Saleh was probably dead. The French government offered to grant Yorongar political asylum, although Yorongar said that he did not want to request it at that time.

In an interview on March 7, 2008, Yorongar urged the French to pressure the Chadian government to allow the return of all exiled opponents of Déby and hold a national dialogue that would include the rebels. He said that Déby was trying to eliminate the opposition because, in Yorongar's view, he could not win a transparent election. Yorongar also said that he had a visa for three months and that he intended to remain in France during that time.

Yorongar returned to Chad from France on December 8, 2008.

References

External links
Official site of N. Yorongar

Living people
Members of the National Assembly (Chad)
Chadian prisoners and detainees
Prisoners and detainees of Chad
Federation, Action for the Republic politicians
Year of birth missing (living people)