[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 33rd Illinois Infantry Regiment

The 33rd Illinois Infantry Regiment (nicknamed the Teacher's Regiment) was an infantry regiment from Illinois that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. A number of the soldiers were college students and graduates, and for a time the regiment included a 17-piece band. The unit fought at Fredericktown in 1861, Cotton Plant in 1862, the Vicksburg campaign and Fort Esperanza in 1863, and at Spanish Fort in 1865. The original enlistees were mustered out in October 1864 while the veterans and recruits were mustered out in December 1865.

Formation
The 33rd Illinois Infantry was originally formed from many college students on the campus of the Illinois State Normal School and became known as the "Teacher's Regiment". In one company there were 13 college graduates and all were privates. The soldiers were so well educated that the standard joke was that men discharged for mental incapacity would have made officers in other regiments. The unit formally organized between 15 August and 29 September 1861 at Camp Butler near Springfield, Illinois, and mustered into federal service on 3 September 1861.

The original field officers were Colonel Charles Edward Hovey of Bloomington, Lieutenant Colonel William R. Lockwood of Quincy, and Major Edward R. Roe of Bloomington. After Lockwood's resignation, Charles E. Lippincott of Chandlerville was promoted lieutenant colonel on 1 March 1862. After Hovey was promoted brigadier general on 5 September 1862, Lippincott was promoted colonel and Roe was promoted lieutenant colonel. Roe resigned on 29 May 1863 and was replaced as lieutenant colonel by Leander H. Potter of Bloomington. Potter resigned on 12 September 1864 and was replaced by Isaac H. Elliott of Princeton. Lippincott resigned on 10 September 1865 and Elliott briefly became colonel before the regiment was discharged. At discharge, Henry H. Pope of Taylorville was lieutenant colonel and Elijah H. Gray of Winchester was major.

The regiment enlisted a 17-piece band whose members served the unit by playing music on the battlefield as well as off. The band was led by C. S. Elder and Augustus Woodward, both from Lexington. Its initial public performance took place at the Normal School in August 1861. Aside from Elder, the band included three First Class, four Second Class, and nine Third Class musicians. The band members mustered out on 16 August 1862 after serving one year.

Service

Missouri–Arkansas
On 20 September 1861, the 33rd Illinois Infantry moved to Ironton, Missouri, where it was based until March 1862. During this period, the regiment was attached to the Department of Missouri and took part in an expedition which resulted a skirmish at Big River Bridge near Potosi on 15 October and the Engagement at Fredericktown on 21 October. The men became hardened to warfare by fights with Confederate partisans. In one struggle, Lippincott stabbed an enemy officer in the ribs with his sword and then, grabbing the Confederate's pistol, shot him in the back. The 33rd Illinois was assigned to the 2nd Brigade, Army of Southeast Missouri in March–May 1862. Under the overall command of Brigadier General Frederick Steele, the regiment marched to Batesville, Arkansas, on 5 April–3 May. At Batesville, Steele's column joined the Army of the Southwest under Major General Samuel Ryan Curtis and the 33rd Illinois was reassigned to the 1st Division in Curtis' army in May–July 1862.

Facing a supply shortage, Curtis marched south along the White River in an attempt to make contact with a Union fleet. While crossing the Cache River on 7 July 1862, Curtis sent Hovey with 400 soldiers to make a reconnaissance. Hovey's force included one cannon and four companies each of the 33rd Illinois and the 11th Wisconsin Infantry Regiments. The Battle of Cotton Plant (Hill's Plantation) began when the 11th Wisconsin began skirmishing with 1,000 Confederates from the 12th Texas and 16th Texas Cavalry Regiments led by Colonel William H. Parsons. As the Wisconsin troops began to fall back, Hovey ordered three companies of the 33rd Illinois to take cover in a cornfield. When the Confederate horsemen galloped after the retreating Federals, the Illinois soldiers opened fire from ambush, routing Parsons' cavalry. Later, 200 Union cavalry and two artillery pieces arrived as reinforcements and Hovey's troops began pressing back their adversaries. After Brigadier General William Plummer Benton's Union brigade arrived, the Confederates retreated rapidly. During the battle, Edward M. Pike of the 33rd Illinois earned the Medal of Honor for saving a cannon from falling into enemy hands. After failing to make contact with the Union fleet, Curtis occupied Helena, Arkansas.