[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# E. J. Stewart

ll team at Oregon State, then known as Oregon Agricultural College.  In his five seasons as the head basketball coach at OAC, Stewart posted a record of 67–33.

While at Oregon State, he also coached the Oregon State Beavers baseball team during the 1912 season.  He coached the team to a 5–9 record.

Pulling the triple threat for Oregon State, Stewart also coached the Oregon State Beavers football team from 1913 to 1915.  In football, he compiled a 15–5–5 record.

Nebraska
From 1916 to 1917, Stewart was the head coach of the University of Nebraska football team.  In his two seasons at the helm, he led the team to the Missouri Valley Intercollegiate Athletic Association title each year and posted an 11–4 record overall.  After the conclusion of the 1917 football season, Stewart took over as head basketball coach and remained in that capacity from 1917 to 1919.  He coached the Cornhuskers to a 17–14 record over those two seasons.

Clemson
In the spring of 1921, Stewart became the head baseball coach at Clemson Agricultural College of South Carolina—now known as Clemson University.  That spring was a busy one for Stewart as he also coached the track and field team and ran spring practice for football, all while coaching the baseball team.  He coached the baseball team for just the 1921 season and the track program from 1921 to 1923.

In the fall of 1921, Stewart coached his first season of football at Clemson.  He remained there for two seasons, the 1921 and 1922 seasons, and compiled a 6–10–2 record.

As soon as the football season of 1921 ended, Stewart jumped into his 4th head coaching role at Clemson at coached the basketball team.  He coached the basketball from 1921 to 1923.  In his two seasons at the helm, he led Clemson to a 19–19 record.

Texas
University of Texas athletic director L. Theo Bellmont hired Stewart from Clemson to lead both the Longhorns football and Longhorns basketball programs in 1923.

A medical school graduate, a piano enthusiast, a former sportswriter, a one-time automobile dealership owner, and a veteran coach, E.J. Stewart quickly became a popular figure across diverse segments of the University population. His oratory eloquence landed him an open job offer from the head of the UT English Department, should he ever decide to quit coaching and desire other work.

Some have speculated that Stewart's devotion to his varied non-athletic interests was the root cause of his football and basketball teams' decline in performance over his tenure. He led the Longhorn football team to an 8–0–1 record during the 1923 season; his following teams finished with records of 5–3–1, 6–2–1, and 5–4. Stewart led the Longhorn basketball team to a perfect 23–0 mark and a Southwest Conference championship during the 1923–24 season, but his subsequent teams finished 17–8, 12–10, and 13–9.

This decline in his teams' performance resulted in the popular Stewart's controversial dismissal following the 1926–27 season.

Texas Mines
Stewart ended his career at the College of Mines and Metallurgy of the University of Texas—now known as the University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP)—where he compiled a 5–6–3 record.

Death
On November 18, 1929, Stewart was shot and killed by a deer-hunting companion. He was interred at Lake View Cemetery in Cleveland.

Head coaching record

College football

Basketball

References

1877 births
1929 deaths
American men's basketball players
Basketball coaches from Ohio
Basketball players from Cleveland
Baseball players from Cleveland
Players of American football from Cleveland
Track and field athletes from Cleveland
Allegheny Gators football coaches
Allegheny Gators men's basketball coaches
Burials at Lake View Cemetery, Cleveland
Massillon Tigers coaches
Massillon Tigers players
Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine alumni
Case Western Spartans baseball players
Case Western Spartans football players
Case Western Spartans men's basketball players
Clemson Tigers athletic directors
Clemson Tigers football coaches
Clemson Tigers men's basketball coaches
Mount Union Purple Raiders football coaches
Mount Union Purple Raiders football players
Mount Union Purple Raiders men's basketball coaches
Nebraska Cornhuskers athletic directors
Nebraska Cornhuskers football coaches
Nebraska Cornhuskers men's basketball coaches
Oregon State Beavers athletic directors
Oregon State Beavers baseball coaches
Oregon State Beavers football coaches
Oregon State Beavers men's basketball coaches
Purdue Boilermakers men's basketball coaches
Texas Longhorns men's basketball coaches
Texas Longhorns football coaches
UTEP Miners football coaches
UTEP Miners men's basketball coaches
College men's basketball head coaches in the United States
College men's track and field athletes in the United States
College track and field coaches in the United States
Firearm accident victims in the United States
Deaths by firearm in Texas
Accidental deaths in Texas
Hunting accident deaths