[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Principles of intelligent urbanism

tanding by which a complex society agrees to live together.

The PIU contends that there must be a cadastral System wherein all of the land in the jurisdiction of cities is demarcated, surveyed, characterized and archived, registering its legal owner, its legal uses, and the tax defaults against it.

The institutional framework can only operate where there is a Structure Plan, or other document that defines how the land will be used, serviced, and accessed.  The Structure Plan tells landowners and promoters what the parameters of development are, which assures that their immediate investments are secure, and that the returns and use of such efforts are predictable.   A Structure Plan is intended to provide owners and investors with predictable future scenarios.  Cities require efficient patterns for their main infrastructure systems and utilities.  According to PIU proponents, land needs to be used in a judicious manner, organizing complementary functions and activities into compact, mixed use precincts and separating out non-compatible uses into their own precincts.   In a similar manner, proponents argue it is only through a plan that heritage sites and the environment can be legally protected.  Public assets in the form of nature, religious places, heritage sites and open space systems must be designated in a legal plan.

Intelligent urbanism proposes that the city and its surrounding region be regulated by a Structure Plan, or equivalent mechanism, which acts as a legal instrument to guide the growth, development and enhancement of the city.

According to proponents, there must be a system of participation by the “Stake Holders" in the preparation of plans.  Public meetings, hearings of objections and transparent processes of addressing objections, must be institutionalized.  Intelligent urbanism promotes Public Participation.  Local Area Plans must be prepared which address local issues and take into account local views and sentiments regarding plan objectives, configurations, standards and patterns.  Such plans lay out the sites of plots showing the roads, public open spaces, amenities areas and conservation sites.  Land Pooling assures the beneficiaries from provision of public infrastructure and amenities proportionally contribute and that a few individuals do not suffer from reservations in the plan.

According to proponents, there must be a system of Floor Area Ratios to assure that the land and the services are not over pressured.  No single plot owner should have more than the determined "fair share" of utilization of the access roads, amenities and utilities that service all of the sites.  Floor Area Ratios temper this relationship as regulated the manner in which public services are consumed.  According to PIU proponents, Transfer of Development Rights benefits land owners whose properties have been reserved under the plan.  It also benefits the local authorities that lack the financial resources to purchase lands to implement the Structure Plans.  It benefits concentrated, city center project promoters who have to amortize expensive land purchases, by allowing them to purchase the development rights from the owners of reserved lands and to hand over those properties to the plan implementing authority.  This allows the local authority to widen roads and to implement the Structure Plan.  The local authority then transfers the needed development right to city center promoters.

Intelligent urbanism supports the use of Architectural Guidelines where there is a tradition to preserve and where precedents can be used to specify architectural elements, motifs and language in a manner, which intended to reinforce a cultural tradition.  Building designs must respect traditional elements, even though the components may vary greatly to integrate contemporary functions. Even in a greenfield setting Architectural Guidelines are required to assure harmony and continuity of building proportions, scale, color, patterns, motifs, materials and facades.

Intelligent urbanism insists on safety, hygiene, durability and utility in the design and construction of buildings.  Where large numbers of people gather in schools, hospitals, and other  public facilities that may become emergency shelters in disasters, special care must be exercised.  A suitable Building Code is the proposed instrument to achieve these aims.