[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2007 Icelandic parliamentary election

ified, the leveling seat will be automatically granted to the highest placed unelected runner-up candidate on the party list in this constituency, who among the remaining candidates have the highest personal vote score (the same figure as the one used when ranking candidates for constituency seats).

The above described method is used for apportionment of all the party allocated leveling seats. Note that when selecting which of a party's constituencies shall receive its apportioned leveling seat, this identification may only happen in exactly the same numerical order as the leveling seats were calculated at the party level. This is important because the number of available leveling seats are limited per constituency, meaning that the last calculated leveling seats in all circumstances can never be granted to candidates who belong to constituencies where the available leveling seats already were granted to other parties.

Results

By constituency

Aftermath
The then governing parties won a razor-thin majority, 32 seats against the opposition's 31. This was caused by considerable losses for the Progressive Party, which had the worst election in its more than 90-year history. Major outcomes of the elections were also the considerable strengthening of the Left-Green Movement, was the election's big winner, and the failure of Iceland's Movement – Living Land to clear the election threshold and enter the parliament, though it got 3.3% of the votes. After five days of speculation, it was decided on 17 May that the government would resign and the 12-year-long coalition between Independence Party and Progressive would end. Later the same day, the leaders of the Independence Party and of the largest opposition party, the Social Democratic Alliance, Geir H. Haarde, the outgoing Prime Minister, and Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, former mayor of Reykjavík, decided to try to form a new majority coalition. Haarde formally resigned on 18 May on behalf of his outgoing government. Simultaneously, he was assigned by the President of Iceland, Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson,  the mandate to form a new majority coalition. The coalition meetings between the Independence Party and the Alliance were held in Reykjavík and at Þingvellir, where Alþingi was established in the year of 930. On 22 May the two parties reached an agreement, and the new government took over on 24 May. The ministers are as follows:

Geir Haarde, Prime Minister (IP)
Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, Minister of Foreign Affairs (SDA)
Árni Mathiesen, Minister of Finance (IP)
Einar Kristinn Guðfinnsson, Minister of Fisheries and Agriculture (IP)
Össur Skarphéðinsson, Minister of Industries (SDA)
Björgvin G. Sigurðsson, Minister of Commerce (SDA)
Björn Bjarnason, Minister of Justice (IP)
Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, Minister of Education (IP)
Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, Minister of Social Affairs (SDA)
Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Minister of Health (IP)
Kristján L. Möller, Minister of Transportation (SDA)
Þórunn Sveinbjarnardóttir, Minister of Environment (SDA)

The government enjoyed a vast majority on Alþingi, with 43 out of 63 members supporting it. In the government's manifesto, it stated that it would focus on children, the elderly and the environment, as well as aiming to lower taxes, raise benefits and invest heavily in education and transportation. The Social Democratic Alliance was more environmentalist and pro-EU and opposed the war in Iraq and Iceland's participation in the "Coalition of the Willing". Nevertheless, no action was announced to stop or reconsider the building of large-scale industrial complexes such as aluminium smelters and the development of new power plants, especially hydropower stations, or the country's participation in the war. A commission, though, to weigh the pros and cons of European Union membership was set up, but without a clear mandate.

On 23 May the chairman of the Progressive Party, Jón Sigurðsson, the outgoing Minister of Industries and Commerce, announced his resignation, due to poor results in the election. The vice chairman, Guðni Ágústsson, the outgoing Minister of Agriculture, took over the post.

References

Parliamentary elections in Iceland
Iceland
Parliamentary election
Iceland