[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of Harringay (1880–present)

h the 1890s.

A sizeable portion of land around Vale Road was developed for industrial use and by 1914 the area was one of three main pockets of industry in the Borough of Tottenham. Firms which were settled there included the wine gum manufacturers Maynards and piano makers Eavestaffs and Brasteds.

The largest portion of east Harringay, an area known today as 'The Gardens', was developed by the Provident Association of London. This was a quite different style of development to that which happened in the west of the neighbourhood. The company ran a financing scheme to enable the less well-off to purchase their own houses and built up an area measuring about a quarter of a square mile with uniform houses between 1893 and 1897. The houses were smaller than most of the houses to the west of Green Lanes. All the houses in the Gardens was built in this way by the Provident company with two exceptions. A few houses behind at the western end of Stanhope Gardens were built along with the National Provincial Bank (now Barclays Bank). Also, the houses on Salisbury Road, about 40 on the northern side of Kimberley Gardens and six on Chesterfield Gardens were built by J. C. Hill when he was building The Salisbury and Grand Parade.

To the north of St Ann's Road, the roads to the west of Woodlands Park Road had been laid out and fully developed by the early 1890s. A plot in Conway Road was developed as a fire station for the Tottenham Urban District Council Fire Brigade Station (Harringay District). Behind it was a municipal yard for the Harringay district depot of Tottenham Urban District Council. To the east of Woodlands Park Road, Hangar Lane Farm held on a few years longer and its fields were built up during the closing years of the century, being fully developed by 1902.  Just beyond Harringay's borders, from 1892 the North-Eastern fever hospital (now St. Ann's) was built. in 19 acres on the south side of St. Ann's Road.

The development of Green Lanes
The style of development of the shops along Green Lanes mirrored that of the residential areas in that almost the whole of the eastern side was built as a single development whilst building on the western side was rather more piecemeal.
Completed in 1899, the eastern side was developed almost entirely as the architecturally unified Grand Parade by J. C. Hill. It had more generously sized shops than those to the west and smart accommodation above. The single break in Grand Parade is created by the National Provincial Bank (now Barclays Bank), built in 1894.
The western side was built up between 1892 and 1898. Some blocks were developed as parades by a single builder; others were developed by a number of builders and the range of styles used give these blocks a somewhat higgledy-piggeldy appearance. 
Directories during the first decade of the twentieth century suggest that the accommodation above the shops in Grand Parade was very respectable with surgeons and doctors counted among the residents.

Harringay entered the 20th century a more or less fully developed suburb of London occupied for the most part by middle or lower-class people. For many years to come it was to stay largely unchanged in character.

Source: This section relies largely on the paper by Alan Aris, to whom the principal author is most grateful.The Urban Development of Hornsey, published by the Hornsey Historical Society.

Harringay during the Second World War
Whilst Harringay was luckier than some areas of London during World War II, it did not survive unscathed. A number of V-1 and V-2 bombs fell in Harringay, including one on Warwick Gardens, which destroyed or damaged a number of houses and the 'Ever Ready' factory that stood on the corner of St Ann's Road and Warwick Gardens. Some of the Ladder roads were also affected by attempts to bomb the railway around Hornsey station. RAF aerial reconnaissance shows a path of bomb damage across the roads near the station heading towards the railway. This included the area at the western end of Fairfax and Falkland Roads where the damaged houses were never rebuilt. The area is now a small park.

1945 to the present day

After the war, Harringay's carefully crafted English middle class respectability began to disappear. Houses became more crowded as more were split into bedsits. A photographic survey undertaken in the late 1940s showed the beginnings of the disappearance of the old shop front facades and the hint of some neglect. The population also changed, becoming more working class and English-born residents beginning to be replaced by an influx of mainly Irish and Greek Cypriot immigrants (between 1959 and 1961 10,000 English-born people left the borough of Hornsey, including Harringay, while among the newcomers were over 9000 born outside the UK - 3000 from the Republic of Ireland).