[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lenny Randle

hicago Cubs. He batted .276 and with five home runs, 39 RBI and 19 stolen bases as the Cubs' regular third baseman. On February 18, 1981, Randle returned to the Mariners as a free agent. In two seasons with the Mariners, he batted .223 with four home runs and 26 RBI backing up second and third base.

With the Kansas City Royals visiting the Kingdome on May 27, , Royals center fielder Amos Otis hit a slow roller down the third base line in the sixth inning. Randle got on his hands and knees and blew the ball foul; the umpires disallowed his action, and ruled it fair. Afterwards, Randle said that there was a "no-blow rule" implemented. He jokingly said, "They won the game, we won the protest."

In a 12-year, 1,138 game major league career, Randle batted .257 (1,016-for-3,950) with 27 home runs, 488 runs scored and 322 RBI.

Italian baseball career
In , Randle became the first American major league player to play baseball in Italy. He holds the record for the longest home run in the Italian Serie-A1 league, most home runs and singles hit in a three-game series and the most hits in a three-game series. He won a batting title in Italy with a .477 batting average.

Following his stint in Italy, Randle played with the St. Petersburg Pelicans in the Senior Professional Baseball Association.

References

External links
, or Baseball Almanac, or Ultimate Mets Database, or Baseball Gauge, or Pura Pelota : VPBL batting statistics

1949 births
Living people
African-American baseball players
Arizona State Sun Devils baseball players
Baseball players from Long Beach, California
Chicago Cubs players
Denver Bears players
American expatriate baseball players in Italy
Leones del Caracas players
Major League Baseball outfielders
Major League Baseball second basemen
Major League Baseball third basemen
New York Mets players
New York Yankees players
Phoenix Giants players
Portland Beavers players
Seattle Mariners players
Spokane Indians players
St. Petersburg Pelicans players
Sun City Rays players
Texas Rangers players
Washington Senators (1961–1971) players
American expatriate baseball players in Venezuela
Nettuno Baseball Club players
Fortitudo Baseball Bologna players
21st-century African-American people
20th-century African-American sportspeople
Centennial High School (Compton, California) alumni
Baseball players from Compton, California