[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of smoking bans

applied on all public and private workplaces. The ban also included public areas and transport.

Fiji
Fiji has a smoking ban in public places, indoor workspaces and public transport. Designated smoking rooms are allowed in bars, pubs, and nightclubs, airport terminals, and private offices.

Finland

Smoking has been restricted in indoor public areas and workplaces from 1 March 1995, and permitted only in specially designated smoking rooms; restaurants were included in 2007. Legislation aimed towards voluntary reduction of second-hand smoke was enacted, but was not successful; few establishments installed effective ventilation systems. Dividing a restaurant into a smoking and non-smoking section was also an ineffective measure. As a result, smoking has since been prohibited in all indoor public and workplaces, including bars, cafes, clubs and restaurants, from 1 June 2007, except in some places permitted a transition period of up to two years. Smoking was permitted in trains in designated smoking booths until June 2013, when it was banned by the national railway company. Smoking in bars is still allowed in enclosed smoking booths, where it is not permitted to serve or consume food or drink.  Many smaller bars have not been able to build such smoking booths and patrons must smoke outside.

As of early 2010, Finland's government has openly considered planning gradual moves towards prohibiting smoking completely.

France

Smoking is banned in all indoor public places (stations, museums, restaurants, cafés, etc.)
Establishments with the sign "Tabac" come within the same strict regulations. This sign only means that they are state-licensed to sell tobacco products.

Gabon
In Gabon, smoking is prohibited in many public places but the law requires designated smoking areas to be provided.

Gambia
The Gambia has a smoking ban in place.

Georgia
On 1 May 2018 legislation banning smoking in public places (stations, hotels, restaurants, café-bars, etc.) was enacted.

Sud African

The 16 states of Germany have their own smoking laws.  As of July 2016, nearly 40% of the German population (Bavaria, North Rhine-Westphalia, Saarland) live in a state with a strict smoking ban including all restaurants, pubs, cafés and discos. In the other 13 states designated smoking rooms as well as one-room smoking bars with less than 75 m2 are permitted.

Gibraltar
Smoking has been prohibited in all enclosed public spaces since 1 October 2012.

Greece

As of 2010, Greece was the country with the highest rate of tobacco consumption (more than 40%) in the European Union. Since older legislation was not very efficient, a more comprehensive law was passed. Effective from 1 September 2010, that law prohibited smoking and consumption of tobacco products by other means, in all workplaces, transport stations, taxis and passenger ships (in trains, buses and aeroplanes smoking had already been prohibited), as well as in all enclosed public places including restaurants, nightclubs, etc., without any exception. However, enforcement of that law was weak, with most owners of coffee shops, pubs, and restaurants continuing to permit smoking.
Finally, in October 2019, the law was further amended to expressly include a ban on all "equivalent" products, such as vaping devices, e-cigarettes and other inhaled products in the aforementioned enclosed spaces plus large-surface nightclubs, which were previously exempted, and sheltered outdoor spaces of bars and restaurants that are not exposed at least on two sides. Moreover, the law was reinforced with provisions rendering the police authorities responsible for the enforcement of the ban, with stricter fines for customers and businesses alike, including temporary and permanent shutdowns of businesses in cases of subsequent violations, with a helpline for complaints (initially by phone, now online) and with anti-smoking campaigns that assisted people to quit smoking. As a result, there has been a tremendous decrease in passive smoking in Greece, with only few certain private establishments notoriously attempting to ignore the law and risk fines, as well as a trend towards quitting or cutting down on smoking.
A new amendment to the current law is envisaged to more accurately describe those sheltered outdoor areas of bars and restaurants that will be obliged to prohibit smoking (e.g. spaces protected with plastic sheeting, canopies and barriers) and to include chewing tobacco products.

Guinea
Guinea has a smoking ban in place for certain public places.