[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Estonian Defence League

der is appointed by the Commander of the Defence Forces or by the Supreme Commander in Chief of the Defence Forces. The current Commandant is major general Riho Ühtegi, who assumed the position in 2019. As of 2020, Colonel Eero Rebo is the Defence League Chief of Staff.

Ranks and insignia

Uniforms

Standard uniforms of the Estonian Defence Forces are the ESTDCU issued to Defence League personnel. On some festive occasions (such as parades), white armbands with the insignia of the given territorial unit are worn. Civilian uniforms are worn by the women's division during parades and ceremonies.

Armbands have also previously been worn on civilian clothing to distinguish members of the Defence League from civilians during periods when Defence League units did not have sufficient inventories to supply every member with a uniform (during World War I; and in the beginning of the 1990s).

Equipment

The basic infantry weapon of the Defence League is the 5.56mm LMT R-20 Rahe, but the majority of the memberbase is equipped with the 7.62mm G3 rifle and its variants. The G3-based rifles are being phased out in favour of the R-20 Rahe in Territorial Defence () maneuver units while backline units will retain the G3.

Suppressive fire is provided by the Ksp 58, MG3 machine guns and M2 Browning heavy machine guns. Squad level anti-tank capabilities are provided with 84mm Carl Gustav recoilless rifles. In addition, indirect fire is provided by 81mm and 120mm mortars on battlegroup level.

Defence League battlegroups also include dedicated anti-tank units equipped with 90mm Pvpj 1110 anti-tank guns and FGM-148 Javelin ATGMs. The Defence League utilizes a variety of tactical transport vehicles and a small number of BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers.

See also
Territorial Forces (Finland)
Home Guard (Sweden)
Latvian National Guard
Lithuanian National Defence Volunteer Forces

References

External links
Estonian Defence League, official webpage
Estonian Defence League School
Estonian Defence League Girl's corp, official page in Estonian
Estonian Defence League Women's corp, official page in English
Estonian Defence League Boy's corp, official page in Estonian

Military of Estonia
Militias in Europe
Estonian War of Independence
Military units and formations established in 1918
Military units and formations disestablished in 1940
Military units and formations established in 1991
1918 establishments in Estonia