[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Menahem Shemuel Halevy

Menahem Shemuel Halevy (; lived 1884–1940) was a prominent Iranian Rabbi of the early 20th century.  He fought against persecution in Iran and wrote numerous books.

Halevy served the Jewish Congregation of Hamadan, first in Iran and later in Jerusalem, as a Rabbi, a Judge and an educator. While in Hamadan, he held the position of a teacher in the Alliance Israélite Universelle, and later as its principal. Moreover, he was the Jewish congregation's civil leader and representative to the Municipality of Hamadan. As the spiritual shepherd of his people, he insisted on teaching everyone the Hebrew language, the respect of the Torah and the love of the homeland, Zion. Being a gifted writer, he published poetry books, essays and historical books, both in Hebrew and Persian, of the Jews of Iran in general and of Hamadan in particular.

Activism in Iran
Halevy fought for the rights of the Jews of Hamadan, and his influence reached high places in government; thus, saving many of his brethren from imprisonment, torture and even death. Being simultaneously a pragmatist and an idealist, he believed that his participation as a representative to the Municipality of Hamadan would assure the Jews some security from arbitrary persecution at the hands of the Shiites, and in spite of his young age he headed the Jewish congregation.

Moreover, Halevy was committed to finding people who had left Judaism, and return them to the Jewish faith. He fought zealously against Jewish assimilation and conversion to Islam and to the Baháʼí Faith, which was popular at this time. Under his influence many converts, mainly from Mashhad, returned to Judaism. For that he was recognized by the Alliance Israélite Universelle in Paris. He dedicated all his efforts for this purpose, writing pamphlets, giving sermons, Sabbath after Sabbath, in the synagogue, and establishing various societies with the purpose of saving and returning the lost souls from their forced conversion back to Judaism.

Through his speeches and poetry Halevy implanted in the heart of his listeners the love for the land of their forefathers. His zeal and love of Zion echoed in his weekly sermons and motivated many Iranian Jews to return and settle in Israel. He was known by Jews from all over Persia as a phenomenal religious orator and as a Zionist leader, protecting the civil rights of the Jews. His charisma and oratorical power to move crowds to tears and to belief in the Jewish religion and the Zionist principles became legendary. He was notorious for his passionate speeches and he mesmerized the crowd with his words and stamina to tears.

Life in Israel
As soon as he arrived in Israel he was deemed to be one of the leaders of the Iranian congregation. He led the Iranian congregation and was a leading member of Vaad HaSephardim, and the Histadrut Haluzei HaMizrachi of Jerusalem. A year and a half after arriving in Israel, in 1924, the Vaad Haleumi of the Jews of Eretz Israel, appoints him as a judge in the Hebrew Courts. His talent of persuasion influenced many organizations to seek his help in raising money and souls for Israel. He is sent as an emissary by Keren Hayesod and HaMizrachi to Aden (Yemen), Aram Naharyim (Mesopotamia), Beirut, Sidon (Lebanon), Damascus, Egypt, and India, where he meets with Mahatma Gandhi trying to persuade him of the right of survival of the State of Israel in the Holy Land. Wherever he went he received written praise for persuading the Jews to return to the Holy Land and to contribute for the cause of Israel.

The Mizrachi Organization World Central on February 3, 1939 sent Rabbi Menahem their gratitude for establishing a Mizrachi branch in Bombay. They also acknowledge the importance of his meeting with Gandhi, and express the hope that the meeting with Rabbi Menahem might have opened Gandhi's eyes and change his negative attitude about Israel and the Jews.

In his poems Rabbi Menahem expresses his deepest love for Zion. His love for Zion was political, nationalistic and religious. It's the Promised Land from where the people of Israel were exiled and to where they were promised to return.

The trip to India negatively affected his health, and upon return, exhausted and worn out, he became ill. He died in 1940 at the age of 54.

Works
Mordecai VeEsther in Shushan HaBirah (1932), describing the grave site of Mordecai and Esther and narrating traditions and legends of the Iranian community, in Hebrew, (1932).
Zemirot Israel (Hymns of Israel), in Hebrew and Persian (Hamadan, Iran: Branch of the Zionist Union in Iran, 1921).
“Shivat Zion” and “Shir HaGueula”, poems written in honor of the 35 anniversary of the Mizrachi.
"Tafsir Mi Kamocha", a commentary in Persian about Yehuda Halevi’s poem, followed by a poem about Hadassa/Esther, bilingually, Hebrew/Persian (1924).