[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eric L. Haney

in Lebanon, Haney was deployed with other Delta Force members to train local Lebanese as part of the U.S. Embassy security detail. Later, he and his teammates were tasked with locating and eliminating snipers who were targeting U.S. Marines deployed as part of a United Nations peacekeeping mission.

Grenada – Operation: "Urgent Fury"
In 1983, during the U.S. invasion of Grenada in Operation Urgent Fury, Haney and other Delta operators were assigned to raid Richmond Hill Prison thought to hold political prisoners. Their helicopters came under heavy enemy fire, and they discovered the prison was empty. The raid was called off.

Panama – Operation: "Just Cause"
In 1989, the U.S. invaded the Republic of Panama in Operation Just Cause. Haney was Command Sergeant Major of the 193rd Infantry Brigade. He was involved in a fire fight along with C Co. 5/87th Inf. (Light) "Panthers", 193rd Inf. Brigade, in which Panamanian forces attempted to assassinate newly elected Panamanian Vice President Ford. Panamanian forces suffered heavy losses, while no U.S. soldiers were killed. This took place at the DNTT (Direccion Nacional de Transporte Terrestre), which served as the Headquarters of the National Police.

Book criticism
Since the publication of Inside Delta Force in 2002 and Haney's subsequent success with The Unit television show, three of his former Delta colleagues accused him of embellishing his accomplishments within the unit and fabricating several of the events depicted. Criticism includes Haney's claim that he was a "founding member" of Delta Force as other former members consider there was only one "founder", Colonel Charlie Beckwith, who helped establish the unit and was its first commanding officer.

One such colleague, Logan Fitch, who first wrote publicly of the Desert One mission for Penthouse Magazine in 1984, called Haney a "crass opportunist" for capitalizing on his past for personal gain. Haney maintains the accuracy of his book.

Another member criticized Haney for revealing too much about Delta Force's training, tactics and early missions. A U.S. Army historian has questioned whether this was an issue, given that the information contained in Haney's book was current during the late-1970s and early-1980s and that Delta Force would certainly have changed their procedures since then. Moreover, operational information offered by Delta veterans had been made public before, for instance in Black Hawk Down, Mark Bowden's book about the Battle of Mogadishu, and most notably in Delta Force: The Army's Elite Counterterrorist Unit, Beckwith's own account about the formation and training of the unit.

Post-military career

After retiring from the Army in 1990, Haney was employed as a freelance security consultant and trainer. He worked within the United States and abroad as a bodyguard, trainer for military and police forces, and private kidnap rescuer.

Some of Haney's assignments in the private sector include conducting the ransom negotiation and ransom hand-over for a kidnapped oil executive in Colombia, and helping governments in two Middle Eastern countries develop their special forces capabilities. He also worked for several years as personal security detail leader for several high-profile clients, such as Saudi Prince Khalid al Faisal and Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide upon his return from exile in 1994.

During the 1990s, Haney undertook security consulting work in Algeria on a gas pipeline project, and started a contract aviation company in Liberia. Some time later, Haney was approached about organizing and leading a coup attempt in another African nation. He claims to have subsequently thwarted the coup.

Following the September 11 attacks, Haney became a television commentator on military affairs and terrorism, appearing on CNN, Fox News, CBS News, The O'Reilly Factor and MSNBC. He has expressed opinions strongly critical of the planning and implementation of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

Haney was the host of a television series entitled "Spymaster USA," which aired on The Learning Channel in 2004.

Haney was involved as a writer, producer, and technical advisor for the CBS television series  The Unit, loosely based on his book. Haney also made a cameo appearance on the show as an Army recruiting officer.

Haney made a cameo appearance in the 2010 film Iron Man 2 portraying USAF commanding officer, General Meade.

Bibliography
 Inside Delta Force (2002), 
 Beyond Shock and Awe: Warfare in the 21st Century (2006) (ed., with Brian M. Thomsen) .
 No Man's Land (2010),  
 Low Country (2010), 
 The Prefect of Panama (2018),

See also

 Multinational Force in Lebanon
 1983 Beirut barracks bombing
 United States Special Operations Command

References

External links

 Eric Haney's personal website