[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jainism in Karnataka

a style, built by a noble lady, Attimabbe.

Navagraha Jain Temple at Varur near Hubli is one of the major pilgrimage. The temple features a 61 feet (18.6 m) tall monolithic idol of the Shri 1008 Bhagavan Parshvanatha and the smaller statues of the other 8 Jain teerthankaras.

Religious organisations

The Dakshin Bharat Jain Sabha is a religious and social service organisation of the Jains of South India. The organisation is headquartered at Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India. The association is credited with being one of the first Jain associations to start reform movements among the Jains in modern India. The organisation mainly seeks to represent the interests of the native Jains of Maharashtra (Marathi Jains), Karnataka (Kannada Jains) and Goa.

List of famous temples 

 Cave temples
 Badami cave temples in Badami
 Aihole cave temple

 Main temples
 Shravanabelagola, a monumental statue of Saint Gomateshwar(Bahubali) in Hassan district.
 Karkala, 1. Hiriyangadi Basadi 2. Chathurmukha Basadi 3. Padmavathi Kere Basadi. The famous monolithic  Gommateshwara statue, the second tallest in Karnataka is also here.
 Dharmasthala, a  Gomateshwara idol.
 Venur, a  Gomateshwara idol.
 Gommatagiri, a  Gomateshwara idol.
 Moodabidri, 18 ancient Jain temple including Saavira Kambada Basadi the Thousand Pillars Temple and Guru Basadi 
 Brahma Jinalaya in Lakkundi
 Humcha Jain temples
 Navagraha Jain Temple in Hubli
 Sankighatta
 Jain Narayana temple, Pattadakal
 Kundadri : It is said this is Samadhi sthal of Acharya Kundakunda
 Chaturmukha Basadi in Karkala
 Akkana Basadi
 Odegal basadi
 Parshvanatha basadi
 Basadi complex, Halebidu : 1. Parshvanatha Basadi 2. Shantinatha Basadi 3. Adinatha Basadi
 Varanga – This is an important Jain centre. The Kere basadi is located in midst of a lake. There are many other basadis too.
 Aihole Jain complex - Meguti Jain temple, Charanthimatha Group of temples, Yoginarayana group and Jain cave temple
 Kanakagiri Jain tirth
 Shanka Basadi & Ananthanatha basadi at Lakshmeshwara
 Chandragupta basadi
 Basadi complex in Shravanabelagola
 Shantinatha Basadi, Jinanathapura
 Panchakuta Basadi, Kambadahalli
 Hadavalli Jain Temple
 Chavundaraya Basadi
 Narasimharajapura
 Kamal Basadi & Chikki Basadi at Belgaum Fort
 Chaturmukha Basadi, Gerusoppa
 Mandaragiri
 Jain Bhattaraka Math at Manyakheta
 Aagam Mandir, Tumkur
 Kamthana Jain temple
 Shri 1008 Adinath Digamber Jin Mandir, Jayanagar, Bangalore
 Shri Mahavira Digambara Jain temple, Chickpet
 Kalya (Kalyana pura)
 Gundwad Jain Basadi
 Kathale Basadi, Barkur
 Sri Parshwanath Swamy Basadi
 Shri Parshwa Sushil Dham, Attibele
 Jain temple inside Hangal Fort, Hubli
 Hampi Jain complex
 Padmabbarasi basadi, Naregal
 Shantinatha Basadi, Kalaghatagi
 Godageri 
 Sargur
 Shri Parshwa Sushil Dham
 Shri 1008 Bhagwan Neminath Digambar Jain Basadi.,Terdal
 Shri khetra Badragiri,Halingali

Notable Karnataka Jains
Rani Chennabhairadevi
 Kumudendu Muni - Author of Siribhoovalaya, a unique multi-lingual literary work.
 Shivakotiacharya
 Chavundaraya- Poet
 Hampa Nagarajaiah
 Justice T. K. Tukol
 Mukhyamantri Chandru
 Professor Padmanabh S Jaini
 Veerendra Heggade
 Abhayachandra Jain
 Shubhachandra - Retd. Jainology Professor, Mysore University
 Bhavya
 Rani Abbakka
 Durvinita - king
 Amogavarsha - emperor, Pampa, Ranna,  Ajitprasad,
 Dr.Priti Shrimandhar Kumar - Retired Professor(Mysore University), Previous Director- Kuvempu Institute of Kannada Studies.
Justice R.S.Mahendra

Photo gallery

See also 

History of Jainism
Timeline of Jainism
Jainism in North Karnataka
History of Karnataka

External links

 Jainism and Karnataka culture (pdf)

References

Citation

Sources 
 
  
 
 
 

 
Karnataka society
Jain communities
Social groups of Karnataka
History of Karnataka