[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

hesitation that it would be utterly impossible. Yet so it was. She could not decide. She could not place him. She could not imagine what his parentage, what his youth, his manhood had been. She could not fancy him in any environment--save that golden light, that blue radiance, in which she had first consciously and fully met him face to face. She could not hear him in converse with any set of men or women, or invent, in her mind, what he might be likely to say to them. She could not conceive him bound by any ties of home, or family, mother, sister, wife, child. When she looked at him, thought about him, he presented himself to her alone, like a thing in the air. Yet he was more male than other men, breathed humanity--of some kind--as fire breathes heat. The child there was in him almost confused her, made her wonder whether long contact with the world had tarnished her own original simplicity. But she only saw the child in him now and then, and she fancied that it, too, he was anxious to conceal. This man had certainly a power to rouse feeling in others. She knew it by her own experience. By turns he had made her feel motherly, protecting, curious, constrained, passionate, energetic, timid--yes, almost timid and shy. No other human being had ever, even at moments, thus got the better of her natural audacity, lack of self-consciousness, and inherent, almost boyish, boldness. Nor was she aware what it was in him which sometimes made her uncertain of herself. She wondered. But he often woke up wonder in her. Despite their rides, their moments of intercourse in the hotel, on the verandah, she scarcely felt more intimate with him than she had at first. Sometimes indeed she thought that she felt less so, that the moment when the train ran out of the tunnel into the blue country was the moment in which they had been nearest to each other since they trod the verges of each other’s lives. She had never definitely said to herself: “Do I like him or dislike him?” Now, as she sat with Count Anteoni watching the noon, the half-drowsy, half-imaginative expression had gone out of her face. She looked rather rigid, rather formidable. Androvsky and Count Anteoni had never met. The Count had seen Androvsky in the distance from his garden more than once, but Androvsky had not seen him. The meeting that was about to take place was due to Domini. She had spoken to Androvsky on several occasions of the romantic beauty of this desert garden. “It is like a garden of the _Arabian Nights_,” she had said. He did not look enlightened, and she was moved to ask him abruptly whether he had ever read the famous book. He had not. A doubt came to her whether he had ever even heard of it. She mentioned the fact of Count Anteoni’s having made the garden, and spoke of him, sketching lightly his whimsicality, his affection for the Arabs, his love of solitude, and of African life. She also mentioned that he was by birth a Roman. “But scarcely of the black world I should imagine,” she added. Androvsky said nothing. “You should go and see the garden,” she continued. “Count Anteoni allows visitors to explore it.” “I am sure it must be very beautiful, Madame,” he replied, rather coldly, she thought. He did not say that he would go. As the garden won upon her, as its enchanted mystery, the airy wonder of its shadowy places, the glory of its trembling golden vistas, the restfulness of its green defiles, the strange, almost unearthly peace that reigned within it embalmed her spirit, as she learned not only to marvel at it, to be entranced by it, but to feel at home in it and love it, she was conscious of a persistent desire that Androvsky should know it too. Perhaps his dogged determination about the riding had touched her more than she was aware. She often saw before her the bent figure, that looked tired, riding alone into the luminous grey; starting thus early that his act, humble and determined, might not be known by her. He did not know that she had seen him, not only on that morning, but on many subsequent mornings, setting forth to study the new art in the solitude of the still hours. But the fact that she had seen, had watched till horse and rider vanished beyond the palms, had understood why, perhaps moved her to this permanent wish that he could share her pleasure in the garden, know it as she did. She did not argue with herself about the matter. She only knew that she wished, that presently she meant Androvsky to pass through the white gate and be met on the sand by Smain with his rose. One day Count Anteoni had asked her whether she had made acquaintance with the man who had fled from prayer. “Yes,” she said. “You know it.” “How?” “We have ridden to Sidi-Zerzour.” “I am not always by the wall.” “No, but I think you were that day.” “Why do you think so?” “I am sure you were.” He did not either acknowledge or deny it. “He has never been to see my garden,” he said. “No.” “He ought to come.” “I have told him so.” “Ah? Is he coming?” “I don’t think so.” “Persuade him to. I have a pride in my garden--oh, you have no idea what a pride! Any neglect of it, any indifference about it rasps me, plays upon the raw nerve each one of us possesses.” He spoke smilingly. She did not know what he was feeling, whether the remote thinker or the imp within him was at work or play. “I doubt if he is a man to be easily persuaded,” she said. “Perhaps not--persuade him.” After a moment Domini said: “I wonder whether you recognise that there are obstacles which the human will can’t negotiate?” “I could scarcely live where I do without recognising that the grains of sand are often driven by the wind. But when there is no wind!” “They lie still?” “And are the desert. I want to have a strange experience.” “What?” “A _fete_ in my garden.” “A fantasia?” “Something far more banal. A lunch party, a _dejeuner_. Will you honour me?” “By breakfasting with you? Yes, of course. Thank you.” “And will you bring--the second sun worshipper?” She looked into the Count’s small, shining eyes. “Monsieur Androvsky?” “If that is his name. I can send him an invitation, of course. But that’s rather formal, and I don’t think he is formal.” “On what day do you ask us?” “Any day--Friday.” “And why do you ask us?” “I wish to overcome this indifference to my garden. It hurts me, not only in my pride, but in my affections.” The whole thing had been like a sort of serious game. Domini had not said that she would convey the odd invitation; but when she was alone, and thought of the way in which Count Anteoni had said “Persuade him,” she knew she would, and she meant Androvsky to accept it. This was an opportunity of seeing him in company with another man, a man of the world, who had read, travelled, thought, and doubtless lived. She asked him that evening, and saw the red, that came as it comes in a boy’s face, mount to his forehead. “Everybody who comes to Beni-Mora comes to see the garden,” she said before he could reply. “Count Anteoni is half angry with you for being an exception.” “But--but, Madame, how can Monsieur the Count know that I am here? I have not seen him.” “He knows there is a second traveller, and he’s a hospitable man. Monsieur Androvsky, I want you to come; I want you to see the garden.” “It is very kind of you, Madame.” The reluctance in his voice was extreme. Yet he did not like to say no. While he hesitated, Domini continued: “You remember when I asked you to ride?” “Yes, Madame.” “That was new to you. Well, it has given you pleasure, hasn’t it?” “Yes, Madame.” “So will the garden. I want to put another pleasure into your life.” She had begun to speak with the light persuasiveness of a woman of the world--wishing to overcome a man’s diffidence or obstinacy, but while she said the words she felt a sudden earnestness rush over her. It went into the voice, and surely smote upon him like a gust of the hot wind that sometimes blows out of the desert. “I shall come, Madame,” he said quickly. “Friday. I may be in the garden in the morning. I’ll meet you at the gate at half-past twelve.” “Friday?” he said. Already he seemed to be wavering in his acceptance. Domini did not stay with him any longer. “I’m glad,” she said in a finishing tone. And she went away. Now Count Anteoni told her that he had invited the priest. She felt vexed, and her face showed that she did. A cloud came down and immediately she looked changed and disquieting. Yet she liked the priest. As she sat in silence her vexation became more profound. She felt certain that if Androvsky had known the priest was coming he would not have accepted the invitation. She wished him to come, yet she wished he had known. He might think that she had known the fact and had concealed it. She did not suppose for a moment that he disliked Father Roubier personally, but he certainly avoided him. He bowed to him in the coffee-room of the hotel, but never spoke to him. Batouch had told her about the episode with Bous-Bous. And she had seen Bous-Bous endeavour to renew the intimacy and repulsed with determination. Androvsky must dislike the priesthood. He might fancy that she, a believing Catholic, had--a number of disagreeable suppositions ran through her mind. She had always been inclined to hate the propagandist since the tragedy in her family. It was a pity Count Anteoni had not indulged his imp in a different fashion. The beauty of the noon seemed spoiled. “Forgive my malice,” Count Anteoni said. “It was really a thing of thistledown. Can it be going to do harm? I can scarcely think so.” “No, no.” She roused herself, with the instinct of a woman who has lived much in the world, to conceal the vexation that, visible, would cause a depression to stand in the natural place of cheerfulness. “The desert is making me abominably natural,” she thought. At this moment the black figure of Father Roubier came out of the shadows of the