[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

voice. She smiled down at him gaily. “Should I be carried off by nomads, Monsieur?” “It would not be safe for a lady, believe me.” Batouch swept forward to reassure the priest. “I am Madame’s guide. I have a horse ready saddled to accompany Madame. I have sent for it already, M’sieur.” One of the little Arab boys was indeed visible running with all his might towards the Rue Berthe. Domini’s face suddenly clouded. The presence of the guide would take all the edge off her pleasure, and in the short gallop she had just had she had savoured its keenness. She was alive with desire to be happy. “I don’t need you, Batouch,” she said. But the poet was inexorable, backed up by the priest. “It is my duty to accompany Madame. I am responsible for her safety.” “Indeed, you cannot go into the desert alone,” said the priest. Domini glanced at Androvsky, who was standing silently under the arcade, a little withdrawn, looking uncomfortable and self-conscious. She remembered her thought on the tower of the dice-thrower, and of how the presence of the stranger had seemed to double her pleasure then. Up the road from the Rue Berthe came the noise of a galloping horse. The shoeblack was returning furiously, his bare legs sticking out on either side of a fiery light chestnut with a streaming mane and tail. “Monsieur Androvsky,” she said. He started. “Madame?” “Will you come with me for a ride into the desert?” His face was flooded with scarlet, and he came a step forward, looking up at her. “I!” he said with an accent of infinite surprise. “Yes. Will you?” The chestnut thundered up and was pulled sharply back on its haunches. Androvsky shot a sideways glance at it and hesitated. Domini thought he was going to refuse and wished she had not asked him, wished it passionately. “Never mind,” she said, almost brutally in her vexation at what she had done. “Batouch!” The poet was about to spring upon the horse when Androvsky caught him by the arm. “I will go,” he said. Batouch looked vicious. “But Monsieur told me he did not----” He stopped. The hand on his arm had given him a wrench that made him feel as if his flesh were caught between steel pincers. Androvsky came up to the chestnut. “Oh, it’s an Arab saddle,” said Domini. “It does not matter, Madame.” His face was stern. “Are you accustomed to them?” “It makes no difference.” He took hold of the rein and put his foot in the high stirrup, but so awkwardly that he kicked the horse in the side. It plunged. “Take care!” said Domini. Androvsky hung on, and climbed somehow into the saddle, coming down in it heavily, with a thud. The horse, now thoroughly startled, plunged furiously and lashed out with its hind legs. Androvsky was thrown forward against the high red peak of the saddle with his hands on the animal’s neck. There was a struggle. He tugged at the rein violently. The horse jumped back, reared, plunged sideways as if about to bolt. Androvsky was shot off and fell on his right shoulder heavily. Batouch caught the horse while Androvsky got up. He was white with dust. There was even dust on his face and in his short hair. He looked passionate. “You see,” Batouch began, speaking to Domini, “that Monsieur cannot--” “Give me the rein!” said Androvsky. There was a sound in his deep voice that was terrible. He was looking not at Domini, but at the priest, who stood a little aside with an expression of concern on his face. Bous-Bous barked with excitement at the conflict. Androvsky took the rein, and, with a sort of furious determination, sprang into the saddle and pressed his legs against the horse’s flanks. It reared up. The priest moved back under the palm trees, the Arab boys scattered. Batouch sought the shelter of the arcade, and the horse, with a short, whining neigh that was like a cry of temper, bolted between the trunks of the trees, heading for the desert, and disappeared in a flash. “He will be killed,” said the priest. Bous-Bous barked frantically. “It is his own fault,” said the poet. “He told me himself just now that he did not know how to ride.” “Why didn’t you tell me so?” Domini exclaimed. “Madame----” But she was gone, following Androvsky at a slow canter lest she should frighten his horse by coming up behind it. She came out from the shade of the palms into the sun. The desert lay before her. She searched it eagerly with her eyes and saw Androvsky’s horse far off in the river bed, still going at a gallop towards the south, towards that region in which she had told him on the tower she thought that peace must dwell. It was as if he had believed her words blindly and was frantically in chase of peace. And she pursued him through the blazing sunlight. She was out in the desert at length, beyond the last belt of verdure, beyond the last line of palms. The desert wind was on her cheek and in her hair. The desert spaces stretched around her. Under her horse’s hoofs lay the sparkling crystals on the wrinkled, sun-dried earth. The red rocks, seamed with many shades of colour that all suggested primeval fires and the relentless action of heat, were heaped about her. But her eyes were fixed on the far-off moving speck that was the horse carrying Androvsky madly towards the south. The light and fire, the great airs, the sense of the chase intoxicated her. She struck her horse with the whip. It leaped, as if clearing an immense obstacle, came down lightly and strained forward into the shining mysteries at a furious gallop. The black speck grew larger. She was gaining. The crumbling, cliff-like bank on her left showed a rent in which a faint track rose sharply to the flatness beyond. She put her horse at it and came out among the tiny humps on which grew the halfa grass and the tamarisk bushes. A pale sand flew up here about the horse’s feet. Androvsky was still below her in the difficult ground where the water came in the floods. She gained and gained till she was parallel with him and could see his bent figure, his arms clinging to the peak of his red saddle, his legs set forward almost on to his horse’s withers by the short stirrups with their metal toecaps. The animal’s temper was nearly spent. She could see that. The terror had gone out of his pace. As she looked she saw Androvsky raise his arms from the saddle peak, catch at the flying rein, draw it up, lean against the saddle back and pull with all his force. The horse stopped dead. “His strength must be enormous,” Domini thought with a startled admiration. She pulled up too on the bank above him and gave a halloo. He turned his head, saw her, and put his horse at the bank, which was steep here and without any gap. “You can’t do it,” she called. In reply he dug the heels of his heavy boots into the horse’s flanks and came on recklessly. She thought the horse would either refuse or try to get up and roll back on its rider. It sprang at the bank and mounted like a wild cat. There was a noise of falling stones, a shower of scattered earth-clods dropping downward, and he was beside her, white with dust, streaming with sweat, panting as if the labouring breath would rip his chest open, with the horse’s foam on his forehead, and a savage and yet exultant gleam in his eyes. They looked at each other in silence, while their horses, standing quietly, lowered their narrow, graceful heads and touched noses with delicate inquiry. Then she said: “I almost thought----” She stopped. “Yes?” he said, on a great gasping breath that was like a sob. “--that you were off to the centre of the earth, or--I don’t know what I thought. You aren’t hurt?” “No.” He could only speak in monosyllables as yet. She looked his horse over. “He won’t give much more trouble just now. Shall we ride back?” As she spoke she threw a longing glance at the far desert, at the verge of which was a dull green line betokening the distant palms of an oasis. Androvsky shook his head. “But you----” She hesitated. “Perhaps you aren’t accustomed to horses, and with that saddle----” He shook his head again, drew a tremendous breath and said “I don’t care, I’ll go on, I won’t go back.” He put up one hand, brushed the foam from his streaming forehead, and said again fiercely: “I won’t go back.” His face was extraordinary with its dogged, passionate expression showing through the dust and the sweat; like the face of a man in a fight to the death, she thought, a fight with fists. She was glad at his last words and liked the iron sound in his voice. “Come on then.” And they began to ride towards the dull green line of the oasis, slowly on the sandy waste among the little round humps where the dusty cluster of bushes grew. “You weren’t hurt by the fall?” she said. “It looked a bad one.” “I don’t know whether I was. I don’t care whether I was.” He spoke almost roughly. “You asked me to ride with you,” he added. “I’ll ride with you.” She remembered what Batouch had said. There was pluck in this man, pluck that surged up in the blundering awkwardness, the hesitation, the incompetence and rudeness of him like a black rock out of the sea. She did not answer. They rode on, always slowly. His horse, having had its will, and having known his strength at the end of his incompetence, went quietly, though always with that feathery, light, tripping action peculiar to purebred Arabs, an action that suggests the treading of a spring board rather than of the solid earth. And Androvsky seemed a little more at home on it, although he sat awkwardly on the chair-like saddle, and grasped the rein too much as the drowning man seizes the straw. Domini rode without looking at him, lest he might think she was criticising his performance. When he had rolled in the dust she had been conscious of a sharp sensation of contempt. The men she had been accustomed to meet all her life rode, shot, played games as a matter of course. She was herself an athlete, and, like nearly all athletic women, inclined to be pitiless towards any man who was not