[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

suppose even in the desert we cannot have it always,” she said. And in her voice, too, there was a touch of melancholy, as if she had caught his mood. A minute later she added: “I feel exactly as if I were on a hill top and were coming to a view of the sea.” Almost as she spoke they cantered in among the tents of the attendants, and reined in their horses at the edge of a slope that was almost a precipice. Then they sat still in their saddles, gazing. They had been living for weeks in the midst of vastness, and had become accustomed to see stretched out around them immense tracts of land melting away into far blue distances, but this view from Mogar made them catch their breath and stiffed their pulses. It was gigantic. There was even something unnatural in its appearance of immensity, as if it were, perhaps, deceptive, and existed in their vision of it only. So, surely, might look a plain to one who had taken haschish, which enlarges, makes monstrous and threateningly terrific. Domini had a feeling that no human eyes could really see such infinite tracts of land and water as those she seemed to be seeing at this moment. For there was water here, in the midst of the desert. Infinite expanses of sea met infinite plains of snow. Or so it seemed to both of them. And the sea was grey and calm as a winter sea, breathing its plaint along a winter land. From it, here and there, rose islets whose low cliffs were a deep red like the red of sandstone, a sad colour that suggests tragedy, islets that looked desolate, and as if no life had ever been upon them, or could be. Back from the snowy plains stretched sand dunes of the palest primrose colour, sand dunes innumerable, myriads and myriads of them, rising and falling, rising and falling, till they were lost in the grey distance of this silent world. In the foreground, at their horses’ feet, wound from the hill summit a broad track faintly marked in the deep sand, and flanked by huge dunes shaped, by the action of the winds, into grotesque semblances of monsters, leviathans, beasts with prodigious humps, sphinxes, whales. This track was presently lost in the blanched plains. Far away, immeasurably far, sea and snow blended and faded into the cloudy grey. Above the near dunes two desert eagles were slowly wheeling in a weary flight, occasionally sinking towards the sand, then rising again towards the clouds. And the track was strewn with the bleached bones of camels that had perished, or that had been slaughtered, on some long desert march. To the left of them the solitary tower commanded this terrific vision of desolation, seemed to watch it steadily, yet furtively, with its tiny loophole eyes. “We have come into winter,” Domini murmured. She looked at the white of the camels’ bones, of the plains, at the grey white of the sky, at the yellow pallor of the dunes. “How wonderful! How terrible!” she said. She drew her horse to one side, a little nearer to Androvsky’s. “Does the Russian in you greet this land?” she asked him. He did not reply. He seemed to be held in thrall by the sad immensity before them. “I realise here what it must be to die in the desert, to be killed by it--by hunger, by thirst in it,” she said presently, speaking, as if to herself, and looking out over the mirage sea, the mirage snow. “This is the first time I have really felt the terror of the desert.” Her horse drooped its head till its nose nearly touched the earth, and shook itself in a long shiver. She shivered too, as if constrained to echo an animal’s distress. “Things have died here,” Androvsky said, speaking at last in a low voice and pointing with his long-lashed whip towards the camels’ skeletons. “Come, Domini, the horses are tired.” He cast another glance at the tower, and they dismounted by their tent, which was pitched at the very edge of the steep slope that sank down to the beast-like shapes of the near dunes. An hour later Domini said to Androvsky: “You won’t go after gazelle this evening surely?” They had been having coffee in the tent and had just finished. Androvsky got up from his chair and went to the tent door. The grey of the sky was pierced by a gleaming shaft from the sun. “Do you mind if I go?” he said, turning towards her after a glance to the desert. “No, but aren’t you tired?” He shook his head. “I couldn’t ride, and now I can ride. I couldn’t shoot, and I’m just beginning--” “Go,” she said quickly. “Besides, we want gazelle for dinner, Batouch says, though I don’t suppose we should starve without it.” She came to the tent door and stood beside him, and he put his arm around her. “If I were alone here, Boris,” she said, leaning against his shoulder, “I believe I should feel horribly sad to-day.” “Shall I stay?” He pressed her against him. “No. I shall know you are coming back. Oh, how extraordinary it is to think we lived so many years without knowing of each other’s existence, that we lived alone. Were you ever happy?” He hesitated before he replied. “I sometimes thought I was.” “But do you think now you ever really were?” “I don’t know--perhaps in a lonely sort of way.” “You can never be happy in that way now?” He said nothing, but, after a moment, he kissed her long and hard, and as if he wanted to draw her being into his through the door of his lips. “Good-bye,” he said, releasing her. “I shall be back directly after sundown.” “Yes. Don’t wait for the dark down there. If you were lost in the dunes!” She pointed to the distant sand hills rising and falling monotonously to the horizon. “If you are not back in good time,” she said, “I shall stand by the tower and wave a brand from the fire.” “Why by the tower?” “The ground is highest by the tower.” She watched him ride away on a mule, with two Arabs carrying guns. They went towards the plains of saltpetre that looked like snow beside the sea that was only a mirage. Then she turned back into the tent, took up a volume of Fromentin’s, and sat down in a folding-chair at the tent door. She read a little, but it was difficult to read with the mirage beneath her. Perpetually her eyes were attracted from the book to its mystery and plaintive sadness, that was like the sadness of something unearthly, of a spirit that did not move but that suffered. She did not put away the book, but presently she laid it down on her knees, open, and sat gazing. Androvsky had disappeared with the Arabs into some fold of the sands. The sun-ray had vanished with him. Without Androvsky and the sun--she still connected them together, and knew she would for ever. The melancholy of this desert scene was increased for her till it became oppressive and lay upon her like a heavy weight. She was not a woman inclined to any morbid imaginings. Indeed, all that was morbid roused in her an instinctive disgust. But the sudden greyness of the weather, coming after weeks of ardent sunshine, and combined with the fantastic desolation of the landscape, which was half real and half unreal, turned her for the moment towards a dreariness of spirit that was rare in her. She realised suddenly, as she looked and did not see Androvsky even as a black and moving speck upon the plain; what the desert would seem to her without him, even in sunshine, the awfulness of the desolation of it, the horror of its distances. And realising this she also realised the uncertainty of the human life in connection with any other human life. To be dependent on another is to double the sum of the terrors of uncertainty. She had done that. If the immeasurable sands took Androvsky and never gave him back to her! What would she do? She gazed at the mirage sea with its dim red islands, and at the sad white plains along its edge. Winter--she would be plunged in eternal winter. And each human life hangs on a thread. All deep love, all consuming passion, holds a great fear within the circle of a great glory. To-day the fear within the circle of her glory seemed to grow. But she suddenly realised that she ought to dominate it, to confine it--as it were--to its original and permanent proportions. She got up, came out upon the edge of the hill, and walked along it slowly towards the tower. Outside, freed from the shadow of the tent, she felt less oppressed, though still melancholy, and even slightly apprehensive, as if some trouble were coming to her and were near at hand. Mentally she had made the tower the limit of her walk, and therefore when she reached it she stood still. It was a squat, square tower, strongly constructed, with loopholes in the four sides, and now that she was by it she saw built out at the back of it a low house with small shuttered windows and a narrow courtyard for mules. No doubt Androvsky was right and French soldiers had once been here to work the optic telegraph. She thought of the recruits and of Marseilles, of Notre Dame de la Garde, the Mother of God, looking towards Africa. Such recruits came to live in such strange houses as this tower lost in the desert and now abandoned. She glanced at the shuttered windows and turned back towards the tent; but something in the situation of the tower--perhaps the fact that it was set on the highest point of the ground--attracted her, and she presently made Batouch bring her out some rugs and ensconced herself under its shadow, facing the mirage sea. How long she sat there she did not know. Mirage hypnotises the imaginative and suggests to them dreams strange and ethereal, sad sometimes, as itself. How long she might have sat there dreaming, but for an interruption, she knew still less. It was towards evening, however, but before evening had fallen, that a weary and travel-stained party of three French soldiers, Zouaves, and an officer rode slowly up the sandy track from the dunes. They were mounted on mules, and carried their small baggage with them on two led mules. When they reached the top of the hill they turned to the right and came