[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

is so little, but--no, Boris, I can’t say--I don’t think I could ever truly say that I wish you to think no more of me. After all, one has a heart, and I think if it’s worth anything it must be often a rebellious heart. I know mine is rebellious. But if you don’t think too much of me--when you are there--” She paused, and they looked at each other for a moment in silence. Then she continued: “Surely it will be easier for you, happier for you.” Androvsky clenched his right hand on the divan and turned round till he was facing her full. His eyes blazed. “Domini,” he said, “you are truthful. I’ll be truthful to you. Till the end of my life I’ll think of you--every day, every hour. If it were mortal sin to think of you I would commit it--yes, Domini, deliberately, I would commit it. But--God doesn’t ask so much of us; no, God doesn’t. I’ve made my confession. I know what I must do. I’ll do it. You are right--you are always right--you are guided, I know that. But I will think of you. And I’ll tell you something--don’t shirk from it, because it’s truth, the truth of my soul, and you love truth. Domini--” Suddenly he got up from the divan and stood before her, looking down at her steadily. “Domini, I can’t regret that I have seen you, that we have been together, that we have loved each other, that we do love each other for ever. I can’t regret it; I can’t even try or wish to. I can’t regret that I have learned from you the meaning of life. I know that God has punished me for what I have done. In my love for you--till I told you the truth, that other truth--I never had a moment of peace--of exultation, yes, of passionate exultation; but never, never a moment of peace. For always, even in the most beautiful moments, there has been agony for me. For always I have known that I was sinning against God and you, against myself, my eternal vows. And yet now I tell you, Domini, as I have told God since I have been able to pray again, that I am glad, thankful, that I have loved you, been loved by you. Is it wicked? I don’t know. I can scarcely even care, because it’s true. And how can I deny the truth, strive against truth? I am as I am, and I am that. God has made me that. God will forgive me for being as I am. I’m not afraid. I believe--I dare to believe--that He wishes me to think of you always till the end of my life. I dare to believe that He would almost hate me if I could ever cease from loving you. That’s my other confession--my confession to you. I was born, perhaps, to be a monk. But I was born, too, that I might love you and know your love, your beauty, your tenderness, your divinity. If I had not known you, if I had died a monk, a good monk who had never denied his vows, I should have died--I feel it, Domini--in a great, a terrible ignorance. I should have known the goodness of God, but I should never have known part, a beautiful part, of His goodness. For I should never have known the goodness that He has put into you. He has taught me through you. He has tortured me through you; yes, but through you, too, He has made me understand Him. When I was in the monastery, when I was at peace, when I lost myself in prayer, when I was absolutely pure, absolutely--so I thought--the child of God, I never really knew God. Now, Domini, now I know Him. In the worst moments of the new agony that I must meet at least I shall always have that help. I shall always feel that I know what God is. I shall always, when I think of you, when I remember you, be able to say, ‘God is love.’” He was silent, but his face still spoke to her, his eyes read her eyes. And in that moment at last they understood each other fully and for ever. “It was written”--that was Domini’s thought--“it was written by God.” Far away the church bell chimed. “Boris,” Domini said quietly, “we must go to-day. We must leave Beni-Mora. You know that?” “Yes,” he said, “I know.” He looked out into the garden. The almost fierce resolution, that had something in it of triumph, faded from him. “Yes,” he said, “this is the end, the real end, for--there, it will all be different--it will be terrible.” “Let us sit here for a little while together,” Domini said, “and be quiet. Is it like the garden of El-Largani, Boris?” “No. But when I first came here, when I saw the white walls, the great door, when I saw the poor Arabs gathered there to receive alms, it made me feel almost as if I were at El-Largani. That was why----” he paused. “I understand, Boris, I understand everything now.” And then they were silent. Such a silence as theirs was then could never be interpreted to others. In it the sorrows, the aspirations, the struggles, the triumphs, the torturing regrets, the brave determinations of poor, great, feeble, noble humanity were enclosed as in a casket--a casket which contains many kinds of jewels, but surely none that are not precious. And the garden listened, and beyond the garden the desert listened--that other garden of Allah. And in this garden was not Allah, too, listening to this silence of his children, this last mutual silence of theirs in the garden where they had wandered, where they had loved, where they had learned a great lesson and drawn near to a great victory? They might have sat thus for hours; they had lost all count of time. But presently, in the distance among the trees, there rose a light, frail sound that struck into both their hearts like a thin weapon. It was the flute of Larbi, and it reminded them--of what did it not remind them? All their passionate love of the body, all their lawlessness, all the joy of liberty and of life, of the barbaric life that is liberty, all their wandering in the great spaces of the sun, were set before them in Larbi’s fluttering tune, that was like the call of a siren, the call of danger, the call of earth and of earthly things, summoning them to abandon the summons of the spirit. Domini got up swiftly. “Come, Boris,” she said, without looking at him. He obeyed her and rose to his feet. “Let us go to the wall,” she said, “and look out once more on the desert. It must be nearly noon. Perhaps--perhaps we shall hear the call to prayer.” They walked down the winding alleys towards the edge of the garden. The sound of the flute of Larbi died away gradually into silence. Soon they saw before them the great spaces of the Sahara flooded with the blinding glory of the summer sunlight. They stood and looked out over it from the shelter of some pepper trees. No caravans were passing. No Arabs were visible. The desert seemed utterly empty, given over, naked, to the dominion of the sun. While they stood there the nasal voice of the Mueddin rose from the minaret of the mosque of Beni-Mora, uttered its fourfold cry, and died away. “Boris,” Domini said, “that is for the Arabs, but for us, too, for we belong to the garden of Allah as they do, perhaps even more than they.” “Yes, Domini.” She remembered how, long ago, Count Anteoni had stood there with her and repeated the words of the angel to the Prophet, and she murmured them now: “O thou that art covered, arise, and magnify thy Lord, and purify thy clothes, and depart from uncleanness.” Then, standing side by side, they prayed, looking at the desert. CHAPTER XXX In the evening of that day they left Beni-Mora. Domini wished to go quietly, but, knowing the Arabs, she feared it would be impossible. Nevertheless, when she paid Batouch in the hotel and thanked him for all his services, she said: “We’ll say adieu here, Batouch.” The poet displayed a large surprise. “But I will accompany Madame to the station. I will--” “It is not necessary.” Batouch looked offended but obstinate. His ample person became almost rigid. “If I am not at the station, Madame, what will Hadj think, and Ali, and Ouardi, and--” “They will be there?” “Of course, Madame. Where else should they be? Does Madame wish to leave us like a thief in the night, or like--” “No, no, Batouch. I am very grateful to you all, but especially to you.” Batouch began to smile. “Madame has entered into our hearts as no other stranger has ever done,” he remarked. “Madame understands the Arabs. We shall all come to say _au revoir_ and to wish Madame and Monsieur a happy journey.” For the moment the irony of her situation struck Domini so forcibly that she could say nothing. She only looked at Batouch in silence. “What is it? But I know. Madame is sad at leaving the desert, at leaving Beni-Mora.” “Yes, Batouch. I am sad at leaving Beni-Mora.” “But Madame will return?” “Who knows?” “I know. The desert has a spell. He who has once seen the desert must see it again. The desert calls and its voice is always heard. Madame will hear it when she is far away, and some day she will feel, ‘I must come back to the land of the sun and to the beautiful land of forgetfulness.’” “I shall see you at the station, Batouch,” Domini said quickly. “Good-bye till then.” The train for Tunis started at sundown, in order that the travellers might avoid the intense heat of the day. All the afternoon they kept within doors. The Arabs were sleeping in dark rooms. The gardens were deserted. Domini could not sleep. She sat near the French window that opened on to the verandah and said a silent good-bye to life. For that was what she felt--that life was leaving her, life with its intensity, its fierce meaning. She had come out of a sort of death to find life in Beni-Mora, and now she felt that she was going back again to something that would be like death. After her strife there came a numbness of the spirit, a heavy dullness. Time passed and she sat there without moving. Sometimes she looked at the trunks lying on the floor ready for the