[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

could see the veins of colour in them, a lizard running over one of them and disappearing into a dark crevice, then the white tower and the Arabs beneath it. One was an old man yawning; the other a boy. He rubbed the tip of his brown nose, and she saw the henna stains upon his nails. She lifted the glasses slowly and with precaution. The tower ran away. She came to the low cliff, to the brown huts and the palms, passed them one by one, and reached the last, which was separated from its companions. Under it stood a tall Arab in a garment like a white night-shirt. “He looks as if he had only one eye!” she exclaimed. “The palm-tree man--yes.” She travelled cautiously away from him, keeping the glasses level. “Ah!” she said on an indrawn breath. As she spoke the thin, nasal cry of a distant voice broke upon her ears, prolonging a strange call. “The Mueddin,” said Count Anteoni. And he repeated in a low tone the words of the angel to the prophet: “Oh thou that art covered arise . . . and magnify thy Lord; and purify thy clothes, and depart from uncleanness.” The call died away and was renewed three times. The old man and the boy beneath the tower turned their faces towards Mecca, fell upon their knees and bowed their heads to the hot stones. The tall Arab under the palm sank down swiftly. Domini kept the glasses at her eyes. Through them, as in a sort of exaggerated vision, very far off, yet intensely distinct, she saw the man with whom she had travelled in the train. He went to and fro, to and fro on the burning ground till the fourth call of the Mueddin died away. Then, as he approached the isolated palm tree and saw the Arab beneath it fall to the earth and bow his long body in prayer, he paused and stood still as if in contemplation. The glasses were so powerful that it was possible to see the expressions on faces even at that distance. The expression on the traveller’s face was, or seemed to be, at first one of profound attention. But this changed swiftly as he watched the bowing figure, and was succeeded by a look of uneasiness, then of fierce disgust, then--surely--of fear or horror. He turned sharply away like a driven man, and hurried off along the cliff edge in a striding walk, quickening his steps each moment till his departure became a flight. He disappeared behind a projection of earth where the path sank to the river bed. Domini laid the glasses down on the wall and looked at Count Anteoni. “You say an atheist in the desert is unimaginable? “Isn’t it true?” “Has an atheist a hatred, a horror of prayer?” “Chi lo sa? The devil shrank away from the lifted Cross.” “Because he knew how much that was true it symbolised.” “No doubt had it been otherwise he would have jeered, not cowered. But why do you ask me this question, Madame?” “I have just seen a man flee from the sight of prayer.” “Your fellow-traveller?” “Yes. It was horrible.” She gave him back the glasses. “They reveal that which should be hidden,” she said. Count Anteoni took the glasses slowly from her hands. As he bent to do it he looked steadily at her, and she could not read the expression in his eyes. “The desert is full of truth. Is that what you mean?” he asked. She made no reply. Count Anteoni stretched out his hand to the shining expanse before them. “The man who is afraid of prayer is unwise to set foot beyond the palm trees,” he said. “Why unwise?” He answered her very gravely. “The Arabs have a saying: ‘The desert is the garden of Allah.’” * * * * * Domini did not ascend the tower of the hotel that morning. She had seen enough for the moment, and did not wish to disturb her impressions by adding to them. So she walked back to the Hotel du Desert with Batouch. Count Anteoni had said good-bye to her at the door of the garden, and had begged her to come again whenever she liked, and to spend as many hours there as she pleased. “I shall take you at your word,” she said frankly. “I feel that I may.” As they shook hands she gave him her card. He took out his. “By the way,” he said, “the big hotel you passed in coming here is mine. I built it to prevent a more hideous one being built, and let it to the proprietor. You might like to ascend the tower. The view at sundown is incomparable. At present the hotel is shut, but the guardian will show you everything if you give him my card.” He pencilled some words in Arabic on the back from right to left. “You write Arabic, too?” Domini said, watching the forming of the pretty curves with interest. “Oh, yes; I am more than half African, though my father was a Sicilian and my mother a Roman.” He gave her the card, took off his hat and bowed. When the tall white door was softly shut by Smain, Domini felt rather like a new Eve expelled from Paradise, without an Adam as a companion in exile. “Well, Madame?” said Batouch. “Have I spoken the truth?” “Yes. No European garden can be so beautiful as that. Now I am going straight home.” She smiled to herself as she said the last word. Outside the hotel they found Hadj looking ferocious. He exchanged some words with Batouch, accompanying them with violent gestures. When he had finished speaking he spat upon the ground. “What is the matter with him?” Domini asked. “The Monsieur who is staying here would not take him to-day, but went into the desert alone. Hadj wishes that the nomads may cut his throat, and that his flesh may be eaten by jackals. Hadj is sure that he is a bad man and will come to a bad end.” “Because he does not want a guide every day! But neither shall I.” “Madame is quite different. I would give my life for Madame.” “Don’t do that, but go this afternoon and find me a horse. I don’t want a quiet one, but something with devil, something that a Spahi would like to ride.” The desert spirits were speaking to her body as well as to her mind. A physical audacity was stirring in her, and she longed to give it vent. “Madame is like the lion. She is afraid of nothing.” “You speak without knowing, Batouch. Don’t come for me this afternoon, but bring round a horse, if you can find one, to-morrow morning.” “This very evening I will--” “No, Batouch. I said to-morrow morning.” She spoke with a quiet but inflexible decision which silenced him. Then she gave him ten francs and went into the dark house, from which the burning noonday sun was carefully excluded. She intended to rest after _dejeuner_, and towards sunset to go to the big hotel and mount alone to the summit of the tower. It was half-past twelve, and a faint rattle of knives and forks from the _salle-a-manger_ told her that _dejeuner_ was ready. She went upstairs, washed her face and hands in cold water, stood still while Suzanne shook the dust from her gown, and then descended to the public room. The keen air had given her an appetite. The _salle-a-manger_ was large and shady, and was filled with small tables, at only three of which were people sitting. Four French officers sat together at one. A small, fat, perspiring man of middle age, probably a commercial traveller, who had eyes like a melancholy toad, was at another, eating olives with anxious rapidity, and wiping his forehead perpetually with a dirty white handkerchief. At the third was the priest with whom Domini had spoken in the church. His napkin was tucked under his beard, and he was drinking soup as he bent well over his plate. A young Arab waiter, with a thin, dissipated face, stood near the door in bright yellow slippers. When Domini came in he stole forward to show her to her table, making a soft, shuffling sound on the polished wooden floor. The priest glanced up over his napkin, rose and bowed. The French officers stared with an interest they were too chivalrous to attempt to conceal. Only the fat little man was entirely unconcerned. He wiped his forehead, stuck his fork deftly into an olive, and continued to look like a melancholy toad entangled by fate in commercial pursuits. Domini’s table was by a window, across which green Venetian shutters were drawn. It was at a considerable distance from the other guests, who did not live in the house, but came there each day for their meals. Near it she noticed a table laid for one person, and so arranged that if he came to _dejeuner_ he would sit exactly opposite to her. She wondered if it was for the man at whom she had just been looking through Count Anteoni’s field-glasses, the man who had fled from prayer in the “Garden of Allah.” As she glanced at the empty chair standing before the knives and forks, and the white cloth, she was uncertain whether she wished it to be filled by the traveller or not. She felt his presence in Beni-Mora as a warring element. That she knew. She knew also that she had come there to find peace, a great calm and remoteness in which she could at last grow, develop, loose her true self from cramping bondage, come to an understanding with herself, face her heart and soul, and--as it were--look them in the eyes and know them for what they were, good or evil. In the presence of this total stranger there was something unpleasantly distracting which she could not and did not ignore, something which roused her antagonism and which at the same time compelled her attention. She had been conscious of it in the train, conscious of it in the tunnel at twilight, at night in the hotel, and once again in Count Anteoni’s garden. This man intruded himself, no doubt unconsciously, or even against his will, into her sight, her thoughts, each time that she was on the point of giving herself to what Count Anteoni called “the desert spirits.” So it had been when the train ran out of the tunnel into the blue country. So it had been again when she leaned on the white wall and gazed out over the shining fastnesses of the sun. He was there like