[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

with the torch sending forth a long tongue of golden flame, the ardent and unconscious pose, that set before him a warm passionate heart calling to another heart without shame, made him think of her as some Goddess of the Sahara. He had let his torch droop towards the earth, but, as she waved hers, he had an irresistible impulse to join her in the action she made heroic and superb. And presently he lifted his torch, too, and waved it beside hers in the night. She smiled at him in the flames. “He must see them surely,” she said. From below, in the distance of the desert, there rose a loud cry in a strong man’s voice. “Aha!” she exclaimed. She called out in return in a warm, powerful voice. The man’s voice answered, nearer. She dropped her brand to the earth. “Monsieur, you will come then--in half an hour?” “Madame, with the most heartfelt pleasure. But let me accompany--” “No, I am quite safe. And bring your men with you. We’ll make the best feast we can for them. And there’s enough champagne for all.” Then she went away quickly, eagerly, into the darkness. “To be her husband!” murmured De Trevignac. “Lucky--lucky fellow!” And he dropped his brand beside hers on the ground, and stood watching the two flames mingle. “Lucky--lucky fellow!” he said again aloud. “I wonder what he’s like.” CHAPTER XX When Domini reached the camp she found it in a bustle. Batouch, resigned to the inevitable, had put the cook upon his mettle. Ouardi was already to be seen with a bottle of Pommery in each hand, and was only prevented from instantly uncorking them by the representations of his mistress and an elaborate exposition of the peculiar and evanescent virtues of champagne. Ali was humming a mysterious song about a lovesick camel-man, with which he intended to make glad the hearts of the assembly when the halting time was over. And the dining-table was already set for three. When Androvsky rode in with the Arabs Domini met him at the edge of the hill. “You saw my signal, Boris?” “Yes--” He was going to say more, when she interrupted him eagerly. “Have you any gazelle? Ah----” Across the mule of one of the Arabs she saw a body drooping, a delicate head with thin, pointed horns, tiny legs with exquisite little feet that moved as the mule moved. “We shall want it to-night. Take it quickly to the cook’s tent, Ahmed.” Androvsky got off his mule. “There’s a light in the tower!” he said, looking at her and then dropping his eyes. “Yes.” “And I saw two signals. There were two brands being waved together.” “To-night, we have comrades in the desert.” “Comrades!” he said. His voice sounded startled. “Men who have escaped from a horrible death in the dunes.” “Arabs?” “French.” Quickly she told him her story. He listened in silence. When she had finished he said nothing. But she saw him look at the dining-table laid for three and his expression was dark and gloomy. “Boris, you don’t mind!” she said in surprise. “Surely you would not refuse hospitality to these poor fellows!” She put her hand through his arm and pressed it. “Have I done wrong? But I know I haven’t!” “Wrong! How could you do that?” He seemed to make an effort, to conquer something within him. “It’s I who am wrong, Domini. The truth is, I can’t bear our happiness to be intruded upon even for a night. I want to be alone with you. This life of ours in the desert has made me desperately selfish. I want to be alone, quite alone, with you.” “It’s that! How glad I am!” She laid her cheek against his arm. “Then,” he said, “that other signal?” “Monsieur de Trevignac gave it.” Androvsky took his arm from hers abruptly. “Monsieur de Trevignac!” he said. “Monsieur de Trevignac?” He stood as if in deep and anxious thought. “Yes, the officer. That’s his name. What is it, Boris?” “Nothing.” There was a sound of voices approaching the camp in the darkness. They were speaking French. “I must,” said Androvsky, “I must----” He made an uncertain movement, as if to go towards the dunes, checked it, and went hurriedly into the dressing-tent. As he disappeared De Trevignac came into the camp with his men. Batouch conducted the latter with all ceremony towards the fire which burned before the tents of the attendants, and, for the moment, Domini was left alone with De Trevignac. “My husband is coming directly,” she said. “He was late in returning, but he brought gazelle. Now you must sit down at once.” She led the way to the dining-tent. De Trevignac glanced at the table laid for three with an eager anticipation which he was far too natural to try to conceal. “Madame,” he said, “if I disgrace myself to-night, if I eat like an ogre in a fairy tale, will you forgive me?” “I will not forgive you if you don’t.” She spoke gaily, made him sit down in a folding-chair, and insisted on putting a soft cushion at his back. Her manner was cheerful, almost eagerly kind and full of a camaraderie rare in a woman, yet he noticed a change in her since they stood together waving the brands by the tower. And he said to himself: “The husband--perhaps he’s not so pleased at my appearance. I wonder how long they’ve been married?” And he felt his curiosity to see “Monsieur Androvsky” deepen. While they waited for him Domini made De Trevignac tell her the story of his terrible adventure in the dunes. He did so simply, like a soldier, without exaggeration. When he had finished she said: “You thought death was certain then?” “Quite certain, Madame.” She looked at him earnestly. “To have faced a death like that in utter desolation, utter loneliness, must make life seem very different afterwards.” “Yes, Madame. But I did not feel utterly alone.” “Your men!” “No, Madame.” After a pause he added, simply: “My mother is a devout Catholic, Madame. I am her only child, and--she taught me long ago that in any peril one is never quite alone.” Domini’s heart warmed to him. She loved this trust in God so frankly shown by a soldier, member of an African regiment, in this wild land. She loved this brave reliance on the unseen in the midst of the terror of the seen. Before they spoke again Androvsky crossed the dark space between the tents and came slowly into the circle of the lamplight. De Trevignac got up from his chair, and Domini introduced the two men. As they bowed each shot a swift glance at the other. Then Androvsky looked down, and two vertical lines appeared on his high forehead above his eyebrows. They gave to his face a sudden look of acute distress. De Trevignac thanked him for his proffered hospitality with the ease of a man of the world, assuming that the kind invitation to him and to his men came from the husband as well as from the wife. When he had finished speaking, Androvsky, without looking up, said, in a voice that sounded to Domini new, as if he had deliberately assumed it: “I am glad, Monsieur. We found gazelle, and so I hope--I hope you will have a fairly good dinner.” The words could scarcely have been more ordinary, but the way in which they were uttered was so strange, sounded indeed so forced, and so unnatural, that both De Trevignac and Domini looked at the speaker in surprise. There was a pause. Then Batouch and Ouardi came in with the soup. “Come!” Domini said. “Let us begin. Monsieur de Trevignac, will you sit here on my right?” They sat down. The two men were opposite to each other at the ends of the small table, with a lamp between them. Domini faced the tent door, and could see in the distance the tents of the attendants lit up by the blaze of the fire, and the forms of the French soldiers sitting at their table close to it, with the Arabs clustering round them. Sounds of loud conversation and occasional roars of laughter, that was almost childish in its frank lack of all restraint, told her that one feast was a success. She looked at her companions and made a sudden resolve--almost fierce--that the other, over which she was presiding, should be a success, too. But why was Androvsky so strange with other men? Why did he seem to become almost a different human being directly he was brought into any close contact with his kind? Was it shyness? Had he a profound hatred of all society? She remembered Count Anteoni’s luncheon and the distress Androvsky had caused her by his cold embarrassment, his unwillingness to join in conversation on that occasion. But then he was only her friend. Now he was her husband. She longed for him to show himself at his best. That he was not a man of the world she knew. Had he not told her of his simple upbringing in El Kreir, a remote village of Tunisia, by a mother who had been left in poverty after the death of his father, a Russian who had come to Africa to make a fortune by vine-growing, and who had had his hopes blasted by three years of drought and by the visitation of the dreaded phylloxera? Had he not told her of his own hard work on the rich uplands among the Spanish workmen, of how he had toiled early and late in all kinds of weather, not for himself, but for a company that drew a fortune from the land and gave him a bare livelihood? Till she met him he had never travelled--he had never seen almost anything of life. A legacy from a relative had at last enabled him to have some freedom and to gratify a man’s natural taste for change. And, strangely, perhaps, he had come first to the desert. She could not--she did not--expect him to show the sort of easy cultivation that a man acquires only by long contact with all sorts and conditions of men and women. But she knew that he was not only full of fire and feeling--a man with a great temperament, but also that he was a man who had found time to study, whose mind was not empty. He was a man who had thought profoundly. She knew this, although even with her, even in the great intimacy that is born of a great mutual passion, she knew him for a man of naturally deep reserve, who could not perhaps speak all his thoughts to anyone, even