[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

round little chin, which was dimpled and unmeaning, and said: “Who knows, Mam’zelle? This village is dull, that is true, but it is odd. One does not find oneself in such places every day.” Domini could not help laughing at these Delphic utterances, but she went downstairs thoughtfully. She knew Suzanne’s practical spirit. Till now the maid had never shown any capacity of imagination. Beni-Mora was certainly beginning to mould her nature into a slightly different shape. And Domini seemed to see an Eastern potter at work, squatting in the sun and with long and delicate fingers changing the outline of the statuette of a woman, modifying a curve here, an angle there, till the clay began to show another woman, but with, as it were, the shadow of the former one lurking behind the new personality. The stranger was not at dinner. His table was laid and Domini sat expecting each moment to hear the shuffling tread of his heavy boots on the wooden floor. When he did not come she thought she was glad. After dinner she spoke for a moment to the priest and then went upstairs to the verandah to take coffee. She found Batouch there. He had renounced his determined air, and his _café-au-lait_ countenance and huge body expressed enduring pathos, as of an injured, patient creature laid out for the trampling of Domini’s cruel feet. “Well?” she said, sitting down by the basket table. “Well, Madame?” He sighed and looked on the ground, lifted one white-socked foot, removed its yellow slipper, shook out a tiny stone from the slipper and put it on again, slowly, gracefully and very sadly. Then he pulled the white sock up with both hands and glanced at Domini out of the corners of his eyes. “What’s the matter?” “Madame does not care to see the dances of Beni-Mora, to hear the music, to listen to the story-teller, to enter the café of El Hadj where Achmed sings to the keef smokers, or to witness the beautiful religious ecstasies of the dervishes from Oumach. Therefore I come to bid Madame respectfully goodnight and to take my departure.” He threw his burnous over his left shoulder with a sudden gesture of despair that was full of exaggeration. Domini smiled. “You’ve been very good to-day,” she said. “I am always good, Madame. I am of a serious disposition. Not one keeps Ramadan as I do.” “I am sure of it. Go downstairs and wait for me under the arcade.” Batouch’s large face became suddenly a rendezvous of all the gaieties. “Madame is coming out to-night?” “Presently. Be in the arcade.” He swept away with the ample magnificence of joyous bearing and movement that was like a loud Te Deum. “Suzanne! Suzanne!” Domini had finished her coffee. “Mam’zelle!” answered Suzanne, appearing. “Would you like to come out with me to-night?” “Mam’zelle is going out?” “Yes, to see the village by night.” Suzanne looked irresolute. Craven fear and curiosity fought a battle within her, as was evident by the expressions that came and went in her face before she answered. “Shall we not be murdered, Mam’zelle, and are there interesting things to see?” “There are interesting things to see--dancers, singers, keef smokers. But if you are afraid don’t come.” “Dancers, Mam’zelle! But the Arabs carry knives. And is there singing? I--I should not like Mam’zelle to go without me. But----” “Come and protect me from the knives then. Bring my jacket--any one. I don’t suppose I shall put it on.” As she spoke the distant tomtoms began. Suzanne started nervously and looked at Domini with sincere apprehension. “We had better not go, Mam’zelle. It is not safe out here. Men who make a noise like that would not respect us.” “I like it.” “That sound? But it is always the same and there is no music in it.” “Perhaps there is more in it than music. The jacket?” Suzanne went gingerly to fetch it. The faint cry of the African hautboy rose up above the tomtoms. The evening _fete_ was beginning. To-night Domini felt that she must go to the distant music and learn to understand its meaning, not only for herself, but for those who made it and danced to it night after night. It stirred her imagination, and made her in love with mystery, and anxious at least to steal to the very threshold of the barbarous world. Did it stir those who had had it in their ears ever since they were naked, sunburned babies rolling in the hot sun of the Sahara? Could it seem as ordinary to them as the cold uproar of the piano-organ to the urchins of Whitechapel, or the whine of the fiddle to the peasants of Touraine where Suzanne was born? She wanted to know. Suzanne returned with the jacket. She still looked apprehensive, but she had put on her hat and fastened a sprig of red geranium in the front of her black gown. The curiosity was in the ascendant. “We are not going quite alone, Mam’zelle?” “No, no. Batouch will protect us.” Suzanne breathed a furtive sigh. The poet was in the white arcade with Hadj, who looked both wicked and deplorable, and had a shabby air, in marked contrast to Batouch’s ostentatious triumph. Domini felt quite sorry for him. “You come with us too,” she said. Hadj squared his shoulders and instantly looked vivacious and almost smart. But an undecided expression came into his face. “Where is Madame going?” “To see the village.” Batouch shot a glance at Hadj and smiled unpleasantly. “I will come with Madame.” Batouch still smiled. “We are going to the Ouled Nails,” he said significantly to Hadj. “I--I will come.” They set out. Suzanne looked gently at the poet’s legs and seemed comforted. “Take great care of Mademoiselle Suzanne,” Domini said to the poet. “She is a little nervous in the dark.” “Mademoiselle Suzanne is like the first day after the fast of Ramadan,” replied the poet, majestically. “No one would harm her were she to wander alone to Tombouctou.” The prospect drew from Suzanne a startled gulp. Batouch placed himself tenderly at her side and they set out, Domini walking behind with Hadj. CHAPTER VIII The village was full of the wan presage of the coming of the moon. The night was very still and very warm. As they skirted the long gardens Domini saw a light in the priest’s house. It made her wonder how he passed his solitary evenings when he went home from the hotel, and she fancied him sitting in some plainly-furnished little room with Bous-Bous and a few books, smoking a pipe and thinking sadly of the White Fathers of Africa and of his frustrated desire for complete renunciation. With this last thought blended the still remote sound of the hautboy. It suggested anything rather than renunciation; mysterious melancholy--successor to passion--the cry of longing, the wail of the unknown that draws some men and women to splendid follies and to ardent pilgrimages whose goal is the mirage. Hadj was talking in a low voice, but Domini did not listen to him. She was vaguely aware that he was abusing Batouch, saying that he was a liar, inclined to theft, a keef smoker, and in a general way steeped to the lips in crime. But the moon was rising, the distant music was becoming more distinct. She could not listen to Hadj. As they turned into the street of the sand-diviner the first ray of the moon fell on the white road. Far away at the end of the street Domini could see the black foliage of the trees in the Gazelles’ garden, and beyond, to the left, a dimness of shadowy palms at the desert edge. The desert itself was not visible. Two Arabs passed, shrouded in burnouses, with the hoods drawn up over their heads. Only their black beards could be seen. They were talking violently and waving their arms. Suzanne shuddered and drew close to the poet. Her plump face worked and she glanced appealingly at her mistress. But Domini was not thinking of her, or of violence or danger. The sound of the tomtoms and hautboys seemed suddenly much louder now that the moon began to shine, making a whiteness among the white houses of the village, the white robes of the inhabitants, a greater whiteness on the white road that lay before them. And she was thinking that the moon whiteness of Beni-Mora was more passionate than pure, more like the blanched face of a lover than the cool, pale cheek of a virgin. There was excitement in it, suggestion greater even than the suggestion of the tremendous coloured scenes of the evening that preceded such a night. And she mused of white heat and of what it means--the white heat of the brain blazing with thoughts that govern, the white heat of the heart blazing with emotions that make such thoughts seem cold. She had never known either. Was she incapable of knowing them? Could she imagine them till there was physical heat in her body if she was incapable of knowing them? Suzanne and the two Arabs were distant shadows to her when that first moon-ray touched their feet. The passion of the night began to burn her, and she thought she would like to take her soul and hold it out to the white flame. As they passed the sand-diviner’s house Domini saw his spectral figure standing under the yellow light of the hanging lantern in the middle of his carpet shop, which was lined from floor to ceiling with dull red embroideries and dim with the fumes of an incense brazier. He was talking to a little boy, but keeping a wary eye on the street, and he came out quickly, beckoning with his long hands, and calling softly, in a half-chuckling and yet authoritative voice: “Venez, Madame, venez! Come! come!” Suzanne seized Domini’s arm. “Not to-night!” Domini called out. “Yes, Madame, to-night. The vie of Madame is there in the sand to-night. Je la vois, je la vois. C’est la dans le sable to-night.” The moonlight showed the wound on his face. Suzanne uttered a cry and hid her eyes with her hands. They went on towards the trees. Hadj walked with hesitation. “How loud the music is getting,” Domini said to him. “It will deafen Madame’s ears if she gets nearer,” said Hadj, eagerly. “And the dancers are not for Madame. For the Arabs, yes, but for a great lady of the most respectable England! Madame will be red with disgust, with anger. Madame will have _mal-au-coeur_.” Batouch began to look like an idol on whose large face the artificer had carved an expression of savage ferocity. “Madame is my client,”