[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

struck by Androvsky’s marked discomfort, which indeed almost amounted to agitation. The sight of the throng of Arabs at the gateway, the clamour of their voices, evidently roused within him something akin to fear. He looked at them with distaste, and had drawn back several steps upon the sand, and now, as the Count held out to him a hand filled with money, he made no motion to take it, and half turned as if he thought of retreating into the recesses of the garden. “Here, Monsieur! here!” exclaimed the Count, with his eyes on the crowd, towards which Domini was walking with a sort of mischievous slowness, to whet those appetites already so voracious. Androvsky set his teeth and took the money, dropping one or two pieces on the ground. For a moment the Count seemed doubtful of his guest’s participation in his own lively mood. “Is this boring you?” he asked. “Because if so--” “No, no, Monsieur, not at all! What am I to do?” “Those hands will tell you.” The clamour grew more exigent. “And when you want more come to me!” Then he called out in Arabic, “Gently! Gently!” as the vehement scuffling seemed about to degenerate into actual fighting at Domini’s approach, and hurried forward, followed more slowly by Androvsky. Smain, from whose velvety eyes the dreams were not banished by the uproar, stood languidly by the porter’s tent, gazing at Androvsky. Something in the demeanour of the new visitor seemed to attract him. Domini, meanwhile, had reached the gateway. Gently, with a capricious deftness and all a woman’s passion for personal choice, she dropped the bits of money into the hands belonging to the faces that attracted her, disregarding the bellowings of those passed over. The light from all these gleaming eyes made her feel warm, the clamour that poured from these brown throats excited her. When her fingers were empty she touched the Count’s arm eagerly. “More, more, please!” “Ecco, Signora.” He held out to her the bag. She plunged her hands into it and came nearer to the gate, both hands full of money and held high above her head. The Arabs leapt up at her like dogs at a bone, and for a moment she waited, laughing with all her heart. Then she made a movement to throw the money over the heads of the near ones to the unfortunates who were dancing and shrieking on the outskirts of the mob. But suddenly her hands dropped and she uttered a startled exclamation. The sand-diviner of the red bazaar, slipping like a reptile under the waving arms and between the furious bodies of the beggars, stood up before her with a smile on his wounded face, stretched out to her his emaciated hands with a fawning, yet half satirical, gesture of desire. CHAPTER XII The money dropped from Domini’s fingers and rolled upon the sand at the Diviner’s feet. But though he had surely come to ask for alms, he took no heed of it. While the Arabs round him fell upon their knees and fought like animals for the plunder, he stood gaping at Domini. The smile still flickered about his lips. His hand was still stretched out. Instinctively she had moved backwards. Something that was like a thrill of fear, mental, not physical, went through her, but she kept her eyes steadily on his, as if, despite the fear, she fought against him. The contest of the beggars had become so passionate that Count Anteoni’s commands were forgotten. Urged by the pressure from behind those in the front scrambled or fell over the sacred threshold. The garden was invaded by a shrieking mob. Smain ran forward, and the autocrat that dwelt in the Count side by side with the benefactor suddenly emerged. He blew his whistle four times. At each call a stalwart Arab appeared. “Shut the gate!” he commanded sternly. The attendants furiously repulsed the mob, using their fists and feet without mercy. In the twinkling of an eye the sand was cleared and Smain had his hand upon the door to shut it. But the Diviner stopped him with a gesture, and in a fawning yet imperious voice called out something to the Count. The Count turned to Domini. “This is an interesting fellow. Would you like to know him?” Her mind said no, yet her body assented. For she bowed her head. The Count beckoned. The Diviner stepped stealthily on to the sand with an air of subtle triumph, and Smain swung forward the great leaf of palm wood. “Wait!” the Count cried, as if suddenly recollecting something. “Where is Monsieur Androvsky?” “Isn’t he----?” Domini glanced round. “I don’t know.” He went quickly to the door and looked out. The Arabs, silent now and respectful, crowded about him, salaaming. He smiled at them kindly, and spoke to one or two. They answered gravely. An old man with one eye lifted his hand, in which was a tomtom of stretched goatskin, and pointed towards the oasis, rapidly moving his toothless jaws. The Count stepped back into the garden, dismissed his pensioners with a masterful wave of the hand, and himself shut the door. “Monsieur Androvsky has gone--without saying good-bye,” he said. Again Domini felt ashamed for Androvsky. “I don’t think he likes my pensioners,” the Count added, in amused voice, “or me.” “I am sure--” Domini began. But he stopped her. “Miss Enfilden, in a world of lies I look to you for truth.” His manner chafed her, but his voice had a ring of earnestness. She said nothing. All this time the Diviner was standing on the sand, still smiling, but with downcast eyes. His thin body looked satirical and Domini felt a strong aversion from him, yet a strong interest in him too. Something in his appearance and manner suggested power and mystery as well as cunning. The Count said some words to him in Arabic, and at once he walked forward and disappeared among the trees, going so silently and smoothly that she seemed to watch a panther gliding into the depths of a jungle where its prey lay hid. She looked at the Count interrogatively. “He will wait in the _fumoir_.” “Where we first met?” “Yes.” “What for?” “For us, if you choose.” “Tell me about him. I have seen him twice. He followed me with a bag of sand.” “He is a desert man. I don’t know his tribe, but before he settled here he was a nomad, one of the wanderers who dwell in tents, a man of the sand; as much of the sand as a viper or a scorpion. One would suppose such beings were bred by the marriage of the sand-grains. The sand tells him secrets.” “He says. Do you believe it?” “Would you like to test it?” “How?” “By coming with me to the _fumoir_?” She hesitated obviously. “Mind,” he added, “I do not press it. A word from me and he is gone. But you are fearless, and you have spoken already, will speak much more intimately in the future, with the desert spirits.” “How do you know that?” “The ‘much more intimately’?” “Yes.” “I do not know it, but--which is much more--I feel it.” She was silent, looking towards the trees where the Diviner had disappeared. Count Anteoni’s boyish merriment had faded away. He looked grave, almost sad. “I am not afraid,” she said at last. “No, but--I will confess it--there is something horrible about that man to me. I felt it the first time I saw him. His eyes are too intelligent. They look diseased with intelligence.” “Let me send him away. Smain!” But she stopped him. Directly he made the suggestion she felt that she must know more of this man. “No. Let us go to the _fumoir_.” “Very well. Go, Smain!” Smain went into the little tent by the gate, sat down on his haunches and began to smell at a sprig of orange blossoms. Domini and the Count walked into the darkness of the trees. “What is his name?” she asked. “Aloui.” “Aloui.” She repeated the word slowly. There was a reluctant and yet fascinated sound in her voice. “There is melody in the name,” he said. “Yes. Has he--has he ever looked in the sand for you?” “Once--a long time ago.” “May I--dare I ask if he found truth there?” “He found nothing for all the years that have passed since then.” “Nothing!” There was a sound of relief in her voice. “For those years.” She glanced at him and saw that once again his face had lit up into ardour. “He found what is still to come?” she said. And he repeated: “He found what is still to come.” Then they walked on in silence till they saw the purple blossoms of the bougainvillea clinging to the white walls of the _fumoir_. Domini stopped on the narrow path. “Is he in there?” she asked almost in a whisper. “No doubt.” “Larbi was playing the first day I came here.” “Yes.” “I wish he was playing now.” The silence seemed to her unnaturally intense. “Even his love must have repose.” She went on a step or two till, but still from a distance, she could look over the low plaster wall beneath the nearest window space into the little room. “Yes, there he is,” she whispered. The Diviner was crouching on the floor with his back towards them and his head bent down. Only his shoulders could be seen, covered with a white gandoura. They moved perpetually but slightly. “What is he doing?” “Speaking with his ancestor.” “His ancestor?” “The sand. Aloui!” He called softly. The figure rose, without sound and instantly, and the face of the Diviner smiled at them through the purple flowers. Again Domini had the sensation that her body was a glass box in which her thoughts, feelings and desires were ranged for this man’s inspection; but she walked resolutely through the narrow doorway and sat down on one of the divans. Count Anteoni followed. She now saw that in the centre of the room, on the ground, there was a symmetrical pyramid of sand, and that the Diviner was gently folding together a bag in his long and flexible fingers. “You see!” said the Count. She nodded, without speaking. The little sand heap held her eyes. She strove to think it absurd and the man who had shaken it out a charlatan of the desert, but she was really gripped by an odd feeling of awe, as if she were secretly expectant of some magical demonstration. The Diviner squatted down once more on his haunches, stretched out his fingers above the sand heap, looked at her and smiled. “La vie de Madame--I see it in the