[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

want here,” she added. “Let us stay here.” “But some day we must go back, mustn’t we?” “Why?” “Can anything be lifelong--even our honeymoon?” “Suppose we choose that it shall be?” “Can we choose such a thing? Is anybody allowed to choose to live always quite happily without duties? Sometimes I wonder. I love this wandering life so much, I am so happy in it, that I sometimes think it cannot last much longer.” He began to sift the sand through his fingers swiftly. “Duties?” he said in a low voice. “Yes. Oughtn’t we to do something presently, something besides being happy?” “What do you mean, Domini?” “I hardly know, I don’t know. You tell me.” There was an urging in her voice, as if she wanted, almost demanded, something of him. “You mean that a man must do some work in his life if he is to keep himself a man,” he said, not as if he were asking a question. He spoke reluctantly but firmly. “You know,” he added, “that I have worked hard all my life, hard like a labourer.” “Yes, I know,” she said. She stroked his hand, that was worn and rough, and spoke eloquently of manual toil it had accomplished in the past. “I know. Before we were married, that day when we sat in the garden, you told me your life and I told you mine. How different they have been!” “Yes,” he said. He lit a cigar and watched the smoke curling up into the gold of the sunlit atmosphere. “Mine in the midst of the world and yours so far away from it. I often imagine that little place, El Krori, the garden, your brother, your twin-brother Stephen, that one-eyed Arab servant--what was his name?” “El Magin.” “Yes, El Magin, who taught you to play Cora and to sing Arab songs, and to eat cous-cous with your fingers. I can almost see Father Andre, from whom you learnt to love the Classics, and who talked to you of philosophy. He’s dead too, isn’t he, like your mother?” “I don’t know whether Pere Andre is dead. I have lost sight of him,” Androvsky said. He still looked steadily at the rings of smoke curling up into the golden air. There was in his voice a sound of embarrassment. She guessed that it came from the consciousness of the pain he must have caused the good priest who had loved him when he ceased from practising the religion in which he had been brought up. Even to her he never spoke frankly on religious subjects, but she knew that he had been baptised a Catholic and been educated for a time by priests. She knew, too, that he was no longer a practising Catholic, and that, for some reason, he dreaded any intimacy with priests. He never spoke against them. He had scarcely ever spoken of them to her. But she remembered his words in the garden, “I do not care for priests.” She remembered, too, his action in the tunnel on the day of his arrival in Beni-Mora. And the reticence that they both preserved on the subject of religion, and its reason, were the only causes of regret in this desert dream of hers. Even this regret, too, often faded in hope. For in the desert, the Garden of Allah, she had it borne in upon her that Androvsky would discover what he must surely secretly be seeking--the truth that each man must find for himself, truth for him of the eventual existence in which the mysteries of this present existence will be made plain, and of the Power that has fashioned all things. And she was able to hope in silence, as women do for the men they love. “Don’t think I do not realise that you have worked,” she went on after a pause. “You told me how you always cultivated the land yourself, even when you were still a boy, that you directed the Spanish labourers in the vineyards, that--you have earned a long holiday. But should it last for ever?” “You are right. Well, let us take an oasis; let us become palm gardeners like that Frenchman at Meskoutine.” “And build ourselves an African house, white, with a terrace roof.” “And sell our dates. We can give employment to the Arabs. We can choose the poorest. We can improve their lives. After all, if we owe a debt to anyone it is to them, to the desert. Let us pay our debt to the desert men and live in the desert.” “It would be an ideal life,” she said with her eyes shining on his. “And a possible life. Let us live it. I could not bear to leave the desert. Where should we go?” “Where should we go!” she repeated. She was still looking at him, but now the expression of her eyes had quite changed. They had become grave, and examined him seriously with a sort of deep inquiry. He sat upon the Arab rug, leaning his back against the wall of the traveller’s house. “Why do you look at me like that, Domini?” he asked with a sudden stirring of something that was like uneasiness. “I! I was wondering what you would like, what other life would suit you.” “Yes?” he said quickly. “Yes?” “It’s very strange, Boris, but I cannot connect you with anything but the desert, or see you anywhere but in the desert. I cannot even imagine you among your vines in Tunisia.” “They were not altogether mine,” he corrected, still with a certain excitement which he evidently endeavoured to repress. “I--I had the right, the duty of cultivating the land.” “Well, however it was, you were always at work; you were responsible, weren’t you?” “Yes.” “I can’t see you even in the vineyards or the wheat-fields. Isn’t it strange?” She was always looking at him with the same deep and wholly unselfconscious inquiry. “And as to London, Paris--” Suddenly she burst into a little laugh and her gravity vanished. “I think you would hate them,” she said. “And they--they wouldn’t like you because they wouldn’t understand you.” “Let us buy our oasis,” he said abruptly. “Build our African house, sell our dates and remain in the desert. I hear Batouch. It must be time to ride on to Mogar. Batouch! Batouch!” Batouch came from the courtyard of the house wiping the remains of a cous-cous from his languid lips. “Untie the horses,” said Androvsky. “But, Monsieur, it is still too hot to travel. Look! No one is stirring. All the village is asleep.” He waved his enormous hand, with henna-tinted nails, towards the distant town, carved surely out of one huge piece of bronze. “Untie the horses. There are gazelle in the plain near Mogar. Didn’t you tell me?” “Yes, Monsieur, but--” “We’ll get there early and go out after them at sunset. Now, Domini.” They rode away in the burning heat of the noon towards the southwest across the vast plains of grey sand, followed at a short distance by Batouch and Ali. “Monsieur is mad to start in the noon,” grumbled Batouch. “But Monsieur is not like Madame. He may live in the desert till he is old and his hair is grey as the sand, but he will never be an Arab in his heart.” “Why, Batouch-ben-Brahim?” “He cannot rest. To Madame the desert gives its calm, but to Monsieur--” He did not finish his sentence. In front Domini and Androvsky had put their horses to a gallop. The sand flew up in a thin cloud around them. “Nom d’un chien!” said Batouch, who, in unpoetical moments, occasionally indulged in the expletives of the French infidels who were his country’s rulers. “What is there in the mind of Monsieur which makes him ride as if he fled from an enemy?” “I know not, but he goes like a hare before the sloughi, Batouch-ben Brahim,” answered Ali, gravely. Then they sent their horses on in chase of the cloud of sand towards the southwest. About four in the afternoon they reached the camp at Mogar. As they rode in slowly, for their horses were tired and streaming with heat after their long canter across the sands, both Domini and Androvsky were struck by the novelty of this halting-place, which was quite unlike anything they had yet seen. The ground rose gently but continuously for a considerable time before they saw in the distance the pitched tents with the dark forms of the camels and mules. Here they were out of the sands, and upon hard, sterile soil covered with small stones embedded in the earth. Beyond the tents they could see nothing but the sky, which was now covered with small, ribbed grey clouds, sad-coloured and autumnal, and a lonely tower built of stone, which rose from the waste at about two hundred yards from the tents to the east. Although they could see so little, however, they were impressed with a sensation that they were on the edge of some vast vision, of some grandiose effect of Nature, that would bring to them a new and astonishing knowledge of the desert. Perhaps it was the sight of the distant tower pointing to the grey clouds that stirred in them this almost excited feeling of expectation. “It is like a watch-tower,” Domini said, pointing with her whip. “But who could live in such a place, far from any oasis?” “And what can it overlook?” said Androvsky. “This is the nearest horizon line we have seen since we came into the desert.” “Yes, but----” She glanced at him as they put their horses into a gentle canter. Then she added: “You, too, feel that we are coming to something tremendous, don’t you?” Her horse whinnied shrilly. Domini stroked his foam-flecked neck with her hand. “Abou is as full of anticipation as we are,” she said. Androvsky was looking towards the tower. “That was built for French soldiers,” he said. A moment afterwards he added: “I wonder why Batouch chose this place for us to camp in?” There was a faint sound as of irritation in his voice. “Perhaps we shall know in a minute,” Domini answered. They cantered on. Their horses’ hoofs rang with a hard sound on the stony ground. “It’s inhospitable here,” Androvsky said. She looked at him in surprise. “I never knew you to take a dislike to any halting-place before,” she said. “What’s the matter, Boris?” He smiled at her, but almost immediately his face was clouded by the shadow of a gloom that seemed to respond to the gloom of the sky. And he fixed his eyes again upon the tower. “I like a far horizon,” he answered. “And there’s no sun to-day.” “I