[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

ceremony. Domini felt sorry, though not for herself. She had been accustomed to ceremony all her life, and noticed it, as a rule, almost as little as the air she breathed. But she feared that to Androvsky it would be novel and unpleasant. As they came into the shady room she saw him glance swiftly at the walls covered with dark Persian hangings, at the servants in their embroidered jackets, wide trousers, and snow-white turbans, at the vivid flowers on the table, then at the tall windows, over which flexible outside blinds, dull green in colour, were drawn; and it seemed to her that he was feeling like a trapped animal, full of a fury of uneasiness. Father Roubier’s unconscious serenity in the midst of a luxury to which he was quite unaccustomed emphasised Androvsky’s secret agitation, which was no secret to Domini, and which she knew must be obvious to Count Anteoni. She began to wish ardently that she had let Androvsky follow his impulse to go when he heard of Father Roubier’s presence. They sat down. She was on the Count’s right hand, with Androvsky opposite to her and Father Roubier on her left. As they took their places she and the Father said a silent grace and made the sign of the Cross, and when she glanced up after doing so she saw Androvsky’s hand lifted to his forehead. For a moment she fancied that he had joined in the tiny prayer, and was about to make the sacred sign, but as she looked at him his hand fell heavily to the table. The glasses by his plate jingled. “I only remembered this morning that this is a _jour maigre_,” said Count Anteoni as they unfolded their napkins. “I am afraid, Father Roubier, you will not be able to do full justice to my chef, Hamdane, although he has thought of you and done his best for you. But I hope Miss Enfilden and--” “I keep Friday,” Domini interrupted quietly. “Yes? Poor Hamdane!” He looked in grave despair, but she knew that he was really pleased that she kept the fast day. “Anyhow,” he continued, “I hope that you, Monsieur Androvsky, will be able to join me in testing Hamdane’s powers to the full. Or are you too----” He did not continue, for Androvsky at once said, in a loud and firm voice: “I keep no fast days.” The words sounded like a defiance flung at the two Catholics, and for a moment Domini thought that Father Roubier was going to treat them as a challenge, for he lifted his head and there was a flash of sudden fire in his eyes. But he only said, turning to the Count: “I think Mademoiselle and I shall find our little Ramadan a very easy business. I once breakfasted with you on a Friday--two years ago it was, I think--and I have not forgotten the banquet you gave me.” Domini felt as if the priest had snubbed Androvsky, as a saint might snub, without knowing that he did so. She was angry with Androvsky, and yet she was full of pity for him. Why could he not meet courtesy with graciousness? There was something almost inhuman in his demeanour. To-day he had returned to his worst self, to the man who had twice treated her with brutal rudeness. “Do the Arabs really keep Ramadan strictly?” she asked, looking away from Androvsky. “Very,” said Father Roubier. “Although, of course, I am not in sympathy with their religion, I have often been moved by their adherence to its rules. There is something very grand in the human heart deliberately taking upon itself the yoke of discipline.” “Islam--the very word means the surrender of the human will to the will of God,” said Count Anteoni. “That word and its meaning lie like the shadow of a commanding hand on the soul of every Arab, even of the absinthe-drinking renegades one sees here and there who have caught the vices of their conquerors. In the greatest scoundrel that the Prophet’s robe covers there is an abiding and acute sense of necessary surrender. The Arabs, at any rate, do not buzz against their Creator, like midges raging at the sun in whose beams they are dancing.” “No,” assented the priest. “At least in that respect they are superior to many who call themselves Christians. Their pride is immense, but it never makes itself ridiculous.” “You mean by trying to defy the Divine Will?” said Domini. “Exactly, Mademoiselle.” She thought of her dead father. The servants stole round the table, handing various dishes noiselessly. One of them, at this moment, poured red wine into Androvsky’s glass. He uttered a low exclamation that sounded like the beginning of a protest hastily checked. “You prefer white wine?” said Count Anteoni. “No, thank you, Monsieur.” He lifted the glass to his lips and drained it. “Are you a judge of wine?” added the Count. “That is made from my own grapes. I have vineyards near Tunis.” “It is excellent,” said Androvsky. Domini noticed that he spoke in a louder voice than usual, as if he were making a determined effort to throw off the uneasiness that evidently oppressed him. He ate heartily, choosing almost ostentatiously dishes in which there was meat. But everything that he did, even this eating of meat, gave her the impression that he was--subtly, how she did not know--defying not only the priest, but himself. Now and then she glanced across at him, and when she did so he was always looking away from her. After praising the wine he had relapsed into silence, and Count Anteoni--she thought moved by a very delicate sense of tact--did not directly address him again just then, but resumed the interrupted conversation about the Arabs, first explaining that the servants understood no French. He discussed them with a minute knowledge that evidently sprang from a very real affection, and presently she could not help alluding to this. “I think you love the Arabs far more than any Europeans,” she said. He fixed his bright eyes upon her, and she thought that just then they looked brighter than ever before. “Why?” he asked quietly. “Do you know the sound that comes into the voice of a lover of children when it speaks of a child?” “Ah!--the note of a deep indulgence?” “I hear it in yours whenever you speak of the Arabs.” She spoke half jestingly. For a moment he did not reply. Then he said to the priest: “You have lived long in Africa, Father. Have not you something of the same feeling towards these children of the sun?” “Yes, and I have noticed it in our dead Cardinal.” “Cardinal Lavigerie.” Androvsky bent over his plate. He seemed suddenly to withdraw his mind forcibly from this conversation in which he was taking no active part, as if he refused even to listen to it. “He is your hero, I know,” the Count said sympathetically. “He did a great deal for me.” “And for Africa. And he was wise.” “You mean in some special way?” Domini said. “Yes. He looked deep enough into the dark souls of the desert men to find out that his success with them must come chiefly through his goodness to their dark bodies. You aren’t shocked, Father?” “No, no. There is truth in that.” But the priest assented rather sadly. “Mahomet thought too much of the body,” he added. Domini saw the Count compress his lips. Then he turned to Androvsky and said: “Do you think so, Monsieur?” It was a definite, a resolute attempt to draw his guest into the conversation. Androvsky could not ignore it. He looked up reluctantly from his plate. His eyes met Domini’s, but immediately travelled away from them. “I doubt----” he said. He paused, laid his hands on the table, clasping its edge, and continued firmly, even with a sort of hard violence: “I doubt if most good men, or men who want to be good, think enough about the body, consider it enough. I have thought that. I think it still.” As he finished he stared at the priest, almost menacingly. Then, as if moved by an after-thought, he added: “As to Mahomet, I know very little about him. But perhaps he obtained his great influence by recognising that the bodies of men are of great importance, of tremendous--tremendous importance.” Domini saw that the interest of Count Anteoni in his guest was suddenly and vitally aroused by what he had just said, perhaps even more by his peculiar way of saying it, as if it were forced from him by some secret, irresistible compulsion. And the Count’s interest seemed to take hands with her interest, which had had a much longer existence. Father Roubier, however, broke in with a slightly cold: “It is a very dangerous thing, I think, to dwell upon the importance of the perishable. One runs the risk of detracting from the much greater importance of the imperishable.” “Yet it’s the starved wolves that devour the villages,” said Androvsky. For the first time Domini felt his Russian origin. There was a silence. Father Roubier looked straight before him, but Count Anteoni’s eyes were fixed piercingly upon Androvsky. At last he said: “May I ask, Monsieur, if you are a Russian?” “My father was. But I have never set foot in Russia.” “The soul that I find in the art, music, literature of your country is, to me, the most interesting soul in Europe,” the Count said with a ring of deep earnestness in his grating voice. Spoken as he spoke it, no compliment could have been more gracious, even moving. But Androvsky only replied abruptly: “I’m afraid I know nothing of all that.” Domini felt hot with a sort of shame, as at a close friend’s public display of ignorance. She began to speak to the Count of Russian music, books, with an enthusiasm that was sincere. For she, too, had found in the soul from the Steppes a meaning and a magic that had taken her soul prisoner. And suddenly, while she talked, she thought of the Desert as the burning brother of the frigid Steppes. Was it the wonder of the eternal flats that had spoken to her inmost heart sometimes in London concert-rooms, in her room at night when she read, forgetting time, which spoke to her now more fiercely under the palms of Africa? At the thought something mystic seemed to stand in her enthusiasm. The mystery of space floated about her. But she did not express her thought. Count Anteoni expressed it for her. “The Steppes and the Desert are akin, you know,” he said. “Despite the opposition of frost and fire.” “Just what I was thinking!” she exclaimed.