[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

preparing the evening meal. Smoke rose up before the cook’s tent, curling away stealthily among a group of palm trees, beneath which some Arab boys were huddled, staring with wide eyes at the unusual sight of travellers. They came from a tiny village at a short distance off, half hidden among palm gardens. The camels were feeding. A mule was rolling voluptuously in the sand. At a well a shepherd was watering his flocks, which crowded about him baaing expectantly. The air seemed to breathe out a subtle aroma of peace and of liberty. And this apparent presence of peace, this vision of the calm of others, human beings and animals, added to the torture of Androvsky. As he walked to and fro he felt as if he were being devoured by his passions, as if he were losing the last vestiges of self-control. Never in the monastery, never even in the night when he left it, had he been tormented like this. For now he had a terrible companion whom, at that time, he had not known. Memory walked with him before the tents, the memory of his body, recalling and calling for the past. He had destroyed that past himself. But for him it might have been also the present, the future. It might have lasted for years, perhaps till death took him or Domini. Why not? He had only had to keep silence, to insist on remaining in the desert, far from the busy ways of men. They could have lived as certain others lived, who loved the free, the solitary life, in an oasis of their own, tending their gardens of palms. Life would have gone like a sunlit dream. And death? At that thought he shuddered. Death--what would that have been to him? What would it be now when it came? He put the thought from him with force, as a man thrusts away from him the filthy hand of a clamouring stranger assailing him in the street. This evening he had no time to think of death. Life was enough, life with this terror which he had deliberately placed in it. He thought of himself as a madman for having spoken to Domini. He cursed himself as a madman. For he knew, although he strove furiously not to know, how irrevocable was his act, in consequence of the great strength of her nature. He knew that though she had been to him a woman of fire she might be to him a woman of iron--even to him whom she loved. How she had loved him! He walked faster before the tents, to and fro. How she had loved him! How she loved him still, at this moment after she knew what he was, what he had done to her. He had no doubt of her love as he walked there. He felt it, like a tender hand upon him. But that hand was inflexible too. In its softness there was firmness--firmness that would never yield to any strength in him. Those two tents told him the story of her strength. As he looked at them he was looking into her soul. And her soul was in direct conflict with his. That was what he felt. She had thought, she had made up her mind. Quietly, silently she had acted. By that action, without a word, she had spoken to him, told him a tremendous thing. And the man--the passionate man who had left the monastery--loose in him now was aflame with an impotent desire that was like a heat of fury against her, while the monk, hidden far down in him, was secretly worshipping her cleanliness of spirit. But the man who had left the monastery was in the ascendant in him, and at last drove him to a determination that the monk secretly knew to be utterly vain. He made up his mind to enter into conflict with Domini’s strength. He felt that he must, that he could not quietly, without a word, accept this sudden new life of separation symbolised for him by the two tents standing apart. He stood still. In the distance, under the palms, he saw Batouch laughing with Ouardi. Near them Ali was reposing on a mat, moving his head from side to side, smiling with half-shut, vacant eyes, and singing a languid song. This music maddened him. “Batouch!” he called out sharply. “Batouch!” Batouch stopped laughing, glanced round, then came towards him with a large pace, swinging from his hips. “Monsieur?” “Batouch!” Androvsky said. But he could not go on. He could not say anything about the two tents to a servant. “Where--where is Madame?” he said almost stammering. “Out there, Monsieur.” With a sweeping arm the poet pointed towards a hump of sand crowned by a few palms. Domini was sitting there, surrounded by Arab children, to whom she was giving sweets out of a box. As Androvsky saw her the anger in him burnt up more fiercely. This action of Domini’s, simple, natural though it was, seemed to him in his present condition cruelly heartless. He thought of her giving the order about the tents and then going calmly to play with these children, while he--while he---- “You can go, Batouch,” he said. “Go away.” The poet stared at him with a superb surprise, then moved slowly towards Ouardi, holding his burnous with his large hands. Androvsky looked again at the two tents as a man looks at two enemies. Then, walking quickly, he went towards the hump of sand. As he approached it Domini had her side face turned towards him. She did not see him. The little Arabs were dancing round her on their naked feet, laughing, showing their white teeth and opening their mouths wide for the sugar-plums--gaiety incarnate. Androvsky gazed at the woman who was causing this childish joy, and he saw a profound sadness. Never had he seen Domini’s face look like this. It was always white, but now its whiteness was like a whiteness of marble. She moved her head, turning to feed one of the little gaping mouths, and he saw her eyes, tearless, but sadder than if they had been full of tears. She was looking at these children as a mother looks at her children who are fatherless. He did not--how could he?--understand the look, but it went to his heart. He stopped, watching. One of the children saw him, shrieked, pointed. Domini glanced round. As she saw him she smiled, threw the last sugar-plums and came towards him. “Do you want me?” she said, coming up to him. His lips trembled. “Yes,” he said, “I want you.” Something in his voice seemed to startle her, but she said nothing more, only stood looking at him. The children, who had followed her, crowded round them, touching their clothes curiously. “Send them away,” he said. She made the children go, pushing them gently, pointing to the village, and showing the empty box to them. Reluctantly at last they went towards the village, turning their heads to stare at her till they were a long way off, then holding up their skirts and racing for the houses. “Domini--Domini,” he said. “You can--you can play with children--to-day.” “I wanted to feel I could give a little happiness to-day,” she answered--“even to-day.” “To-day when--when to me--to me--you are giving----” But before her steady gaze all the words he had meant to say, all the words of furious protest, died on his lips. “To me--to me--” he repeated. Then he was silent. “Boris,” she said, “I want to give you one thing, the thing that you have lost. I want to give you back peace.” “You never can.” “I must try. Even if I cannot I shall know that I have tried.” “You are giving me--you are giving me not peace, but a sword,” he said. She understood that he had seen the two tents. “Sometimes a sword can give peace.” “The peace of death.” “Boris--my dear one--there are many kinds of deaths. Try to trust me. Leave me to act as I must act. Let me try to be guided--only let me try.” He did not say another word. That night they slept apart for the first time since their marriage. “Domini, where are you taking me? Where are we going?” * * * * * The camp was struck once more and they were riding through the desert. Domini hesitated to answer his question. It had been put with a sort of terror. “I know nothing,” he continued. “I am in your hands like a child. It cannot be always so. I must know, I must understand. What is our life to be? What is our future? A man cannot--” He paused. Then he said: “I feel that you have come to some resolve. I feel it perpetually. It is as if you were in light and I in darkness, you in knowledge and I in ignorance. You--you must tell me. I have told you all now. You must tell me.” But she hesitated. “Not now,” she answered. “Not yet.” “We are to journey on day by day like this, and I am not to know where we are going! I cannot, Domini--I will not.” “Boris, I shall tell you.” “When?” “Will you trust me, Boris, completely? Can you?” “How?” “Boris, I have prayed so much for you that at last I feel that I can act for you. Don’t think me presumptuous. If you could see into my heart you would see that--indeed, I don’t think it would be possible to feel more humble than I do in regard to you.” “Humble--you, Domini! You can feel humble when you think of me, when you are with me.” “Yes. You have suffered so terribly. God has led you. I feel that He has been--oh, I don’t know how to say it quite naturally, quite as I feel it--that He has been more intent on you than on anyone I have ever known. I feel that His meaning in regarding to you is intense, Boris, as if He would not let you go.” “He let me go when I left the monastery.” “Does one never return?” Again a sensation almost of terror assailed him. He felt as if he were fighting in darkness something that he could not see. “Return!” he said. “What do you mean?” She saw the expression of almost angry fear in his face. It warned her not to give the reins to her natural impulse, which was always towards a great frankness. “Boris, you fled from God, but do you not think it possible that you could ever return to Him? Have you not taken the first step? Have you not prayed?” His face changed, grew