[The Inventions, Researches and Writings of Tesla — Gutenberg #32037]

merely the _condition_, and not the point or locality at which this condition took its rise, that these atoms seek to re-establish;—it is merely _that condition which is their normality_, that they desire. “But they seek a centre,” it will be said, “and a centre is a point.” True; but they seek this point not in its character of point—(for, were the whole sphere moved from its position, they would seek, equally, the centre; and the centre _then_ would be a _new_ point)—but because it so happens, on account of the form in which they collectively exist—(that of the sphere)—that only _through_ the point in question—the sphere’s centre—they can attain their true object, Unity. In the direction of the centre each atom perceives more atoms than in any other direction. Each atom is impelled towards the centre because along the straight line joining it and the centre and passing on to the circumference beyond, there lie a greater number of atoms than along any other straight line—a greater number of objects that seek it, the individual atom—a greater number of tendencies to Unity—a greater number of satisfactions for its own tendency to Unity—in a word, because in the direction of the centre lies the utmost possibility of satisfaction, generally, for its own individual appetite. To be brief, the _condition_, Unity, is all that is really sought; and if the atoms _seem_ to seek the centre of the sphere, it is only impliedly, through implication—because such centre happens to imply, to include, or to involve, the only essential centre, Unity. But _on account of_ this implication or involution, there is no possibility of practically separating the tendency to Unity in the abstract, from the tendency to the concrete centre. Thus the tendency of the atoms to the general centre _is_, to all practical intents and for all logical purposes, the tendency each to each; and the tendency each to each _is_ the tendency to the centre; and the one tendency may be assumed _as_ the other; whatever will apply to the one must be thoroughly applicable to the other; and, in conclusion, whatever principle will satisfactorily explain the one, cannot be questioned as an explanation of the other. In looking carefully around me for rational objection to what I have advanced, I am able to discover _nothing_;—but of that class of objections usually urged by the doubters for Doubt’s sake, I very readily perceive _three_; and proceed to dispose of them in order. It may be said, first: “The proof that the force of irradiation (in the case described) is directly proportional to the squares of the distances, depends upon an unwarranted assumption—that of the number of atoms in each stratum being the measure of the force with which they are emitted.” I reply, not only that I am warranted in such assumption, but that I should be utterly _un_warranted in any other. What I assume is, simply, that an effect is the measure of its cause—that every exercise of the Divine Will will be proportional to that which demands the exertion—that the means of Omnipotence, or of Omniscience, will be exactly adapted to its purposes. Neither can a deficiency nor an excess of cause bring to pass any effect. Had the force which irradiated any stratum to its position, been either more or less than was needed for the purpose—that is to say, not _directly proportional_ to the purpose—then to its position that stratum could not have been irradiated. Had the force which, with a view to general equability of distribution, emitted the proper number of atoms for each stratum, been not _directly proportional_ to the number, then the number would _not_ have been the number demanded for the equable distribution. The second supposable objection is somewhat better entitled to an answer. It is an admitted principle in Dynamics that every body, on receiving an impulse, or disposition to move, will move onward in a straight line, in the direction imparted by the impelling force, until deflected, or stopped, by some other force. How then, it may be asked, is my first or external stratum of atoms to be understood as discontinuing their movement at the circumference of the imaginary glass sphere, when no second force, of more than an imaginary character, appears, to account for the discontinuance? I reply that the objection, in this case, actually does arise out of “an unwarranted assumption”—on the part of the objector—the assumption of a principle, in Dynamics, at an epoch when _no_ “principles,” in _anything_, exist:—I use the word “principle,” of course, in the objector’s understanding of the word. “In the beginning” we can admit—indeed we can comprehend—but one _First Cause_—the truly ultimate _Principle_—the Volition of God. The primary _act_—that of Irradiation from Unity—must have been independent of all that which the world now calls “principle”—because all that we so designate is but a consequence of the rëaction of that primary act:—I say “_primary_” act; for the creation of the absolute material particle is more properly to be regarded as a _conception_ than as an “_act_” in the ordinary meaning of the term. Thus, we must regard the primary act as an act for the establishment of what we now call “principles.” But this primary act itself is to be considered as _continuous Volition_. The Thought of God is to be understood as originating the Diffusion—as proceeding with it—as regulating it—and, finally, as being withdrawn from it upon its completion. _Then_ commences Rëaction, and through Rëaction, “Principle,” as we employ the word. It will be advisable, however, to limit the application of this word to the two _immediate_ results of the discontinuance of the Divine Volition—that is, to the two agents, _Attraction_ and _Repulsion_. Every other Natural agent depends, either more or less immediately, upon these two, and therefore would be more conveniently designated as _sub_-principle. It may be objected, thirdly, that, in general, the peculiar mode of distribution which I have suggested for the atoms, is “an hypothesis and nothing more.” Now, I am aware that the word hypothesis is a ponderous sledge-hammer, grasped immediately, if not lifted, by all very diminutive thinkers, upon the first appearance of any proposition wearing, in any particular, the garb of _a theory_. But “hypothesis” cannot be wielded _here_ to any good purpose, even by those who succeed in lifting it—little men or great. I maintain, first, that _only_ in the mode described is it conceivable that Matter could have been diffused so as to fulfil at once the conditions of irradiation and of generally equable distribution. I maintain, secondly, that these conditions themselves have been imposed upon me, as necessities, in a train of ratiocination _as rigorously logical as that which establishes any demonstration in Euclid_; and I maintain, thirdly, that even if the charge of “hypothesis” were as fully sustained as it is, in fact, unsustained and untenable, still the validity and indisputability of my result would not, even in the slightest particular, be disturbed. To explain:—The Newtonian Gravity—a law of Nature—a law whose existence as such no one out of Bedlam questions—a law whose admission as such enables us to account for nine-tenths of the Universal phænomena—a law which, merely because it does so enable us to account for these phænomena, we are perfectly willing, without reference to any other considerations, to admit, and cannot help admitting, as a law—a law, nevertheless, of which neither the principle nor the _modus operandi_ of the principle, has ever yet been traced by the human analysis—a law, in short, which, neither in its detail nor in its generality, has been found susceptible of explanation _at all_—is at length seen to be at every point thoroughly explicable, provided only we yield our assent to——what? To an hypothesis? Why _if_ an hypothesis—if the merest hypothesis—if an hypothesis for whose assumption—as in the case of that _pure_ hypothesis the Newtonian law itself—no shadow of _à priori_ reason could be assigned—if an hypothesis, even so absolute as all this implies, would enable us to perceive a principle for the Newtonian law—would enable us to understand as satisfied, conditions so miraculously—so ineffably complex and seemingly irreconcileable as those involved in the relations of which Gravity tells us,—what rational being _could_ so expose his fatuity as to call even this absolute hypothesis an hypothesis any longer—unless, indeed, he were to persist in so calling it, with the understanding that he did so, simply for the sake of consistency _in words_? But what is the true state of our present case? What is _the fact_? Not only that it is _not_ an hypothesis which we are required _to adopt_, in order to admit the principle at issue explained, but that it _is_ a logical conclusion which we are requested _not_ to adopt if we can avoid it—which we are simply invited to _deny if we can_:—a conclusion of so accurate a logicality that to dispute it would be the effort—to doubt its validity beyond our power:—a conclusion from which we see no mode of escape, turn as we will; a result which confronts us either at the end of an _in_ductive journey from the phænomena of the very Law discussed, or at the close of a _de_ductive career from the most rigorously simple of all conceivable assumptions—_the assumption, in a word, of Simplicity itself_. And if here, for the mere sake of cavilling, it be urged, that although my starting-point is, as I assert, the assumption of absolute Simplicity, yet Simplicity, considered merely in itself, is no axiom; and that only deductions from axioms are indisputable—it is thus that I reply:— Every other science than Logic is the science of certain concrete relations. Arithmetic, for example, is the science of the relations of number—Geometry, of the relations of form—Mathematics in general, of the relations of quantity in general—of whatever can be increased or diminished. Logic, however, is the science of Relation in the abstract—of absolute Relation—of Relation considered solely in itself. An axiom in any particular science other than Logic is, thus, merely a proposition announcing certain concrete relations which seem to be too obvious for dispute—as when we say, for instance, that the whole is greater than its part:—and, thus again, the principle of the _Logical_ axiom—in other words, of an axiom in the abstract—is, simply, _obviousness of relation_. Now, it is clear, not only that what is obvious to one mind may not be obvious to another, but that what is obvious to one mind at one epoch, may be anything but obvious, at another epoch, to the same mind. It is clear, moreover, that what, to-day, is obvious even to the majority of mankind, or to the majority of the best intellects of mankind, may to-morrow be, to either majority, more or less obvious, or in no respect obvious