[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

beneath their feet looked blanched. The sense of mystery increased, for the trees were enormous and grew densely here. Pine needles lay upon the ground, and there was a stirring of sudden wind far up above their heads in the tree-tops. “This is the part of the garden that Monsieur the Count loves,” said Smain. “He comes here every day.” “What is that?” said Domini, suddenly stopping on the pale sand. A thin and remote sound stole to them down the alley, clear and frail as the note of a night bird. “It is Larbi playing upon the flute. He is in love. That is why he plays when he ought to be watering the flowers and raking out the sand.” The distant love-song of the flute seemed to Domini the last touch of enchantment making this indeed a wonderland. She could not move, and held up her hands to stay the feet of Smain, who was quite content to wait. Never before had she heard any music that seemed to mean and suggest so much to her as this African tune played by an enamoured gardener. Queer and uncouth as it was, distorted with ornaments and tricked out with abrupt runs, exquisitely unnecessary grace notes, and sudden twitterings prolonged till a strange and frivolous Eternity tripped in to banish Time, it grasped Domini’s fancy and laid a spell upon her imagination. For it sounded as naively sincere as the song of a bird, and as if the heart from which it flowed were like the heart of a child, a place of revelation, not of concealment. The sun made men careless here. They opened their windows to it, and one could see into the warm and glowing rooms. Domini looked at the gentle Arab youth beside her, already twice married and twice divorced. She listened to Larbi’s unending song of love. And she said to herself, “These people, uncivilised or not, at least live, and I have been dead all my life, dead in life.” That was horribly possible. She knew it as she felt the enormously powerful spell of Africa descending upon her, enveloping her quietly but irresistibly. The dream of this garden was quick with a vague and yet fierce stirring of realities. There was a murmuring of many small and distant voices, like the voices of innumerable tiny things following restless activities in a deep forest. As she stood there the last grain of European dust was lifted from Domini’s soul. How deeply it had been buried, and for how many years. “The greatest act of man is the act of renunciation.” She had just heard those words. The eyes of the priest had flamed as he spoke them, and she had caught the spark of his enthusiasm. But now another fire seemed lit within her, and she found herself marvelling at such austerity. Was it not a fanatical defiance flung into the face of the sun? She shrank from her own thought, like one startled, and walked on softly in the green darkness. Larbi’s flute became more distant. Again and again it repeated the same queer little melody, changing the ornamentation at the fantasy of the player. She looked for him among the trees but saw no one. He must be in some very secret place. Smain touched her. “Look!” he said, and his voice was very low. He parted the branches of some palms with his delicate hands, and Domini, peering between them, saw in a place of deep shadows an isolated square room, whose white walls were almost entirely concealed by masses of purple bougainvillea. It had a flat roof. In three of its sides were large arched window-spaces without windows. In the fourth was a narrow doorway without a door. Immense fig trees and palms and thickets of bamboo towered around it and leaned above it. And it was circled by a narrow riband of finely-raked sand. “That is the smoking-room of Monsieur the Count,” said Smain. “He spends many hours there. Come and I will show the inside to Madame.” They turned to the left and went towards the room. The flute was close to them now. “Larbi must be in there,” Domini whispered to Smain, as a person whispers in a church. “No, he is among the trees beyond.” “But someone is there.” She pointed to the arched window-space nearest to them. A thin spiral of blue-grey smoke curled through it and evaporated into the shadows of the trees. After a moment it was followed gently and deliberately by another. “It is not Larbi. He would not go in there. It must be----” He paused. A tall, middle-aged man had come to the doorway of the little room and looked out into the garden with bright eyes. CHAPTER VI Domini drew back and glanced at Smain. She was not accustomed to feeling intrusive, and the sudden sensation rendered her uneasy. “It is Monsieur the Count,” Smain said calmly and quite aloud. The man in the doorway took off his soft hat, as if the words effected an introduction between Domini and him. “You were coming to see my little room, Madame?” he said in French. “If I may show it to you I shall feel honoured.” The timbre of his voice was harsh and grating, yet it was a very interesting, even a seductive, voice, and, Domini thought, peculiarly full of vivid life, though not of energy. His manner at once banished her momentary discomfort. There is a freemasonry between people born in the same social world. By the way in which Count Anteoni took off his hat and spoke she knew at once that all was right. “Thank you, Monsieur,” she answered. “I was told at the gate you gave permission to travellers to visit your garden.” “Certainly.” He spoke a few words in fluent Arabic to Smain, who turned away and disappeared among the trees. “I hope you will allow me to accompany you through the rest of the garden,” he said, turning again to Domini. “It will give me great pleasure.” “It is very kind of you.” The way in which the change of companion had been effected made it seem a pleasant, inevitable courtesy, which neither implied nor demanded anything. “This is my little retreat,” Count Anteoni continued, standing aside from the doorway that Domini might enter. She drew a long breath when she was within. The floor was of fine sand, beaten flat and hard, and strewn with Eastern rugs of faint and delicate hues, dim greens and faded rose colours, grey-blues and misty topaz yellows. Round the white walls ran broad divans, also white, covered with prayer rugs from Bagdad, and large cushions, elaborately worked in dull gold and silver thread, with patterns of ibises and flamingoes in flight. In the four angles of the room stood four tiny smoking-tables of rough palm wood, holding hammered ash-trays of bronze, green bronze torches for the lighting of cigarettes, and vases of Chinese dragon china filled with velvety red roses, gardenias and sprigs of orange blossom. Leather footstools, covered with Tunisian thread-work, lay beside them. From the arches of the window-spaces hung old Moorish lamps of copper, fitted with small panes of dull jewelled glass, such as may be seen in venerable church windows. In a round copper brazier, set on one of the window-seats, incense twigs were drowsily burning and giving out thin, dwarf columns of scented smoke. Through the archways and the narrow doorway the dense walls of leafage were visible standing on guard about this airy hermitage, and the hot purple blossoms of the bougainvillea shed a cloud of colour through the bosky dimness. And still the flute of Larbi showered soft, clear, whimsical music from some hidden place close by. Domini looked at her host, who was standing by the doorway, leaning one arm against the ivory-white wall. “This is my first day in Africa,” she said simply. “You may imagine what I think of your garden, what I feel in it. I needn’t tell you. Indeed, I am sure the travellers you so kindly let in must often have worried you with their raptures.” “No,” he answered, with a still gravity which yet suggested kindness, “for I leave nearly always before the travellers come. That sounds a little rude? But you would not be in Beni-Mora at this season, Madame, if it could include you.” “I have come here for peace,” Domini replied simply. She said it because she felt as if it was already understood by her companion. Count Anteoni took down his arm from the white wall and pulled a branch of the purple flowers slowly towards him through the doorway. “There is peace--what is generally called so, at least--in Beni-Mora,” he answered rather slowly and meditatively. “That is to say, there is similarity of day with day, night with night. The sun shines untiringly over the desert, and the desert always hints at peace.” He let the flowers go, and they sprang softly back, and hung quivering in the space beyond his thin figure. Then he added: “Perhaps one should not say more than that.” “No.” Domini sat down for a moment. She looked up at him with her direct eyes and at the shaking flowers. The sound of Larbi’s flute was always in her ears. “But may not one think, feel a little more?” she asked. “Oh, why not? If one can, if one must? But how? Africa is as fierce and full of meaning as a furnace, you know.” “Yes, I know--already,” she replied. His words expressed what she had already felt here in Beni-Mora, surreptitiously and yet powerfully. He said it, and last night the African hautboy had said it. Peace and a flame. Could they exist together, blended, married? “Africa seems to me to agree through contradiction,” she added, smiling a little, and touching the snowy wall with her right hand. “But then, this is my first day.” “Mine was when I was a boy of sixteen.” “This garden wasn’t here then?” “No. I had it made. I came here with my mother. She spoilt me. She let me have my whim.” “This garden is your boy’s whim?” “It was. Now it is a man’s----” He seemed to hesitate. “Paradise,” suggested Domini. “I think I was going to say hiding-place.” There was no bitterness in his odd, ugly voice, yet surely the words implied bitterness. The wounded, the fearful, the disappointed, the condemned hide. Perhaps he remembered this, for he added rather quickly: “I come here to be foolish, Madame, for I come here to think. This is my special thinking place.” “How strange!” Domini exclaimed impulsively, and leaning forward on the divan. “Is it?” “I only mean that already Beni-Mora has seemed to