[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

started upon your desert journey,” he added, looking closely at her, as he had often looked in the garden. “Yes.” “And as I ventured to advise--that last time, do you remember?” She recollected his words. “No,” she replied, and there was a warmth of joy, almost of pride, in her voice. “I am not alone.” Count Anteoni was standing with one hand on her horse’s neck. As she spoke, his hand dropped down. “I have been away from Beni-Hassan,” he said slowly. “The marabout and I have been travelling in the south and only returned yesterday. I have heard no news for a long time from Beni-Mora, but I know. You are Madame Androvsky.” “Yes,” she answered; “I am Madame Androvsky.” There was a silence between them. In it she heard the dripping water in the fountain. At last Count Anteoni spoke again. “It was written,” he said quietly. “It was written in the sand.” She thought of the sand-diviner and was silent. An oppression of spirit had suddenly come upon her. It seemed to her connected with something physical, something obscure, unusual, such as she had never felt before. It was, she thought, as if her body at that moment became more alive than it had ever been, and as if that increase of life within her gave to her a peculiar uneasiness. She was startled. She even felt alarmed, as at the faint approach of something strange, of something that was going to alter her life. She did not know at all what it was. For the moment a sense of confusion and of pain beset her, and she was scarcely aware with whom she was, or where. The sensation passed and she recovered herself and met Count Anteoni’s eyes quietly. “Yes,” she answered; “all that has happened to me here in Africa was written in the sand and in fire.” “You are thinking of the sun.” “Yes.” “I--where are you living?” “Close by on the sand-hill beyond the city wall.” “Where you can see the fires lit at night and hear the sound of the music of Africa?” “Yes.” “As he said.” “Yes, as he said.” Again the overwhelming sense of some strange and formidable approach came over her, but this time she fought it resolutely. “Will you come and see me?” she said. She had meant to say “us,” but did not say it. “If you will allow me.” “When?” “I--” she heard the odd, upward grating in his voice which she remembered so well. “May I come now if you are riding to the tents?” “Please do.” “I will explain to the marabout and follow you.” “But the way? Shall Batouch--?” “No, it is not necessary.” She rode away. When she reached the camp she found that Androvsky had not yet returned, and she was glad. She wanted to talk to Count Anteoni alone. Within a few minutes she saw him coming towards the tent. His beard and his Arab dress so altered him that at a short distance she could not recognise him, could only guess that it was he. But directly he was near, and she saw his eyes, she forgot that he was altered, and felt that she was with her kind and whimsical host of the garden. “My husband is in the city,” she said. “Yes.” “With the priest.” She saw an expression of surprise flit over Count Anteoni’s face. It went away instantly. “Pere Beret,” he said. “He is a cheerful creature and very good to the Arabs.” They sat down just inside the shadow of the tent before the door, and he looked out quietly towards the city. “Yes, this is the place,” he said. She knew that he was alluding to the vision of the sand-diviner, and said so. “Did you believe at the time that what he said would come true?” she asked. “How could I? Am I a child?” He spoke with gentle irony, but she felt he was playing with her. “Cannot a man believe such things?” He did not answer her, but said: “My fate has come to pass. Do you not care to know what it is?” “Yes, do tell me.” She spoke earnestly. She felt a change in him, a great change which as yet she did not understand fully. It was as if he had been a man in doubt and was now a man no longer in doubt, as if he had arrived at some goal and was more at peace with himself than he had been. “I have become a Mohammedan,” he said simply. “A Mohammedan!” She repeated the words as a person repeats words in surprise, but her voice did not sound surprised. “You wonder?” he asked. After a moment she answered: “No. I never thought of such a thing, but I am not surprised. Now you have told me it seems to explain you, much that I noticed in you, wondered about in you.” She looked at him steadily, but without curiosity. “I feel that you are happy now.” “Yes, I am happy. The world I used to know, my world and yours, would laugh at me, would say that I was crazy, that it was a whim, that I wished for a new sensation. Simply it had to be. For years I have been tending towards it--who knows why? Who knows what obscure influences have been at work in me, whether there is not perhaps far back, some faint strain of Arab blood mingled with the Sicilian blood in my veins? I cannot understand why. What I can understand is that at last I have fulfilled my destiny! After years of unrest I am suddenly and completely at peace. It is a magical sensation. I have been wandering all my life and have come upon the open door of my home.” He spoke very quietly, but she heard the joy in his voice. “I remember you saying, ‘I like to see men praying in the desert.’” “Yes. When I looked at them I was longing to be one of them. For years from my garden wall I watched them with a passion of envy, with bitterness, almost with hatred sometimes. They had something I had not, something that set them above me, something that made their lives plain through any complication, and that gave to death a meaning like the meaning at the close of a great story that is going to have a sequel. They had faith. And it was difficult not to hate them. But now I am one of them. I can pray in the desert.” “That was why you left Beni-Mora.” “Yes. I had long been wishing to become a Mohammedan. I came here to be with the marabout, to enter more fully into certain questions, to see if I had any lingering doubts.” “And you have none?” “None.” She looked at his bright eyes and sighed, thinking of her husband. “You will go back to Beni-Mora?” she asked. “I don’t think so. I am inclined to go farther into the desert, farther among the people of my own faith. I don’t want to be surrounded by French. Some day perhaps I may return. But at present everything draws me onward. Tell me”--he dropped the earnest tone in which he had been speaking, and she heard once more the easy, half-ironical man of the world--“do you think me a half-crazy eccentric?” “No!” “You look at me very gravely, even sadly.” “I was thinking of the men who cannot pray,” she said, “even in the desert.” “They should not come into the Garden of Allah. Don’t you remember that day by the garden wall, when--” He suddenly checked himself. “Forgive me,” he said simply. “And now tell me about yourself. You never wrote that you were going to be married.” “I knew you would know it in time--when we met again.” “And you knew we should meet again?” “Did not you?” He nodded. “In the heart of the desert. And you--where are you going? You are not returning to civilisation?” “I don’t know. I have no plans. I want to do what my husband wishes.” “And he?” “He loves the desert. He has suggested our buying an oasis and setting up as date merchants. What do you think of the idea?” She spoke with a smile, but her eyes were serious, even sad. “I cannot judge for others,” he answered. When he got up to go he held her hand fast for a moment. “May I speak what is in my heart?” he asked. “Yes--do.” “I feel as if what I have told you to-day about myself, about my having come to the open door of a home I had long been wearily seeking, had made you sad. Is it so?” “Yes,” she answered frankly. “Can you tell me why?” “It has made me realise more sharply than perhaps I did before what must be the misery of those who are still homeless.” There was in her voice a sound as if she suppressed a sob. “Hope for them, remembering my many years of wandering.” “Yes, yes.” “Good-bye.” “Will you come again?” “You are here for long?” “Some days, I think.” “Whenever you ask me I will come.” “I want you and my husband to meet again. I want that very much.” She spoke with a pressure of eagerness. “Send for me and I will come at any hour.” “I will send--soon.” When he was gone, Domini sat in the shadow of the tent. From where she was she could see the Arab cemetery at a little distance, a quantity of stones half drowned in the sand. An old Arab was wandering there alone, praying for the dead in a loud, persistent voice. Sometimes he paused by a grave, bowed himself in prayer, then rose and walked on again. His voice was never silent. The sound of it was plaintive and monotonous. Domini listened to it, and thought of homeless men, of those who had lived and died without ever coming to that open door through which Count Anteoni had entered. His words and the changed look in his face had made a deep impression upon her. She realised that in the garden, when they were together, his eyes, even when they twinkled with the slightly ironical humour peculiar to him, had always held a shadow. Now that shadow was lifted out of them. How deep was the shadow in her husband’s eyes. How deep had it been in the eyes of her father. He had died with that terrible darkness in his eyes and in his soul. If her husband were to die thus! A terror came upon her. She looked out at the stones in the sand and imagined herself there--as