[The Inventions, Researches and Writings of Tesla — Gutenberg #32037]

of F. Bastiat. With an Introduction, by Francis Lieber, LL.D., Professor in South Carolina College, Editor of the Encyclopædia Americana, &c., &c. 12mo. 75 cts. Bibliotheca Sacra and Theological Review. Conducted by B. B. Edwards and E. A. Park, Professors at Andover, with the Special Aid of Dr. Robinson and Professor Stuart. Published quarterly in February, May, August, and November $4 per annum. Vols. 1, 2, 3, and 4, 8vo. cloth, each $4. “This is, perhaps, the most ambitious journal in the United States. We use the word in a good sense, as meaning that there is no journal among us which seems more laudably desirous to take the lead in literary and theological science. Its handsome type and paper give it a pleasing exterior; its typographical errors, though sufficiently numerous, are so comparatively few, as to show that it has the advantage of the best American proof-reading; while for thoroughness of execution in the departments of history and criticism, it aims to be pre-eminent.”—_N. Y. Churchman._ Burton.—The Anatomy of Melancholy. By Burton. New and beautiful edition, with Engravings. 1 vol. royal 8vo. cloth, $2 50. ⁂ This is one of those sterling old works which were written for “all time,” full of learning, humor, and quaint conceits. No library can be complete without it. Calvert.—Scenes and Thoughts in Europe. By an American. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth, 50 cents. “His descriptions of scenery, his remarks on art, his accounts of the different people among whom he sojourned, are all good.”—_Cincinnati Gazette._ Carlyle.—The French Revolution: a History. By Thomas Carlyle. 2 vols. 12mo. green cloth, $2. “His French Revolution is considered one of the most remarkable works of the age—as at once the poetry and philosophy of history.”—_Hunt’s Merchants’ Mag._ Carlyle.—Letters and Speeches of Oliver Cromwell. By Thos. Carlyle. 2 vols. 12mo. green cloth, $2 50. “A work more valuable as a guide to the study of the singular and complex character of our pious revolutionist, our religious demagogue, our preaching and praying warrior, has not been produced.”—_Blackwood’s Magazine._ Carlyle.—Past and Present: Chartism. By Thomas Carlyle. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth, $1 “To say that the book is replete with instruction, thought, and quaint fancy, is unnecessary: but we may mention it as one, _par excellence_, which should be read at the present juncture.”-_Tribune._ Chaucer and Spenser.—Selections from the Poetical Works of Geoffrey Chaucer. By Charles D. Deshler. Spenser, and the Faery Queen. By Mrs. C. M. Kirkland. 1 vol. 12mo. $1 13. —— The same, extra gilt, $1 50. “A portion of their writings are presented in a beautiful and convenient form, and with the requisite notes and modifications.”—_Home Journal._ Coe.—Studies in Drawing, in a Progressive Series of Lessons on Cards; beginning with the most Elementary Studies, and Adapted for Use at Home and Schools. By Benjamin H. Coe, Teacher of Drawing. In Ten Series—marked 1 and 10—each containing about eighteen Studies. 25 cents each. The design is: I.—To make the exercises in drawing highly interesting to the pupil. II.—To make drawings so simple, and so gradually progressive, as to enable any teacher, whether acquainted with drawing or not, to instruct his pupils to advantage. III.—To take the place of one-half of the writing lessons, with confidence that the learner will acquire a knowledge of writing in less than time is usually required. IV.—To give the pupils a bold, rapid, and artist-like style of drawing. Coleridge.—Biographia Literaria; or, Biographical Sketches of my Literary Life and Opinions. By Samuel Taylor Coleridge. From the 2d London edition, Edited by H. N. Coleridge. 2 vols. 12mo. green cloth, $2. Cortez.—Letters and Despatches of Hernando Cortez. Translated by Hon. George Folsom. 1 vol. 8vo. $1 25. Dana.—A System of Mineralogy, comprising the most Recent Discoveries. By James D. Dana. Woodcuts and copperplates, 8vo. cloth, $3 50. Downing.—Cottage Residences; or, a Series of Designs for Rural Cottages and Cottage Villas, and their Gardens and Grounds; adapted to North America. By A. J. Downing. Numerous plates, 3d edition, 8vo. cloth, $2. Downing.—A Treatise on the Theory and Practice of Landscape Gardening adapted to North America; with Remarks on Rural Architecture. By A. J. Downing. Plates, 2d edition, thick 8vo. cloth, $3 50. Downing.—The Fruits and Fruit Trees of America; or, the Culture, Propagation, and Management, in the Garden and Orchard, of Fruit Trees generally. By A. J. Downing. Plates, 9th edition, revised, 12mo. cloth, $1 50. —— The same, 8vo. cloth, $2 50. —— The same, with 80 superb Illustrations, drawn and beautifully colored by Paris Artists, royal 8vo. half morocco, top edge gilt. New edition shortly. Dwight.—Grecian and Roman Mythology; with original Illustrations. Adapted for the Use of Universities and High Schools, and for Popular Reading. By M. A. Dwight. With an Introduction by Tayler Lewis, Professor of Greek, University of New York. 12mo. [In September. —— Also a fine edition in octavo, with Illustrations. ⁂ This work has been prepared with great care, illustrated with twenty effective outline drawings, and is designed to treat the subject in an original, comprehensive, and unexceptionable manner, so as to fill the place as a text-book which is yet unsupplied; while it will also be an attractive and readable table-book for general use. It will be at once introduced as a text-book in the University of New York, and other colleges and schools. Ford.—The Spaniards and their Country. By Richard Ford. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth, 87 cents. “The best description of national character and manners of Spain that has ever appeared.”—_Quarterly Review._ “The volumes appear to treat of almost everything save the graver questions of religion and politics, which may possibly be taken up hereafter. In one respect it has the advantage over more directly historical works—it portrays the Spanish character, as well as country, with fidelity.”—_Commercial Advertiser._ Fouqué.—Undine, a Tale; and Sintram and his Companions, a Tale. From the German of La Motte Fouqué. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth. 50 cts. “The style and execution of this delightful romance are very graceful.”—_Hawkins’s Germany._ “Fouqué’s romances I always recommend—especially the wild, graceful, and touching Undine.”—_Sarah Austin._ French.—Historical Collections of Louisiana. By B. F. French. 8vo. cloth, $1 50. Goldsmith.—The Vicar of Wakefield. By Oliver Goldsmith. 1 vol. 12mo. neatly printed, cloth, 50 cents. —— The same, with Illustrated Designs by Mulready, elegantly bound, gilt edges, $1. Gray.—Botanical Text-Book. By Prof. Asa Gray. Many hundred cuts, 2d edition, large 12mo. cloth, $1 75. Green.—A Treatise on Diseases of the Air Passages; comprising an Inquiry into the History, Pathology, Causes, and Treatment of those Affections of the Throat called Bronchitis, &c. By Horace Green, M.D. Colored plates, 8vo. cloth. $2 50. “A new and eminently successful treatment of lung complaints.” Hackley.—Elements of Trigonometry, Plane and Spherical. By Rev. C. W. Hackley, Professor of Mathematics, Columbia College, New York. 8vo. cloth, $1 25. Hamilton Papers.—The Official Papers of the late Major-General Alexander Hamilton. Compiled from the Originals in the Possession of Mrs. Hamilton. 1 vol. 8vo. cloth, $2 50. Hahn’s Hebrew Bible.—New and complete stereotype edition, being a fac-simile of the Leipsic edition. In 1 vol. 8vo. In press. Hazlitt’s (William) Miscellaneous Works. 4 vols. 12mo. cloth, $5. Hazlitt’s Life of Napoleon. 3 vols. 12mo. cloth. —— Spirit of the Age. 12mo., 50 cents. —— Table Talk, both series, in 2 vols. cloth, $2 25. —— Characters of Shakspeare, 12mo. 50 cts. —— Literature of the Age of Queen Elizabeth, 12mo. 50 cts. —— English Comic Writers, 50 cts. —— Lectures on English Poets, 50 cts. Head.—Bubbles from the Brunnen. By Sir Francis Head. 12mo. green cloth. “At once an instructive and amusing book. It contains a great deal of information.”—_London Times._ Hervey.—The Book of Christmas; descriptive of the Customs, Ceremonies, Traditions, Superstitions, Fun, Feeling, and Festivities of the Christmas Season. By Thomas K. Hervey. 12mo. green cloth, 63 cents. —— The same, gilt extra. $1. “Every leaf of this book affords a feast worthy of the season.”—_Dr. Hawks’s Church Record._ Hood.—Prose and Verse. By Thomas Hood. 12mo. green cloth. 87 cents. —— The same, gilt extra, $1 25. “A very judicious selection, designed to embrace Hood’s more earnest writings, those which were written most directly from the heart, which reflect most faithfully his life and opinions.”—_Broadway Journal._ Howitt.—Ballads and other Poems. By Mary Howitt. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth, 63 cents. —— The same, with fine Portrait, gilt extra, $1 25. “Her poems are always graceful and beautiful.”—_Mrs. S. C. Hall._ “We cannot commend too highly the present publication, and only hope that the reading public will relish ‘Mary Howitt’s Ballads and other Poems,’ now for the first time put forth in a collected form.”—_Albion._ Hunt.—Imagination and Fancy. By Leigh Hunt. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth, 62 cents. —— The same, gilt extra, $1. Hunt.—Stories from the Italian Poets: being a Summary in Prose of the Poems of Dante, Pulci, Boiardo, Aristo, and Tasso; with Comments throughout, occasional passages Versified, and Critical Notices of the Lives and Genius of the Authors. By Leigh Hunt. 12mo. cloth, $1 25. —— The same, fancy gilt. $1 75. “Mr. Hunt’s book has been aptly styled, a series of exquisite engravings of the magnificent pictures painted by these great Italian masters.”—_Journal of Commerce._ Irving.—Works of Washington Irving; Revised and Enlarged by the Author. In twelve elegant duodecimo volumes, beautifully printed with new type, and on superior paper, made expressly for the purpose, and bound in cloth. As follows:— _The Sketch-Book_, in one volume. _Knickerbocker’s New York_, in one volume. _Tales of a Traveller_, in one vol. _Bracebridge Hall_, in one volume. _The Conquest of Grenada_, in one volume. _The Alhambra_, in one volume. _Astoria_, in one volume. _The Crayon Miscellany_, in one volume. Abbotsford, Newstead, The Prairies, &c. _The Spanish Legends_, in one vol. _The Life and Voyages of Columbus_, and _The Companions of Columbus_, in two volumes. _Adventures of Capt. Bonneville_, in one volume. (Now publishing.) Irving.—The Sketch-Book. By Washington Irving. Complete in one volume, 12mo. cloth. In September. Irving.—The Illustrated Sketch-Book. By Washington Irving. In October will be published, THE SKETCH-BOOK, by Washington Irving, one vol. square octavo, Illustrated with a series of highly-finished Engravings on Wood, from Designs by DARLEY and others, engraved in the best style by CHILDS, HERRICK, &c. This edition will be printed on paper of the finest quality, similar in size and style to the new edition of “Halleck’s Poems.” It is intended that the illustrations shall be superior to any engravings on wood yet produced in this country, and that the mechanical execution of the volume, altogether, shall be worthy of the author’s reputation. It will form an elegant and appropriate gift-book for all seasons. Irving.—Knickerbocker’s History of New York. By Washington Irving. With Revisions and copious Additions. Will be published on the 1st of October. Irving.—The Illustrated Knickerbocker; with a series of original