[The Inventions, Researches and Writings of Tesla — Gutenberg #32037]

edition of “Halleck’s Poems.” It is intended that the illustrations shall be superior to any engravings on wood yet produced in this country, and that the mechanical execution of the volume, altogether, shall be worthy of the author’s reputation. It will form an elegant and appropriate gift-book for all seasons. The Illustrated Knickerbocker, With a series of Original Designs, in one vol., octavo, is also in preparation. Mr. Putnam has also the honor to announce that he will publish at intervals (in connexion, and uniform with the other collected writings), _Mr. Irving’s New Works_, now nearly ready for the press: including The Life of Mohammed; The Life of Washington; new volumes of Miscellanies, Biographies, &c. ⁂ This being the first uniform and complete edition of Mr. Irving’s works, either in this country or in Europe, the publisher confidently believes that the undertaking will meet with a prompt and cordial response. To say this, is perhaps superfluous and impertinent; for it is a truism that no _American_ book-case (not to say _library_) can be well filled without the works of Washington Irving; while the English language itself comprises no purer models of composition. G. P. Putnam has also made arrangements for the early commencement of new works or new editions of the works of _Miss C. M. Sedgwick, Prof. A. Gray, Leigh Hunt, Chas. Fenno Hoffman, Mrs. E. Oakes Smith, Thomas Carlyle, George H. Calvert, Mrs. C. M. Kirkland, R. Monckton Milnes, J. Bayard Taylor, Mary Howitt, Mrs. Jameson, S. Wells Williams, W. M. Thackeray, Charles Lamb, A. J. Downing, Thos. Hood, Elliot Warburton_. The following new works are now ready, or will be published this season: I. Sophisms of the Protective Policy. Translated from the French of F. Bastiat. With an introduction by Francis Lieber, LL.D. Professor in South Carolina College, Editor of the Encyclopedia Americana, &c. 12mo. 75 cents. “It is a book not for the million but for millions, and we believe if a copy could be put into the hands of every school-boy in the Union, the next generation would be inconceivably wiser, richer, and happier than the present.”—_Mirror._ II. Grecian and Roman Mythology: With original illustrations. Adapted for the use of Universities and High Schools, and for popular reading. By M. A. Dwight. With an introduction by Tayler Lewis, Professor of Greek, University of New York. 12mo. (On 1st September.) Also a fine edition in octavo, with illustrations. ⁂ This work has been prepared with great care, illustrated with 20 effective outline drawings, and is designed to treat the subject in an original, comprehensive, and unexceptionable manner, so as to fill the place as a text book which is yet unsupplied; while it will also be an attractive and readable table book for general use. It will be at once introduced as a text book in the University of New York and other colleges and schools. III. Eureka: a Prose Poem. Or the Physical and Metaphysical Universe. By Edgar A. Poe, Esq. Handsomely printed, 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents. “A most extraordinary Essay. We shall be greatly surprised if this work does not create a most profound sensation among the literary and scientific classes.”—_New York Express._ IV. Oriental Life Illustrated. Being a new edition of Eöthen, or Traces of Travel in the East. With fine illustrations on Steel. 12mo. elegantly bound, $1 50. ⁂ This new and unique volume, superbly illuminated by Mapleson, and comprising original articles by distinguished writers, will be the most elegant and recherché book of the kind ever produced in this country. It will be ready in October. A new and superior edition of the PEARLS OF AMERICAN POETRY will also be published this season. V. The Book of Dainty Devices. In an elegant small folio volume. Lays of the Western World. VI. Dr. Klipstein’s Anglo-Saxon Course of Study. In uniform 12mo. volumes. I. A Grammar of the Anglo-Saxon Language. By Louis F. Klipstein, AA.LL.M. and PH.D., of the University of Giessen. ⁂ This work recommends itself particularly to the attention of every American student who “glories in his Anglo-Saxon descent” or Teutonic lineage, as well as of all who desire an acquaintance with a language which lies as the foundation of the English, and throws a light upon its elements and structure, derivable from no other source. Of the importance and interesting nature of the study there can be no doubt, and we agree with those who think that the time is coming when it will be considered “utterly disgraceful for any well-bred Englishman or American” to have neglected it. With regard to the merits of Dr. Klipstein’s Grammar, we will only say, that it has been already adopted as a text-book in some of the leading Institutions of our country. [The following are also in press.] II. Analecta Anglo-Saxonica, with an Introductory Ethnographical Essay, Copious Notes, Critical and Explanatory, and a Glossary in which are shown the Indo-Germanic and other Affinities of the Language. _By the same._ In this work appear the fruits of considerable research, and, we may add, learning. The Ethnology of Europe is succinctly, but clearly illustrated, the Anglo-Saxon language completely analysed, revealing the utmost harmony of combination from its elements, its forms and roots compared with those in kindred dialects and cognate tongues, its position in the Teutonic family and Indo-Germanic range established, and the genuine relation of the English to its great parent properly set forth. To those who are fond of the comparative study of language, the Glossary will prove an invaluable aid, apart from its particular object. III. Natale Sancti Gregorii Papæ.—Ælfric’s Homily on the Birth-day of St. Gregory, and Collateral Extracts from King Alfred’s version of Bede’s Ecclesiastical History and the Saxon Chronicle, with a full rendering into English, Notes Critical and Explanatory, and an Index of Words. _By the same._ IV. Extracts from the Anglo-Saxon-Gospels, a Portion of the Anglo-Saxon Paraphrase of the Book of Psalms, and other Selections of a Sacred Order in the same Language, with a Translation into English, and Notes Critical and Explanatory. _By the same._ These two works are prepared in such a way as in themselves, with the aid of the Grammar, to afford every facility to the Anglo-Saxon Student. Ælfric’s Homily is remarkable for beauty of composition, and interesting as setting forth Augustine’s Mission to the “Land of the Angles.” V. Tha Halgan Godspel on Englisc—the Anglo-Saxon Version of the Holy Gospels. Edited by Benjamin Thorpe, F.S.A. _Reprinted by the same. Now ready._ This, the earliest “English” version of the Four Gospels, will be found interesting to the antiquarian and theologian, as well as serviceable to the student in his investigations of the language. The Text, besides the usual but unbroken division, appears, with the Rubrics, as read in the early Anglican Church. _Nearly Ready._ Dr. Bosworth’s Compendious Anglo-Saxon Dictionary. Small 8vo. VII. Study of Modern Languages. Part First; French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, German, and English. By L. F. Klipstein, AA.LL.M. and Ph.D. One Vol. Imperial 8vo. 75 cents paper; $1 00 cloth. This work, which is intended equally for the simultaneous and the separate study of the languages that it sets forth, and which is adapted as well for the native of Germany, France, Italy, Spain, or Portugal, as for him to whom English is vernacular, in the acquirement of any one of the other tongues besides his own, will be found an acceptable manual not only to the tyro, but to the more advanced scholar. The reading portion of the matter is interesting, and the text in every case remarkably correct, while the Elementary Phrases, forms of Cards, Letters, Bills of Exchange, Promissory Notes, Receipts, &c., in the six languages, constitute what has long been a desideratum from the American press. For the comparative study of the _Romanic_ tongues the work affords unusual facilities. VIII. Pedestrian Tour in Europe. Views a-Foot; or Europe seen with Knapsack and Staff. By J. Bayard Taylor. A new edition with an additional chapter, and a sketch of the author in pedestrian costume, from a drawing by T. Buchanan Read. 12mo. Cloth. IX. A New Edition of Clarke’s Shakspeare Concordance. A Complete Concordance to Shakspeare: being a Verbal Index to ALL the PASSAGES in the Dramatic Works of the Poet. By Mrs. Cowden Clarke. “Order gave each thing view.” One large Vol. comprising 2560 closely printed columns,—(indicating _every word and passage_ in Shakspeare’s Works). Price $6. Cloth. “The result of sixteen years of untiring labor. The different editions of Shakspeare have been carefully collated by the compiler, and every possible means taken to insure the correctness of the work. As it now stands, a person can find a particular passage in Shakspeare by simply remembering one word of it, and is also referred to the act and scene of the play in which it occurs. As a mere dictionary of Shakspearian language and phrases, it is of great value; but it is also a dictionary of his thoughts and imaginations. It altogether supersedes the volumes of Twiss and Ayscough, and should be on every student’s shelves”—_Boston Courier._ ⁂ This extraordinary work is printed in London and the price there _at present_ is £2. 5s. 0d. or about $12. A large part of the edition having been purchased for this market, it is furnished here for the very low price of $6, bound in cloth. _Also—By same Author._ The Book of Shakspeare Proverbs. 18mo. 75 cts. _Dr. Lieber’s Poetical Address to the American Republic._ 16mo. 25 cents. The West: A Metrical Epistle. BY FRANCIS LIEBER. ⁂ Dr. Lieber, the distinguished Professor of Political Economy in South Carolina College, Author of “Political Ethics,” &c., has just sailed for his native country—Germany—with the view of aiding in the great cause of Constitutional and Rational Freedom. This little volume proves that he has well studied that subject during his long residence in this his adopted country—and his able and valuable opinions on American Society and Progress, carry with them a peculiar interest at this time. RECENT PUBLICATIONS. Alexander.—Commentary on the Earlier Prophecies of Isaiah. By Prof. J. A. Alexander. Royal 8vo. cloth, $3. Alexander.—Commentary on the Later Prophecies of Isaiah. By Prof. J. A. Alexander. Royal 8vo. cloth, $2 50. Ancient Moral Tales, from the Gesta Romanorum, &c. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth. “A quiet humor, a quaintness and terseness of style, will strongly recommend them.”—_English Churchman._ Architecture.—Hints on Public Architecture; issued under the Direction of the “Smithsonian Institution.” Imperial 4to. with Illustrations. (In preparation.) This work will contain numerous and valuable illustrations, including two perspective views of the buildings of the Smithsonian Institution. The Appendix will contain the results of a research under the auspices of the Institution to test the properties of the most important building materials throughout the United States. Bastiat.—Sophisms of the Protective Policy. Translated from the French