[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

the old Arab was--praying for Androvsky buried there, hidden from her on earth for ever. And suddenly she felt, “I cannot wait, I must act.” Her faith was deep and strong. Nothing could shake it. But might it not shake the doubt from another’s soul, as a great, pure wind shakes leaves that are dead from a tree that will blossom with the spring? Hitherto a sense of intense delicacy had prevented her from ever trying to draw near definitely to her husband’s sadness. But her interview with Count Anteoni, and the sound of this voice praying, praying for the dead men in the sand, stirred her to an almost fierce resolution. She had given herself to Androvsky. He had given himself to her. They were one. She had a right to draw near to his pain, if by so doing there was a chance that she might bring balm to it. She had a right to look closer into his eyes if hers, full of faith, could lift the shadow from them. She leaned back in the darkness of the tent. The old Arab had wandered further on among the graves. His voice was faint in the sand, faint and surely piteous, as if, even while he prayed, he felt that his prayers were useless, that the fate of the dead was pronounced beyond recall. Domini listened to him no more. She was praying for the living as she had never prayed before, and her prayer was the prelude not to patience but to action. It was as if her conversation with Count Anteoni had set a torch to something in her soul, something that gave out a great flame, a flame that could surely burn up the sorrow, the fear, the secret torture in her husband’s soul. All the strength of her character had been roused by the sight of the peace she desired for the man she loved; enthroned in the heart of this other man who was only her friend. The voice of the old Arab died away in the distance, but before it died away Domini had ceased from hearing it. She heard only a voice within her, which said to her, “If you really love be fearless. Attack this sorrow which stands like a figure of death between you and your husband. Drive it away. You have a weapon--faith. Use it.” It seemed to her then that through all their intercourse she had been a coward in her love, and she resolved that she would be a coward no longer. CHAPTER XXV Domini had said to herself that she would speak to her husband that night. She was resolved not to hesitate, not to be influenced from her purpose by anything. Yet she knew that a great difficulty would stand in her way--the difficulty of Androvsky’s intense, almost passionate, reserve. This reserve was the dominant characteristic in his nature. She thought of it sometimes as a wall of fire that he had set round about the secret places of his soul to protect them even from her eyes. Perhaps it was strange that she, a woman of a singularly frank temperament, should be attracted by reserve in another, yet she knew that she was so attracted by the reserve of her husband. Its existence hinted to her depths in him which, perhaps, some day she might sound, she alone, strength which was hidden for her some day to prove. Now, alone with her purpose, she thought of this reserve. Would she be able to break it down with her love? For an instant she felt as if she were about to enter upon a contest with her husband, but she did not coldly tell over her armoury and select weapons. There was a heat of purpose within her that beckoned her to the unthinking, to the reckless way, that told her to be self-reliant and to trust to the moment for the method. When Androvsky returned to the camp it was towards evening. A lemon light was falling over the great white spaces of the sand. Upon their little round hills the Arab villages glowed mysteriously. Many horsemen were riding forth from the city to take the cool of the approaching night. From the desert the caravans were coming in. The nomad children played, half-naked, at Cora before the tents, calling shrilly to each other through the light silence that floated airily away into the vast distances that breathed out the spirit of a pale eternity. Despite the heat there was an almost wintry romance in this strange land of white sands and yellow radiance, an ethereal melancholy that stole with the twilight noiselessly towards the tents. As Androvsky approached Domini saw that he had lost the energy which had delighted her at _dejeuner_. He walked towards her slowly with his head bent down. His face was grave, even sad, though when he saw her waiting for him he smiled. “You have been all this time with the priest?” she said. “Nearly all. I walked for a little while in the city. And you?” “I rode out and met a friend.” “A friend?” he said, as if startled. “Yes, from Beni-Mora--Count Anteoni. He has been here to pay me a visit.” She pulled forward a basket-chair for him. He sank into it heavily. “Count Anteoni here!” he said slowly. “What is he doing here?” “He is with the marabout at Beni-Hassan. And, Boris, he has become a Mohammedan.” He lifted his head with a jerk and stared at her in silence. “You are surprised?” “A Mohammedan--Count Anteoni?” “Yes. Do you know, when he told me I felt almost as if I had been expecting it.” “But--is he changed then? Is he--” He stopped. His voice had sounded to her bitter, almost fierce. “Yes, Boris, he is changed. Have you ever seen anyone who was lost, and the same person walking along the road home? Well, that is Count Anteoni.” They said no more for some minutes. Androvsky was the first to speak again. “You told him?” he asked. “About ourselves?” “Yes.” “I told him.” “What did he say?” “He had expected it. When we ask him he is coming here again to see us both together.” Androvsky got up from his chair. His face was troubled. Standing before Domini, he said: “Count Anteoni is happy then, now that he--now that he has joined this religion?” “Very happy.” “And you--a Catholic--what do you think?” “I think that, since that is his honest belief, it is a blessed thing for him.” He said no more, but went towards the sleeping-tent. In the evening, when they were dining, he said to her: “Domini, to-night I am going to leave you again for a short time.” He saw a look of keen regret come into her face, and added quickly: “At nine I have promised to go to see the priest. He--he is rather lonely here. He wants me to come. Do you mind?” “No, no. I am glad--very glad. Have you finished?” “Quite.” “Let us take a rug and go out a little way in the sand--that way towards the cemetery. It is quiet there at night.” “Yes. I will get a rug.” He went to fetch it, threw it over his arm, and they set out together. She had meant the Arab cemetery, but when they reached it they found two or three nomads wandering there. “Let us go on,” she said. They went on, and came to the French cemetery, which was surrounded by a rough hedge of brushwood, in which there were gaps here and there. Through one of these gaps they entered it, spread out the rug, and lay down on the sand. The night was still and silence brooded here. Faintly they saw the graves of the exiles who had died here and been given to the sand, where in summer vipers glided to and fro, and the pariah dogs wandered stealthily, seeking food to still the desires in their starving bodies. They were mostly very simple, but close to Domini and Androvsky was one of white marble, in the form of a broken column, hung with wreaths of everlasting flowers, and engraved with these words: ICI REPOSE JEAN BAPTISTE FABRIANI _Priez pour lui_. When they lay down they both looked at this grave, as if moved by a simultaneous impulse, and read the words. “Priez pour lui!” Domini said in a low voice. She put out her hand and took hold of her husband’s, and pressed it down on the sand. “Do you remember that first night, Boris,” she said, “at Arba, when you took my hand in yours and laid it against the desert as against a heart?” “Yes, Domini, I remember.” “That night we were one, weren’t we?” “Yes, Domini.” “Were we”--she was almost whispering in the night--“were we truly one?” “Why do you--truly one, you say?” “Yes--one in soul? That is the great union, greater than the union of our bodies. Were we one in soul? Are we now?” “Domini, why do you ask me such questions? Do you doubt my love?” “No. But I do ask you. Won’t you answer me?” He was silent. His hand lay in hers, but did not press it. “Boris”--she spoke the cruel words very quietly,--“we are not truly one in soul. We have never been. I know that.” He said nothing. “Shall we ever be? Think--if one of us were to die, and the other--the one who was left--were left with the knowledge that in our love, even ours, there had always been separation--could you bear that? Could I bear it?” “Domini--” “Yes.” “Why do you speak like this? We are one. You have all my love. You are everything to me.” “And yet you are sad, and you try to hide your sadness, your misery, from me. Can you not give it me? I want it--more than I want anything on earth. I want it, I must have it, and I dare to ask for it because I know how deeply you love me and that you could never love another.” “I never have loved another,” he said. “I was the very first.” “The very first. When we married, although I was a man I was as you were.” She bent down her head and laid her lips on his hand that was in hers. “Then make our union perfect, as no other union on earth has ever been. Give me your sorrow, Boris. I know what it is.” “How can--you cannot know,” he said in a broken voice. “Yes. Love is a diviner, the only true diviner. I told you once what it was, but I want you to tell me. Nothing that we take is beautiful to us,