[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

own heart. The paralysis of anguish passed from her. She no longer looked to Nature as one dumbly seeking help. For they led her to herself, and made her look into herself and her own love and know it. “When frightened it is not disturbed--it securely passeth through all.” That was absolutely true--true as her love. She looked down into her love, and she saw there the face of God, but thought she saw the face of human love only. And it was so beautiful and so strong that even the tears upon it gave her courage, and she said to herself: “Nothing matters, nothing can matter so long as I have this love within me. He is going away, but I am not sad, for I am going with him--my love, all that I am--that is going with him, will always be with him.” Just then it seemed to her that if she had seen Androvsky lying dead before her on the sand she could not have felt unhappy. Nothing could do harm to a great love. It was the one permanent, eternally vital thing, clad in an armour of fire that no weapon could pierce, free of all terror from outside things because it held its safety within its own heart, everlastingly enough, perfectly, flawlessly complete for and in itself. For that moment fear left her, restlessness left her. Anyone looking in upon her from the garden would have looked in upon a great, calm happiness. Presently there came a step upon the sand of the garden walks. A man, going slowly, with a sort of passionate reluctance, as if something immensely strong was trying to hold him back, but was conquered with difficulty by something still stronger that drove him on, came out of the fierce sunshine into the shadow of the garden, and began to search its silent recesses. It was Androvsky. He looked bowed and old and guilty. The two lines near his mouth were deep. His lips were working. His thin cheeks had fallen in like the cheeks of a man devoured by a wasting illness, and the strong tinge of sunburn on them seemed to be but an imperfect mark to a pallor that, fully visible, would have been more terrible than that of a corpse. In his eyes there was a fixed expression of ferocious grief that seemed mingled with ferocious anger, as if he were suffering from some dreadful misery, and cursed himself because he suffered, as a man may curse himself for doing a thing that he chooses to do but need not do. Such an expression may sometimes be seen in the eyes of those who are resisting a great temptation. He began to search the garden, furtively but minutely. Sometimes he hesitated. Sometimes he stood still. Then he turned back and went a little way towards the wide sweep of sand that was bathed in sunlight where the villa stood. Then with more determination, and walking faster, he again made his way through the shadows that slept beneath the densely-growing trees. As he passed between them he several times stretched out trembling hands, broke off branches and threw them on the sand, treading on them heavily and crushing them down below the surface. Once he spoke to himself in a low voice that shook as if with difficulty dominating sobs that were rising in his throat. “_De profundis_--” he said. “_De profundis_--_de profundis_--” His voice died away. He took hold of one hand with the other and went on silently. Presently he made his way at last towards the _fumoir_ in which Domini was still sitting, with one hand resting on the open page whose words had lit up the darkness in her spirit. He came to it so softly that she did not hear his step. He saw her, stood quite still under the trees, and looked at her for a long time. As he did so his face changed till he seemed to become another man. The ferocity of grief and anger faded from his eyes, which were filled with an expression of profound wonder, then of flickering uncertainty, then of hard, manly resolution--a fighting expression that was full of sex and passion. The guilty, furtive look which had been stamped upon all his features, specially upon his lips, vanished. Suddenly he became younger in appearance. His figure straightened itself. His hands ceased from trembling. He moved away from the trees, and went to the doorway of the _fumoir_. Domini looked up, saw him, and got up quietly, clasping her fingers round the little book. Androvsky stood just beyond the doorway, took off his hat, kept it in his hand, and said: “I came here to say good-bye.” He made a movement as if to come into the _fumoir_, but she stopped it by coming at once to the opening. She felt that she could not speak to him enclosed within walls, under a roof. He drew back, and she came out and stood beside him on the sand. “Did you know I should come?” he said. She noticed that he had ceased to call her “Madame,” and also that there was in his voice a sound she had not heard in it before, a note of new self-possession that suggested a spirit concentrating itself and aware of its own strength to act. “No,” she answered. “Were you coming back to the hotel this morning?” he asked. “No.” He was silent for a moment. Then he said slowly: “Then--then you did not wish--you did not mean to see me again before I went?” “It was not that. I came to the garden--I had to come--I had to be alone.” “You want to be alone?” he said. “You want to be alone?” Already the strength was dying out of his voice and face, and the old uneasiness was waking up in him. A dreadful expression of pain came into his eyes. “Was that why you--you looked so happy?” he said in a harsh, trembling voice. “When?” “I stood for a long while looking at you when you were in there”--he pointed to the _fumoir_--“and your face was happy--your face was happy.” “Yes, I know.” “You will be happy alone?--alone in the desert?” When he said that she felt suddenly the agony of the waterless spaces, the agony of the unpeopled wastes. Her whole spirit shrank and quivered, all the great joy of her love died within her. A moment before she had stood upon the heights of her heart. Now she shrank into its deepest, blackest abysses. She looked at him and said nothing. “You will not be happy alone.” His voice no longer trembled. He caught hold of her left hand, awkwardly, nervously, but held it strongly with his close to his side, and went on speaking. “Nobody is happy alone. Nothing is--men and women--children--animals.” A bird flew across the shadowy space under the trees, followed by another bird; he pointed to them; they disappeared. “The birds, too, they must have companionship. Everything wants a companion.” “Yes.” “But then--you will stay here alone in the desert?” “What else can I do?” she said. “And that journey,” he went on, still holding her hand fast against his side, “Your journey into the desert--you will take it alone?” “What else can I do?” she repeated in a lower voice. It seemed to her that he was deliberately pressing her down into the uttermost darkness. “You will not go.” “Yes, I shall go.” She spoke with conviction. Even in that moment--most of all in that moment--she knew that she would obey the summons of the desert. “I--I shall never know the desert,” he said. “I thought--it seemed to me that I, too, should go out into it. I have wanted to go. You have made me want to go.” “I?” “Yes. Once you said to me that peace must dwell out there. It was on the tower the--the first time you ever spoke to me.” “I remember.” “I wondered--I often wonder why you spoke to me.” She knew he was looking at her with intensity, but she kept her eyes on the sand. There was something in them that she felt he must not see, a light that had just come into them as she realised that already, on the tower before she even knew him, she had loved him. It was that love, already born in her heart but as yet unconscious of its own existence, which had so strangely increased for her the magic of the African evening when she watched it with him. But before--suddenly she knew that she had loved Androvsky from the beginning, from the moment when his face looked at her as if out of the heart of the sun. That was why her entry into the desert had been full of such extraordinary significance. This man and the desert were, had always been, as one in her mind. Never had she thought of the one without the other. Never had she been mysteriously called by the desert without hearing as a far-off echo the voice of Androvsky, or been drawn onward by the mystical summons of the blue distances without being drawn onward, too, by the mystical summons of the heart to which her own responded. The link between the man and the desert was indissoluble. She could not conceive of its being severed, and as she realised this, she realised also something that turned her whole nature into flame. She could not conceive of Androvsky’s not loving her, of his not having loved her from the moment when he saw her in the sun. To him, too, the desert had made a revelation--the revelation of her face, and of the soul behind it looking through it. In the flames of the sun, as they went into the desert, the flames of their two spirits had been blended. She knew that certainly and for ever. Then how could it be possible that Androvsky should not go out with her into the desert? “Why did you speak to me?” he said. “We came into the desert together,” she answered simply. “We had to know each other.” “And now--now--we have to say----” His voice ceased. Far away there was the thin sound of a chime. Domini had never before heard the church bell in the garden, and now she felt as if she heard it, not with her ears, but with her spirit. As she heard she felt Androvsky’s hand, which had been hot upon hers, turn cold. He let her hand go, and again she was stricken by the horrible sound she had heard the previous night in the desert, when he turned his horse and rode away with her. And now, as