[The Inventions, Researches and Writings of Tesla — Gutenberg #32037]

Designs, in one volume, octavo, uniform with the “Sketch-Book,” is also in preparation. Irving.—The Life and Voyages of Columbus. By Washington Irving. Vol. I. on the 1st of November. The succeeding volumes will be issued on the first day of each month until completed. Keats.—The Poetical Works of John Keats. 1 vol. 12mo. cloth. —— The same, gilt extra. “They are flushed all over with the rich lights of fancy; and so colored and bestrewn with the flowers of poetry that, even while perplexed and bewildered in their labyrinths, it is impossible to resist the intoxication of their sweetness, or to shut our hearts to the enchantment they so lavishingly present.”—_Francis Jeffrey._ Kinglake.—Eöthen; or, Traces of Travel brought from the East. 12mo. green cloth. 50 cts. “Eöthen is a book with which everybody, fond of eloquent prose and racy description, should be well acquainted.”—_U. S. Gazette._ Klipstein’s Anglo-Saxon Course of Study. In uniform 12mo. volumes, as follows: I. Klipstein.—A Grammar of the Anglo-Saxon Language. By Louis F. Klipstein, AA.LL.M. and PH.D., of the University of Giessen. 12mo. cloth, $1 25. II. Klipstein.—Analecta Anglo-Saxonica, with an Introductory Ethnographical Essay, Copious Notes, Critical and Explanatory, and a Glossary in which are shown the Indo-Germanic and other Affinities of the Language. By Louis F. Klipstein, AA.LL.M. and PH.D., of the University of Giessen. III. Klipstein.—Natale Sancti Gregorii Papæ.—Ælfric’s Homily on the Birth-day of St. Gregory, and Collateral Extracts from King Alfred’s Version of Bede’s Ecclesiastical History and the Saxon Chronicle, with a full Rendering into English, Notes Critical and Explanatory, and an Index of Words. By Louis F. Klipstein, AA.LL.M. and PH.D., of the University of Giessen. IV. Klipstein.—Extracts from the Anglo-Saxon Gospels, a Portion of the Anglo-Saxon Paraphrase of the Book of Psalms, and other Selections of a Sacred Order in the same Language, with a Translation into English, and Notes Critical and Explanatory. By Louis F. Klipstein, AA.LL.M. and PH.D., of the University of Giessen. V. Klipstein.—Tha Halgan Godspel on Englisc—the Anglo-Saxon Version of the Holy Gospels. Edited by Benjamin Thorpe, F.S.A. _Reprinted by the same. Now ready._ 12mo. cloth, $1 25. Klipstein.—Study of Modern Languages.—Part First; French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, German, and English. By L. F. Klipstein, AA.LL.M. and PH.D. One vol. Imperial 8vo. Cloth, $1; paper 75 cents. Lamb.—Essays of Elia. By Charles Lamb. 1 vol. 12mo., cloth. $1. —— The same, gilt extra, $1 25. “Shakspeare himself might have read them, and Hamlet have quoted them: for truly was our excellent friend of the genuine line of Yorick.”—_Leigh Hunt’s London Journal._ Lamb.—Specimens of the English Dramatic Poets. By Charles Lamb. 1 vol. 12mo., green cloth, $1 13. —— The same, gilt extra, $1 50. “Nowhere are the resources of the English tongue in power, in sweetness, terror, pathos; in description and dialogue, so well displayed.”—_Broadway Journal._ Mahan.—On Advanced Guards, Outposts, and Military Duty. By D. H. Mahan, M.A. 18mo. cloth, 75 cents Mahan’s Course of Civil Engineering. Third edition, 8vo. Illustrated. $3 50. Milton.—The Prose Works of John Milton. Edited by Rev. Rufus Wilmott Griswold. 2 vols. 8vo., cloth, $4. Modern Painters. By a Graduate of Oxford. 12mo. cloth, $1 25. —— The same. Second vol. 12mo. Montagu.—Selections from the Works of Taylor, Latimer, Hall, Milton, Barrow, Lowth, Brown, Fuller, and Bacon. By Basil Montagu. 1 vol. 12mo., green cloth, 50 cents; cloth gilt, $1. “This volume contains choice extracts from some of the noblest of the old English writers.”—_Cincinnati Atlas._ Nordheimer.—A Critical Grammar of the Hebrew Language. By Isaac Nordheimer, Phil. Doctor. 8vo. cloth, $3 50. Oriental Life Illustrated. Being a new edition of Eöthen, or Traces of Travel in the East. With fine Illustrations on Steel. Parsons.—The Rose; its History, Poetry, and Culture. By S. B. Parsons. With colored Plates. Royal 8vo. cloth, $1 50. Patrick, Lowth, Arnold, and Whitby.—Commentary on the Bible, by Bishops Patrick, Lowth, Arnold, Whitby, and Lowman. 4 vols. imperial 8vo. cloth, $16. Peacock.—Headlong Hall and Nightmare Abbey. 1 vol. 12mo., green cloth, 50 cents. “This is a witty and amusing book.”—_Tribune._ Poe.—Eureka, A Prose Poem: Or the Physical and Metaphysical Universe. By Edgar A. Poe, Esq. Handsomely printed. 12mo. cloth, 75 cents. Pearls of American Poetry. Second edition, superbly illuminated in the manner of the ancient missals by T. W. Gwilt Mapleson, Esq. Printed in gold and colors on Bristol board. Elegantly and strongly bound in full Morocco, Antique style. One volume quarto, $12. ⁂ Of this splendid and costly work, a small number were issued for this season, but it was not ready for actual publication. It is now completed in a superior style, and is the most splendid book of the time. “On beautiful vellum paper, are printed in colored characters and with every variety of type, some of the choicest brief poems of American writers—Bryant, Longfellow, C. F. Hoffman, and others. Each initial letter is a picture, and each page is illuminated as exquisitely as any of the choicest of antique illuminated volumes—and all from original designs. The conception of these works of art, as they richly deserve to be called, the drawing, painting, gilding, are of the highest order. The binding is in keeping with the rest—that of the olden day—solid, rich, and tasteful. Altogether this is a volume of great attraction for the rare beauty of its adorning and the discrimination of its selections.”—_Courier._ Princeton Theological Essays. First Series. Royal 8vo. cloth, $2 50. Princeton Theological Essays. Second Series. Royal 8vo. cloth, $2 50. St. John.—The Three Days of February, 1848: with Portrait of Lamartine. 18mo. cloth, 63 cts. Tappan.—Elementary Logic. By Prof. H. P. Tappan. 1 vol. 12mo. cloth. $1. Tasso.—Godfrey of Bulloigne; or, the Recovery of Jerusalem: done into English Heroical Verse. From the Italian of Tasso, by Edward Fairfax. Introductory Essay, by Leigh Hunt, and the Lives of Tasso and Fairfax, by Charles Knight. 1 vol. 12mo. $1 25. “The completest translation, and nearest like its original of any we have seen.”—_Leigh Hunt._ Taylor.—Views a-Foot; or, Europe seen with Knapsack and Staff. By J. Bayard Taylor. New edition, with an additional Chapter, &c., and a Sketch of the Author in Pedestrian Costume, from a Drawing by T. Buchanan Read. 12mo. cloth. Nearly ready. $1 25. “Besides being one of the most entertaining books of travel we ever read, it is written under circumstances of the most interesting; although at a first glance, seemingly the most unfavorable.”—_Boston Atlas._ Thackeray.—Journey from Cornhill to Cairo. By Michael Angelo Titmarsh. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth. 50 cts. “It is wonderful what a description of people and things, what numerous pictures, what innumerable remarks and allusions it contains.”—_Douglas Jerrold’s Mag._ Torrey and Gray.—Flora of North America. By Professors Torrey and Gray. 1 vol. 8vo. cloth, $6. Parts 1 and 6, each $1 50; Part 7, $1. Tschudi.—Travels in Peru. By Dr. J. J. Von Tschudi. 1 vol. 12mo. cloth, 87 cents. “The book contains a great deal of curious information, and will be found useful as a book of reference by all who are interested in the commerce, natural history, and general statistics of Peru.”—_Blackwood’s Magazine._ Tupper.—Proverbial Philosophy. By Martin Farquhar Tupper. 12mo. green cloth. —— The same, gilt extra. —— The same, morocco extra. Walton.—The Lives of Donne, Walton, Hooker, Herbert, and Sanderson. By Izaak Walton. New edition, 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth, 75 cents. “The Lives are the most delightful kind of reading. Walton possesses an inimitable simplicity and vivacity of style.”—_Mrs. C. M. Kirkland._ Warburton.—The Crescent and the Cross; or, the Romance and Reality of Eastern Travel. By Elliot Warburton. 1 vol. 12mo. green cloth, $1. “This delightful work is, from first to last, a splendid panorama of Eastern scenery, in the full blaze of its magnificence.”—_London Morning Post._ _A valuable Work for Libraries._ Now Ready. 8vo. $1 in paper, or $1 25 half bound. An Alphabetical Index to Subjects treated in the Reviews, and other Periodicals, to which no Indexes have been Published. ⁂ This volume comprises an Index to all articles in 560 volumes of the most important periodical works. POPULAR VOLUMES FOR PRESENTATION, _Elegantly bound in extra cloth, gilt edges._ Chaucer and Spenser $1 50 Fairfax’s Tasso’s Jerusalem Delivered 1 50 Fouqué’s Undine, and Sintram 1 00 Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield, with plates 1 00 Hervey’s Book of Christmas 1 00 Howitt’s (Mary) Ballads and Poems 1 00 Hood’s Prose and Verse 1 25 Hunt’s Imagination and Fancy 1 00 —— Italian Poets 1 75 Keats’s Poems 1 25 Lamb’s Dramatic Specimens 1 50 Lamb’s Essays of Elia 1 25 THE SYBIL; or, New Oracles from the Poets. By Mrs. Gilman. An elegant and attractive book 1 50 ILLUSTRATED JUVENILES. FACTS AND FANCIES. By Miss Sedgwick. 16mo. with cuts, cloth .50 GLIMPSES OF THE WONDERFUL.—An entertaining Account of Curiosities of Nature and Art. First, Second, and Third Series, with numerous fine Illustrations engraved in London. Square 16mo. cloth, each .75 HOME TREASURY, THE; Comprising new versions of Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast, Grumble and Cheery, The Eagle’s Verdict, The Sleeping Beauty. Revised and illustrated. Small 4to .50 MORALS AND MANNERS; or, Hints for our Young People. By Miss Sedgwick. 16mo .25 YOUNG NATURALIST’S RAMBLES—through many Lands, with an account of the principal Animals and Birds of the Old and New Continents. Cloth .50 George P. Putnam (OF THE LATE FIRM OF WILEY AND PUTNAM), Has taken the new and commodious premises, 155 BROADWAY, NEW YORK (_Next building to that of the late Firm_), And continues the business of _PUBLISHING_, AND THE IMPORTATION OF FOREIGN BOOKS, AS ABOVE, AND AT PUTNAM’S AMERICAN LITERARY AGENCY, 142 _Strand_, LONDON [ESTABLISHED IN 1838]. * * * * * Arrangements have been made to secure at the London Agency the services of an experienced and competent Bibliographer, so that the business of executing SPECIAL ORDERS FOR THE TRADE AND PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS may be thoroughly regulated, and all parties giving such orders, may be fully satisfied both with regard to _expedition_ and _economy_. The interests of Public Institutions, and those ordering _Books in quantities_ will receive special attention, while it is also intended that any one ordering _a single volume_ from Europe, may receive it promptly (if procurable), without disappointment or unnecessary expense. Mr. PUTNAM believes that his _twelve years’ experience_ abroad in purchasing Books for the American market, will be of service to those who may favor him with orders. ⁂ Correspondence established with PARIS, ROME, LEIPSIC, BRUSSELS, and all the principal cities on the Continent. All American Publications on the best terms, by the quantity or singly. N. B.—CATALOGUES of extensive collections of _Foreign and American Books_, on all subjects may be had on application.