[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

generous mouth, a contest showed, a struggle between some quick desire and some more sluggish but determined reluctance. In a moment she spoke again. “I won’t hear anything more, please.” “But you said ‘whatever it may be.’” “Yes. But I won’t hear anything more.” She spoke very quietly, with determination. The Diviner was beginning to move his hands again, to make fresh patterns in the sand, to speak swiftly once more. “Shall I stop him?” “Please.” “Then would you mind going out into the garden? I will join you in a moment. Take care not to disturb him.” She got up with precaution, held her skirts together with her hands, and slipped softly out on to the garden path. For a moment she was inclined to wait there, to look back and see what was happening in the _fumoir_. But she resisted her inclination, and walked on slowly till she reached the bench where she had sat an hour before with Androvsky. There she sat down and waited. In a few minutes she saw the Count coming towards her alone. His face was very grave, but lightened with a slight smile when he saw her. “He has gone?” she asked. “Yes.” He was about to sit beside her, but she said quickly: “Would you mind going back to the jamelon tree?” “Where we sat this morning?” “Was it only--yes.” “Certainly.” “Oh; but you are going away to-morrow! You have a lot to do probably?” “Nothing. My men will arrange everything.” She got up, and they walked in silence till they saw once more the immense spaces of the desert bathed in the afternoon sun. As Domini looked at them again she knew that their wonder, their meaning, had increased for her. The steady crescendo that was beginning almost to frighten her was maintained--the crescendo of the voice of the Sahara. To what tremendous demonstration was this crescendo tending, to what ultimate glory or terror? She felt that her soul was as yet too undeveloped to conceive. The Diviner had been right. There was a veil around it, like the veil of the womb that hides the unborn child. Under the jamelon tree she sat down once more. “May--I light a cigar?” the Count asked. “Do.” He struck a match, lit a cigar, and sat down on her left, by the garden wall. “Tell me frankly,” he said. “Do you wish to talk or to be silent?” “I wish to speak to you.” “I am sorry now I asked you to test Aloui’s powers.” “Why?” “Because I fear they made an unpleasant impression upon you.” “That was not why I made you stop him.” “No?” “You don’t understand me. I was not afraid. I can only say that, but I can’t give you my reason for stopping him. I wished to tell you that it was not fear.” “I believe--I know that you are fearless,” he said with an unusual warmth. “You are sure that I don’t understand you?” “Remember the refrain of the Freed Negroes’ song!” “Ah, yes--those black fellows. But I know something of you, Miss Enfilden--yes, I do.” “I would rather you did--you and your garden.” “And--some day--I should like you to know a little more of me.” “Thank you. When will you come back?” “I can’t tell. But you are not leaving?” “Not yet.” The idea of leaving Beni-Mora troubled her heart strangely. “No, I am too happy here.” “Are you really happy?” “At any rate I am happier than I have ever been before.” “You are on the verge.” He was looking at her with eyes in which there was tenderness, but suddenly they flashed fire, and he exclaimed: “My desert land must not bring you despair.” She was startled by his sudden vehemence. “What I would not hear!” she said. “You know it!” “It is not my fault. I am ready to tell it to you.” “No. But do you believe it? Do you believe that man can read the future in the sand? How can it be?” “How can a thousand things be? How can these desert men stand in fire, with their naked feet set on burning brands, with burning brands under their armpits, and not be burned? How can they pierce themselves with skewers and cut themselves with knives and no blood flow? But I told you the first day I met you; the desert always makes me the same gift when I return to it.” “What gift?” “The gift of belief.” “Then you do believe in that man--Aloui?” “Do you?” “I can only say that it seemed to me as if it might be divination. If I had not felt that I should not have stopped it. I should have treated it as a game.” “It impressed you as it impresses me. Well, for both of us the desert has gifts. Let us accept them fearlessly. It is the will of Allah.” She remembered her vision of the pale procession. Would she walk in it at last? “You are as fatalistic as an Arab,” she said. “And you?” “I!” she answered simply. “I believe that I am in the hands of God, and I know that perfect love can never harm me.” After a moment he said, gently: “Miss Enfilden, I want to ask something of you.” “Yes?” “Will you make a sacrifice? To-morrow I start at dawn. Will you be here to wish me God speed on my journey?” “Of course I will.” “It will be good of you. I shall value it from you. And--and when--if you ever make your long journey on that road--the route to the south--I will wish you Allah’s blessing in the Garden of Allah.” He spoke with solemnity, almost with passion, and she felt the tears very near her eyes. Then they sat in silence, looking out over the desert. And she heard its voices calling. CHAPTER XIII On the following morning, before dawn, Domini awoke, stirred from sleep by her anxiety, persistent even in what seemed unconsciousness, to speed Count Anteoni upon his desert journey. She did not know why he was going, but she felt that some great issue in his life hung upon the accomplishment of the purpose with which he set out, and without affectation she ardently desired that accomplishment. As soon as she awoke she lit a candle and glanced at her watch. She knew by the hour that the dawn was near, and she got up at once and made her toilet. She had told Batouch to be at the hotel door before sunrise to accompany her to the garden, and she wondered if he were below. A stillness as of deep night prevailed in the house, making her movements, while she dressed, seem unnaturally loud. When she put on her hat, and looked into the glass to see if it were just at the right angle, she thought her face, always white, was haggard. This departure made her a little sad. It suggested to her the instability of circumstance, the perpetual change that occurs in life. The going of her kind host made her own going more possible than before, even more likely. Some words from the Bible kept on running through her brain “Here have we no continuing city.” In the silent darkness their cadence held an ineffable melancholy. Her mind heard them as the ear, in a pathetic moment, hears sometimes a distant strain of music wailing like a phantom through the invisible. And the everlasting journeying of all created things oppressed her heart. When she had buttoned her jacket and drawn on her gloves she went to the French window and pushed back the shutters. A wan semi-darkness looked in upon her. Again she wondered whether Batouch had come. It seemed to her unlikely. She could not imagine that anyone in all the world was up and purposeful but herself. This hour seemed created as a curtain for unconsciousness. Very softly she stepped out upon the verandah and looked over the parapet. She could see the white road, mysteriously white, below. It was deserted. She leaned down. “Batouch!” she called softly. “Batouch!” He might be hidden under the arcade, sleeping in his burnous. “Batouch! Batouch!” No answer came. She stood by the parapet, waiting and looking down the road. All the stars had faded, yet there was no suggestion of the sun. She faced an unrelenting austerity. For a moment she thought of this atmosphere, this dense stillness, this gravity of vague and shadowy trees, as the environment of those who had erred, of the lost spirits of men who had died in mortal sin. Almost she expected to see the desperate shade of her dead father pass between the black stems of the palm trees, vanish into the grey mantle that wrapped the hidden world. “Batouch! Batouch!” He was not there. That was certain. She resolved to set out alone and went back into her bedroom to get her revolver. When she came out again with it in her hand Androvsky was standing on the verandah just outside her window. He took off his hat and looked from her face to the revolver. She was startled by his appearance, for she had not heard his step, and had been companioned by a sense of irreparable solitude. This was the first time she had seen him since he vanished from the garden on the previous day. “You are going out, Madame?” he said. “Yes.” “Not alone?” “I believe so. Unless I find Batouch below.” She slipped the revolver into the pocket of the loose coat she wore. “But it is dark.” “It will be day very soon. Look!” She pointed towards the east, where a light, delicate and mysterious as the distant lights in the opal, was gently pushing in the sky. “You ought not to go alone.” “Unless Batouch is there I must. I have given a promise and I must keep it. There is no danger.” He hesitated, looking at her with an anxious, almost a suspicious, expression. “Good-bye, Monsieur Androvsky.” She went towards the staircase. He followed her quickly to the head of it. “Don’t trouble to come down with me.” “If--if Batouch is not there--might not I guard you, Madame?” She remembered the Count’s words and answered: “Let me tell you where I am going. I am going to say good-bye to Count Anteoni before he starts for his desert journey.” Androvsky stood there without a word. “Now, do you care to come if I don’t find Batouch? Mind, I’m not the least afraid.” “Perhaps he is there--if you told him.” He muttered the words. His whole manner had changed. Now he looked more than suspicious--cloudy and fierce. “Possibly.” She began to descend the stairs. He did not follow her,