[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

but stood looking after her. When she reached the arcade it was deserted. Batouch had forgotten or had overslept himself. She could have walked on under the roof that was the floor of the verandah, but instead she stepped out into the road. Androvsky was above her by the parapet. She glanced up and said: “He is not here, but it is of no consequence. Dawn is breaking. _Au revoir_!” Slowly he took off his hat. As she went away down the road he was holding it in his hand, looking after her. “He does not like the Count,” she thought. At the corner she turned into the street where the sand-diviner had his bazaar, and as she neared his door she was aware of a certain trepidation. She did not want to see those piercing eyes looking at her in the semi-darkness, and she hurried her steps. But her anxiety was needless. All the doors were shut, all the inhabitants doubtless wrapped in sleep. Yet, when she had gained the end of the street, she looked back, half expecting to see an apparition of a thin figure, a tortured face, to hear a voice, like a goblin’s voice, calling after her. Midway down the street there was a man coming slowly behind her. For a moment she thought it was the Diviner in pursuit, but something in the gait soon showed her her mistake. There was a heaviness in the movement of this man quite unlike the lithe and serpentine agility of Aloui. Although she could not see the face, or even distinguish the costume in the morning twilight, she knew it for Androvsky. From a distance he was watching over her. She did not hesitate, but walked on quickly again. She did not wish him to know that she had seen him. When she came to the long road that skirted the desert she met the breeze of dawn that blows out of the east across the flats, and drank in its celestial purity. Between the palms, far away towards Sidi-Zerzour, above the long indigo line of the Sahara, there rose a curve of deep red gold. The sun was coming up to take possession of his waiting world. She longed to ride out to meet him, to give him a passionate welcome in the sand, and the opening words of the Egyptian “Adoration of the Sun by the Perfect Souls” came to her lips: “Hommage a Toi. Dieu Soleil. Seigneur du Ciel, Roi sur la Terre! Lion du Soir! Grande Ame divine, vivante a toujours.” Why had she not ordered her horse to ride a little way with Count Anteoni? She might have pretended that she was starting on her great journey. The red gold curve became a semi-circle of burnished glory resting upon the deep blue, then a full circle that detached itself majestically and mounted calmly up the cloudless sky. A stream of light poured into the oasis, and Domini, who had paused for a moment in silent worship, went on swiftly through the negro village which was all astir, and down the track to the white villa. She did not glance round again to see whether Androvsky was still following her, for, since the sun had come, she had the confident sensation that he was no longer near. He had surely given her into the guardianship of the sun. The door of the garden stood wide open, and, as she entered, she saw three magnificent horses prancing upon the sweep of sand in the midst of a little group of Arabs. Smain greeted her with graceful warmth and begged her to follow him to the _fumoir_, where the Count was waiting for her. “It is good of you!” the Count said, meeting her in the doorway. “I relied on you, you see!” Breakfast for two was scattered upon the little smoking-tables; coffee, eggs, rolls, fruit, sweetmeats. And everywhere sprigs of orange blossom filled the cool air with delicate sweetness. “How delicious!” she exclaimed. “A breakfast here! But--no, not there!” “Why not?” “That is exactly where he was.” “Aloui! How superstitious you are!” He moved her table. She sat down near the doorway and poured out coffee for them both. “You look workmanlike.” She glanced at his riding-dress and long whip. Smoked glasses hung across his chest by a thin cord. “I shall have some hard riding, but I’m tough, though you may not think it. I’ve covered many a league of my friend in bygone years.” He tapped an eggshell smartly, and began to eat with appetite. “How gravely gay you are!” she said, lifting the steaming coffee to her lips. He smiled. “Yes. To-day I am happy, as a pious man is happy when after a long illness, he goes once more to church.” “The desert seems to be everything to you.” “I feel that I am going out to freedom, to more than freedom.” He stretched out his arms above his head. “Yet you have stayed always in this garden all these days.” “I was waiting for my summons, as you will wait for yours.” “What summons could I have?” “It will come!” he said with conviction. “It will come!” She was silent, thinking of the diviner’s vision in the sand, of the caravan of camels disappearing in the storm towards the south. Presently she asked him: “Are you ever coming back?” He looked at her in surprise, then laughed. “Of course. What are you thinking?” “That perhaps you will not come back, that perhaps the desert will keep you.” “And my garden?” She looked out across the tiny sand-path and the running rill of water to the great trees stirred by the cool breeze of dawn. “It would miss you.” After a moment, during which his bright eyes followed hers, he said: “Do you know, I have a great belief in the intuitions of good women?” “Yes?” “An almost fanatical belief. Will you answer me a question at once, without consideration, without any time for thought?” “If you ask me to.” “I do ask you.” “Then----?” “Do you see me in this garden any more?” A voice answered: “No.” It was her own, yet it seemed another’s voice, with which she had nothing to do. A great feeling of sorrow swept over her as she heard it. “Do come back!” she said. The Count had got up. The brightness of his eyes was obscured. “If not here, we shall meet again,” he said slowly. “Where?” “In the desert.” “Did the Diviner--? No, don’t tell me.” She got up too. “It is time for you to start?” “Nearly.” A sort of constraint had settled over them. She felt it painfully for a moment. Did it proceed from something in his mind or in hers? She could not tell. They walked slowly down one of the little paths and presently found themselves before the room in which sat the purple dog. “If I am never to come back I must say good-bye to him,” the Count said. “But you will come back.” “That voice said ‘No.’” “It was a lying voice.” “Perhaps.” They looked in at the window and met the ferocious eyes of the dog. “And if I never come back will he bay the moon for his old master?” said the Count with a whimsical, yet sad, smile. “I put him here. And will these trees, many of which I planted, whisper a regret? Absurd, isn’t it, Miss Enfilden? I never can feel that the growing things in my garden do not know me as I know them.” “Someone will regret you if--” “Will you? Will you really?” “Yes.” “I believe it.” He looked at her. She could see, by the expression of his eyes, that he was on the point of saying something, but was held back by some fighting sensation, perhaps by some reserve. “What is it?” “May I speak frankly to you without offence?” he asked. “I am really rather old, you know.” “Do speak.” “That guest of mine yesterday--” “Monsieur Androvsky?” “Yes. He interested me enormously, profoundly.” “Really! Yet he was at his worst yesterday.” “Perhaps that was why. At any rate, he interested me more than any man I have seen for years. But--” He paused, looking in at the little chamber where the dog kept guard. “But my interest was complicated by a feeling that I was face to face with a human being who was at odds with life, with himself, even with his Creator--a man who had done what the Arabs never do--defied Allah in Allah’s garden.” “Oh!” She uttered a little exclamation of pain. It seemed to her that he was gathering up and was expressing scattered, half formless thoughts of hers. “You know,” he continued, looking more steadily into the room of the dog, “that in Algeria there is a floating population composed of many mixed elements. I could tell you strange stories of tragedies that have occurred in this land, even here in Beni-Mora, tragedies of violence, of greed, of--tragedies that were not brought about by Arabs.” He turned suddenly and looked right into her eyes. “But why am I saying all this?” he suddenly exclaimed. “What is written is written, and such women as you are guarded.” “Guarded? By whom?” “By their own souls.” “I am not afraid,” she said quietly. “Need you tell me that? Miss Enfilden, I scarcely know why I have said even as little as I have said. For I am, as you know, a fatalist. But certain people, very few, so awaken our regard that they make us forget our own convictions, and might even lead us to try to tamper with the designs of the Almighty. Whatever is to be for you, you will be able to endure. That I know. Why should I, or anyone, seek to know more for you? But still there are moments in which the bravest want a human hand to help them, a human voice to comfort them. In the desert, wherever I may be--and I shall tell you--I am at your service.” “Thank you,” she said simply. She gave him her hand. He held it almost as a father or a guardian might have held it. “And this garden is yours day and night--Smain knows.” “Thank you,” she said again. The shrill whinnying of a horse came to them from a distance. Their hands fell apart. Count Anteoni looked round him slowly at the great cocoanut tree, at the shaggy grass of the lawn, at the tall bamboos and the drooping mulberry trees. She saw that he was taking a silent farewell of them. “This was a waste,” he said at last with a half-stifled sigh. “I turned it into a little Eden and now I