[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

towards the tower. The officer was a little in advance of his men. He was a smart-looking, fair man of perhaps thirty-two, with blonde moustaches, blue eyes with blonde lashes, and hair very much the colour of the sand dunes. His face was bright red, burnt, as a fair delicate skin burns, by the sun. His eyes, although protected by large sun spectacles, were inflamed. The skin was peeling from his nose. His hair was full of sand, and he rode leaning forward over his animal’s neck, holding the reins loosely in his hands, that seemed nerveless from fatigue. Yet he looked smart and well-bred despite his evident exhaustion, as if on parade he would be a dashing officer. It was evident that both he and his men were riding in from some tremendous journey. The latter looked dog-tired, scarcely human in their collapse. They kept on their mules with difficulty, shaking this way and that like sacks, with their unshaven chins wagging loosely up and down. But as they saw the tower they began to sing in chorus half under their breath, and leaning their broad hands on the necks of the beasts for support they looked with a sort of haggard eagerness in its direction. Domini was roused from her contemplation of the mirage and the daydreams it suggested by the approach of this small cavalcade. The officer was almost upon her ere she heard the clatter of his mule among the stones. She looked up, startled, and he looked down, even more surprised, apparently, to see a lady ensconced at the foot of the tower. His astonishment and exhaustion did not, however, get the better of his instinctive good breeding, and sitting straight up in the saddle he took off his sun helmet and asked Domini’s pardon for disturbing her. “But this is my home for the night, Madame,” he added, at the same time drawing a key from the pocket of his loose trousers. “And I’m thankful to reach it. _Ma foi_! there have been several moments in the last days when I never thought to see Mogar.” Slowly he swung himself off his mule and stood up, catching on to the saddle with one hand. “F-f-f-f!” he said, pursing his lips. “I can hardly stand. Excuse me, Madame.” Domini had got up. “You are tired out,” she said, looking at him and his men, who had now come up, with interest. “Pretty well indeed. We have been three days lost in the great dunes in a sand-storm, and hit the track here just as we were preparing for a--well, a great event.” “A great event?” said Domini. “The last in a man’s life, Madame.” He spoke simply, even with a light touch of humour that was almost cynical, but she felt beneath his words and manner a solemnity and a thankfulness that attracted and moved her. “Those terrible dunes!” she said. And, turning, she looked out over them. There was no sunset, but the deepening of the grey into a dimness that seemed to have blackness behind it, the more ghastly hue of the white plains of saltpetre, and the fading of the mirage sea, whose islands now looked no longer red, but dull brown specks in a pale mist, hinted at the rapid falling of night. “My husband is out in them,” she added. “Your husband, Madame!” He looked at her rather narrowly, shifted from one leg to the other as if trying his strength, then added: “Not far, though, I suppose. For I see you have a camp here.” “He has only gone after gazelle.” As she said the last word she saw one of the soldiers, a mere boy, lick his lips and give a sort of tragic wink at his companions. A sudden thought struck her. “Don’t think me impertinent, Monsieur, but--what about provisions in your tower?” “Oh, as to that, Madame, we shall do well enough. Here, open the door, Marelle!” And he gave the key to a soldier, who wearily dismounted and thrust it into the door of the tower. “But after three days in the dunes! Your provisions must be exhausted unless you’ve been able to replenish them.” “You are too good, Madame. We shall manage a cous-cous.” “And wine? Have you any wine?” She glanced again at the exhausted soldiers covered with sand and saw that their eyes were fixed upon her and were shining eagerly. All the “good fellow” in her nature rose up. “You must let me send you some,” she said. “We have plenty.” She thought of some bottles of champagne they had brought with them and never opened. “In the desert we are all comrades,” she added, as if speaking to the soldiers. They looked at her with an open adoration which lit up their tired faces. “Madame,” said the officer, “you are much too good; but I accept your offer as frankly as you have made it. A little wine will be a godsend to us to-night. Thank you, Madame.” The soldiers looked as if they were going to cheer. “I’ll go to the camp--” “Cannot one of the men go for you, Madame? You were sitting here. Pray, do not let us disturb you.” “But night is falling and I shall have to go back in a moment.” While they had been speaking the darkness had rapidly increased. She looked towards the distant dunes and no longer saw them. At once her mind went to Androvsky. Why had he not returned? She thought of the signal. From the camp, behind their sleeping-tent, rose the flames of a newly-made fire. “If one of your men can go and tell Batouch--Batouch--to come to me here I shall be grateful,” she answered. “And I want him to bring me a big brand from the fire over there.” She saw wonder dawning in the eyes fixed upon her, and smiled. “I want to signal to my husband,” she said, “and this is the highest point. He will see it best if I stand here.” “Go, Marelle, ask for Batouch, and be sure you bring the brand from the fire.” The man saluted and rode off with alacrity. The thought of wine had infused a gaiety into him and his companions. “Now, Monsieur, don’t stand on ceremony,” Domini said to the officer. “Go in and make your toilet. You are longing to, I know.” “I am longing to look a little more decent--now, Madame,” he said gallantly, and gazing at her with a sparkle of admiration in his inflamed eyes. “You will let me return in a moment to escort you to the camp.” “Thank you.” “Will you permit me--my name is De Trevignac.” “And mine is Madame Androvsky.” “Russian!” the officer said. “The alliance in the desert! Vive la Russie!” She laughed. “That is for my husband, for I am English.” “Vive l’Angleterre!” he said. The two soldier echoed his words impulsively, lifting up in the gathering darkness hoarse voices. “Vive l’Angleterre!” “Thank you, thank you,” she said. “Now, Monsieur, please don’t let me keep you.” “I shall be back directly,” the officer replied. And he turned and went into the tower, while the soldiers rode round to the court, tugging at the cords of the led mules. Domini waited for the return of Marelle. Her mood had changed. A glow of cordial humanity chased away her melancholy. The hostess that lurks in every woman--that housewife-hostess sense which goes hand-in-hand with the mother sense--was alive in her. She was keenly anxious to play the good fairy simply, unostentatiously, to these exhausted men who had come to Mogar out of the jaws of Death, to see their weary faces shine under the influence of repose and good cheer. But the tower looked desolate. The camp was gayer, cosier. Suddenly she resolved to invite them all to dine in the camp that night. Marelle returned with Batouch. She saw them from a distance coming through the darkness with blazing torches in their hands. When they came to her she said: “Batouch, I want you to order dinner in camp for the soldiers.” A broad and radiant smile irradiated the blunt Breton features of Marelle. “And Monsieur the officer will dine with me and Monsieur. Give us all you can. Perhaps there will be some gazelle.” She saw him opening his lips to say that the dinner would be poor and stopped him. “You are to open some of the champagne--the Pommery. We will drink to all safe returns. Now, give me the brand and go and tell the cook.” As he took his torch and disappeared into the darkness De Trevignac came out from the tower. He still looked exhausted and walked with some difficulty, but he had washed the sand from his face with water from the artesian well behind the tower, changed his uniform, brushed the sand from his yellow hair, and put on a smart gold-laced cap instead of his sun-helmet. The spectacles were gone from his eyes, and between his lips was a large Havana--his last, kept by him among the dunes as a possible solace in the dreadful hour of death. “Monsieur de Trevignac, I want you to dine with us in camp to-night--only to dine. We won’t keep you from your bed one moment after the coffee and the cognac. You must seal the triple alliance--France, Russia, England--in some champagne.” She had spoken gaily, cordially. She added more gravely: “One doesn’t escape from death among the dunes every day. Will you come?” She held out her hand frankly, as a man might to another man. He pressed it as a man presses a woman’s hand when he is feeling very soft and tender. “Madame, what can I say, but that you are too good to us poor fellows and that you will find it very difficult to get rid of us, for we shall be so happy in your camp that we shall forget all about our tower.” “That’s settled then.” With the brand in her hand she walked to the edge of the hill. De Trevignac followed her. He had taken the other brand from Marelle. They stood side by side, overlooking the immense desolation that was now almost hidden in the night. “You are going to signal to your husband, Madame?” “Yes.” “Let me do it for you. See, I have the other brand!” “Thank you--but I will do it.” In the light of the flame that leaped up as if striving to touch her face he saw a light in her eyes that he understood, and he drooped his torch towards the earth while she lifted hers on high and waved it in the blackness. He watched her. The tall, strong, but exquisitely supple figure, the uplifted arm