[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

still, as if a common impulse muted their lips. In the long silence that followed Domini thought of her mirage of the palm tree growing towards the African sun, feeling growing in the heart of a human being. But was it a worthy image? For the palm tree rises high. It soars into the air. But presently it ceases to grow. There is nothing infinite in its growth. And the long, hot years pass away and there it stands, never nearer to the infinite gold of the sun. But in the intense feeling of a man or woman is there not infinitude? Is there not a movement that is ceaseless till death comes to destroy--or to translate? That was what she was thinking in the silence of the garden. And Androvsky? He sat beside her with his head bent, his hands hanging between his knees, his eyes gazing before him at the ordered tangle of the great trees. His lips were slightly parted, and on his strongly-marked face there was an expression as of emotional peace, as if the soul of the man were feeling deeply in calm. The restlessness, the violence that had made his demeanour so embarrassing during and after the _dejeuner_ had vanished. He was a different man. And presently, noticing it, feeling his sensitive serenity, Domini seemed to see the great Mother at work about this child of hers, Nature at her tender task of pacification. The shared silence became to her like a song of thanksgiving, in which all the green things of the garden joined. And beyond them the desert lay listening, the Garden of Allah attentive to the voices of man’s garden. She could hardly believe that but a few minutes before she had been full of irritation and bitterness, not free even from a touch of pride that was almost petty. But when she remembered that it was so she realised the abysses and the heights of which the heart is mingled, and an intense desire came to her to be always upon the heights of her own heart. For there only was the light of happiness. Never could she know joy if she forswore nobility. Never could she be at peace with the love within her--love of something that was not self, of something that seemed vaguer than God, as if it had entered into God and made him Love--unless she mounted upwards during her little span of life. Again, as before in this land, in the first sunset, on the tower, on the minaret of the mosque of Sidi-Zerzour, Nature spoke to her intimate words of inspiration, laid upon her the hands of healing, giving her powers she surely had not known or conceived of till now. And the passion that is the chiefest grace of goodness, making it the fire that purifies, as it is the little sister of the poor that tends the suffering, the hungry, the groping beggar-world, stirred within her, like the child not yet born, but whose destiny is with the angels. And she longed to make some great offering at the altar on whose lowest step she stood, and she was filled, for the first time consciously, with woman’s sacred desire for sacrifice. A soft step on the sand broke the silence and scattered her aspirations. Count Anteoni was coming towards them between the trees. The light of happiness was still upon his face and made him look much younger than usual. His whole bearing, in its elasticity and buoyant courage, was full of anticipation. As he came up to them he said to Domini: “Do you remember chiding me?” “I!” she said. “For what?” Androvsky sat up and the expression of serenity passed away from his face. “For never galloping away into the sun.” “Oh!--yes, I do remember.” “Well, I am going to obey you. I am going to make a journey.” “Into the desert?” “Three hundred kilometers on horseback. I start to-morrow.” She looked up at him with a new interest. He saw it and laughed, almost like a boy. “Ah, your contempt for me is dying!” “How can you speak of contempt?” “But you were full of it.” He turned to Androvsky. “Miss Enfilden thought I could not sit a horse, Monsieur, unlike you. Forgive me for saying that you are almost more dare-devil than the Arabs themselves. I saw you the other day set your stallion at the bank of the river bed. I did not think any horse could have done it, but you knew better.” “I did not know at all,” said Androvsky. “I had not ridden for over twenty years until that day.” He spoke with a blunt determination which made Domini remember their recent conversation on truth-telling. “Dio mio!” said the Count, slowly, and looking at him with undisguised wonder. “You must have a will and a frame of iron.” “I am pretty strong.” He spoke rather roughly. Since the Count had joined them Domini noticed that Androvsky had become a different man. Once more he was on the defensive. The Count did not seem to notice it. Perhaps he was too radiant. “I hope I shall endure as well as you, Monsieur,” he said. “I go to Beni-Hassan to visit Sidi El Hadj Aissa, one of the mightiest marabouts in the Sahara. In your Church,” he added, turning again to Domini, “he would be a powerful Cardinal.” She noticed the “your.” Evidently the Count was not a professing Catholic. Doubtless, like many modern Italians, he was a free-thinker in matters of religion. “I am afraid I have never heard of him,” she said. “In which direction does Beni-Hassan lie?” “To go there one takes the caravan route that the natives call the route to Tombouctou.” An eager look came into her face. “My road!” she said. “Yours?” “The one I shall travel on. You remember, Monsieur Androvsky?” “Yes, Madame.” “Let me into your secret,” said the Count, laughingly, yet with interest too. “It is no secret. It is only that I love that route. It fascinates me, and I mean some day to make a desert journey along it.” “What a pity that we cannot join forces,” the Count said. “I should feel it an honour to show the desert to one who has the reverence for it, the understanding of its spell, that you have.” He spoke earnestly, paused, and then added: “But I know well what you are thinking.” “What is that?” “That you will go to the desert alone. You are right. It is the only way, at any rate the first time. I went like that many years ago.” She said nothing in assent, and Androvsky got up from the bench. “I must go, Monsieur.” “Already! But have you seen the garden?” “It is wonderful. Good-bye, Monsieur. Thank you.” “But--let me see you to the gate. On Fridays----” He was turning to Domini when she got up too. “Don’t you distribute alms on Fridays?” she said. “How should you know it?” “I have heard all about you. But is this the hour?” “Yes.” “Let me see the distribution.” “And we will speed Monsieur Androvsky on his way at the same time.” She noticed that there was no question in his mind of her going with Androvsky. Did she mean to go with him? She had not decided yet. They walked towards the gate and were soon on the great sweep of sand before the villa. A murmur of many voices was audible outside in the desert, nasal exclamations, loud guttural cries that sounded angry, the twittering of flutes and the snarl of camels. “Do you hear my pensioners?” said the Count. “They are always impatient.” There was the noise of a tomtom and of a whining shriek. “That is old Bel Cassem’s announcement of his presence. He has been living on me for years, the old ruffian, ever since his right eye was gouged out by his rival in the affections of the Marechale of the dancing-girls. Smain!” He blew his silver whistle. Instantly Smain came out of the villa carrying a money-bag. The Count took it and weighed it in his hand, looking at Domini with the joyous expression still upon his face. “Have you ever made a thank-offering?” he said. “No.” “That tells me something. Well, to-day I wish to make a thank-offering to the desert.” “What has it done for you?” “Who knows? Who knows?” He laughed aloud, almost like a boy. Androvsky glanced at him with a sort of wondering envy. “And I want you to share in my little distribution,” he added. “And you, Monsieur, if you don’t mind. There are moments when--Open the gate, Smain!” His ardour was infectious and Domini felt stirred by it to a sudden sense of the joy of life. She looked at Androvsky, to include him in the rigour of gaiety which swept from the Count to her, and found him staring apprehensively at the Count, who was now loosening the string of the bag. Smain had reached the gate. He lifted the bar of wood and opened it. Instantly a crowd of dark faces and turbaned heads were thrust through the tall aperture, a multitude of dusky hands fluttered frantically, and the cry of eager voices, saluting, begging, calling down blessings, relating troubles, shrieking wants, proclaiming virtues and necessities, rose into an almost deafening uproar. But not a foot was lifted over the lintel to press the sunlit sand. The Count’s pensioners might be clamorous, but they knew what they might not do. As he saw them the wrinkles in his face deepened and his fingers quickened to achieve their purpose. “My pensioners are very hungry to-day, and, as you see, they don’t mind saying so. Hark at Bel Cassem!” The tomtom and the shriek that went with it made it a fierce crescendo. “That means he is starving--the old hypocrite! Aren’t they like the wolves in your Russia, Monsieur? But we must feed them. We mustn’t let them devour our Beni-Mora. That’s it!” He threw the string on to the sand, plunged his hand into the bag and brought it out full of copper coins. The mouths opened wider, the hands waved more frantically, and all the dark eyes gleamed with the light of greed. “Will you help me?” he said to Domini. “Of course. What fun!” Her eyes were gleaming too, but with the dancing fires of a gay impulse of generosity which made her wish that the bag contained her money. He filled her hands with coins. “Choose whom you will. And now, Monsieur!” For the moment he was so boyishly concentrated on the immediate present that he had ceased to observe whether the whim of others jumped with his own. Otherwise he must have been