[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

is why I am liable to fall into mistakes in such a place as this. Ah, there is the hotel, and my maid on the verandah. I want to thank you again for looking after me.” They were at a few steps from the hotel door in the road. The man stopped, and Domini stopped too. “Madame,” he said earnestly, with a sort of hardly controlled excitement, “I--I am glad. I was ashamed--I was ashamed.” “Why?” “Of my conduct--of my awkwardness. But you will forgive it. I am not accustomed to the society of ladies--like you. Anything I have done I have not done out of rudeness. That is all I can say. I have not done it out of rudeness.” He seemed to be almost trembling with agitation. “I know, I know,” she said. “Besides, it was nothing.” “Oh, no, it was abominable. I understand that. I am not so coarse-fibred as not to understand that.” Domini suddenly felt that to take his view of the matter, exaggerated though it was, would be the kindest course, even the most delicate. “You were rude to me,” she said, “but I shall forget it from this moment.” She held out her hand. He grasped it, and again she felt as if a furnace were pouring its fiery heat upon her. “Good-night.” “Good-night, Madame. Thank you.” She was going away to the hotel door, but she stopped. “My name is Domini Enfilden,” she said in English. The man stood in the road looking at her. She waited. She expected him to tell her his name. There was a silence. At last he said hesitatingly, in English with a very slight foreign accent: “My name is Boris--Boris Androvsky.” “Batouch told me you were English,” she said. “My mother was English, but my father was a Russian from Tiflis. That is my name.” There was a sound in his voice as if he were insisting like a man making an assertion not readily to be believed. “Good-night,” Domini said again. And she went away slowly, leaving him standing on the moonlit road. He did not remain there long, nor did he follow her into the hotel. After she had disappeared he stood for a little while gazing up at the deserted verandah upon which the moon-rays fell. Then he turned and looked towards the village, hesitated, and finally walked slowly back towards the tiny, shrouded alley in which on the narrow staircases the painted girls sat watching in the night. CHAPTER IX On the following morning Batouch arrived with a handsome grey Arab horse for Domini to try. He had been very penitent the night before, and Domini had forgiven easily enough his pre-occupation with Suzanne, who had evidently made a strong impression upon his susceptible nature. Hadj had been but slightly injured by Irena, but did not appear at the hotel for a very sufficient reason. Both the dancer and he were locked up for the moment, till the Guardians of Justice in Beni-Mora had made up their minds who should be held responsible for the uproar of the previous night. That the real culprit was the smiling poet was not likely to occur to them, and did not seem to trouble him. When Domini inquired after Hadj he showed majestic indifference, and when she hinted at his crafty share in the causing of the tragedy he calmly replied, “Hadj-ben-Ibrahim will know from henceforth whether the Mehari with the swollen tongue can bite.” Then, leaping upon the horse, whose bridle he was holding, he forced it to rear, caracole and display its spirit and its paces before Domini, sitting it superbly, and shooting many sly glances at Suzanne, who leaned over the parapet of the verandah watching, with a rapt expression on her face. Domini admired the horse, but wished to mount it herself before coming to any conclusion about it. She had brought her own saddle with her and ordered Batouch to put it on the animal. Meanwhile she went upstairs to change into her habit. When she came out again on to the verandah Boris Androvsky was there, standing bare-headed in the sun and looking down at Batouch and the horse. He turned quickly, greeted Domini with a deep bow, then examined her costume with wondering, startled eyes. “I’m going to try that horse,” she said with deliberate friendliness. “To see if I’ll buy him. Are you a judge of a horse?” “I fear not, Madame.” She had spoken in English and he replied in the same language. She was standing at the head of the stairs holding her whip lightly in her right hand. Her splendid figure was defined by the perfectly-fitting, plain habit, and she saw him look at it with a strange expression in his eyes, an admiration that was almost ferocious, and that was yet respectful and even pure. It was like the glance of a passionate schoolboy verging on young manhood, whose natural instincts were astir but whose temperament was unwarped by vice; a glance that was a burning tribute, and that told a whole story of sex and surely of hot, inquiring ignorance--strange glances of a man no longer even very young. It made something in her leap and quiver. She was startled and almost angered by that, but not by the eyes that caused it. “_Au revoir_,” she said, turning to go down. “May I--might I see you get up?” said Androvsky. “Get up!” she said. “Up on the horse?” She could not help smiling at his fashion of expressing the act of mounting. He was not a sportsman evidently, despite his muscular strength. “Certainly, if you like. Come along.” Without thinking of it she spoke rather as to a schoolboy, not with superiority, but with the sort of bluffness age sometimes uses good-naturedly to youth. He did not seem to resent it and followed her down to the arcade. The side saddle was on and the poet held the grey by the bridle. Some Arab boys had assembled under the arcade to see what was going forward. The Arab waiter lounged at the door with the tassel of his fez swinging against his pale cheek. The horse fidgetted and tugged against the rein, lifting his delicate feet uneasily from the ground, flicking his narrow quarters with his long tail, and glancing sideways with his dark and brilliant eyes, which were alive with a nervous intelligence that was almost hectic. Domini went up to him and caressed him with her hand. He reared up and snorted. His whole body seemed a-quiver with the desire to gallop furiously away alone into some far distant place. Androvsky stood near the waiter, looking at Domini and at the horse with wonder and alarm in his eyes. The animal, irritated by inaction, began to plunge violently and to get out of hand. “Give me the reins,” Domini said to the poet. “That’s it. Now put your hand for me.” Batouch obeyed. Her foot just touched his hand and she was in the saddle. Androvsky sprang forward on to the pavement. His eyes were blazing with anxiety. She saw it and laughed gaily. “Oh, he’s not vicious,” she said. “And vice is the only thing that’s dangerous. His mouth is perfect, but he’s nervous and wants handling. I’ll just take him up the gardens and back.” She had been reining him in. Now she let him go, and galloped up the straight track between the palms towards the station. The priest had come out into his little garden with Bous-Bous, and leaned over his brushwood fence to look after her. Bous-Bous barked in a light soprano. The Arab boys jumped on their bare toes, and one of them, who was a bootblack, waved his board over his shaven head. The Arab waiter smiled as if with satisfaction at beholding perfect competence. But Androvsky stood quite still looking down the dusty road at the diminishing forms of horse and rider, and when they disappeared, leaving behind them a light cloud of sand films whirling in the sun, he sighed heavily and dropped his chin on his chest as if fatigued. “I can get a horse for Monsieur too. Would Monsieur like to have a horse?” It was the poet’s amply seductive voice. Androvsky started. “I don’t ride,” he said curtly. “I will teach Monsieur. I am the best teacher in Beni-Mora. In three lessons Monsieur will--” “I don’t ride, I tell you.” Androvsky was looking angry. He stepped out into the road. Bous-Bous, who was now observing Nature at the priest’s garden gate, emerged with some sprightliness and trotted towards him, evidently with the intention of making his acquaintance. Coming up to him the little dog raised his head and uttered a short bark, at the same time wagging his tail in a kindly, though not effusive manner. Androvsky looked down, bent quickly and patted him, as only a man really fond of animals and accustomed to them knows how to pat. Bous-Bous was openly gratified. He began to wriggle affectionately. The priest in his garden smiled. Androvsky had not seen him and went on playing with the dog, who now made preparations to lie down on his curly back in the road in the hope of being tickled, a process he was an amateur of. Still smiling, and with a friendly look on his face, the priest came out of his garden and approached the playmates. “Good morning, M’sieur,” he said politely, raising his hat. “I see you like dogs.” Androvsky lifted himself up, leaving Bous-Bous in a prayerful attitude, his paws raised devoutly towards the heavens. When he saw that it was the priest who had addressed him his face changed, hardened to grimness, and his lips trembled slightly. “That’s my little dog,” the priest continued in a gentle voice. “He has evidently taken a great fancy to you.” Batouch was watching Androvsky under the arcade, and noted the sudden change in his expression and his whole bearing. “I--I did not know he was your dog, Monsieur, or I should not have interfered with him,” said Androvsky. Bous-Bous jumped up against his leg. He pushed the little dog rather roughly away and stepped back to the arcade. The priest looked puzzled and slightly hurt. At this moment the soft thud of horse’s hoofs was audible on the road and Domini came cantering back to the hotel. Her eyes were sparkling, her face was radiant. She bowed to the priest and reined up before the hotel door, where Androvsky was standing. “I’ll buy him,” she said to Batouch, who swelled with satisfaction at the thought of his commission. “And I’ll go for a long ride now--out into the desert.” “You will not go alone, Madame?” It was the priest’s