[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

sable--la vie de Madame dans le grand desert du Sahara.” His eyes seemed to rout out the secrets from every corner of her being, and to scatter them upon the ground as the sand was scattered. “Dans le grand desert du Sahara,” Count Anteoni repeated, as if he loved the music of the words. “Then there is a desert life for Madame?” The Diviner dropped his fingers on to the pyramid, lightly pressing the sand down and outward. He no longer looked at Domini. The searching and the satire slipped away from his eyes and body. He seemed to have forgotten the two watchers and to be concentrated upon the grains of sand. Domini noticed that the tortured expression, which had come into his face when she met him in the street and he stared into the bag, had returned to it. After pressing down the sand he spread the bag which had held it at Domini’s feet, and deftly transferred the sand to it, scattering the grains loosely over the sacking, in a sort of pattern. Then, bending closely over them, he stared at them in silence for a long time. His pock-marked face was set like stone. His emaciated hands, stretched out, rested above the grains like carven things. His body seemed entirely breathless in its absolute immobility. The Count stood in the doorway, still as he was, surrounded by the motionless purple flowers. Beyond, in their serried ranks, stood the motionless trees. No incense was burning in the little brazier to-day. This cloistered world seemed spell-bound. A low murmur at last broke the silence. It came from the Diviner. He began to talk rapidly, but as if to himself, and as he talked he moved again, broke up with his fingers the patterns in the sand, formed fresh ones; spirals, circles, snake-like lines, series of mounting dots that reminded Domini of spray flung by a fountain, curves, squares and oblongs. So swiftly was it done and undone that the sand seemed to be endowed with life, to be explaining itself in these patterns, to be presenting deliberate glimpses of hitherto hidden truths. And always the voice went on, and the eyes were downcast, and the body, save for the moving hands and arms, was absolutely motionless. Domini looked over the Diviner to Count Anteoni, who came gently forward and sat down, bending his head to listen to the voice. “Is it Arabic?” she whispered. He nodded. “Can you understand it?” “Not yet. Presently it will get slower, clearer. He always begins like this.” “Translate it for me.” “Exactly as it is?” “Exactly as it is.” “Whatever it may be?” “Whatever it may be.” He glanced at the tortured face of the Diviner and looked grave. “Remember you have said I am fearless,” she said. He answered: “Whatever it is you shall know it.” Then they were silent again. Gradually the Diviner’s voice grew clearer, the pace of its words less rapid, but always it sounded mysterious and inward, less like the voice of a man than the distant voice of a secret. “I can hear now,” whispered the Count. “What is he saying?” “He is speaking about the desert.” “Yes?” “He sees a great storm. Wait a moment!” The voice spoke for some seconds and ceased, and once again the Diviner remained absolutely motionless, with his hands extended above the grains like carven things. “He sees a great sand-storm, one of the most terrible that has ever burst over the Sahara. Everything is blotted out. The desert vanishes. Beni-Mora is hidden. It is day, yet there is a darkness like night. In this darkness he sees a train of camels waiting by a church.” “A mosque?” “No, a church. In the church there is a sound of music. The roar of the wind, the roar of the camels, mingles with the chanting and drowns it. He cannot hear it any more. It is as if the desert is angry and wishes to kill the music. In the church your life is beginning.” “My life?” “Your real life. He says that now you are fully born, that till now there has been a veil around your soul like the veil of the womb around a child.” “He says that!” There was a sound of deep emotion in her voice. “That is all. The roar of the wind from the desert has silenced the music in the church, and all is dark.” The Diviner moved again, and formed fresh patterns in the sand with feverish rapidity, and again began to speak swiftly. “He sees the train of camels that waited by the church starting on a desert journey. The storm has not abated. They pass through the oasis into the desert. He sees them going towards the south.” Domini leaned forward on the divan, looking at Count Anteoni above the bent body of the Diviner. “By what route?” she whispered. “By the route which the natives call the road to Tombouctou.” “But--it is my journey!” “Upon one of the camels, in a palanquin such as the great sheikhs use to carry their women, there are two people, protected against the storm by curtains. They are silent, listening to the roaring of the wind. One of them is you.” “Two people!” “Two people.” “But--who is the other?” “He cannot see. It is as if the blackness of the storm were deeper round about the other and hid the other from him. The caravan passes on and is lost in the desolation and the storm.” She said nothing, but looked down at the thin body of the Diviner crouched close to her knees. Was this pock-marked face the face of a prophet? Did this skin and bone envelop the soul of a seer? She no longer wished that Larbi was playing upon his flute or felt the silence to be unnatural. For this man had filled it with the roar of the desert wind. And in the wind there struggled and was finally lost the sound of voices of her Faith chanting--what? The wind was too strong. The voices were too faint. She could not hear. Once more the Diviner stirred. For some minutes his fingers were busy in the sand. But now they moved more slowly and no words came from his lips. Domini and the Count bent low to watch what he was doing. The look of torture upon his face increased. It was terrible, and made upon Domini an indelible impression, for she could not help connecting it with his vision of her future, and it suggested to her formless phantoms of despair. She looked into the sand, as if she, too, would be able to see what he saw and had not told, looked till she began to feel almost hypnotised. The Diviner’s hands trembled now as they made the patterns, and his breast heaved under his white robe. Presently he traced in the sand a triangle and began to speak. The Count bent down till his ear was almost at the Diviner’s lips, and Domini held her breath. That caravan lost in the desolation of the desert, in the storm and the darkness--where was it? What had been its fate? Sweat ran down over the Diviner’s face, and dropped upon his robe, upon his hands, upon the sand, making dark spots. And the voice whispered on huskily till she was in a fever of impatience. She saw upon the face of the Count the Diviner’s tortured look reflected. Was it not also on her face? A link surely bound them all together in this tiny room, close circled by the tall trees and the intense silence. She looked at the triangle in the sand. It was very distinct, more distinct than the other patterns had been. What did it represent? She searched her mind, thinking of the desert, of her life there, of man’s life in the desert. Was it not tent-shaped? She saw it as a tent, as her tent pitched somewhere in the waste far from the habitations of men. Now the trembling hands were still, the voice was still, but the sweat did not cease from dropping down upon the sand. “Tell me!” she murmured to the Count. He obeyed, seeming now to speak with an effort. “It is far away in the desert----” He paused. “Yes? Yes?” “Very far away in a sandy place. There are immense dunes, immense white dunes of sand on every side, like mountains. Near at hand there is a gleam of many fires. They are lit in the market-place of a desert city. Among the dunes, with camels picketed behind it, there is a tent----” She pointed to the triangle traced upon the sand. “I knew it,” she whispered. “It is my tent.” “He sees you there, as he saw you in the palanquin. But now it is night and you are quite alone. You are not asleep. Something keeps you awake. You are excited. You go out of the tent upon the dunes and look towards the fires of the city. He hears the jackals howling all around you, and sees the skeletons of dead camels white under the moon.” She shuddered in spite of herself. “There is something tremendous in your soul. He says it is as if all the date palms of the desert bore their fruit together, and in all the dry places, where men and camels have died of thirst in bygone years, running springs burst forth, and as if the sand were covered with millions of golden flowers big as the flower of the aloe.” “But then it is joy, it must be joy!” “He says it is great joy.” “Then why does he look like that, breathe like that?” She indicated the Diviner, who was trembling where he crouched, and breathing heavily, and always sweating like one in agony. “There is more,” said the Count, slowly. “Tell me.” “You stand alone upon the dunes and you look towards the city. He hears the tomtoms beating, and distant cries as if there were a fantasia. Then he sees a figure among the dunes coming towards you.” “Who is it?” she asked. He did not answer. But she did not wish him to answer. She had spoken without meaning to speak. “You watch this figure. It comes to you, walking heavily.” “Walking heavily?” “That’s what he says. The dates shrivel on the palms, the streams dry up, the flowers droop and die in the sand. In the city the tomtoms faint away and the red fires fade away. All is dark and silent. And then he sees--” “Wait!” Domini said almost sharply. He sat looking at her. She pressed her hands together. In her dark face, with its heavy eyebrows and strong,