[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

can be nothing here to take our life from us, the life of our love to-night. For we’re out in the desert, we’re right away from anyone, everything. We’re in the great freedom. Aren’t we, Domini? Aren’t we?” “Yes,” she said. “Yes.” He took her other hand in the same way. He was facing her, and he held his hands against his heart with hers in them, then pressed her hands against her heart, then drew them back again to his. “Then let us realise it. Let us forget our prison. Let us forget everything, everything that we ever knew before Beni-Mora, Domini. It’s dead, absolutely dead, unless we make it live by thinking. And that’s mad, crazy. Thought’s the great madness. Domini, have you forgotten everything before we knew each other?” “Yes,” she said. “Now--but only now. You’ve made me forget it all.” There was a deep breathing under her voice. He held up her hands to his shoulders and looked closely into her eyes, as if he were trying to send all himself into her through those doors of the soul opened to seeing him. And now, in this moment, she felt that her fierce desire was realised, that he was rising above her on eagle’s wings. And as on the night before the wedding she had blessed all the sorrows of her life, now she blessed silently all the long silence of Androvsky, all his strange reticence, his uncouthness, his avoidance of her in the beginning of their acquaintance. That which had made her pain by being, now made her joy by having been and being no more. The hidden man was rushing forth to her at last in his love. She seemed to hear in the night the crash of a great obstacle, and the voice of the flood of waters that had broken it down at length and were escaping into liberty. His silence of the past now made his speech intensely beautiful and wonderful to her. She wanted to hear the waters more intensely, more intensely. “Speak to me,” she said. “You’ve spoken so little. Do you know how little? Tell me all you are. Till now I’ve only felt all you are. And that’s so much, but not enough for a woman--not enough. I’ve taken you, but now--give me all I’ve taken. Give--keep on giving and giving. From to-night to receive will be my life. Long ago I’ve given all I had to you. Give to me, give me everything. You know I’ve given all.” “All?” he said, and there was a throb in his deep voice, as if some intense feeling rose from the depths of him and shook it. “Yes, all,” she whispered. “Already--and long ago--that day in the garden. When I--when I put my hands against your forehead--do you remember? I gave you all, for ever.” And as she spoke she bent down her face with a sort of proud submission and put her forehead against his heart. The purity in her voice and in her quiet, simple action dazzled him like a flame shining suddenly in his eyes out of blackness. And he, too, in that moment saw far up above him the beating of an eagle’s wings. To each one the other seemed to be on high, and as both looked up that was their true marriage. “I felt it,” he said, touching her hair with his lips. “I felt it in your hands. When you touched me that day it was as if you were giving me the world and the stars. It frightened me to receive so much. I felt as if I had no place to put my gift in.” “Did your heart seem so small?” she said. “You make everything I have and am seem small--and yet great. What does it mean?” “That you are great, as I am, because we love. No one is small who loves. No one is poor, no one is bad, who loves. Love burns up evil. It’s the angel that destroys.” Her words seemed to send through his whole body a quivering joy. He took her face between his hands and lifted it from his heart. “Is that true? Is that true?” he said. “I’ve--I’ve tried to think that. If you know how I’ve tried.” “And don’t you know it is true?” “I don’t feel as if I knew anything that you do not tell me to-night. I don’t feel as if I have, or am, anything but what you give me, make me to-night. Can you understand that? Can you understand what you are to me? That you are everything, that I have nothing else, that I have never had anything else in all these years that I have lived and that I have forgotten? Can you understand it? You said just now ‘Speak to me, tell me all you are.’ That’s what I am, all I am, a man you have made a man. You, Domini--you have made me a man, you have created me.” She was silent. The intensity with which he spoke, the intensity of his eyes while he was speaking, made her hear those rushing waters as if she were being swept away by them. “And you?” he said. “You?” “I?” “This afternoon in the desert, when we were in the sand looking at Beni-Mora, you began to tell me something and then you stopped. And you said, ‘I can’t tell you. There’s too much light.’ Now the sun has gone.” “Yes. But--but I want to listen to you. I want----” She stopped. In the distance, by the great fire where the Arabs were assembled, there rose a sound of music which arrested her attention. Ali was singing, holding in his hand a brand from the fire like a torch. She had heard him sing before, and had loved the timbre of his voice, but only now did she realise when she had first heard him and who he was. It was he who, hidden from her, had sung the song of the freed negroes of Touggourt in the gardens of Count Anteoni that day when she had been angry with Androvsky and had afterwards been reconciled with him. And she knew now it was he, because, once more hidden from her--for against the curtain of darkness she only saw the flame from the torch he held and moved rhythmically to the burden of his song--he was singing it again. Androvsky, when she ceased to speak, suddenly put his arms round her, as if he were afraid of her escaping from him in her silence, and they stood thus at the tent door listening: “The gazelle dies in the water, The fish dies in the air, And I die in the dunes of the desert sand For my love that is deep and sad.” The chorus of hidden men by the fire rose in a low murmur that was like the whisper of the desert in the night. Then the contralto voice of Ali came to Domini and Androvsky again, but very faintly, from the distance where the flaming torch was moving: “No one but God and I Knows what is in my heart.” When the voice died away for a moment Domini whispered the refrain. Then she said: “But is it true? Can it be true for us to-night?” Androvsky did not reply. “I don’t think it is true,” she added. “You know--don’t you?” The voice of Ali rose again, and his torch flickered on the soft wind of the night. Its movement was slow and eerie. It seemed like his voice made visible, a voice of flame in the blackness of the world. They watched it. Presently she said once more: “You know what is in my heart--don’t you?” “Do I?” he said. “All?” “All. My heart is full of one thing--quite full.” “Then I know.” “And,” she hesitated, then added, “and yours?” “Mine too.” “I know all that is in it then?” She still spoke questioningly. He did not reply, but held her more closely, with a grasp that was feverish in its intensity. “Do you remember,” she went on, “in the garden what you said about that song?” “No.” “You have forgotten?” “I told you,” he said, “I mean to forget everything.” “Everything before we came to Beni-Mora?” “And more. Everything before you put your hands against my forehead, Domini. Your touch blotted out the past.” “Even the past at Beni-Mora?” “Yes, even that. There are many things I did and left undone, many things I said and never said that--I have forgotten--I have forgotten for ever.” There was a sternness in his voice now, a fiery intention. “I understand,” she said. “I have forgotten them too, but not some things.” “Which?” “Not that night when you took me out of the dancing-house, not our ride to Sidi-Zerzour, not--there are things I shall remember. When I am dying, after I am dead, I shall remember them.” The song faded away. The torch was still, then fell downwards and became one with the fire. Then Androvsky drew Domini down beside him on to the warm earth before the tent door, and held her hand in his against the earth. “Feel it,” he said. “It’s our home, it’s our liberty. Does it feel alive to you?” “Yes.” “As if it had pulses, like the pulses in our hearts, and knew what we know?” “Yes. Mother Earth--I never understood what that meant till to-night.” “We are beginning to understand together. Who can understand anything alone?” He kept her hand always in his pressed against the desert as against a heart. They both thought of it as a heart that was full of love and protection for them, of understanding of them. Going back to their words before the song of Ali, he said: “Love burns up evil, then love can never be evil.” “Not the act of loving.” “Or what it leads to,” he said. And again there was a sort of sternness in his voice, as if he were insisting on something, were bent on conquering some reluctance, or some voice contradicting. “I know that you are right,” he added. She did not speak, but--why she did not know--her thought went to the wooden crucifix fastened in the canvas of the tent close by, and for a moment she felt a faint creeping sadness in her. But he pressed her hand more closely, and she was conscious only of these two warmths---of his hand above her hand and of the desert beneath it. Her whole life seemed set in a glory of fire, in a heat that was life-giving, that dominated her and evoked at the same time all of power that was in her, causing her dormant fires, physical and