[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

fare generously in the desert I see, Madame,” he exclaimed. “And so much the better. What’s your servant’s name?” Domini told him. “Ouardi! that means born in the time of the roses.” He addressed Ouardi in Arabic and sent him off into the darkness chuckling gaily. “These Arab names all have their meanings--Onlagareb, mother of scorpions, Omteoni, mother of eagles, and so on. So much the better! Comforts are rare here, but you carry them with you. Sugar, if you please.” Domini put two lumps into his cup. “If you allow me!” He added two more. “I never refuse a good cigar. These harmless joys are excellent for man. They help his Christianity. They keep him from bitterness, harsh judgments. But harshness is for northern climes--rainy England, eh? Forgive me, Madame. I speak in joke. You come from England perhaps. It didn’t occur to me that--” They both laughed. His garrulity was irresistible and made Domini feel as if she were sitting with a child. Perhaps he caught her feeling, for he added: “The desert has made me an _enfant terrible_, I fear. What have you there?” His eyes had been attracted by the flask of liqueur, to which Domini was stretching out her hand with the intention of giving him some. “I don’t know.” She leaned forward to read the name on the flask. “L o u a r i n e,” she said. “Pst!” exclaimed the priest, with a start. “Will you have some? I don’t know whether it’s good. I’ve never tasted it, or seen it before. Will you have some?” She felt so absolutely certain that he would say “Yes” that she lifted the flask to pour the liqueur into one of the little glasses, but, looking at him, she saw that he hesitated. “After all--why not?” he ejaculated. “Why not?” She was holding the flask over the glass. He saw that his remark surprised her. “Yes, Madame, thanks.” She poured out the liqueur and handed it to him. He set it down by his coffee-cup. “The fact is, Madame--but you know nothing about this liqueur?” “No, nothing. What is it?” Her curiosity was roused by his hesitation, his words, but still more by a certain gravity which had come into his face. “Well, this liqueur comes from the Trappist monastery of El-Largani.” “The monks’ liqueur!” she exclaimed. And instantly she thought of Mogar. “You do know then?” “Ouardi told me we had with us a liqueur made by some monks.” “This is it, and very excellent it is. I have tasted it in Tunis.” “But then why did you hesitate to take it here?” He lifted his glass up to the lamp. The light shone on its contents, showing that the liquid was pale green. “Madame,” he said, “the Trappists of El-Largani have a fine property. They grow every sort of things, but their vineyards are specially famous, and their wines bring in a splendid revenue. This is their only liqueur, this Louarine. It, too, has brought in a lot of money to the community, but when what they have in stock at the monastery now is exhausted they will never make another franc by Louarine.” “But why not?” “The secret of its manufacture belonged to one monk only. At his death he was to confide it to another whom he had chosen.” “And he died suddenly without--” “Madame, he didn’t die.” The gravity had returned to the priest’s face and deepened there, transforming it. He put the glass down without touching it with his lips. “Then--I don’t understand.” “He disappeared from the monastery.” “Do you mean he left it--a Trappist?” “Yes.” “After taking the final vows?” “Oh, he had been a monk at El-Largani for over twenty years.” “How horrible!” Domini said. She looked at the pale-green liquid. “How horrible!” she repeated. “Yes. The monks would have kept the matter a secret, but a servant of the _hotellerie_--who had taken no vow of eternal silence--spoke, and--well, I know it here in the ‘belly of the desert.’” “Horrible!” She said the word again, and as if she felt its meaning more acutely each time she spoke it. “After twenty years to go!” she added after a moment. “And was there no reason, no--no excuse--no, I don’t mean excuse! But had nothing exceptional happened?” “What exceptional thing can happen in a Trappist monastery?” said the priest. “One day is exactly like another there, and one year exactly like another.” “Was it long ago?” “No, not very long. Only some months. Oh, perhaps it may be a year by now, but not more. Poor fellow! I suppose he was a man who didn’t know himself, Madame, and the devil tempted him.” “But after twenty years!” said Domini. The thing seemed to her almost incredible. “That man must be in hell now,” she added. “In the hell a man can make for himself by his own act. Oh, here is my husband.” Androvsky stood in the tent door, looking in upon them with startled, scrutinising eyes. He had come over the deep sand without noise. Neither Domini nor the priest had heard a footstep. The priest got up from his chair and bowed genially. “Good-evening, Monsieur,” he said, not waiting for any introduction. “I am the Aumonier of Amara, and----” He paused in the full flow of his talk. Androvsky’s eyes had wandered from his face to the table, upon which stood the coffee, the liqueur, and the other things brought by Ouardi. It was evident even to the self-centred priest that his host was not listening to him. There was a moment’s awkward pause. Then Domini said: “Boris, Monsieur l’Aumonier!” She did not speak loudly, but with an intention that recalled the mind of her husband. He stepped slowly into the tent and held out his hand in silence to the priest. As he did so the lamplight fell full upon him. “Boris, are you ill?” Domini exclaimed. The priest had taken Androvsky’s hand, but with a doubtful air. His cheerful and confident manner had died away, and his eyes, fixed upon his host, shone with an astonishment which was mingled with a sort of boyish glumness. It was evident that he felt that his presence was unwelcome. “I have a headache,” Androvsky said. “I--that is why I returned.” He dropped the priest’s hand. He was again looking towards the table. “The sun was unusually fierce to-day,” Domini said. “Do you think--” “Yes, yes,” he interrupted. “That’s it. I must have had a touch of the sun.” He put his hand to his head. “Excuse me, Monsieur,” he said, speaking to the priest but not looking at him. “I am really feeling unwell. Another day--” He went out of the tent and disappeared silently into the darkness. Domini and the priest looked after him. Then the priest, with an air of embarrassment, took up his hat from the table. His cigar had gone out, but he pulled at it as if he thought it was still alight, then took it out of his mouth and, glancing with a naive regret at the good things upon the table, his half-finished coffee, the biscuits, the white box of bon-bons--said: “Madame, I must be off. I’ve a good way to go, and it’s getting late. If you will allow me--” He went to the tent door and called, in a powerful voice: “Belgassem! Belgassem!” He paused, then called again: “Belgassem!” A light travelled over the sand from the farther tents of the servants. Then the priest turned round to Domini and shook her by the hand. “Good-night, Madame.” “I’m very sorry,” she said, not trying to detain him. “You must come again. My husband is evidently ill, and--” “You must go to him. Of course. Of course. This sun is a blessing. Still, it brings fever sometimes, especially to strangers. We sand-rascals--eh, Madame!” he laughed, but the laugh had lost its sonorous ring--“we can stand it. It’s our friend. But for travellers sometimes it’s a little bit too much. But now, mind, I’m a bit of a doctor, and if to-morrow your husband is no better I might--anyhow”--he looked again longingly at the bon-bons and the cigars--“if you’ll allow me I’ll call to know how he is.” “Thank you, Monsieur.” “Not at all, Madame, not at all! I can set him right in a minute, if it’s anything to do with the sun, in a minute. Ah, here’s Belgassem!” The soldier stood like a statue without, bearing the lantern. The priest hesitated. He was holding the burnt-out cigar in his hand, and now he glanced at it and then at the cigar-box. A plaintive expression overspread his bronzed and bearded face. It became almost piteous. Quickly Domini wait to the table, took two cigars from the box and came back. “You must have a cigar to smoke on the way.” “Really, Madame, you are too good, but--well, I rarely refuse a fine cigar, and these--upon my word--are--” He struck a match on his broad-toed boot. His demeanour was becoming cheerful again. Domini gave the other cigar to the soldier. “Good-night, Madame. A demain then, a demain! I trust your husband may be able to rest. A demain! A demain!” The light moved away over the dunes and dropped down towards the city. Then Domini hurried across the sand to the sleeping-tent. As she went she was acutely aware of the many distant noises that rose up in the night to the pale crescent of the young moon, the pulsing of the tomtoms in the city, the faint screaming of the pipes that sounded almost like human beings in distress, the passionate barking of the guard dogs tied up to the tents on the sand-slopes where the multitudes of fires gleamed. The sensation of being far away, and close to the heart of the desert, deepened in her, but she felt now that it was a savage heart, that there was something terrible in the remoteness. In the faint moonlight the tent cast black shadows upon the wintry whiteness of the sands, that rose and fell like waves of a smooth but foam-covered sea. And the shadow of the sleeping-tent looked the blackest of them all. For she began to feel as if there was another darkness about it than the darkness that it cast upon the sand. Her husband’s face that night as he came in from the dunes had been dark with a shadow cast surely by his soul. And she did not know what it was in his soul that sent forth the shadow. “Boris!” She was at the door of the sleeping-tent. He did not answer. “Boris!” He came in from the farther tent that he used as a dressing-room, carrying a lit candle in his hand.