[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

But he spoke seriously, almost mystically. His voice was at odds with the word it said. She noticed that and was sure that he was secretly sharing her sensation. She even suspected that he had perhaps felt it first. “Let us ride on,” he said. “Do you see the change in the light? Do you see the green in the sky? It is cooler, too. This is the wind of evening.” Their hands fell apart and they rode slowly on, up the long slope of the sands. Presently they saw that they had come out of the trackless waste and that though still a long way from the city they were riding on a desert road which had been trodden by multitudes of feet. There were many footprints here. On either side were low banks of sand, beaten into a rough symmetry by implements of men, and shallow trenches through which no water ran. In front of them they saw the numerous caravans, now more distinct, converging from left and right slowly to this great isle of the desert which stretched in a straight line to the minarets. “We are on a highway,” Domini said. Androvsky sighed. “I feel already as if we were in the midst of a crowd,” he answered. “Our love for peace oughtn’t to make us hate our fellowmen!” she said. “Come, Boris, let us chase away our selfish mood!” She spoke in a more cheerful voice and drew her rein a little tighter. Her horse quickened its pace. “And think how our stay at Amara will make us love the solitudes when we return to them again. Contrast is the salt of life.” “You speak as if you didn’t believe what you are saying.” She laughed. “If I were ever inclined to tell you a lie,” she said, “I should not dare to. Your mind penetrates mine too deeply.” “You could not tell me a lie.” “Do you hear the dogs barking?” she said, after a moment. “They are among those tents that are like flies on the sands around the city. That is the tribe of the Ouled Nails I suppose. Batouch says they camp here. What multitudes of tents! Those are the suburbs of Amara. I would rather live in them than in the suburbs of London. Oh, how far away we are, as if we were at the end of the world!” Either her last words, or her previous change of manner to a lighter cheerfulness, almost a briskness, seemed to rouse Androvsky to a greater confidence, even to anticipation of possible pleasure. “Yes. After all it is only the desert men who are here. Amara is their Metropolis, and in it we shall only see their life.” His horse plunged. He had touched it sharply with his heel. “I believe you hate the thought of civilisation,” she exclaimed. “And you?” “I never think of it. I feel almost as if I had never known it, and could never know it.” “Why should you? You love the wilds.” “They make my whole nature leap. Even when I was a child it was so. I remember once reading _Maud_. In it I came upon a passage--I can’t remember it well, but it was about the red man--” She thought for a moment, looking towards the city. “I don’t know how it is quite,” she murmured. “‘When the red man laughs by his cedar tree, and the red man’s babe leaps beyond the sea’--something like that. But I know that it made my heart beat, and that I felt as if I had wings and were spreading them to fly away to the most remote places of the earth. And now I have spread my wings, and--it’s glorious. Come, Boris!” They put their horses to a canter, and soon drew near to the caravans. They had sent Batouch and Ali, who generally accompanied them, on with the rest of the camp. Both had many friends in Amara, and were eager to be there. It was obvious that they and all the attendants, servants and camel-men, thought of it as the provincial Frenchman thinks of Paris, as a place of all worldly wonders and delights. Batouch was to meet them at the entrance to the city, and when they had seen the marvels of its market-place was to conduct them to the tents which would be pitched on the sand-hills outside. Their horses pulled as if they, too, longed for a spell of city life after the life of the wastes, and Domini’s excitement grew. She felt vivid animal spirits boiling up within her, the sane and healthy sense that welcomes a big manifestation of the ceaseless enterprise and keen activity of a brotherhood of men. The loaded camels, the half-naked running drivers, the dogs sensitively sniffing, as if enticing smells from the city already reached their nostrils, the chattering desert merchants discussing coming gains, the wealthy and richly-dressed Arabs, mounted on fine horses, and staring with eyes that glittered up the broad track in search of welcoming friends, were sympathetic to her mood. Amara was sucking them all in together from the solitary places as quiet waters are sucked into the turmoils of a mill-race. Although still out in the sands they were already in the midst of a noise of life flowing to meet the roar of life that rose up at the feet of the minarets, which now looked tall and majestic in the growing beauty of the sunset. They passed the caravans one by one, and came on to the crest of the long sand slope just as the sky above the city was flushing with a bright geranium red. The track from here was level to the city wall, and was no longer soft with sand. A broad, hard road rang beneath their horses’ hoofs, startling them with a music that was like a voice of civilised life. Before them, under the red sky, they saw a dark blue of distant houses, towers, and great round cupolas glittering like gold. Forests of palm trees lay behind, the giant date palms for which Amara was famous. To the left stretched the sands dotted with gleaming Arab villages, to the right again the sands covered with hundreds of tents among which quantities of figures moved lively like ants, black on the yellow, arched by the sky that was alive with lurid colour, red fading into gold, gold into primrose, primrose into green, green into the blue that still told of the fading day. And to this multi-coloured sky, from the barbaric city and the immense sands in which it was set, rose a great chorus of life; voices of men and beasts, cries of naked children playing Cora on the sand-hills, of mothers to straying infants, shrill laughter of unveiled girls wantonly gay, the calls of men, the barking of multitudes of dogs,--the guard dogs of the nomads that are never silent night or day,--the roaring of hundreds of camels now being unloaded for the night, the gibbering of the mad beggars who roam perpetually on the outskirts of the encampments like wolves seeking what they may devour, the braying of donkeys, the whinnying of horses. And beneath these voices of living things, foundation of their uprising vitality, pulsed barbarous music, the throbbing tomtoms that are for ever heard in the lands of the sun, fetish music that suggests fatalism, and the grand monotony of the enormous spaces, and the crude passion that repeats itself, and the untiring, sultry loves and the untired, sultry languors of the children of the sun. The silence of the sands, which Domini and Androvsky had known and loved, was merged in the tumult of the sands. The one had been mystical, laying the soul to rest. The other was provocative, calling the soul to wake. At this moment the sands themselves seemed to stir with life and to cry aloud with voices. “The very sky is barbarous to-night!” Domini exclaimed. “Did you ever see such colour, Boris?” “Over the minarets it is like a great wound,” he answered. “No wonder men are careless of human life in such a land as this. All the wildness of the world seems to be concentrated here. Amara is like the desert city of some tremendous dream. It looks wicked and unearthly, but how superb!” “Look at those cupolas!” he said. “Are there really Oriental palaces here? Has Batouch told us the truth for once?” “Or less than the truth? I could believe anything of Amara at this moment. What hundreds of camels! They remind me of Arba, our first halting-place.” She looked at him and he at her. “How long ago that seems!” she said. “A thousand years ago.” They both had a memory of a great silence, in the midst of this growing tumult in which the sky seemed now to take its part, calling with the voices of its fierce colours, with the voices of the fires that burdened it in the west. “Silence joined us, Domini,” Androvsky said. “Yes. Perhaps silence is the most beautiful voice in the world.” Far off, along the great white road, they saw two horsemen galloping to meet them from the city, one dressed in brilliant saffron yellow, the other in the palest blue, both crowned with large and snowy turbans. “Who can they be?” said Domini, as they drew near. “They look like two princes of the Sahara.” Then she broke into a merry laugh. “Batouch! and Ali!” she exclaimed. The servants galloped up then, without slackening speed deftly wheeled their horses in a narrow circle, and were beside them, going with them, one on the right hand, the other on the left. “Bravo!” Domini cried, delighted at this feat of horsemanship. “But what have you been doing? You are transformed!” “Madame, we have been to the Bain Maure,” replied Batouch, calmly, swelling out his broad chest under his yellow jacket laced with gold. “We have had our heads shaved till they are smooth and beautiful as polished ivory. We have been to the perfumer”--he leaned confidentially towards her, exhaling a pungent odour of amber--“to the tailor, to the baboosh bazaar!”--he kicked out a foot cased in a slipper that was bright almost as a gold piece--“to him who sells the cherchia.” He shook his head till the spangled muslin that flowed about it trembled. “Is it not right that your servants should do you honour in the city?” “Perfectly right,” she answered with a careful seriousness. “I am proud of you both.” “And Monsieur?” asked Ali, speaking in his turn. Androvsky withdrew his eyes from the city, which was now near at hand. “Splendid!” he said, but as if attending to the Arabs with difficulty. “You are splendid.” As