[The Advancement of Learning — Francis Bacon — Gutenberg #3637]

the doorway in which the Arabs were still struggling. Then she saw that the traveller was beside her. She was not surprised. “Thank you for getting me out,” she said rather bluntly. “Where’s my maid?” “She got away before us with your guide, Madame.” He held up his hands and looked at them hard, eagerly, questioningly. “You weren’t hurt?” He dropped his hands quickly. “Oh, no, it wasn’t----” He broke off the sentence and was silent. Domini stood still, drew a long breath and laughed. She still felt angry and laughed to control herself. Unless she could be amused at this episode she knew that she was capable of going back to the door of the café and hitting out right and left at the men who had nearly suffocated her. Any violence done to her body, even an unintentional push against her in the street--if there was real force in it--seemed to let loose a devil in her, such a devil as ought surely only to dwell inside a man. “What people!” she said. “What wild creatures!” She laughed again. The patrol pushed its way roughly in at the doorway. “The Arabs are always like that, Madame.” She looked at him, then she said, abruptly: “Do you speak English?” Her companion hesitated. It was perfectly obvious to her that he was considering whether he should answer “Yes” or “No.” Such hesitation about such a matter was very strange. At last he said, but still in French: “Yes.” And directly he had said it she saw by his face that he wished he had said “No.” From the café the Arabs began to pour into the street. The patrol was clearing the place. The women leaning over the balconies cried out shrilly to learn the exact history of the tumult, and the men standing underneath, and lifting up their bronzed faces in the moonlight, replied in violent voices, gesticulating vehemently while their hanging sleeves fell back from their hairy arms. “I am an Englishwoman,” Domini said. But she too felt obliged to speak still in French, as if a sudden reserve told her to do so. He said nothing. They were standing in quite a crowd now. It swayed, parted suddenly, and the soldiers appeared holding Irena. Hadj followed behind, shouting as if in a frenzy of passion. There was some blood on one of his hands and a streak of blood on the front of the loose shirt he wore under his burnous. He kept on shooting out his arms towards Irena as he walked, and frantically appealing to the Arabs round him. When he saw the women on their balconies he stopped for a moment and called out to them like a man beside himself. A Tirailleur pushed him on. The women, who had been quiet to hear him, burst forth again into a paroxysm of chatter. Irena looked utterly indifferent and walked feebly. The little procession disappeared in the moonlight accompanied by the crowd. “She has stabbed Hadj,” Domini said. “Batouch will be glad.” She did not feel as if she were sorry. Indeed, she thought she was glad too. That the dancer should try to do a thing and fail would have seemed contradictory. And the streak of blood she had just seen seemed to relieve her suddenly and to take from her all anger. Her self-control returned. “Thank you once more,” she said to her companion. “Goodnight.” She remembered the episode of the tower that afternoon, and resolved to take a definite line this time, and not to run the chance of a second desertion. She started off down the street, but found him walking beside her in silence. She stopped. “I am very much obliged to you for getting me out,” she said, looking straight at him. “And now, good-night.” Almost for the first time he endured her gaze without any uncertainty, and she saw that though he might be hesitating, uneasy, even contemptible--as when he hurried down the road in the wake of the negro procession--he could also be a dogged man. “I’ll go with you, Madame,” he said. “Why?” “It’s night.” “I’m not afraid.” “I’ll go with you, Madame.” He said it again harshly and kept his eyes on her, frowning. “And if I refuse?” she said, wondering whether she was going to refuse or not. “I’ll follow you, Madame.” She knew by the look on his face that he, too, was thinking of what had happened in the afternoon. Why should she wish to deprive him of the reparation he was anxious to make--obviously anxious in an almost piteously determined way? It was poor pride in her, a mean little feeling. “Come with me,” she said. They went on together. The Arabs, stirred up by the fracas in Tahar’s café, were seething with excitement, and several of them, gathered together in a little crowd, were quarrelling and shouting at the end of the street near the statue of the Cardinal. Domini’s escort saw them and hesitated. “I think, Madame, it would be better to take a side street,” he said. “Very well. Let us go to the left here. It is bound to bring us to the hotel as it runs parallel to the house of the sand diviner.” He started. “The sand-diviner?” he said in his low, strong voice. “Yes.” She walked on into a tiny alley. He followed her. “You haven’t seen the thin man with the bag of sand?” “No, Madame.” “He reads your past in sand from the desert and tells what your future will be.” The man made no reply. “Will you pay him a visit?” Domini asked curiously. “No, Madame. I do not care for such things.” Suddenly she stood still. “Oh, look!” she said. “How strange! And there are others all down the street.” In the tiny alley the balconies of the houses nearly met. No figures leaned on their railings. No chattering voices broke the furtive silence that prevailed in this quarter of Beni-Mora. The moonlight was fainter here, obscured by the close-set buildings, and at the moment there was not an Arab in sight. The sense of loneliness and peace was profound, and as the rare windows of the houses, minute and protected by heavy gratings, were dark, it had seemed to Domini at first as if all the inhabitants were in bed and asleep. But, in passing on, she had seen a faint and blanched illumination; then another; the vague vision of an aperture; a seated figure making a darkness against whiteness; a second aperture and seated figure. She stopped and stood still. The man stood still beside her. The alley was an alley of women. In every house on either side of the way a similar picture of attentive patience was revealed: a narrow Moorish archway with a wooden door set back against the wall to show a steep and diminutive staircase winding up into mystery; upon the highest stair a common candlestick with a lit candle guttering in it, and, immediately below, a girl, thickly painted, covered with barbarous jewels and magnificently dressed, her hands, tinted with henna, folded in her lap, her eyes watching under eyebrows heavily darkened, and prolonged until they met just above the bridge of the nose, to which a number of black dots descended; her naked, brown ankles decorated with large circlets of gold or silver. The candle shed upon each watcher a faint light that half revealed her and left her half concealed upon her white staircase bounded by white walls. And in her absolute silence, absolute stillness, each one was wholly mysterious as she gazed ceaselessly out towards the empty, narrow street. The woman before whose dwelling Domini had stopped was an Ouled Nail, with a square headdress of coloured handkerchiefs and feathers, a pink and silver shawl, a blue skirt of some thin material powdered with silver flowers, and a broad silver belt set with squares of red coral. She was sitting upright, and would have looked exactly like an idol set up for savage worship had not her long eyes gleamed and moved as she solemnly returned the gaze of Domini and of the man who stood a little behind looking over her shoulder. When Domini stopped and exclaimed she did not realise to what this street was dedicated, why these women sat in watchful silence, each one alone on her stair waiting in the night. But as she looked and saw the gaudy finery she began to understand. And had she remained in doubt an incident now occurred which must have enlightened her. A great gaunt Arab, one of the true desert men, almost black, with high cheek bones, hollow cheeks, fierce falcon’s eyes shining as if with fever, long and lean limbs hard as iron, dressed in a rough, sacklike brown garment, and wearing a turban bound with cords of camel’s hair, strode softly down the alley, slipped in front of Domini, and went up to the woman, holding out something in his scaly hand. There was a brief colloquy. The woman stretched her arm up the staircase, took the candle, held it to the man’s open hand, and bent over counting the money that lay in the palm. She counted it twice deliberately. Then she nodded. She got up, turned, holding the candle above her square headdress, and went slowly up the staircase followed by the Arab, who grasped his coarse draperies and lifted them, showing his bare legs. The two disappeared without noise into the darkness, leaving the stairway deserted, its white steps, its white walls faintly lit by the moon. The woman had not once looked at the man, but only at the money in his scaly hand. Domini felt hot and rather sick. She wondered why she had stood there watching. Yet she had not been able to turn away. Now, as she stepped back into the middle of the alley and walked on with the man beside her she wondered what he was thinking of her. She could not talk to him any more. She was too conscious of the lighted stairways, one after one, succeeding each other to right and left of them, of the still figures, of the watching eyes in which the yellow rays of the candles gleamed. Her companion did not speak; but as they walked he glanced furtively from one side to the other, then stared down steadily on the white road. When they turned to the right and came out by the gardens, and Domini saw the great tufted heads of the palms black against the moon, she felt relieved and was able to speak again. “I should like you to know that I am quite a stranger to all African things and people,” she said. “That