R&D Research

Title: KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT FOR HIGHER EDUCATION

Abstract:
An important source of value creation in an organization that needs to be precariously managed is Knowledge It is made dispensable when the researchers who use information technology and retrieval systems search for the same. Knowledge is of two types: Explicit Knowledge and Tacit Knowledge Explicit Knowledge -The kind of knowledge that can be expressed, communicated, recorded and documented (in formal language) is explicit knowledge. This can be published and made dispensable for primary and secondary information sources. It includes know how that is packaged, transferrable and available. There are various ways in which it can be articulated, presented and codified in forms such as facts, rules, reports, blog posts, email, words, numbers, printed books/journals, digital assets, policies. They can be shared without the discussion being necessary. It can include the past events and can be transferrable in both formal and systematic language. Tacit knowledge -The knowledge that is carried by a person is tacit knowledge. This is a part and the parcel of the minds and is embedded in the heads of the organization/researcher/ institution etc. This is unique to a person that comprises perceptions, expertise, techniques, skills, insights. This knowledge is purely personal and is hence not communicated in any written form; It is not specific to any field, tough to capture, to share verbally and transfer to the society. Since it is specific to context, we cannot formalize or express. This kind of knowledge is classified, not easily shared and preserved by many as a trade secret. Its features are quite distinct from those of the explicit know-how. Technologies such as discovery, acquisition, sharing, distribution, application and preservation in repositories and libraries are important to facilitate KM activities A novel emerging field in the academic environs is KM. These form an important part of many upcoming conferences and seminars both at National and international levels. Several international universities are getting involved in KM related activities like research. Because of the necessity of disclosing intellectual know-how for sharing the experiences, KM has become significant in the field of education. Hence, its potential in the educational sector is unparalleled. Knowledge spawns from past events. Humans are the main sources of knowledge as they make efforts in innovations, research and educational activities in different areas. While explicit knowledge can be easily disseminated, tacit knowledge is tough to compile as it is very personal to an individual. An organization can be transformed to a new level of efficiency, effectiveness and its scope of operation can be expanded using advanced data and technology by means of KM. This enhances he productivity of the users. Continually unraveling the organizational tacit knowledge is KM. It helps develop know how, solve problems and make decisions. There is no field that does not encompass KM e.g. Industries both private and public, international charities, educational sectors etc. As a discipline, KM should strive in achieving the goals in a better fashion and many a time exceeding them. Hence, merely garnering more knowledge is not the sole purpose of KM. It extends to creation, consolidation, transfer and knowledge application with a defined purpose. Re-inventing the wheel, in which many organizations are involved today, is expensive and non-productive. But the benefits will be shown by systematic knowledge re-use. Our tendency to repeat mistakes will drastically come down with effective KM. Supporting organizational processes [3] and practices, building an environment conducive to knowledge creation and sharing and enabling collaboration and communication within the organization is the purpose of KM. Going beyond technological systems, the KM tools are virtual spaces wherein the conversion takes place between tacit and explicit knowledge. The knowledge tools bring few benefits to knowledge management in general and HEI in particularly, if there is no strategy and