R&D Research

Title: Perspective on opportunities in industrial biotechnology in renewable chemicals

Abstract:
From biomass to renewable chemicals: while industrial biotechnology offers a clear value proposition, a number of hurdles need to be addressed to fully realize the commercial potential of bio-based products and chemicals over the coming decade. A review of an early roadmap for biological production of chemicals from renewable sugars reveals a focus on those that would provide co-products for integrated biorefineries producing biofuels and bioenergy. A growing number of companies are now focusing on specialty chemicals as an entry point to build the bio-based economy. BDO, 1, 4 butanediol; DOE, Department of Energy; PDO, 1,3 propanediol; PHA, polyhydroxyalkanoate; PLA, polylactic acid; RFS, Renewable Fuel Standard Industrial biotechnology encompasses the application of biotechnology-based tools to traditional industrial processes (“bioprocessing”) and the manufacturing of bio-based products (such as fuels, chemicals and plastics) from renewable feedstocks. Microbes, microorganisms, enzymes and their genetic engineering form the basis of a suite of technologies and processes that a diverse group of companies, researchers and scientists are seeking to develop for commercial use. Mankind has been using microbial processes for producing foods and other goods since Neolithic times. But the evolution of our ability to manipulate microbial genomes has revolutionized the field of biotechnology and produced a rapid increase in innovation for industrial uses. In most cases, industrial biotech tools allow industry to develop new industrial manufacturing processes that are cleaner and better for the environment with reduced economic costs. Industrial biotech represents the third wave in biotechnology, following innovation in the health care and agricultural sectors. While biofuels have attracted a great deal of interest among the public, press and policy makers, renewable chemicals represent another major opportunity to commercialize industrial biotechnology in existing markets, at lower capital costs, and with potentially higher returns. Early efforts to lay a roadmap for biological production of chemicals from renewable sugars focused on those that would provide co-products for integrated biorefineries producing biofuels and bioenergy as the primary product. A growing number of companies are now focusing on specialty chemicals as an entry point to build the bio-based economy. Currently there are many examples of microbial processes and renewable agricultural materials used in producing material goods, including cheese making and other fermentations. But an increased understanding of, and ability to restructure, fermentation processes and microbial metabolic systems has allowed researchers to expand the application and engineering of microbes and enzymes into a broader variety of industrial processes. These processes can often construct products faster and in a resource- and environmentally sustainable manner at reduced cost, while using less energy [1]. Further, industrial biotechnology can reduce carbon emissions through improved process efficiency, the displacement of fossil fuels and petroleum-based materials, and the creation of closed loop industrial systems that eliminate waste [2]. Industrial biotechnology's enabling of integrated biorefineries that produce multiple product and value streams is viewed as potentially transforming the economics of industrial production [3]. New techniques, such as synthetic biology, can potentially speedup the development and commercialization of industrial biotech processes, making them attractive and affordable to manufacturers. Living systems manage their chemistry more efficiently than man-made chemical refineries, and most of the wastes they generate are recyclable or biodegradable. Nature's enzyme-based processes operate at lower temperatures, and produce less toxic waste and fewer emissions than conventional chemical processes. Because enzymes have precise chemical selectivity, they may also use less purified raw materials. These characteristics can be exploited to increase the energy efficiency and improve the environmental profile of chemical reactions used in manufacturing [1]. Industrial biotechnology companies use life-science techniques to find and improve nature's enzymes or develop diverse microbial systems – from bacteria, yeasts, and fungi to marine diatoms and protozoa – for use in industrial applications. Companies search for enzyme-producing microorganisms in the natural environment (bioprospecting) and then use genomic and proteomic studies and tools to fish for genes that express enzymes with specific biocatalytic capabilities. Once identified, enzymes can be characterized for their ability to function in specific industrial processes. If necessary, enzymes can be improved with biotechnology techniques, such as gene transfer, gene shuffling, directed evolution or metabolic engineering. Once useful enzymes are discovered and improved, they can be produced in commercial quantities using either naturally occurring or genetically enhanced microbes (GEMs). Currently, it is common for genetically engineered microbes (for example, bacteria or yeast improved through gene shuffling) to carry out the fermentation. Fermentation and reproduction of the organism are normally done in contained stainless steel fermentation tanks or systems similar to those that produce human therapeutic proteins or bulk yeast for the brewing industry. Biotechnology enables scientists to maximize the effectiveness and efficiency of enzymes and microbes or to custom tailor the specificity of enzymes, improve catalytic properties or broaden the conditions under which enzymes can function so that they are more compatible with existing industrial processes. Scientists can also give new manufacturing capabilities to these microscopic workhorses by genetically enhancing them so they make enzymes that would otherwise have to be produced by microorganisms that are expensive or too finicky to cultivate in industrial quantities. With libraries of bioinformatic material that can be replicated or chemically reconstructed, researchers and companies are beginning to design and create novel microbial systems that perform multistep processes to metabolize renewable sugars into chemical building blocks, monomers, polymers and acids. Synthetic biology has also enabled the creation of novel enzymes that can work in multi-step biocatalysis of chemicals, such as for pharmaceuticals (see for instance http://www.epa.gov/gcc/pubs/pgcc/winners/grca10.html). The reconstruction of DNA strands from their chemical base elements according to computer-aided designs for metabolic platforms has given rise to the term “synthetic biology.” Many, but not all, industrial biotechnology applications involve the harnessing of nature's enzymes. Industrial biotechnology can use extracted enzymes or whole cell systems to accomplish a task. The recent and dramatic advances in biotechnology techniques are why so many biocatalytic tools are becoming available to be used in industrial applications. Biorefineries are dedicated facilities that convert the sugars, oils and proteins derived from renewable biomass into biofuels, chemicals and materials such as plastics and polymers. The concept is modeled on the petroleum refinery, in which crude oil is converted into fuels and chemicals that provide multiple product and revenue streams. Just as a barrel of oil can be broken down into constituent parts that add up to more by volume and value than the original barrel, the objective of a biorefinery is to develop as many product and value streams as possible from biomass. This optimization and efficiency are essential for economic and environmental sustainability. There are many existing biorefineries in the United States that process corn into sugars (such as high fructose corn syrup), oils, animal feeds and food ingredients (such as xanthan gum). More than 200 ethanol biorefineries have been built, primarily using the corn's starch for biofuel and the remaining protein and fat for animal feed and vegetable oils. Some of these first-generation biorefineries are looking to create product and value streams from the cellulosic bran in the kernel and the stover (leaves and stalks) of the corn plant for additional product and value streams. There has been rapid growth in construction of corn ethanol biorefineries since 2005, when the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) was first enacted, due to the economic opportunity presented by high oil prices and the phase out of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) in gasoline [4]. Figure 1 details this growth. The RFS was enacted in the United States in recognition of the national security implications of overreliance on foreign supplies of petroleum, the energy security implications of oil's price volatility, and the ongoing environmental costs of fossil fuel use. Corn ethanol biorefineries that coproduce animal feed (distillers grains, corn gluten meal and corn gluten feed) and corn oil have very simple economic models that displace some use of petroleum for fuel and feed. Much more sustainable models that fractionate the corn kernel for additional value streams are now being developed, and use of renewable energy sources for power and electricity generation are in development. Petroleum's price volatility affects the entire value chain for petroleum refineries, pushing industry to seek replacements for the “entire barrel of oil.” Growth of corn ethanol refining, 2000–2011. Construction of new ethanol biorefineries and expansion of existing production capacity accelerated following the adoption of the nation's first RFS in 2005. There are a growing number of demonstration and pilot-scale biorefineries across North America that plan to use locally produced biomass, including starches such as sorghum; cellulosic feedstocks such as grasses, woody biomass (fast-growing trees and shrubs or forestry residues); municipal solid waste; and algae. Cellulosic biomass is the most abundant source of carbon, and its ubiquity makes it potentially the lowest-cost source of renewable sugars for biorefineries. A great deal of industrial biotech research and development has focused on enzymatic conversion of cellulose to sugars and consolidated metabolic bioprocessing of cellulose to higher value molecules. The challenge for any biorefinery is to establish a reliable supply chain for sufficient feedstock at a stable price. In the United States, there are well-established supply chains for pricing and delivery of corn. Collection, harvesting, storage and transport of other biomass feedstocks – including corn stover – are in development, but rely to a large degree on expectations that market demand among biorefineries will exist. Biotechnology is playing an important role in increasing productivity for many biomass feedstocks, utilizing the same tools that have enabled increased production of corn and soy, namely pesticide and herbicide resistance. Genetic engineering tools applied to commercial production of microbes are being applied to algae – including gene shuffling, gene transfer, and even synthetic biology – to increase the productivity of target strains. Biorefineries are expected to follow common business imperatives of industrial ecology. To remain economically competitive, they must continually innovate, increase efficiency, and develop new product and value streams. Biorefineries must seek to maximize the use of biomass, recycle waste streams as input for new product streams, and utilize heat from primary processes as energy for secondary processes. Biotech routes to a wide array of chemical products are being developed for integration into biorefineries, allowing for diversification of product and value streams. In 2004, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) conducted an initial screening and categorization of renewable chemicals that could be co-produced as side streams of biofuels and bioenergy [5]. The analysis yielded a list of 30 potential monomers with up to six carbon atoms that could be fermented from the sugars in biomass and serve as building blocks for more complex chemicals – as intermediates, novel or replacements for petroleum of these chemicals, in 1, as for research and development industrial The that its of biorefinery products was to the with to six carbon chains derived from the sugars in biomass. These building chemicals can be produced and then through traditional chemistry to form ingredients for common costs and potential additional in the of the a more diverse of products from biomass is produced from can be used for polymers and can find a market in and and plant oils have well-established 2004, when the conducted its analysis of chemicals, biotech companies have developed fermentation to a array of building chemicals as as metabolic to The of development of biotechnology has the economics of chemical making it an attractive production opportunity in its than a the economics of bioprocessing improve and the price of the for potential also making it to develop new A from the that by the market for biofuels, bio-based bulk chemicals and and bioprocessing enzymes would The market for to increase agricultural productivity would and biomass to biorefineries could generate an additional in economic while conversion of biomass to heat and power could also be to a from the ethanol and a value of more than of in and will to by The that for biofuel production the the market for biofuels, while economics and the market for renewable chemical companies have to chemical in their than seek for novel chemical that be to the properties of biomass The is to replacements of with bio-based chemicals that and The for microbial products and enzymes have been by market The market value for microbial products – used as in as as in chemical production – is an in with an expected increase to more than in for a growth of The market for microbes is to in from its value of in The market for industrial enzymes was in in and in and expected to by a growth of according to that enzymes for at over in and to in and enzymes for and an value of in by The for and that will from to 1 polymers make up of the plastics and to these plastics and novel are being developed, either through fermentation of building blocks as ethanol or polylactic or metabolic production of new of plastics as and these could market Currently, represents or of plastics The industry to by While petroleum there is a and growing interest in biological materials into useful With increasing market for bio-based chemical products and are to industrial through the production and of biological materials. materials represent a and growing market with an of Currently available bio-based products and specialty chemicals, fuels, and materials. The early products have from the or chemical of biomass oils, while the wave of products are being from by such as microbial and enzymatic Early examples of available bio-based plastics enabled by industrial biotechnology, and these are in These while many potential market have been in a or displacement of offers a price or The early market and of these products have that price and are as to market as environmental sustainability. 1, is fermented from corn using a biotech The is from the fermentation and then available to be used in product or as an in polymers. a products can be using as a and are of by and has been developed for use in care and high and to and manufacturers. is used in and industrial as as and is a for used in a producing bio-based less energy and fewer emissions to petroleum-based or is the to the other is the product that at the has of the potential due to its on the market and its price. Currently, this under the has been to be on a and basis with traditional has environmental and market with over applications in more than and over in of a is a This renewable on has high as as and has been in a very of applications including and is being developed by companies such as and has an market potential of over These examples represent market for bio-based industrial the commercial of the role of with and and the to be by to chemicals the and environmental These are as in and for and for biotechnology chemicals the and environmental The market price of on the of the raw and the of the A for production of many bio-based products has been a search for to fossil fuels, which have been to price volatility the of In many cases, bio-based products a price or when they to the The growth of bio-based products on a need to large quantities of biomass at costs. that feedstock such as from crude supply chains are the costs of producing bio-based products also on the costs of a of available biomass is used to produce bio-based chemicals due to these high conversion costs. and development is and demonstration have very high costs, and to the agricultural raw materials to the production is The growth of bio-based products will on the development of technologies – which in many is improved by – and to diverse is another of the new bio-based product or that its market products must not better than petroleum-based products to be by and in research to improve the properties and of bio-based will be for a wide array of such as those on which are not available from petroleum products expensive conversion but may be and produced by a biotechnology Industrial biotechnology can processes that have a better carbon than In to from petroleum, many of the emissions and in the The production processes are also often cleaner than processes, using less energy and less waste than conventional synthetic processes. products into chemicals, specialty chemicals, and materials. of these such as oils, and from the or chemical of biomass. are from by such as microbial and enzymatic More and more bio-based chemicals are becoming and represent a opportunity for of with renewable are by fermentation of sugars through microbial processes for production of chemical production metabolic engineering to construct that make renewable chemicals, such as 1, and To commercial development of chemicals from cellulosic feedstocks has some companies are at demonstration and as in to as is a building for a wide of secondary chemicals used in the food and agricultural was produced from petroleum feedstocks. and and can conventional petroleum-based for other chemicals in applications such as production of and serve as the material for the production of and have biotechnology in commercial These companies produce from using a genetically engineered organism The bio-based is and offers or with a better environmental 1, 4 is a chemical with a large of applications including and other is a chemical building with a market and is used to make products such as and has developed and manufacturing processes that can make the same from sustainable ingredients than crude oil or natural it to develop and manufacturing processes for and also offers the potential to use a of feedstocks, including conventional sugars, cellulosic biomass and bio-based chemicals have a major potential to reduce the and on oil and natural A research of and and has in the production of a synthetic The has been in but production of microorganisms are not in of plant In this example, synthetic biology allowed the construction of a gene that the same as the plant but is for in engineered microorganisms the will not be for it has to be a bio-based that has applications as a for natural and This is a of the the process offers a for quantities of a renewable chemical that a natural is a building chemical that can be used in and fuels, of which can be used as an in of traditional chemicals (such as and as as many as a in and such as The and fuel ingredients are is now producing this chemical building from sugars by fermentation. have developed an Fermentation that genetically engineered yeast with a process to the from the fermentation allowing the yeast to synthetic biology, has engineered a yeast to on production of by production of ethanol and volatility in petroleum prices can have a on these markets, can serve as a for petroleum, in pricing and a potential of more than on is a commercial product and an building for the production of a array of chemical is to manufacturing for the production of and among other demand for is a of biorefineries for the conversion of renewable biomass into fuels and chemicals, has produced bio-based using an a naturally occurring The is at the of the traditional and has the commercial of the fermentation These advances in bio-based chemical production that among of cellulosic biomass is from ethanol to industrial many has its of and example, conditions for biological are as most reactions are done at and can operate at high they conversion technologies are while but will additional or research they into commercial use. More research is to expand the of potential to increase our understanding of the and to which bio-based feedstock materials will the most in an integrated new or improved technologies are developed, this will which bio-based products for bio-based chemical production will rely on capital and ongoing for a product as as market of bio-based industrial production an of manufacturing diversification of and of costs. The technologies of to improve over and raw material costs to the biorefineries have a over petroleum as the and prices of renewable biomass may be more stable and advances in metabolic engineering and analysis make it possible to efficiently manipulate the of and genetic engineering to increase chemical and makes microbial production more economically with traditional production The of and protein engineering will to provide new for improved or conversion of biofuels, renewable chemicals, specialty chemicals, and other biotechnology companies are synthetic biology applications that can of bio-based chemicals to in food intermediates, specialty chemicals, and biofuels provide among many examples companies are in early of or new A group of natural products are produced by in quantities and serve a number of from to food to have been too expensive to produce through traditional manufacturing processes such as chemical or has developed a that it to produce commercial of The metabolic engineering fermentation a stable supply of with a in the of and has the use of across the examples are in Industrial biotechnology is than a new source of can be by production that is on fossil to biological A wide of bio-based industrial products and technologies to diverse industrial and other chemicals derived from sugars have as in the to other industrial chemicals on In the with advances in genetic fuel production from plant materials are to with petroleum But bio-based technologies such as are replacements for industrial chemical processes. chemical production from biomass offers an opportunity to commercialize biotechnology applications in for existing chemicals, price and are to In a cases, bio-based products may a price for This opportunity to commercialize industrial biotechnology in existing is being by a and industry and market and in the technologies of the biological such as metabolic engineering and synthetic biology, are and processes to be more and competitive, and are innovation in the chemical industry. it to commercialize new process development to feedstock to the application of new biotech tools to traditional chemical processes is the Renewable chemicals and from biorefineries to and increased market A is the of industry for industrial biotechnology There are now of examples of industry not but more demand for these and new example, the of from the to production is new industry in the and The development of biorefineries that production of bio-based products could reduce costs and allow bio-based products to more with petroleum-based products on price. While industrial biotechnology offers a clear value proposition, a number of hurdles need to be addressed to fully realize the commercial potential of bio-based products and chemicals over the coming decade. will on research and development, and of new supply chains for renewable and sustainable biomass feedstocks, and market to with existing to be on the to commercialize these and to build a bio-based economy. This is for and our The of is of the Industrial and at the Biotechnology a in and an in as for U.S. and also as a of the of of the the of the Energy and the of the Synthetic is a of for growth at the Energy and for a in from and has over of and policy from and energy research to research and enabling development. was the of the Industrial and at the Biotechnology