R&D Research

Title: The contribution of statistical network models to the study of clusters and their evolution

Abstract:
This paper presents a systemic review of the contributions that stochastic actor-oriented models (SAOMs) and exponential random graph models (ERGMs) have made to the study of industrial clusters and agglomeration processes. Results show that ERGMs and SAOMs are especially popular to study network evolution, proximity dynamics and multiplexity. The paper concludes that although these models have advanced the field by enabling empirical testing of a number of theories, they often operationalize the same theory in completely different ways, making it difficult to draw conclusions that can be generalized beyond the particular case studies on which each paper is based. The paper ends with suggestions of ways to address this problem. Este artículo presenta un examen sistémico de las contribuciones de los modelos estocásticos orientados a los actores (SAOM, en inglés) y los modelos de gráficos aleatorizados exponenciales (ERGM, en inglés) al estudio de los conglomerados industriales y los procesos de conglomeración. Los resultados muestran que los ERGM y los SAOM son especialmente populares para estudiar la evolución de las redes, las dinámicas de proximidad y la multiplexidad. En el artículo se llega a la conclusión de que, si bien esos modelos han hecho avanzar este campo de estudio al permitir realizar estudios empíricos de varias teorías, a menudo ponen en práctica la misma teoría mediante maneras completamente diferentes, lo que hace difícil sacar conclusiones que puedan generalizarse más allá de los estudios de caso particulares en que se basa cada artículo. El artículo concluye con sugerencias de formas de abordar este problema. 本稿では、確率的アクター指向モデル (Stochastic Actor-Oriented Model:SAOM)と指数ランダムグラフモデル (Exponential Random Graph Model:ERGM)による産業クラスターと集積の過程の研究への寄与の系統的レビューを行う。結果から、ERGMとSOAMは、特にネットワークの進化、近似性の変化、多重性の研究によく用いられていることが示される。本稿では、これらのモデルは、多くの理論の実証的な検証を可能にし、その研究分野を進歩させてきたが、同じ理論を全く異なる方法で扱うことにより、各研究の基となっている特定のケーススタディを超えて一般化できる結論を得ることが困難になっていると結論する。最後にこの問題に対処する方法を提案する。 Knowledge and information exchange is considered to be among the key drivers of regional and national economic development (Tödtling, Lehner, & Trippl, 2006). In order to promote such knowledge and information exchange and strengthen regional economic competitiveness and innovation, clusters have become a popular tool (Iammarino and McCann 2006; Porter, 1998). At the same time, interest has grown in the network characteristics of agglomerations and clusters and how these characteristics change over time (Glückler, 2007; Powell, White, Koput, & Owen-Smith, 2005). For instance, the effects of different types of proximity in restricted geographical areas has been a subject of intense interest in the regional science and business management literature (Boschma, 2005; Knoben & Oerlemans, 2006). In general it can be said that the network characteristics of an industrial cluster are of great importance for both the performance of individual organizations within the cluster, as well as the cluster's overall functioning (Belussi & Sammarra, 2010; Breschi & Malerba, 2005; Karlsson, Johansson, & Stough, 2005). In their day-to-day operations, cluster actors engage in a number of different activities such as exchanging financial and material resources, generating and spreading information and collaborating (or competing) with other cluster actors. All these activities are essentially relational in nature: they require the creation and maintenance of a connection between two or more actors. Given the relational nature of many cluster activities, social network analysis has been a popular approach to the study of different aspects of cluster functioning (Bergman, 2009; Ter Wal & Boschma, 2009). In recent years new statistical network models have been developed that use the characteristics of the complete network as the basis for their analysis. Stochastic actor-oriented models (SAOMs) and exponential random graph models (ERGMs) are statistical inference models that are among the most popular and theoretically well-developed network models currently in use (Robins, Snijders, Wang, Handcock, & Pattison, 2007; Snijders, 2011). These statistical network models were deemed promising tools to investigate the drivers of economic agglomeration processes within regional studies (Broekel, Balland, Burger, & Van Oort, 2014; Maggioni & Uberti, 2011). A number of researchers have taken up these new tools and applied them to study different aspects of industrial clusters. However, critics of this network modelling approach in economic geography speak of “diminishing returns” because of the repetitive nature of studies that “take the same model and the same methodology to different databases” (Ferru & Rallet, 2016, p.112). In this paper, I investigate this claim by assessing the different applications of ERGMs and SAOMs to see what kind of insights they have yielded and whether these statistical network models have fulfilled their promise. The aim of this review is to catalogue the contributions of SAOMs and ERGMs for the study of clusters and economic agglomerations and determine what types of questions have been answered using these new models and what lessons can be drawn from these applications. To answer these questions, I performed a systematic review of papers in which either an SAOM or an ERGM was applied on industrial clusters and agglomeration processes. I analysed how different theoretical concepts were operationalized in the models. This paper provides a methodological contribution by giving an overview of the different ways a number of theoretical concepts related to cluster and agglomeration studies have been operationalized and measured. In this section the general characteristics of ERGMs and SAOMs are described and the different types of micro-level configurations that they work with are introduced. Detailed comparisons between these methods can be found in Block, Stadtfeld, and Snijders (2019) and Broekel et al. (2014), with the latter also describing potential applications of both these methods within the field of economic geography. A network can be depicted as a set of nodes connected by a set of ties. The nodes can represent different types of actors or organizations. Network ties can be directed, undirected and/or weighted to denote a range of relationships, such as similarities in positions and memberships, social interactions, and flows of money, information or resources (Borgatti, Mehra, Brass, & Labianca, 2009; Wasserman & Faust, 1994). Special cases are formed by multiplex networks, two-mode networks and multilevel networks, see Figure 1. ERGMs and SAOMs can be used to model any of these types of networks. Source: Adapted from Lusher, Koskinen, and Robins (2013) Within SAOMs, discrete choice models, continuous-time Markov chains and agent-based modelling are combined. Nodes representing actors can decide to create, maintain or dissolve links. They are assigned a rate function that determines how quickly they can change their connections and an objective function that determines what they value in making certain connections. Actors try to maximize this objective function. In SAOMs, the nodes are able to control their outgoing ties, therefore SAOMs are necessarily used for directed networks. 1 In contrast, ERGMs can be used for either directed of undirected networks as they are defined on the level of the complete network and ties or arrows are placed in such a way that they follow a number of pre-defined network characteristics (density, distribution and so on). SAOMs have been used mostly for the analysis of temporal network evolution, whereas ERGMs have been used primarily for cross-case comparisons. However, as Block et al. (2019) point out: this distinction is slowly becoming obsolete as new types of ERGMs (longitudinal, separable temporal and temporal ERGMs) allow for the incorporation a temporal elements and SAOMs could, at least in theory, also be used for cross-case comparisons (Snijders & Steglich, 2015). In the following meta-analysis, these new types of temporal ERGMs have been excluded as they have not yet been applied on a sufficient number of industrial cluster studies to give a reliable overview. The main commonality between SAOMs and ERGMs, which is the main reason that this paper includes them both, is the way in which they deal with local network dependencies between certain nodes. ERGMs and SAOMs have the advantage over regular regression models in that they explicitly account for a number of dependencies between nodes that have been found to play important roles in social networks (Snijders, 2011). These network dependencies violate the assumption of “independency of observations” upon which regular logistic regression models rely: the existence of a particular tie within the network often predicts the existence of certain other ties within the The development of SAOMs and ERGMs can be as to deal with these local The in SAOMs and ERGMs is in social models (Snijders, Pattison, & Handcock, in which the statistical between ties is in of local connected such as or network ties that not local configurations are to be et These local configurations the of both types of statistical network models and this it to the of each of models with the et al. (2013) a for processes of tie that these micro-level configurations to the individual the and the complete The level is that of the individual At this level are to model the effects of certain characteristics of the individual nodes. For instance, certain work or can be used to the in the or At the the the of both the and the are considered and this is the level the effects of of a and are & The level of the the effects that are to the of the of network ties. et al. (2013) to these effects as processes of network because they not or other to the of these local Figure of these micro-level configurations of that to an of different of and of the and their order To account for more dependencies in networks, Snijders et al. order and of these order effects set to they are by of a weighted with The of these is often to model and to model the network processes the and these a that was to weighted is a of the for two nodes in a network to have or more in of whether these two actors are weighted is essentially the same for actors that in For both the as the number of et Source: from et al. (2013) The literature was in two and was on the that have been in the development of ERGMs and At the are popular to either SAOM or ERGM These are and Snijders, & the in & and the and & Pattison, 2009). The and statistical that these upon have been in The that papers either ERGMs or SAOMs on clusters at least paper that the of these have 1 presents an overview of the that were in the A in the was performed on All papers from these the were a of These papers were in A on was used in of the to studies that at least paper by the in 1. These of over studies each a range of not of which were for the study of clusters and agglomeration processes. In a these were The was to or This was the that SAOMs and ERGMs were applied in the field of economic as by Maggioni and The were to The were by the use of that are often used to different of clusters and economic industrial and For an overview of the and subject see the This in a of in and in of These were for and on or from not related to knowledge exchange or were papers on networks were also This of papers was in this papers were that of the in 1 not an ERGM or papers were because they on other clusters or industrial agglomerations as or and papers with networks were also paper and two were to as they described cases and that were to other papers in the paper not be to the The studies in the were and with to their questions, of of cluster and the of the statistical network model to their and the and in the provides an overview of the papers papers have applications of SAOMs and have applications of of these papers in of the in economic business or the of and of and the most papers in the the general interest in these of and the of the applications of SAOMs and Knowledge on and network Knowledge exchange network and Figure the development over time of the most popular in these network dynamics proximity and These are For instance, papers on network dynamics often proximity to the social of network and Figure show that the empirical distinction between the of ERGMs and SAOMs case can be to a certain SAOMs are used to investigate questions of in the papers that applied ERGMs not used them to different clusters to with the of paper by and ERGMs are used to study clusters at point in time, or to study the that different types of ties can have within a of papers and main of Source: and of A distinction can be made between the papers that study clusters and that the effects of of economic agglomeration within a industrial The of the cluster studies were on cases that are within of of the studies not in the and The papers that on their at different geographical For the is considered at the and are analysed at the level of the and the of of the and the are considered at the national The of the networks from the network of nodes & up to networks of to nodes and nodes et The in is related to the kind of used in the different that use of of or up with networks studies for which were by using or This latter kind of is mostly with cluster is mostly used for industrial agglomeration a papers with of clusters are to industrial studies The most popular of a cluster from a cluster as of and organizations and in a particular by and This explicitly includes many different types of organizations within a However, of the cluster within set networks between a of or a of papers a two papers at two types and the different between types of such as organizations and other organizations such as organizations or of the network studies a of the networks in a cluster by their to a of The main of within the studies includes types of knowledge exchange was of the for However, how these knowledge networks are from study to study with on knowledge knowledge and knowledge studies that on knowledge creation as of and knowledge For a of knowledge the is not on knowledge creation on the of knowledge within the network the directed flows of or business or or a of are the networks. These networks an exchange of information on the of both the exchange of information and the creation of new studies also the of particular ties, of the studies this information in model as the at the time was for with In this I how the different models have been operationalized to the different of and networks, at which level the and effects are ERGM and SAOM studies at these in their models to different are types of at the and network of multiplexity. different types or that to be for in the for different types of organizations. The of mostly However, in more are an for the of on an of the of the for and the number of of a (2013) a for the knowledge of on a analysis of for the level of of their work in the and the within the This approach is also applied by et al. are the studies on that use a network for network as for the nodes in the other For et al. two networks, and with information for the same set of nodes. At the from the network and the existence of a are used to set the for the At the the are to the of At this level the are on the of In their review of the different of Knoben and found that many of proximity can be defined both on the and the network to the nature of SAOMs and ERGMs, most the different of proximity on the level as a of The is social proximity which have to social proximity as a of which is a of network or on for for of rate to use of knowledge knowledge in in of and of resources presents studies that operationalize at least two of the types of proximity in geographical proximity of or between proximity or of for proximity of and and proximity of field or and social proximity of social The types of that have used in proximity is operationalized in two different The the between two nodes. a is performed on this the or the by other that of The of a of as a for geographical nodes are in the same such as a or they are more to ties. The of geographical which that knowledge exchange can be on a basis by actors to different has not yet been taken proximity to and that organizations organizations the same or to the same they the same and their of within these is that of studies that proximity use a to whether two organizations to the same of of proximity on similarities in the or industrial an is The of proximity therefore also includes studies that to proximity as organizations are within the same field or they are considered to have the in between or that two organizations on the of in the to as or are used to in the same economic A level of is to be an important of proximity & and two studies for to proximity the of and that organizations that the same of are considered to a proximity and therefore can more different of proximity were that different types of organizations or have different and and therefore in their as This of proximity both at the and of the at the and that within the same or the are the same for types of organizations. In this the of proximity is the same as the that is used to operationalize geographical proximity has two types of within ERGMs and The of social proximity on a between two nodes. The nature of this can a or ties or a such as a or the number of that have been For the of social the social is defined on the of the within the social for social proximity are not defined as processes of are defined as to the of that are also used to model network The of an overview of the effects and their order A of order effects and is that they the time up to studies therefore the order in order to model A general with these is that the theoretical of network in clusters are for an Network is therefore often as a of and between these two are two The is the that is in the models that that or a connection or and actors not with that to networks. The is the set of for that have been used as of social is not as an also has a theoretical that has been used by a number of different However, the theoretical for most other effects are more or on an In most other these are used as control This is by the that it is how these network effects the other of the For instance, and that network effects and proximity effects are not from each other in network because of effects that to the of of They that and proximity each other because for new of knowledge within the is network that many in their models the or as so have with the of or a actors that have become not the number of their ties, on their their resources and and their to be et al. a distinction between network as a and industrial that is from the and a over show that the of knowledge network is an important because are the of both industrial and network for business these same two not play a in the distribution of networks. This paper a systematic review of two statistical network tools that have in recent ERGMs and The show of the of these new statistical tools in and testing of the theoretical concepts related to the network in economic geography (Glückler, 2007; et 2005). be the of a statistical the to the of ERGMs and SAOMs to a on the of the individual and or particular However, on this review it is also that is often a of the effects that in have on the of the In this section I to this problem. The main characteristics of the clusters and in the studies and how these characteristics the of network types within the cluster or is often or not For instance, is often for the choice to cluster networks of a of organizations networks that also and/or organizations. is a of the of of knowledge or networks are networks also show knowledge the analysis is that the on that knowledge can follow in to & the clusters different types of from the of and to the more clusters and All these characteristics are to the of the studies and more is the cluster characteristics that are for of cluster evolution, proximity and multiplexity. In more be to the regional characteristics of the in which the cluster is SAOMs more on knowledge evolution, for with to the regional characteristics to a particular This also be in with Trippl, and and and (2014), different types of regional on their They that these different types of regional also different of cluster development et al. have to work in this with a study on network in a cluster, more case studies are The that are most in the are related to different of critics of the network approach to proximity have that the empirical of the proximity has been a contribution to economic geography (Ferru & Rallet, network models have to the and of the theoretical concepts the different proximity studies in this review to the same proximity theory developed by the of the within the different The is used to geographical proximity by and proximity by the the years of between a of nodes has been used both for proximity and social These in within the of the individual such it difficult to their conclusions beyond the case study of the related to the of different proximity that Knoben and are and In order for the and SAOMs to on their to and a for proximity beyond case for the of cross-case comparisons is the nature of and the for that in clusters both time and a the potential of these and especially ERGMs, to cross-case of different networks between different types of clusters has not yet been of the main of ERGMs is their to networks of different that is difficult to with social network analysis tools & However, with the of and and et al. the papers that use ERGMs deal with a for network that these papers be for the field as a The important especially with SAOMs, is related to cluster These studies have so questions on the or the time of network and the choice of time is often on the of on cluster this as a of change that can be by dynamics within the cluster or the industrial it and distinction is made between the of and processes the of et a and the in the that networks that on often in the network from to by a to their & Ter this can be as that the SAOM it difficult modelling in networks, this of SAOMs it difficult to types of other more or The assumption is therefore that cluster dynamics follow the cluster of and & other cluster development such as on a & or on the & of with of change be difficult to for the theoretical of cluster on network characteristics is more empirical is This paper presents a systematic review of the literature on the applications of ERGMs and SAOMs with a on cluster studies and agglomeration processes. Results show that these two methods have been especially popular in economic geography to investigate network proximity and the effects of and multilevel networks in clusters. these models have advanced the field enabling testing of a number of theories, they are often used to operationalize the same theory in completely different ways, making it difficult to draw conclusions that can be generalized beyond the particular case study on which each paper is based. In order to these a more systematic of the development of a cluster, the characteristics of and the of knowledge networks be and these be the subject of more In more cross-case different types of and in a the of cluster studies beyond knowledge networks and the incorporation of financial or material flows within the networks are as This both cluster studies in general and the development of ERGMs and SAOMs This study was the and of in the to a the of the of and The to Broekel and an for their on a of this In of different were combined. The yielded many so for this the papers in of that were used for All years All