R&D Research

Title: The Economics of Drug Development: A Grim Reality and a Role for Clinical Pharmacology

Abstract:
Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics (2010) 87 3, 247–251. doi:10.1038/clpt.2009.298 This issue of Clinical Pharmacology & Therapeutics addresses some of the current scientific and regulatory challenges in drug development. The remarkable lack of productivity of the pharmaceutical industry in bringing new therapies to the marketplace—combined with dramatically escalating costs, patent expirations on many existing blockbusters, decreased regulatory predictability, and increased payer pressures around the world—are well chronicled and have led many to conclude that the current business model for drug development and marketing is unsustainable.1 In fact, Ken Kaitin and others have concluded that the fully integrated pharmaceutical company that engages in the full spectrum of discovery, development, and marketing of new therapeutics is a model whose time has come—and gone.2 Clearly, the forces described above are driving many of the current macrotrends in the industry, including aggressive licensing and scientific partnership activities, outsourcing, and other tactics to reduce internal fixed-cost structures in the face of pipeline volatility, diversification of product platforms and portfolios, scientific and commercial risk-sharing partnerships of late-stage programs, investments in new and emerging markets, and continuing merger and acquisition activity. The recent mergers of Pfizer/Wyeth and Merck/Schering-Plough are the latest attempts by some of the leading companies to buy pipelines in order to meet near-term economic expectations and the time to weather the longer term challenges. At first blush, a comparison of research-based pharmaceutical companies to the exploration-based energy industry may seem strange, but the latter faces many of the same challenges in that both are high-cost, high-risk, high-return enterprises with most efforts resulting in failure or "dry wells." The fossil fuel energy industry applies sophisticated geoscience, cost estimates, and potential return on investment assessments when making decisions to drill in a certain site. The probability of any individual exploration is low, and the return on investment is also subject to external forces, including global and regional political stability, regulatory oversight, and commercial competitive activities. It is clear that global oil reserves are finite, and accessing them is becoming increasingly risky and costly. However, with the mapping of the genome and the rapidly increasing understanding of systems biology and the remaining unmet medical needs in most all therapeutic areas, it is hard to imagine that the pharmaceutical industry is close to exhausting the potential number of therapeutic targets, even though some writers have concluded that "all the easy ones have been taken." where t is the time of the cash flow (generally years), n is the total time of the project (generally years), r is the discount rate, Ct is the net cash flow (the amount of cash) at that point in time, and C0 is the capital outlay at the beginning of the investment time (t = 0). Several terms deserve discussion because, once understood, the drivers of decision making will become more clear. The time value of money is an important concept that underlies all investment choices and says that money generated or spent earlier in time is more valuable (or expensive) than money generated or spent in the future. Ask yourself whether you would prefer having $1 today or $1 a year from now, and you understand the concept. In the equation above, the discount rate r represents the required financial return for a given project (or portfolio) and is reflective of and significantly determined by the risk or probability of success (POS) of the project. Finally, the cash flow Ct is the measured value based on actual cash spent or generated. The full cost of the project is relatively easy to assess but must take into account capital expenditures, costs of goods and manufacturing, selling and promotion costs, royalties, and other costs. The future commercial return estimates are projected by marketplace experts who take into account the product profile weighed against current and future products and future payer climate as well as cannibalization of existing products. However, as mentioned before, if the costs of running the program were to increase, if the timelines were to shift out, or if the POS were to decrease, it would be a far different story. These are the realities of drug development and are the dominant concerns of the industry: cost, time, and POS. These have recently been summarized but deserve further attention.3 Few dispute that the development of a new drug is a long and expensive process. Recent estimates of the cost of bringing a new drug to market range up to $1.3 billion.4 This provides considerable impetus for addressing fixed-cost structures and is a driver for sourcing noncore or commoditized activities. Simplifying protocols, minimizing patient visits and procedures, and optimizing site selection to allow rapid accrual of patients in lower-cost regions are additional tactics being employed to address direct costs. Furthermore, attempts to increase the speed of development through more rapid decision making, the industrialization of clinical operations, the use of biomarkers, surrogate end points, and modeling and simulation to optimize time spent and doses and patients studied in phases II and III, all with the intent of reducing the time to launch, are in widespread use. A significant component of the expected development cost per marketed product is allocation of the costs of unsuccessful projects. This is the so-called cost of failure that is currently plaguing the industry. Late-phase failures are particularly damaging to individual companies because they incur tremendous direct, indirect, and opportunity costs, and serve to significantly destroy company valuations as well as erode the credibility of the R&D leadership in the eyes of investors. Some industry observers have recognized this and have proposed "dead-end drug disclosures," which would have drug developers share information about compounds that have failed in order to provide information to others that could help avoid the tremendous cost of failure being reproduced across the industry.5 Such a proposal would require an unprecedented degree of altruism and suspension of competitive zeal in an industry in which being the first to succeed has traditionally meant substantial rewards. Nevertheless, the failure rate in phase III has increased over time and has multifactorial roots ranging from detection of serious safety issues in the very latest stages of development to failure to demonstrate clinical or statistical efficacy vs. placebo or active controls to more challenging regulatory perspectives on an acceptable benefit–risk calculus for a new product.6 An example of a drug failing in late phase as a result of lack of efficacy is rolofylline, a selective A1 receptor antagonist, whose development was terminated after the phase III study results showed the drug to be no better than placebo in the treatment of acute heart failure.7 Furthermore, many compounds are being dropped in late phase because of failure to differentiate in a commercially meaningful way from existing therapies, many of which are now or are soon to be available as generic drugs. A recent example of this is Lilly's decision to not file a New Drug Application for a selective estrogen receptor modulator after completing the pivotal phase III trials, because the clinical profile did not represent a meaningful advancement in the treatment of osteoporosis.8 What is behind these disturbing trends? Why, with an increasingly sophisticated knowledge of science, are we not improving at all the POS and, in fact, seem to be transferring the time to failure to a later phase of drug development? There are no obvious answers to these questions, but it is clear that, in order to prevail as individual companies or as an industry, it will be important to improve the POS of candidates that are progressed in the pipeline and to take a risk-based approach to portfolio investment decisions. A recent analysis by Munos is particularly enlightening with regard to industry productivity over the past 60 years.9 Whereas many pharmaceutical companies estimate that they require two to three new approvals per year to meet growth objectives, rates of approval have held steady at fewer than one per company per year for an extended period of time. Given that the growth of the pharmaceutical industry is dependent largely on the development of new products, it seems to be a grim reality that the number of new molecular entities (NMEs) approved annually is no greater now than it has been over the past few decades, with only 21 NMEs approved in 2008 and a similar number in 2009 (ref. 9). This lack of top-line growth combined with the expiration of patent protection for many blockbuster products is reflected in almost universal and dramatic gaps in positive pipeline NPVs across the industry.1 The fact that the rate of production seems to be constant when totaled over the entire industry, and that none of the past major mergers and acquisitions had a detectable effect on new-drug output, poses a serious challenge to the notion that research productivity is scalable (i.e., bigger is better) or that scientific advances are making drug development more rational and predictable. To bring this back to the theme of this Editorial and to further ground this discussion in economic terms, David et al. have estimated that modest improvements in cost and time optimization combined with a modest increase in phase III POS could result in an improvement of the internal rate of return for an average small molecule by almost 75% (ref. 4). However, as DiMasi and colleagues report in this issue, the reality is that the overall POS for a molecule entering phase I to emerge as an approved drug remains low. It is also interesting that the failure rates in phase III in some areas of remaining and important unmet medical needs, such as central nervous system, gastrointestinal/metabolism, and cardiovascular diseases, are comparatively high.10 The science and principles of clinical pharmacology are at the interface of many of the strategies and tactics being implemented across the industry in an to attempt to improve the odds through more rational target selection, target validation, enhanced use of preclinical and animal models, heavy investment in and use of biomarkers and functional imaging tools to assess human target engagement and to inform dose selection for proof-of-concept and later-phase trials, and the use of modeling and simulation and resource-sparing adaptive trial (pick the winner) strategies. Increased efforts to design and conduct rigorous early-phase studies accompanied by the identification, development, and validation of biomarkers that allow for the gleaning of maximum information regarding proof of pharmacology are important roles for clinical pharmacologists, as are the rigorous design, conduct, and establishment of criteria for proof-of-concept assessments. Clinical pharmacology is also uniquely positioned to improve the conduct and informativeness of phase II studies through the appropriate design, choice of end points and comparators, and selection of doses to decrease the woeful track record of late failures in phase III. Finally, the principles of clinical pharmacology can be applied to phase III designs to allow for enhanced enrichment strategies based on demographic, phenotypic, or genotypic determinants as well as a greater appreciation of exposure–response relationships for efficacy and safety. Unless these principles of clinical pharmacology are more aggressively employed and integrated into all stages of drug development, the push to decrease costs and improve timelines will remain unsupported by the scientific ability to make better decisions in advancing or killing off projects in earlier stages to improve the economics of drug development. Although the existing models for industrial drug development may evolve significantly over the next few years, there is little doubt that clinical pharmacology will remain a core capability for successful drug development. R. L. is an employee of Pfizer.