R&D Research

Title: UK trade and FDI: A post‐Brexit perspective

Abstract:
Leaving the EU will reshape the UK's economic relations with the rest of the world. This paper summarizes the findings of recent research studying the UK's role in the global economy, and the consequences of Brexit for UK trade, investment, and living standards. We emphasize that international integration affects investment and labour flows as well as trade in goods and services. There are important interdependencies between different forms of integration that should be accounted for when evaluating policy changes. Brexit is likely to make the UK poorer by reducing trade and investment flows, but the magnitude of the economic decline will depend upon the nature of the UK's post-Brexit economic relations with the EU and the rest of the world. We conclude by considering options for UK-EU relations after Brexit and how the UK should approach future trade negotiations. La salida de la UE reformará las relaciones económicas del Reino Unido con el resto del mundo. Este artículo resume los hallazgos de investigaciones recientes que estudian el papel del Reino Unido en la economía global y las consecuencias de Brexit para el comercio, la inversión y los niveles de vida en el Reino Unido. El artículo pone de relieve que la integración internacional afecta los flujos de inversión y de mano de obra, así como el comercio de bienes y servicios. Existen interdependencias importantes entre las diferentes formas de integración que se deben tener en cuenta al evaluar los cambios en las políticas. Es probable que Brexit haga más pobre al Reino Unido a causa de la reducción de los flujos de comercio e inversión, pero la magnitud de la disminución económica dependerá de la naturaleza de las relaciones económicas post-Brexit del Reino Unido con la UE y el resto del mundo. Las conclusiones sopesan las opciones para las relaciones post-Brexit entre el Reino Unido y la UE y cómo debería el Reino Unido abordar las futuras negociaciones sobre comercio. EU離脱は、イギリスが諸外国との経済関係を再構築するということを意味する。本稿では、イギリスの世界経済における役割に関する最近の研究の知見、ブレグジッド(Brexit:イギリスのEU離脱)がイギリスの貿易、投資、生活水準にもたらした影響を要約する。我々は、国際統合が、投資、労働力フロー、そして物品およびサービス取引に影響することを強調する。政策転換の評価を行う際に考慮に入れるべき、異なる統合形式間の大きな相互依存性が存在する。ブレグジッドは取引と投資フローを減少させイギリスをより貧しくする可能性が高いが、経済の衰退の規模は、ブレグジッド後のEUとその他の諸外国との経済関係の性質に依存すると考えられる。最後にブレグジッド後のイギリスとEUの関係として考えられる選択肢と、イギリスが今後の貿易交渉にどのようなアプローチをとるべきか考察する。 The UK's participation in global markets has increasingly come to be based on its relatively abundant skilled labour, its business-friendly rule of law, and its geography. These characteristics dictate its pattern of comparative advantage in the trade of goods and services. Importantly, the same characteristics also dictate the direction and nature of the UK's foreign direct investment (FDI) flows. Since the UK is a relatively small economy, it requires access to both export and import markets to realize an efficient scale of production and to access many of the inputs used by UK producers. One important reason why trade and FDI are interrelated is the prominent role of global value chains in the UK's economy. The UK is a net exporter of services (financial, IT and media) and sophisticated goods (pharmaceuticals and cars), but these exports are made possible, in large part, by using imported capital, inputs and technical know-how. Indeed, financial services, and IT and communications attracted the largest net FDI flows into the UK in 2015, and, together, accounted for 39% of the UK's stock of FDI, while manufacturing made up a further 17% (ONS, 2016). Europe's geographical location and economic size make it the UK's natural trading partner. Because of this, FDI in the UK is often motivated by the ease of selling to the high-income and nearby consumers in the rest of the EU. The importance of geographic factors, such as the distance between countries, for international flows is one of the most well established empirical facts about the global economy (Anderson, 2011). Consequently, new trade agreements with countries outside the EU offer fewer opportunities for the UK to benefit from trade in goods, services, investment and people than the UK's current trade arrangements. In this paper, we discuss the impact Brexit will have on the UK economy. Starting from the premise that Brexit will reduce economic integration between the UK and the EU, we describe how reduced integration will lead to higher trade barriers and lower trade volumes. We present evidence from recent research showing that lower trade volumes will reduce living standards in the UK, and that this reduction will be evenly distributed across households at all income levels. The paper starts by reviewing the canonical conceptual framework used in the economics literature to analyse welfare gains and losses from international trade (Section 2). Next, we discuss evidence on how Brexit is likely to affect the UK's trade (Section 3) and FDI flows (Section 4), together with estimates of the implications of these changes for the level and distribution of income. We then turn to policy recommendations aimed at dampening the negative consequences of Brexit, discussing first the policy options (Section 5) and then concluding by suggesting how the UK government should approach its trade negotiations with the EU (Section 6). International openness affects both aggregate income (“efficiency”) and its distribution across different types of individuals (“equity”). Theories of international integration usually conclude that the effects of increasing and decreasing economic openness are equal, but opposite. However, the vast majority of empirical work that quantifies efficiency and equity effects draws from episodes of opening up to greater international integration, mostly in the form of reductions in tariffs. This section reviews the literature on the consequences of trade openness. Later in the paper, we will apply this literature to analyse the effects of a reduction in openness—the relevant case for understanding Brexit. There is a broad consensus among academic economists that trade creates opportunities that raise overall output, making the world as a whole better off. These gains materialize through many different channels. Some of the most important are the following. More trade allows countries to specialize in industries where they have a comparative advantage increasing the efficiency of production (Ohlin, 1933; Ricardo, 1817). Trade enables countries to import and consume goods that are not produced domestically (Krugman, 1979). Lower trade barriers increase competition between firms in different countries leading to lower prices for consumers (Krugman, 1979). Increased trade raises productivity by causing more productive firms to expand while less productive firms contract (Melitz, 2003). Larger markets allow firms to produce more and take advantage of economies of scale to lower production costs and prices. Greater integration also reduces the cost of knowledge transfer across countries helping to raise productivity. In this formula the import penetration ratio is the ratio of a country's total to its total a more its import penetration ratio is The is as the trade and is as the increase in trade when trade costs by that is large when small changes in trade costs changes in The formula that a in the import penetration to lower trade income the size of this on the trade The is the greater the increase in income for in the import penetration The formula the that are aggregate gains from this formula is to all the through trade affects income that it is likely to the gains from for across industries in the trade and for trade in inputs the gains from trade trade such as that used by and to the consequences of Brexit for the UK economy, these and gains from trade than a of the gains from trade formula important of trade is the that trade not the of for There empirical evidence that trade investment by increasing competition between firms and international knowledge leading to productivity gains There is the size of these but recent work that effects the gains from trade to by trade 2016). to the gains from trade is to analyse the impact of changes in trade costs on income levels. the of the and gains from The is in the of trade on income Trade policy is with many of and countries mostly more trade the estimates to the of trade from these upon the that trade flows are decreasing in the distance between countries, and in to trading to in openness to changes in costs by the of and the of the as to These gains from trade than by trade that the gains from trade are important the empirical findings from this a increase in trade raises income by between and The that trade aggregate economic gains not it better off. Some relatively firms and industries from competition with foreign making and off. Since the has in many countries, while the same international trade has This has a large of research at trade has to economists the effects of trade on using the This that trade integration will increase the between skilled and in abundant while reducing in countries where skilled labour is relatively This is in an economy, the of skilled to in to than However, empirical work studying the of in the and many countries has evidence of trade has to have a small on the to a in the the it is to the in the trade has by in in both and countries the for skilled labour that has to countries has effects are by between changes The empirical of the have to a literature that through trade affect of these motivated by the empirical that a productive firms in international trade and, on these firms are more and higher than domestically firms Trade allows firms to expand and more while causing to contract of import competition (Melitz, These effects an increase the between firms in with labour leading to higher evidence also the that trade between firms through trade increase are the of that less skilled to countries and trade in goods that are to skilled labour There is also evidence that trade has a negative impact on in that in import such as of the that are to from In recent research that the has new through trade affect reviews these and summarizes concluding that it is likely trade has to recent in However, the importance of this in the overall increase in is a of a of the global economy, and of trade, the across countries is higher than it have in the of This is but not a large of the increase in the The for has produced a of Brexit studying how Brexit affect trade, FDI and between the UK and the EU and the welfare effects of these changes. In this section we the of these the impact of Brexit on UK trade and living standards. The is not by trade but also by the reduction of in trade barriers have trade between the UK and the EU. to the UK the in one of UK trade with the In the EU accounted for of the UK's exports and of UK EU exports of UK income. trade UK consumers through lower prices and access to better goods and services. the same the UK's and benefit from new export opportunities that lead to higher and and allow the UK to specialize in industries in it has a comparative these trade raises output, and living standards in the The economic consequences of the EU will depend on the the UK Brexit. the that lower trade to reduced integration with EU countries is likely to cost the UK economy more than is from lower to the EU of form Brexit a trade that upon and and and the effects of Brexit on trade and the UK's to the EU be to a in income of between and to The lower of to an case where the UK of the Brexit. The of is for a case where the UK and the EU not a new trade and to trading Trade This is a lower on the of Brexit that not for changes in FDI, and the consequences of reduced trade on productivity the effects of Brexit on productivity and investment are the decline in income to between and to economic of Brexit, such as better have to be large to such The economic of Brexit is likely to be through its impact on prices. and these consequences using on the of households in different of the income as the of the changes by estimates of the aggregate effects of Brexit. these changes by the importance in showing how to The reduction in income is evenly across the income with the than the and on households on losses of at of income the UK the EU and as a of the with in the EU. up most in of between and to to and to These on imported prices for services will the the of households income losses be to in the and to in the the the losses be to and the losses to the more than the and at households such as with and the also be in the will between and of income. Brexit also affect by the distribution of income across a not by has work this but the effects have to be to the aggregate losses by The UK has one of the largest of foreign direct FDI is also an important of the UK's economic FDI the to the financial of the of in the of the the UK one of Europe's most for FDI flows of the UK the to of world FDI by the and 2). to the the UK accounted for of world investment for in accounted for FDI as of The for and production in a are and but we into that not be for one These to access to foreign in the in to comparative in inputs of for the of global value these in we why the UK is an location for the the UK has a of consumers with a of FDI in the UK the the UK often as an export for firms to access countries across the its EU a UK location firms access to a further consumers with a of This is both for manufacturing and services In allow financial services firms to to across the access why the UK is the one FDI in the EU all countries this also the UK's as a location to firms in global value The UK for this cost of goods, from to the value a that and is the of and access to skilled These that FDI to the UK, and it in the are to the UK's EU of goods the value is by the with firms inputs mostly from EU countries not to with of the inputs used in trade is the EU, and it is to the UK skilled from the EU to its advantage as a of people the EU the UK's to foreign firms making direct in the UK in to benefit from of goods and services in the that accounted for of the FDI stock of UK and FDI flows made up of investment in The of this investment has come from EU countries and the the is the and that of all of the UK's FDI is to the EU while of its FDI is from by EU and for and of the UK's total This is with FDI flows a as trade flows (Anderson, 2011). The FDI flows between and large is by and and that the UK have about less FDI between and it not in the EU. FDI are in industries in the UK has comparative the financial and as well as with and of this FDI is a of between UK firms and foreign that the of foreign firms are more more and more people than domestically firms in the same for the also to and of these come about foreign firms in the firms that have productive but of the are a of of a creates new to in and new The of Brexit on the and stock of FDI on the the in the UK, from both the EU and firms in the rest of the world. increase in trade costs between the UK and the EU make the of the UK from an in the UK more to from in the EU. and industries and an increase in FDI for this access However, at the same an increase in the cost of inputs and of the reduce the UK's participation in international value the current of the UK's FDI stock across this negative is likely to we on the participation of of firms in production is important in by value chains and export such as and and and and In the case of the of FDI, the UK as an export for the EU is to the of in on of in the they export to in countries in the and the is the of the a more of the that in the UK in be by a reduction in economic integration to Brexit, we analyse the UK recent manufacturing more The UK is the largest and that of the recent investment by is in new that will be for to the EU In the in the UK and to total UK of its exports to the EU. In a of its in the for and that of its Brexit to have a negative to impact on There are on the one to the of exports in to the of where to and on and on across These flows of from countries to countries between and also on the and location of the The for how the where to why to produce in the UK that are in these lead firms to production and affect the of production in the for the impact of Brexit on the both of the costs trade costs of and the higher costs of UK production is to by This is such as production of of the by UK consumers also by as the cost of imported and the case where the UK trade barriers on and with the rest of the EU it an trade with the EU the increase in costs is to prices are in this production in the UK by In the in and the and evidence that the costs of Brexit for production in the UK be the UK up access to the for the research in this paper, together with most of Brexit, that Brexit will reduce income and living standards in the such as is that economic integration with the rest of the EU to the is in the of the UK's economy, and should be the trade policy Brexit negotiations. The UK government has it to both the and the Brexit, but form the UK's future economic with the EU will take In this section we discuss the policy options the UK as it the EU. in the the UK's in the global economy is to its The UK has from integration with EU goods, services, investment and labour the UK not its it is likely to its and its participation in international value chains with in the UK not as in and in that that of foreign firms with a in the UK have to in the we a in and new FDI flows in the and is that markets will the as a of for UK of production inputs are trading options that will for the economic losses from the for goods, services, investment and between the EU and countries offer options for UK-EU relations for has the level of access and to and in the the UK of the it to EU economic and of labour with the EU. of the EU and to the current trading with the EU, economic to the UK and allow the UK to on from the EU. the UK not have the same level of access to the EU that it Trade in goods be to the and be new barriers and on services financial services firms based in the UK have to services the options the and the more of access and The different policy options for future UK-EU and and are in to the to EU and foreign trade of the EU. in EU with of for exports to the EU and to EU to the EU is 17% lower than the trade in goods and of people with the EU. trade of the EU. la approach of EU on a EU for EU in EU with the EU on trade in services. a to in EU is lower than the with trade in goods and services with the EU. in for EU in EU EU for EU in EU to EU with trade in goods and services with the EU. to EU of access to services for EU a EU for EU in EU to EU trade in goods with the EU. trade of the EU. to EU and to to the EU of of people with the EU. of access to EU markets for services. to the EU EU standards. trade of the EU. to EU and to to the EU Trade with EU to and barriers that with of of people with the EU. of access to EU markets for services. to the EU EU standards. Leaving the EU will the UK greater in and has that this for the costs of reduced trade and Brexit, the UK will have the to all of economic policy the of the EU competition international trade and for research and However, new that not with EU standards the of further from global trading between the UK and the EU will also increase the export costs by UK firms that will to different standards for production and for exports to the EU. More while a of policy with the EU will more for policy it will make it for UK firms to with the about trading relations with Brexit, the UK to the the UK to have its trade policy and to new trade agreements with countries outside the EU. an trade the UK trade agreements to UK and it not to with the EU negotiations. However, the UK have less in trade negotiations than the EU it a to foreign This the UK up trade with countries than by the EU. is also will to the trade agreements in the UK as a of the EU, such as the trade The UK to these trade will and and a of in the a of the UK and trade the EU and, to a the export into new markets is in a and and investment for UK exports for of UK and less than and about of UK the importance of geographic in the size of trade flows, policy to increase trade with countries such as and are likely to have effects in the is important to that international integration with countries different than that are in current with the EU. economies are relatively to the UK in of labour and a of the gains from trade the EU are based on economies of scale and access to of goods and The gains from trade with economies such as are based on comparative advantage by and of integration with these countries lead to aggregate gains from trade but is also likely to reduce the of UK in that are of evidence from the and that import competition from countries increase a 2016). integration with income countries will an to integration with the EU, for policy to the from the UK's to the EU a to economic costs in for an increase in The UK should to new trade costs with the EU and to integration with countries outside the EU. These will the economic costs of Brexit, but will not be to its negative should the UK government to the from its future trade Trade negotiations are a between countries with both from a trade the of is that country's of the gains is to its while up as as of the total gains to its and the for trade agreements and how this the nature of trade negotiations also 2016). the UK should in its negotiations with the EU. In to its the UK be to make In the more countries and the more policy they the are the gains from an increase the of a trade but also countries to up more future levels. important the UK is it is to up in for the EU UK services firms to in the the UK a UK services will new trade the UK the The of upon the that negotiations The the from an is the the affects the of negotiations. Trade agreements are to this negotiations between the UK and the EU make to be a understanding of negotiations The UK a in to its post-Brexit In trade negotiations are to countries making of In this is not the is often to the value of a and countries that will a Consequently, affects the of trade negotiations. that are to a at cost have and are less likely to The importance of EU to UK is greater than the importance of UK to EU and UK-EU trade for a of the UK's economy than the economy, the UK a more than the EU This the UK at a The of the UK's is further by the on negotiations by for a new trade to be One the UK should take to its is to a to UK-EU trade relations for as as between when the UK the EU and when a is of the the of economic the to the that the UK to it is to offer the EU in for a Trade agreements are this to advantage by they are better than not in trade negotiations for the the UK has a the UK to in of trade to to analyse the and of its with UK to how they will be by and economic to the consequences of trade policy changes. Brexit will not be it is likely to make the UK poorer than it have how poorer will depend on the the UK the as it its with the EU and the rest of the world. future the UK it these will the UK government to its and, to make the of a This paper is based on research on Brexit, for the of Brexit and the We to the and for financial through the for