R&D Research

Title: Journal Bibliometric Analysis: A Case Study on Internet Research

Abstract:
This paper aims to evaluate the pattern of publications of Internet Research (IR) from 2008 to 2012 and to reveal the research influence of this journal from the citing and cited references of the papers through appropriate bibliometric measures. The study analyses five volumes of Internet Research from the year 2008 to 2012. Citations to each of the published articles are explored through Google Scholar for assessing average impact of individual paper. Citation record for measurement of impact factor and immediacy index was extracted from Scopus. It is found that the average length of articles published in IR is 19.83 ranging from year wise average of 18.63 to 21.96 pages. The study revealed the domination of collaborative research and the degree of collaboration (DC) in Internet Research is found to be 0.83. The numbers of references used by the authors are high with majority of them citing 41 to 50 references and on an average, Internet Research authors have cited over 53 references per article. It is found that more than two third of citations reflected in Internet Research are emanated from journals followed by books. However, proceedings of conferences/seminars, and e-citations referred by authors were found quite less and negligible. The study further reveals that major share of contribution to the publications of Internet Research hails from Taiwan, followed by Spain, and USA. However, UK occupies the 4th rank by scores though the number of authors of this country is lesser than that of South Korea. Moreover, the study reveals that a total number of 148 source articles published in Internet Research have received in all 1783 Google Scholar citations averaging 12.04 citations per paper. The journal citing half life is 6.65 years and the average age of citations is 9.71. Additionally, 2012 Impact Factor of Internet Research (based on record of Scopus citations) is computed to be 1.900 and immediacy index is 0.241.