R&D Research

Title: How Much Longer Will We Put Up With $100,000 Cancer Drugs?

Abstract:
The spiraling cost of new drugs mandates a fundamentally different approach to keep lifesaving therapies affordable for cancer patients. We call here for the formation of new relationships between academic drug discovery centers and commercial partners, which can accelerate the development of truly transformative drugs at sustainable prices. The spiraling cost of new drugs mandates a fundamentally different approach to keep lifesaving therapies affordable for cancer patients. We call here for the formation of new relationships between academic drug discovery centers and commercial partners, which can accelerate the development of truly transformative drugs at sustainable prices. The recently developed targeted drugs and immunotherapies deliver significant benefit to cancer patients. However, the spiraling prices of these new drugs threaten the financial sustainability of cancer treatment. Healthcare spending has risen sharply in the United States, reaching 17.1% of the gross domestic product in 2014. Cancer drugs are of particular concern, even if they only represent a fraction of the overall costs. As early as 2012, 12 of the 13 newly-approved cancer drugs were priced above $100,000 annually, and the situation has only gotten worse since (Light and Kantarjian, 2013Light D.W. Kantarjian H. Cancer. 2013; 119: 3900-3902Crossref PubMed Scopus (66) Google Scholar, Mailankody and Prasad, 2015Mailankody S. Prasad V. JAMA Oncol. 2015; 1: 539-540Crossref PubMed Scopus (224) Google Scholar). Particularly worrisome is the notion that these drugs often need to be combined for optimal clinical results. For instance, the cost of the combination of nivolumab (anti-PD-1) and ipilimumab (anti-CTLA4) is priced around $252,000, exceeding the median cost of a US home ($240,000 in 2016). With a lifetime risk of developing cancer of close to 40%, the problem is clear. The pharmaceutical industry has traditionally defended these high prices by pointing at the high attrition rate during clinical drug development and the cost of large registration studies. But are these arguments still as sturdy in the new era of personalized medicine? Targeted cancer drugs are often genotype-selective, which makes for a higher success rate due to better upfront patient selection. Consequently, approval of such drugs often no longer requires expensive phase III trials with thousands of patients. As one example, the registration study of the ALK inhibitor crizotinib required only 347 patients with ALK-positive lung cancer (Shaw et al., 2013Shaw A.T. Kim D.-W. Nakagawa K. Seto T. Crinó L. Ahn M.-J. De Pas T. Besse B. Solomon B.J. Blackhall F. et al.N. Engl. J. Med. 2013; 368: 2385-2394Crossref PubMed Scopus (2847) Google Scholar). Furthermore, in 2016 FDA approved crizotinib for the treatment of lung cancer patients with mutations in ROS1, which the drug also inhibits, on the basis of a study of only 50 patients (Shaw et al., 2014Shaw A.T. Ou S.H. Bang Y.J. Camidge D.R. Solomon B.J. Salgia R. Riely G.J. Varella-Garcia M. Shapiro G.I. Costa D.B. et al.N. Engl. J. Med. 2014; 371: 1963-1971Crossref PubMed Scopus (1425) Google Scholar). So why are drug prices going up instead of down? One clue can be gleaned from the pricing of the recent checkpoint blockade immunotherapeutics nivolumab and pembrolizumab. Both drugs received initial FDA approvals in 2014 for metastatic melanoma, but their indication was widened in 2015 to include certain lung cancers and renal cancer (nivolumab) and in 2016 to head and neck cancer (pembrolizumab) and Hodgkin lymphoma (nivolumab). If development cost would be a major factor in the pricing structure, a simple law of economics would have mandated a considerable reduction in price when the eligible patient population increases, but that has hardly happened. This is a recurring theme in pharma. For instance, trastuzumab was first approved for advanced breast cancer and later also for early disease (adjuvant) without a reduction in price. Healthcare payers should not accept this lack of price-volume relationship. Moreover, there is very little relationship between drug price and clinical benefit (Mailankody and Prasad, 2015Mailankody S. Prasad V. JAMA Oncol. 2015; 1: 539-540Crossref PubMed Scopus (224) Google Scholar). This has sparked widespread criticism, alleging that cancer drug pricing is primarily based on “what the market will bear.” There is a clear and urgent necessity to lower cancer drug prices to keep lifesaving drugs available and affordable for patients. As one patient advocate recently put it: “Innovation is meaningless if nobody can afford it.” Much has been written about the reasons behind the exorbitant drug prices and what to do about it. One recurring theme is the notion that the US federal government is prohibited by law from negotiating drug prices as a result of the 2003 Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act. Considering that Medicare and Medicaid spend $ 140 billion on medicines annually, this represents a serious impediment in driving down drug prices. Lack of competition and a general absence of a connection between drug price, sales volume, and clinical performance are other arguments in the drug pricing discussion (Jaffe, 2015Jaffe S. Lancet. 2015; 386: 2127-2128Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (4) Google Scholar). Indeed, lack of competition and bargaining power made US prices of cancer drugs among the highest in the world, increasing by 10% annually between 1995 and 2013, far above the average inflation rate (Howard et al., 2015Howard D.H. Bach P.B. Berndt E.R. Conti R.M. J. Econ. Perspect. 2015; 29: 139-162Crossref PubMed Scopus (302) Google Scholar). While negotiations may bring prices down, a recent cost comparison in EU countries shows that the ability of individual nations to negotiate discounts is limited, most likely due to the modest market sizes of the EU countries (van Harten et al., 2016van Harten W.H. Wind A. de Paoli P. Saghatchian M. Oberst S. Lancet Oncol. 2016; 17: 18-20Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (66) Google Scholar). In the longer term, it is unlikely that the European Union will be able to collectively negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry, given that some nations in the EU with a large pharma sector are likely to protect their national interests. The UK’s pioneering National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has been able to restrain prices to £30,000 per “quality-adjusted life year” (QUALY) added or £50,000 per QUALY for “end of life” treatments that include many cancer drugs—but this has also resulted in many oncology agents being turned down or delayed, leading to complaints from patient groups and manufacturers. There is also increasing evidence of pressure on pricing in the US. Researchers at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center have developed an online tool called Drug Abacus to help healthcare providers assess the value of cancer drugs (www.drugabacus.org/). What is urgently needed however are mechanisms to encourage scientific and therapeutic innovations that will allow cancer patients to access new treatments at affordable and sustainable prices. One element that contributes significantly to the high cost of cancer drugs is the inefficiency of the overall commercial enterprise. As one recent example, there are currently 803 clinical trials testing checkpoint immune-therapeutics (at least 12 antibodies from a dozen different pharma companies), which together plan to enroll over 166,000 patients (Brawley, 2016Brawley L. Cancer Lett. 2016; 42: 2-18Google Scholar). There is enormous redundancy in these studies, as many pharmaceutical companies perform similar trials with comparable drugs, but fail to share the data generated. This herd mentality is caused in part by the notion that immune checkpoint therapies can indeed lead to long-lasting remissions (potentially even to cures) and that significant numbers of patients in each clinical indication benefit from these treatments. While it is in the short-term good that so many patients get access to potentially lifesaving drugs, in the longer term, patients will have to pay the price for this inefficiency and duplication. Another factor is the frequent absence of a rigorous biomarker program to identify patients who may benefit from a given drug. The primary incentive of the pharma industry is to increase sales, which are restricted by identifying drug-responsive subpopulations. Biomarkers are critical, as they represent a handle to control drugs costs to society. Regulatory bodies should set standards for drug approval employing validated and clinically useful biomarkers for patient selection. This will prevent patients being treated with toxic drugs that do not improve survival and/or quality of life and will save costs to society. Historically, some 90% of all drugs entering the clinic have failed at some stage and most biotech start-ups have a similar fate. This severe attrition rate in drug discovery and development has been attributed to various factors, including failure to validate drug targets with sufficient rigor; limited predictive value of animal models; inability to firmly identify tumor subtypes that might benefit from treatment; poorly defined clinical endpoints; organizational pressure to continue clinical development, such as stock market considerations for small one-product biotech firms; and senior management fear of admiting defeat in larger pharma. The Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development has estimated that the development of a drug on average costs $2.558 billion, but it is difficult to determine how this was calculated—and includes costs of failed projects and controversially incorporates selected examples of successful drugs and the cost of capital (Avorn, 2015Avorn J. N. Engl. J. Med. 2015; 372: 1877-1879Crossref PubMed Scopus (212) Google Scholar). Some consideration should be given to the fact that large pharmaceutical companies encounter significant challenges due to the large size of their operations, redundant activities at multiple sites, huge infrastructure costs, heavily matrixed organizations with multiple levels of decision makers, and endless rounds of restructuring, mergers, acquisitions and down-sizing—which all ultimately contribute to time delays (time is money!), reduced productivity, and increased expenses. Smaller biotech start-ups have significant challenges as well, with tremendous recent increases in space and infrastructure build-up costs and competition for talent (with consequent increased employee salaries), particularly in the Boston and San Francisco communities. Furthermore, all commercial entities, large and small, spend very significant sums on hefty salaries for senior management. We therefore assume that both organizational and scientific inefficiencies contribute to escalating drug development costs. Many of the fundamental discoveries that formed the basis for new categories of cancer drugs were made by academia. Examples of truly disruptive contributions from academic research that enabled radically different treatment strategies include the identification of recurrent mutations in cancers from the large-sale sequencing efforts (enabling targeted therapeutics) and the decades-long investments in unraveling the basic biology underlying recognition of cancer cells by the immune system (enabling recent immuno-oncology drugs). The National Cancer Institute budget of over 5 billion dollars annually virtually guarantees that this stream of innovations in oncology drug targets from academia will not dry up any time soon. It should also be recognized that academic drug discovery has already been very successful as several drugs that are part of the therapeutic armamentarium have been developed by academic researchers, e.g., the brain tumor DNA alkylating drug temozolomide and the prostate cancer CYP17 inhibitor agent abiraterone, as well as the biomarker strategy for the PARP inhibitor olaparib in BRCA mutant ovarian cancer patients. To further develop these academic discoveries, the traditional model of self-supporting research investigators who drive their independent research programs needs to be complemented by concerted multidisciplinary team efforts that are adequately financed and staffed with scientists having all the required expertise to enable drug discovery (Frye et al., 2011Frye S. Crosby M. Edwards T. Juliano R. Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 2011; 10: 409-410Crossref PubMed Scopus (91) Google Scholar, Schultz Kirkegaard and Valentin, 2014Schultz Kirkegaard H. Valentin F. Drug Discov. Today. 2014; 19: 1699-1710Crossref PubMed Scopus (19) Google Scholar). Indeed, in recent years there has already been a steady increase in the number of academic centers involved in drug discovery. The Cancer Research UK Cancer Therapeutics Unit at The Institute of Cancer Research, London (www.icr.ac.uk/our-research/our-research-centres/cancer-research-uk-cancer-therapeutics-unit) and the Institute for Applied Cancer Science at MDAnderson cancer center (www.mdanderson.org/cancermoonshots/research_platforms/Institute_for_applied_cancer_science.html) are just two examples of relatively large-scale academic cancer drug discovery units that have been established to date. The Academic Drug Discovery consortium currently lists 146 drug discovery centers in 15 countries, 80% of which have programs in oncology drug development (www.addconsortium.org/). A key advantage of academic drug discovery is the freedom and indeed incentivization to tackle major challenges that would be viewed as too risky by big pharma and even by many biotech companies. Currently only a fraction of the cancer genes listed in the Cancer Gene Census have drugs or chemical leads that act on the cognate protein. This means that there are very large numbers of cancer genes that remain to be drugged. For example, we have no drugs that work directly on mutant KRAS, mutant p53 or MYC. Hence there is a huge amount of work to be done to complete the job of drugging of the cancer genome. Moreover, there are gene classes that do not fall into the conventional categories of oncogene addiction and synthetic lethality targets, including non-oncogene addiction, microenvironmental, drug resistance and immuno-oncology targets. Tackling any one of these new targets carries very high risk—either biological risk because there is relatively little knowledge of the role of the gene in cancer, or technical risk because the protein is not readily druggable by current technology. These are the targets for which academic drug discovery can make an enormous impact in a number of ways. For example: (1) conducting very rigorous target validation to ensure robustness of the effects; (2) linkage of the sensitivity to a robust biomarker that can be potentially used for patient selection as well as pharmacodynamic biomarkers to demonstrate target engagement as part of a Pharmacologic Audit Trail (Banerji and Workman, 2016Banerji U. Workman P. Semin. Oncol. 2016; 43: 436-445Abstract Full Text Full Text PDF PubMed Scopus (49) Google Scholar); (3) demonstration of druggability by a small molecule approach; (4) production of chemical probe or biological reagent that demonstrates proof of concept in a disease-relevant animal model; (5) progression of a candidate drug through preclinical development; and (6) conduct of an early stage clinical trial to show tolerability and proof of concept in cancer patients (Hoelder et al., 2012Hoelder S. Clarke P.A. Workman P. Mol. Oncol. 2012; 6: 155-176Crossref PubMed Scopus (403) Google Scholar). Factors that have improved the success of cancer drug discovery efforts in academia include embedding experienced drug discovery scientists within a comprehensive cancer center that provides expertise in basic cancer research, clinical trials and treatment. The recruitment of experienced medicinal chemists and drug discovery biologists has been critical. Adequate funding and resources to support a portfolio of projects as well the of expertise and is as is experienced and new chemical have been developed and in the involved in the major of clinical testing of and academic can develop and and/or drug for clinical Academic have the to large clinical given that some of the recent large clinical trials were that an academic was leading the on the arguments it is that academia in has all the and to drug targets, to these targets into clinical and to these in clinical There are reasons why academic drug development at the stage of clinical the quality control over the large-scale of clinical drugs and their is not a of academic the to support the high cost of and clinical trials are to by even when these first two be academic drug discovery and development units are not to handle and sales of approved it is at the of that the of large pharma to on are from the that most to spend at modest to in are into the of big pharma initial proof of concept clinical trials for the reasons listed While it is for most academic investigators to their discoveries the it to the pricing of drugs when they the There are examples of funding later stage but these are and academic drug discovery on funding only to bring their to patients. can we of this situation in academic drug A may in what to cancer drugs when their this drug bring in the of biological to the market at reduced prices. These lower prices are because the companies do not the cost of research and that drug are used to with lower they may be one to develop but drugs from academic drug discovery and development when the drugs have a and an biomarker of of academic drug the registration trials can be small and the success rate higher in traditional pharma As a the prices of such drugs can be far lower we have Regulatory bodies are also to for drug The European has an program companies to approval on the basis of a small well biomarker of the and the to deliver proof of benefit at risk is a to and the that the early market was If such are not the drug will be will be for this model to academic organizations will need to by their and the to their drug candidate to the highest it will be that on price are part of the negotiations with or with companies that drugs from academic drug this approach would also be by pricing strategy leading to affordable drug cost in and countries, in cancer the to model should be to these and their The academic drug discovery and development units be in this model by on sales of the drugs they We need to that up a of academic centers with required and expertise that would significant numbers of drug will time and and will not be an to the pricing It a in the Moreover, the of such groups or commercial will competition and drive down prices in conventional pharma and There is a of to be by academic In to their of drugs, a should be on the of drugs by new for these drugs, to biomarkers that are predictive of Academic groups are well to this research, and it would help if funding mechanisms would be made available for such We that such should not be at the of investments in fundamental cancer academic should also on for drugs that were for lack of agent which in one of to be the primary new chemical are from early phase clinical trials PubMed Scopus Google Scholar). Lack of agent is often caused by redundancy or in which makes the of a without of the redundant or As one example, the inhibitor been in mutant cancer, it would have been as it turned to be very in mutant We that far too many potentially useful drugs are early for the these initial lower risk which can as a proof of concept for the model the academic drug discovery centers should have as a major the of and developing drugs drug targets from academic efforts have a on therapies with biomarkers of to attrition small clinical trials to show with drug or new companies formed to enable this new academic drug discovery units and drug can lead by and deliver drugs at sustainable prices. is the of Therapeutics that to a new model of between drug and academia as in this The are involved in multiple drug discovery and development projects with or commercial and act as to several companies. We with any drug in academic as