R&D Research

Title: The innovation networks of city‐regions in Europe: Exclusive clubs or inclusive hubs?

Abstract:
Which role do city-regions play in European innovation network formation? We study the evolution of innovation collaborative networks in European city-regions outlining two opposite models: in the exclusive network model city-regions establish a closed network of innovators among themselves; in the inclusive network models city-regions build a network of innovators which includes the peripheral regions. Employing a temporal exponential random graph model on 248 regions for the period 2000–2016, we find that the two models coexist. We conclude that in the EU the city-regions act as both engines of generation of innovation and integrators of innovation actors. ¿Qué papel desempeñan las ciudades-región en la formación de redes europeas de innovación? Se estudia la evolución de las redes de colaboración en innovación en las ciudades-región europeas mediante el esbozo de dos modelos opuestos: en el modelo de red exclusiva, las ciudades-región establecen entre sí una red cerrada de innovadores; en los modelos de red inclusiva, las ciudades-región construyen una red de innovadores que incluye a las regiones periféricas. Se empleó un modelo de gráfico aleatorio exponencial temporal en 248 regiones para el periodo 2000–2016 y se encontró la coexistencia de los dos modelos. Se concluye que en la UE las ciudades-región actúan tanto como impulsoras de la generación de innovación como integradoras de los agentes de innovación. 欧州のイノベーションネットワーク形成において、都市圏はどのような役割を果たしているか。本稿では、正反対の2つのモデルを形成するヨーロッパの都市圏におけるイノベーション共同ネットワークの進化を研究する。排他的ネットワークモデルでは、都市圏はそのイノベーターら自身だけの閉鎖的なネットワークを確立する。包括的ネットワークモデルでは、都市圏は周辺地域を含むイノベーターのネットワークを構築する。2000~2016年までの248の地域に関して、時間指数ランダムグラフモデルを用いた分析から、2つのモデルが共存していることが分かった。EUにおいては、都市圏がイノベーションの創出とイノベーションの主体者の統合の両方の動作主として機能していると結論される。 City-regions have become the main engines of innovation and economic growth. The growing concentration of innovation into a few city-regions raises significant concerns in terms of uneven territorial development. In the European Union (EU) the issue of regional disparities plays a central role both in the academy and in policy circles (Iammarino et al., 2019). A central topic regards the role that city-regions play in the European model of economic development. This paper addresses the following question: are city-regions becoming an exclusive clubs of innovators, or rather nodes of integration of innovation actors? The two scenarios bring about very different implications for local economic development, the path of economic convergence, and ultimately cohesion within the EU. In fact, while the city-regions play a central role in the generation of innovation in the EU (Filippetti et al., 2020), it is the configuration of their linkages outside their borders which defines their role within the European network of innovation, hence bringing about considerable implications for innovation policies. The presence of innovation networks are necessary to sustain the generation and diffusion of innovation to sustain wealth creation in advanced countries. The generation of innovation has always shown an inherent tendency towards spatial concentration. Following a sort of fractal dynamic innovation tends to get concentrated across countries, across regions, and across territories. The recent globalization wave coupled by the transition towards the knowledge economy, started in the 1980s, has exacerbated the concentration of innovation driven by stronger agglomeration economies and localized knowledge spillovers, as well as the restructuring of the international division of labour along global value chains; this has been further reinforced by supply-side policies aiming at concentrating resources into those territories that would boost aggregate national competitiveness (Baldwin, 2013; Iammarino & McCann, 2013; McCann, 2008; Moreno et al., 2005; Paunov et al., 2019; Simmie et al., 2002). The rise of the so-called city-regions is a macroscopic outcome of these dynamics. Over the past decades city-regions have become the key engines of economic growth by being central generators of new ideas, knowledge and innovation (Scott, 2019; Storper, 2013). They have grown in size throughout a cumulative process which has attracted inventors, high-skilled labour force, entrepreneurs and start-ups, together with foreign direct investment of multinational corporations in hi-tech industries and knowledge intensive sectors, attracted by universities and research centres (Florida et al., 2017; Glaeser, 2011; Iammarino & McCann, 2013; Moretti, 2012; Rodriguez-Pose & Crescenzi, 2008). Two key features of city-regions are their concentration of innovative activities and their global reach. City-regions are characterized by unprecedented flows of ideas, knowledge, people and capital which cross the borders and connect city-regions among themselves. Today, less than 10% of all functional urban regions account for more than 90% of science output in most countries (Andersson & Andersson, 2015); further, to 10% of for of to the European et al., 2019). This into the concentration of high-skilled in urban et al., & 2019; Moretti, 2012; Storper, 2013). The presence of networks in innovation activities is of the which the diffusion of knowledge and innovation a policy the diffusion of innovation and knowledge is a of the economic the of economic by the to less innovative regions to by new and The EU has policies to the generation of innovation and The of the European at a for innovation and across the EU. The as the the of European a to get to research in these policies have the of across more and less regions et al., et al., et al., 2019; & The is that as that of has been the role of as a global the and regions within the are becoming more the in the EU et al., 2013; are as and innovative city-regions with global the (Andersson & Andersson, we to the implications of city-regions in the EU we to a is the innovative activities in city-regions are the of the or and linkages with the regions. A concentration of innovation in coupled with their the of the regions, would further regional uneven development, hence economic and cohesion in the EU at This paper to to research which has the city-regions model of economic 2005; & which main research is and the EU et al., 2013; it is on which to on the that are on the regions and territories. of the is on the of for et al., & is about the of their linkages in innovation activities outside their We the regions with a by the as with more than as a for the of the of innovation generation and diffusion across regions is collaborative innovation knowledge flows across universities and research centres across regions. We two on the of innovation linkages of In the city-regions to establish collaborative among the of the regions. In the city-regions collaborative innovation regions. We the exclusive clubs and the inclusive The a model in which collaborative innovation within city-regions the a model in which collaborative innovation within city-regions regions. the of European regional policy and the of economic development, the inclusive model is more than the We study the evolution of the innovation networks among European regions on as a for innovation in 248 European regions the period We a temporal exponential random graph model which is to in networks et al., et al., The to the of the two City-regions their and their among themselves; at the city-regions innovative with the regions. a of following on the process in countries, have a new in the or the knowledge as the of innovation and economic growth. This is in countries have grown as the centres for their investment in and of foreign of multinational corporations The evolution of the urban which to the rise of city-regions has been 2017; The growth of global has been as a of the globalization process and global restructuring coupled by the of the This is on the of globalization which the in the among countries to the of foreign direct capital and In fact, these have the and of the territories within and in the urban centres The of international activities of and their global value a of and which to aggregate in (Iammarino & McCann, 2013). A key for is that on the the with their the have been their national have into nodes within global & the has become that and their as as it has grown to the network of global 2002). The of this process has been the growth of the their This process to the rise of the so-called City-regions have been in and we an are that are to their economic and the borders of the to an which is the and the their the the which is on the resources as universities and of and these resources are in an of their (Iammarino & McCann, 2013; 2019; is that have to a of the policies the the of the and the rise of the which local city-regions a key of the competitiveness of the countries, or the of the global (Scott, This by supply-side towards the investment in and and & national policies are to the of rather to the local of the more advanced urban of these is to the and of their territorial as nodes in the In the as have been in to the among the of their The of into nodes of a global network which to the has about an of knowledge of and collaborative innovation & 2019). have of a global network of in research among by in et al., & as innovation is research has in city-regions by is a of about the and of innovative collaborative networks among and city-regions and the regions. This paper the evolution of innovation networks among regions in and to about the role of We on innovation on a to collaborative innovation networks among European regions. We have the city-regions as the regions with a and we have of innovation the is as a network two the is as a network and and the is as a network in two regions of which is an We study the dynamic of these of collaborative innovation networks aiming at two the exclusive model the inclusive In the exclusive model to establish innovation among the regions, a sort of exclusive of the innovators within the EU. the inclusive model is characterized by the that do in innovation with the regions, the role of innovation within the EU. The two scenarios have significant implications in terms of knowledge across European regions and ultimately on economic The exclusive would knowledge within the of the which are those in which most of are The inclusive would the of knowledge and innovation diffusion outside the a to of the less regions. has been that the of growing disparities in innovative to in and and that in innovation is a of a European integration et al., & The key to the is that the of the of innovation in which is both an outcome of agglomeration economies and supply-side knowledge and innovation are outside these innovation as an innovation do a of for the European by as the central regions and the regions, as in et al., The is the presence or of a two European regions as 248 the period A among two regions at two different regions the are in the the is of We at the European with 2000–2016 for 248 European regions. We a network that the the regions by network in which the the regions and the the among the regions. Over a of 248 regions European countries of countries is in the and an A the regions, the two regions, and with are the of the network we have the networks among all regions and to the the or network the in the that is being The network is as an the and the nodes in the and the in the an or the of the of the period into account and the the of is The is the outcome that is which the network at a in or a period The of to innovation has been in the et al., are that are by while are for of innovative collaborative do with a the of on the of tends to innovative in sectors, and in and of innovative have been in this as that is of and research et al., for a model includes are as and in network to or that within the network are by the or among nodes in the are to of the in that the or of the nodes in the to or that outside the are to the network and are to of the or among the the network or nodes are within the network are to the of on the of network in a model for the of the of network and the network with these two regions that are by the is a that two regions in the more than two regions in different countries. the of for which The is a that or the is a This the of a regions with the value and those with a different value of the two and two The is a regions in European countries and regions in European countries on by of the This the two regions on their on the of the in the on the of a two regions. The is as the of the the and the This to the European Union of a within which the is Union European Union the that we the and for the of in the network and it as a to the in an is the which is to as the it the of the that is by linkages nodes which the the for to et al., a that is the and at in the at the this the presence of of the is a that for a in the of In the we the to a in the are to while are to We as for two the are different across countries, all get in a in in to the of for for the is a as the which includes a defines a as a with A different to regions with a and a for regions. We the for are more to with the of the to the would a of regions for the countries. are more with capital which have been for in fact, capital to a regional in the EU & the of and we in the the of main the regions with the capital as a for the the of city-regions the two and capital The includes their size in the as a of the countries have more than for and while a few countries have and The of the on a we a spatial than the the of the is that the the borders of the are a by the of the European which the activities on the of the at the The of regions about in the we the presence of innovative which within the regions themselves; in fact, urban centres to in collaborative innovation with their this an of in terms of the within urban functional and or we are more into innovative networks which the regional and national In this is more with the policy of the European the European which at a for innovation and across the EU by the of The is a that or the is a The is a that it is that a is regions that the value of with those of a different value of the We are the following of and two a and a two The is a regions in European countries and regions in the countries. the we a the presence of a that is two regions to the more than two regions to different countries. We as a for economic of regions. The the of the as the and it is to to the of The the in in two regions more on that regions with different are more to establish a it is as the of the in among the of EU is a that or a in which the is is a of the EU or this would for the that countries in the European the EU the In we a of the We the of the is to in networks et al., et al., nodes are of models as to the of networks et al., In to this issue and have the so-called on which the are The is that a two and is by those two hence the are as et al., The is for the of knowledge and innovation networks it a that to the transition of a network two and The to the networks at and The model has been in the of dynamic networks a of the of the two we to and we are an we the the which is on & we the to the network of models it is on the of and the so-called The the into to the or as the the y in the is an for very an is This is it all network y The is to this and to the is a that is with network 2011; this the of the is to network that or we and the presence of in the model to find model and The of a model in the network further this we the of the network and the networks to of The of the two are that the the In this we the network to the and the dynamic of the collaborative network across European regions, as well as the of the among different of regions In to a of the evolution of the we a of for the and is a and the the of the network more the presence of the peripheral nodes has a dynamic of growing integration across the European regions in the of In we the of by to the the regions. The about the network has with to the of The of and that in the period has with of the of the and The of the that the network as a has in terms of the of This is in the of the of regions, that the of two regions by the the different of regions that the of has across all the different regions, that innovative have with to all the of the in the the European regions to The the the and the the all the are as a of the of the to the and and The to the The graph in the of the network by the of across the that and regions, and The of across the have the in the of has to the of and regions has grown to as a the of the regions has to about the evolution of the innovation network of the European regions the innovative have been across all and the network is by the role of This the the In in the in the of a a is by the of the model and to model we a and to the The of the models is the model is with to is shown the as of are the is a of to connect within the The of the that more to linkages The which is of and is always for the regions and and to the outcome as the are the is always across all to the of that two nodes always this the presence of a network in the evolution of is always and that the linkages regions are the that regions are more to with a of and less to their network of the of the economic in all This is always and significant that the of networks in the period in the model we the with the to an in to the among rise or the The is and significant in this an in of the is significant in that the play a role for of this is to by and as as that regions with of economic and more research intensive are more in collaborative is and significant that regions are more to establish have of for more on The of is the that it with innovative EU is the of and with in we the as for In regions are as those which the capital of the the of the city-regions of with the capital the of the The are This an of model in which to on the of across and European regions. We the in model which the or the regions. The for countries is to that in countries regions have a to establish new linkages with regions and to in countries. This by the that regions in countries have a of and to have a more regions in countries have started new networks of innovation the The in model of to with to their that their are the with to the The to and are and significant regions This to among regions, regions are more to among and with regions innovators in regions are new innovative networks both with and regions. The the of regions with the the are the nodes both in the countries to have a role in new the innovation networks the countries regions and the countries regions. The do to a role of The to that new linkages and regions the and the of are less to to the is to and linkages linkages two in countries and countries are more to to is The in is that a stronger for have a different of to the regions. this is with the significant that the European innovation network has become more and that play a more central role to the have become more central nodes within the European innovation with research have been growing central in the generation of innovation et al., The the have grown more the at the the the and the regions have grown more are innovation with their as well as with regions. to the exclusive that the that have grown more within and at the the regions. The to the of a role of the are the linkages among the presence of a network of at the are their collaborative innovation outside the network of the the EU we a model in which the do play a role in collaborative innovation by networks across regions, their role is of and integration of peripheral regions, a more network of innovation to that advanced and research intensive regions are more to in innovative further, regions more have a of This the presence of a significant of of the more advanced regions and a inherent for regions to in innovative outside their that regions have been more in new innovation networks to regions. regions a of new linkages the both with regions and with is to that have a role in this in that we that are more to establish linkages across the two of the EU. We for this In the are with the urban which et al., et al., coupled by the presence of et al., 2002). we about the role by the integration process which has within the and in the process which has the European countries. The process of has the of to a of foreign direct countries towards the countries. A the of the European on the that a of in countries is in by in countries et al., of the of the and of the This that has role in innovation across the and the new of integration and the regions in the EU which at the and at cohesion by science and In fact, EU policies have a on of and and regions the collaborative of of aiming at the creation of an European cohesion policies in regional et al., et that while EU for to the of of the regions, is a in the regional of They find that less regions to a of the their of development, and this to a of this et al., for on EU research these are to the about economic across European regions. the we that the of and their innovation network is economic on the the integration of the regions towards a are with two in of regions, the uneven of and the innovation of the more regions is coupled by the presence of of of the most peripheral regions of with to more advanced EU regions et al., et al., in new countries, those in countries, have a et al., are with significant of regions in new innovation both within countries and with Over the past decades research has shown an in the process of concentration of innovation in urban by agglomeration global capital and supply-side policies. This has rise to the of two main about the role of in the EU. have become more within the innovation networks of European regions, in that their within collaborative innovation has is of of of the city-regions in that establish collaborative innovation activities with the regions. The tendency of the city-regions to establish innovation networks outside the of the city-regions is a of the European of economic in that it about a sort of of innovation and We do to outside their network economic this further we do their is to the of the concentration of innovation the that the have a closed of innovators is which to build the European and to a path of territorial and cohesion in the EU. are of the and for further study into this have the of as for their of growth as well as their dynamic of disparities and is an to the on the role of city-regions within the European on of innovation We that a of innovation, and that innovation is in and which are by The knowledge that is of while of knowledge and people is by and to of the of flows of innovation and knowledge which across regions. research at of knowledge which play a into the of innovative as for the role of the European and the for policies. the that regions to get into innovative with the city-regions is for and the about the of at the et al., et al., at the the of the innovative which the and the these further the of the functional and the the and the peripheral We are with and for on the and for their significant on a of the The is a of shown in In the of of is to and network along a of which are and The the of network while the the the the two are their that the In to the we an for by to the role of different and in the of by is a network on that network to the in the of we are to model the network into account the of the a the and to of among regions. The of the model are in in in the are in the with the of and are for the in model that the of regions has to as of are the of the for the regions and for the and and of the the the economic is an in the of the at the it significant and The of is always in an this the In the period of the economic the tends to an in the of The dynamic of the of the that the is significant for the and it less for the and the is always has a the is significant in the and a in that the are always and for the and the is This that regions with of are more to The of is always The a that regions in the do to the EU a the this is in that we would that the EU would the it is that the integration within the innovation network has started the of the countries the is for all to as model for we that the dynamic model in a red is shown in the it that the is different all regions are in EU is the of we a of and the that all models well the value of we the of a different of regions for regions are those regions which the capital of the of the for a of the