R&D Research

Title: Artificial Intelligence for Clinical Trial Design

Abstract:
Suboptimal patient selection and recruiting techniques, paired with the inability to monitor and coach patients effectively during clinical trials, are two of the main causes for high trial failure rates.High failure rates of clinical trials contribute substantially to the inefficiency of the drug development cycle, in other words the trend that fewer new drugs reach the market despite increasing pharma R&D investment. This trend has been observed for decades and is ongoing.AI techniques have advanced to a level of maturity that allows them to be employed under real-life conditions to assist human decision-makers.AI has the potential to transform key steps of clinical trial design from study preparation to execution towards improving trial success rates, thus lowering the pharma R&D burden. Clinical trials consume the latter half of the 10 to 15 year, 1.5–2.0 billion USD, development cycle for bringing a single new drug to market. Hence, a failed trial sinks not only the investment into the trial itself but also the preclinical development costs, rendering the loss per failed clinical trial at 800 million to 1.4 billion USD. Suboptimal patient cohort selection and recruiting techniques, paired with the inability to monitor patients effectively during trials, are two of the main causes for high trial failure rates: only one of 10 compounds entering a clinical trial reaches the market. We explain how recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to reshape key steps of clinical trial design towards increasing trial success rates. Clinical trials consume the latter half of the 10 to 15 year, 1.5–2.0 billion USD, development cycle for bringing a single new drug to market. Hence, a failed trial sinks not only the investment into the trial itself but also the preclinical development costs, rendering the loss per failed clinical trial at 800 million to 1.4 billion USD. Suboptimal patient cohort selection and recruiting techniques, paired with the inability to monitor patients effectively during trials, are two of the main causes for high trial failure rates: only one of 10 compounds entering a clinical trial reaches the market. We explain how recent advances in artificial intelligence (AI) can be used to reshape key steps of clinical trial design towards increasing trial success rates. It takes on average 10–15 years and USD 1.5–2.0 billion to bring a new drug to market. Approximately half of this time and investment is consumed during the clinical trial phases of the drug development cycle. The remaining 50% of R&D expenditure covers preclinical compound discovery and testing, as well as regulatory processes (Figure 1). Although pharma and biotechnology companies have continuously increased R&D investment for decades, the number of new drugs gaining regulatory approval per billion USD spent has halved approximately every 9 years [1.Scannell J.W. et al.Diagnosing the decline in pharmaceutical R&D efficiency.Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 2012; 11: 191-200Crossref PubMed Scopus (1252) Google Scholar]. Reversing Moore’s law (see Glossary) from the world of semiconductor technology, this trend has been termed Eroom’s Law. It is ongoingi [2.Thomas D.W. et al.Clinical Development Success Rates 2006–2015. BIO, Biomedtracker, and Amplion, 2016Google Scholar] and poses a severe threat to the existing clinical development business model: in the post-blockbuster drugs era a lack of go-to-market efficiency of that magnitude is not sustainable. One of the main stumbling blocks in the drug development pipeline is the high failure rate of clinical trials. Less than one third of all Phase II compounds advance to Phase III [3.Hay M. et al.Clinical development success rates for investigational drugs.Nat. Biotechnol. 2014; 32: 40-51Crossref PubMed Scopus (1489) Google Scholar]. More than one third of all Phase III compounds fail to advance to approval [4.Wong C.H. et al.Estimation of clinical trial success rates and related parameters.Biostatistics. 2019; 20: 273-286Crossref PubMed Scopus (580) Google Scholar]. Because these crucial checkpoints do not occur until far into the second half of the R&D cycle – with the most complex Phase III trials carrying ~60% of the overall trial costs (Figure 1) – the resulting loss per failed clinical trial lies in the order of 0.8–1.4 billion USDii, thus constituting a significant write-off of the total R&D investment. Two of the key factors causing a clinical trial to be unsuccessful are patient cohort selection and recruiting mechanisms which fail to bring the best suited patients to a trial in time, as well as a lack of technical infrastructure to cope with the complexity of running a trial – especially in its later phases – in the absence of reliable and efficient adherence control, patient monitoring, and clinical endpoint detection systems. AI (Box 1) can help to overcome these shortcomings of current clinical trial design. Machine learning (ML), and deep learning (DL) in particular (Box 2), are able to automatically find patterns of meaning in large datasets such as text, speech, or images. Natural language processing (NLP) can understand and correlate content in written or spoken language, and human–machine interfaces (HMIs) (Box 2) allow natural exchange of information between computers and humans. These capabilities can be used for correlating large and diverse datasets such as electronic health records (EHRs), medical literature, and trial databases for improved patient–trial matching and recruitment before a trial starts, as well as for monitoring patients automatically and continuously during the trial, thereby allowing improved adherence control and yielding more reliable and efficient endpoint assessment. In the following sections we highlight aspects of clinical trial design with immediate potential entry points for AI, and explain specific AI techniques of interest and how their application will improve trial performance (Figure 2, Key Figure).Box 1The Evolution of AIThe use of AI in medicine dates back to the early 1970s when expert systems such as MYCIN were first introduced to provide diagnostic decision support [48.Clancey W.J. Shortliffe E.H. Readings in Medical Artificial Intelligence: The First Decade. Addison-Wesley Longman, 1984Google Scholar]. However, early medical AI systems relied heavily on medical domain experts to train computers by encoding clinical knowledge as logic rules for specific clinical scenarios. Such systems suffered from the limitation that they were labor-intensive and time-consuming to construct, and once built they were rigid and difficult to update [49.McCauley N. Ala M. The use of expert systems in the healthcare industry.Inf. Manag. 1992; 22: 227-235Crossref Scopus (23) Google Scholar]. More advanced ML systems that are capable of training themselves to learn these rules by identifying and weighing relevant features from data such as unstructured text, medical images, and EHRs emerged in the 90s and 2000s, but were relatively slow to be adopted by the medical field, largely because of the lack of widely available data and the fact that the early methods required intense feature-engineering efforts involving serious commitments from medical domain experts [50.Niu F. et al.HOGWILD!: a lock-free approach to parallelizing stochastic gradient descent.arXiv. 2011; (Published online June 28, 2011. https://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5730)Google Scholar].This situation has changed dramatically recently because of two factors. First, the of AI itself in and related ML by and large training datasets et PubMed Scopus Google F. et learning in medicine – and Scopus Google Scholar]. medical data available in to new advances as well as efforts such as the in the years have a in efforts as well as early of AI in from medical for et and of a deep learning for detection of in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] and et of with deep PubMed Scopus Google to the use of data to clinical from to the of human and artificial 2019; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The of has also from this in AI methods at from natural language processing (NLP) of the et learning for information learning from for Google to et and knowledge from of with 2014; 20: to of of learning with and on Google and drug PubMed Scopus Google in of human intelligence processes and The of AI is to that can the world and in the as ML for between in large databases to help a to the and capabilities of the human from new a between or and to as a a or a learning a of ML methods on artificial by information processing and in that use to level features from The in to the number of which the data is learning learning is of ML that is with that can in as to of and to efficient to this a between a human and a artificial capable of automatically and to spoken or written human language a human–machine learning the study of that a of data to or to the ML is to be a of language processing a of AI with the between computers and human in particular how to computers to and large of natural language from and a of in AI, and at the electronic of of or into text, from a a of a a or from on The use of AI in medicine dates back to the early 1970s when expert systems such as MYCIN were first introduced to provide diagnostic decision support [48.Clancey W.J. Shortliffe E.H. Readings in Medical Artificial Intelligence: The First Decade. Addison-Wesley Longman, 1984Google Scholar]. However, early medical AI systems relied heavily on medical domain experts to train computers by encoding clinical knowledge as logic rules for specific clinical scenarios. Such systems suffered from the limitation that they were labor-intensive and time-consuming to construct, and once built they were rigid and difficult to update [49.McCauley N. Ala M. The use of expert systems in the healthcare industry.Inf. Manag. 1992; 22: 227-235Crossref Scopus (23) Google Scholar]. More advanced ML systems that are capable of training themselves to learn these rules by identifying and weighing relevant features from data such as unstructured text, medical images, and EHRs emerged in the 90s and 2000s, but were relatively slow to be adopted by the medical field, largely because of the lack of widely available data and the fact that the early methods required intense feature-engineering efforts involving serious commitments from medical domain experts [50.Niu F. et al.HOGWILD!: a lock-free approach to parallelizing stochastic gradient descent.arXiv. 2011; (Published online June 28, 2011. https://arxiv.org/abs/1106.5730)Google Scholar]. This situation has changed dramatically recently because of two factors. First, the of AI itself in and related ML by and large training datasets et PubMed Scopus Google F. et learning in medicine – and Scopus Google Scholar]. medical data available in to new advances as well as efforts such as the in the years have a in efforts as well as early of AI in from medical for et and of a deep learning for detection of in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] and et of with deep PubMed Scopus Google to the use of data to clinical from to the of human and artificial 2019; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The of has also from this in AI methods at from natural language processing (NLP) of the et learning for information learning from for Google to et and knowledge from of with 2014; 20: to of of learning with and on Google and drug PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. Artificial of human intelligence processes and The of AI is to that can the world and in the as ML for between in large databases to help a to the and capabilities of the human from new a between or and to as a a or a learning a of ML methods on artificial by information processing and in that use to level features from The in to the number of which the data is learning learning is of ML that is with that can in as to of and to efficient to this a between a human and a artificial capable of automatically and to spoken or written human language a human–machine Machine learning the study of that a of data to or to the ML is to be a of Natural language processing a of AI with the between computers and human in particular how to computers to and large of natural language from and a of in AI, and at the electronic of of or into text, from a a of a a or from on clinical trial poses on patients with to and to The medical of a specific patient them patient not be at the of the or to a specific that is by the drug to be thus that patient and patients not be to they they not be of a matching trial or find the recruitment complex and to patients these under recruitment a and is in fact the number one for trial of all trials do not and to one third of all Phase III trials fail to recruitment takes one third of the overall trial Phase III trials of the total costs for a drug all trial phases because they the patient failure rate because of patient recruitment in Phase III trials one of the most severe shortcomings of clinical trial trials with the patient most from patient recruitment and systems can help to improve patient cohort and provide with patient recruitment (Figure Clinical trials are not to the of a in a of the but to a of the in which the of the is can more be a to as trial a patient is a not of the their in the trial will automatically the observed of the drug not be with the of success or absence during the a that not or for patients to to the a high number of patients not success of a trial, but patients the of its In world the of use diagnostic and for and Medical Scholar] to which the drug are in the patient or Although trials which from such approach a relatively of all trials, they also to be the most trials – especially when medical techniques are Hence, in not be a and to be for the of under clinical be methods are to data with electronic medical and other patient and – from to medical – to that to that can be more and thereby and patient This a for and such as (Box 2) to the and of this data from and as a single for the of its is especially in the of data to their and The data of AI them a for data which is key to for clinical trial and However, be to of ML as a of in the training compound testing, and compounds for clinical trials can be by and AI, and techniques N. et intelligence in use of to in PubMed Scopus Google et on of the on and Scopus Google et how can be to data in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. a and more efficient for between and than discovery techniques has been et how can be to data in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. This allow to be that have a of success during clinical trials, and the of with a of before they the clinical AI and methods can also be used to patient cohort selection one or more of the following by the and Drug by by patients are more to have a clinical also and by identifying a more capable of to a also termed (Figure is a health that on the of identifying patients with specific of The can be as as patients with or as complex as patients with II and of The of electronic is far more than a and methods to for patient data and to complex of clinical domain Although early methods on rules were for they to be for more complex and more In recent years have been increasing efforts to design a diverse of ML from to to (Box 2), that have towards able to complex et in electronic from to learning Rev. PubMed Google Scholar]. Although electronic can be to patient is not to or ML methods are for for key which are or to are by of and which provide information et of 2019; PubMed Scopus Google et of to study of 2019; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. more complex that are to and The recently a that advanced a clinical trial for the regulatory at the and the The for and of and early that can be used for clinical trial design et is clinical trial design for PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. on this ML methods for are to provide and and of complexity and of such as drugs are not available et of in Google et data for in Google et approach and its application to 2019; Scopus Google et with matching for of of the on Google et and contribute to a single in early PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The complexity of trial in of number and medical for a patient to and their information from this large and unstructured is a significant that a processing on and patients is this that largely a patient is and to in a and also the recruiting and the patient of AI techniques can with automatically the in the et in deep learning natural language Scopus Google Scholar] can be used to written and spoken language from a of and unstructured data of techniques to clinical trial design is in a recent by with clinical trials that fail and for improving the of a 11: PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The and of in the development of learning techniques and the Manag. Scopus Google Scholar] techniques allow content to be into for the human ML et PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] and in particular deep learning (Box 2) systems to learn and on the of their into systems these AI techniques or can be used to automatically and clinical trial find between specific patients and recruiting trials, and these to and patients (Figure Such clinical trial matching systems have been and have their in real-life use et al.Clinical performance for clinical trial matching at Google Because of the AI of these and improved performance will on the and of data which are for development and AI and ML techniques such as and have also been to available content such for trial trial and to automatically potential between trials of and specific patients in their such a patients of trials of interest and allow them to with for of and the first a have been We the of AI will improve the and thus the of such substantially in the The and of data that are used by AI methods are not are for on the one a lack of regulatory on data causes to to be with other or not at and to in a data exchange or the other a to patient data and difficult for patients themselves to their This is as to healthcare systems more and are by and medical towards this M. the of electronic data and Scholar]. In such for the and and the to as and health data complex in the of data and The new health to do with 2019; PubMed Scopus Google The The of in Scholar]. as with for clinical trial matching the aspects of data and as well as a of of AI to be to that systems are and regulatory the patients into a clinical trial is a investment of time and The on this investment can only be of the Hence, is that patients in the trial, to trial and rules the trial, and that all for monitoring the of the drug are and of clinical trials do not patient and the average rate clinical trials is by a lack of adherence to trial recruiting which to trial and of the rate in a trial to in patients required to the of the a study in which half of the patients are of patients to be to the of the patient monitoring and methods during trials can be used to the adherence endpoint detection more and thus and AI techniques in with new to such and patient monitoring systems. We in the sections with adherence patients are required to records of their and of a of other related to their to and This can be and to on average of patients into a clinical trial et to from on the between and drug Rev. 2012; PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. and monitoring can be used to automatically and continuously patient thereby the patient of this ML and can be used to such data in for and of (Figure This approach allows to be which – because the are with data – to be and to in and patient Such as for adherence or lack and – as or patient is required – will also for endpoint detection more and than current AI also has to in endpoint detection – a that is at ML have been et approach for of in Scholar] – and recently et trial of diagnostic for detection of in PubMed Scopus Google et artificial intelligence for detection in with 2019; (Published online PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] – for for the detection of from medical images. this with that conditions et and of in deep and Medical et medical Scopus Google et deep learning for and in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] will the with by AI and ML methods also be used to the of for a specific in other words to the of patient that the patient be with to the study (Figure One such the use of deep learning by and learning with for and clinical trial Scholar] to the that with by a ML the at in and the with the and of that to a to that of In trials of the ML that the to a or half of all the the and thus in patient adherence and in and early for allows with patients and the causes of to be for severe or of study and be and before they to The of and is and will to be of the clinical study design. for in and as well as for data from first for and patient monitoring systems have recently been or et artificial intelligence to the of in patients on PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. The of available with as well as for running advanced on such will allow more to be for a of In a et the and of clinical from advanced diagnostic and other medical health to be the techniques of can in and and in support of clinical trial and to new et of and with health study at the in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar]. We to more the of such on trial efficiency clinical trials in the to in the following we a into a drug trials are the trial and trials [2.Thomas D.W. et al.Clinical Development Success Rates 2006–2015. BIO, Biomedtracker, and Amplion, 2016Google Scholar]. It is to monitor patients in trials for adherence control and endpoint the of of for patients to to control their or to patient absence will not be able to the patient to not and also to not such a from the trial monitoring by medical or not allow reliable in most The for this is that to be in other words they in and for a specific patient their to This the and of a for the a diagnostic for one patient not to and for the patient diagnostic patterns This following a diagnostic and that can be to continuously and patient data for patient as they time, and automatically to in and will be to allow learning from these AI and that AI and can be to such patient monitoring and are to to these and to thus bring medicine to advances in and allow to be to or at the of This from information and into information and – a which we systems to the human and the data on the or to the for the a increasing number of can be and of data for in other words continuously and data in at the of will be to information before the for data or in with data and systems allow this to be The of such (Figure of the following into capable of running with interfaces to which and information on specific and with or for patient and The can thus a a or a of and in of technical maturity have been or are under development et in PubMed Scopus Google Scholar] for into of et patient and PubMed Scopus Google and monitoring, deep with et on a 2019; Scopus Google and data et systems capable of on the as a PubMed Scopus Google et of PubMed Scopus Google and et of for medicine PubMed Scopus Google et for 2019; PubMed Scopus Google in a new The of data which most of these is Although has on data deep recent has that are also to complex et a deep for (Published online et a deep for and 2019; (Published online et learning for the 2019; (Published online Scholar]. continuously in at the of are in AI and AI techniques the years have to of such processing available for real-life These can be into AI such as et million with a and 2014; Scopus Google with AI such as and and which can be AI such as the carrying the and also a of other on of these techniques, the first have emerged in the of for monitoring and and in and and have the of AI for detection et detection systems and their for of PubMed Scopus Google and et data and deep a PubMed Scopus Google is – PubMed Scopus Google The can be patient and automatically to the patterns of patient as they and The monitoring systems of time the for and will thus the and for In other and ML have been used to automatically and to monitor patients in and to of other in and of data and are key for of AI into clinical trial design. The is for AI and in with and pharma have to and best for into clinical trial at the of AI, of and healthcare will more with advanced capabilities for monitoring of patients and M. et data new in and on and is these for improving the performance of trials. It is to that data and a in the and of and regulatory will on the and of patient data and of from the data advanced of monitoring and will for and and exchange of monitoring The of the development for new drugs has pharma and other of clinical development in a et new drugs or existing Rev. Drug Discov. PubMed Scopus (23) Google the era of drugs is to but the R&D for new drugs to the is slow and to for this of the business and of the is for a to a new of and