R&D Research

Title: Developing intermediate cities

Abstract:
Intermediate cities have experienced economic dynamism in recent years, but, with the focus firmly on large metropoles and sprawling megacities, the development potential of intermediate cities has stayed out of the limelight. This paper upholds the relevance and potential of intermediate cities, arguing that they can play as important a role – if not a more important one – than the large metropoles that, until now, have been the focus of attention. Intermediate cities hold considerable advantages, in particular for poverty reduction and as more efficient ecosystems to live and work. Untapping the potential of intermediate cities requires, however, more territorially balanced, place-sensitive strategies. Las ciudades intermedias han experimentado un dinamismo económico en los últimos años, pero, con la atención puesta en las grandes metrópolis y las megaciudades en expansión, el potencial de desarrollo de las ciudades intermedias ha quedado fuera del centro de atención. Este artículo defiende la relevancia y el potencial de las ciudades intermedias, argumentando que pueden desempeñar un papel tan importante, si no más, que las grandes metrópolis que, hasta ahora, han sido las protagonistas. Las ciudades intermedias presentan ventajas considerables, en particular para la reducción de la pobreza y como ecosistemas más eficientes para vivir y trabajar. Sin embargo, aprovechar el potencial de las ciudades intermedias requiere estrategias más equilibradas desde el punto de vista territorial y que tengan en cuenta el contexto del lugar. 中間都市は、近年、経済的なダイナミズムを経験してきているが、大都市と広大なスプロール化が進む大都市に関心が確固として寄せられており、中間都市の発展の可能性は注目されていない。本稿は、中間都市は、これまで注目の的であった大都市と同様に重要な役割を果たすことができることを論じ、中間都市の重要性と可能性を支持するものである。中間都市には、特に貧困の減少のため及び生活し働くためのより効率的なエコシステムとして、かなりの利点がある。しかし、中間都市の可能性を引き出すには、より地域的に均衡のとれた、その場所に対応した政策が必要である。 This paper considers the potential to employ intermediate cities (ICs) as leverage for stronger economic development. Despite their prominence in the recent agenda of urban economics, large cities have not always delivered the highest level of growth. In the cases where they have, greater levels of economic growth and development have not spread to other parts of the urban system (e.g., intermediate and small cities) or to rural areas. Indeed, in many countries around the world, large cities have enjoyed political favouritism at the expense of smaller, less-favoured cities. Fostering large urban agglomerations has often been touted as the key to maximizing national economic development. In recent years, this has dominated the mindsets of policy-makers. However, growing evidence casts doubt on this belief. The economic fortunes of large cities have been uneven, with especially megalopolises in the developing world struggling to grow and often unable to become catalysts of economic development. This paper invites a closer discussion of new empirical evidence questioning whether betting on large cities is the only – or even the most important – way forward for economic development. It is argued that intermediate cities have considerable economic potential that remains largely untapped. The dominant policy focus on large cities, in combination with a more traditional one on lagging regions and rural areas, has meant that the potential of the rest of the urban systems has remained neglected. The result has been economic underperformance, rising inequalities and, increasingly, in systems that cannot cope with rapid population growth, pressures to deliver employment (especially outside the informal economy) and to prevent mounting economic, social and economic tensions. Using descriptive data and past research, this paper will first posit that, in many countries, often neglected parts of the urban system (and, especially, intermediate cities) have been providing – and will continue to provide – significant economic dynamism. Second, it will be argued that, to maximize the development potential of territories, more balanced, place-sensitive strategies are needed. This would imply place-sensitive strategies for intermediate cities, as well as for larger metropolises and lagging areas. Such an integrated and comprehensive territorial approach is crucial to address growth and employment problems. Finally, this paper will examine what intermediate cities can do to address the social and economic problems that beset emerging areas and propose some measures to dynamize their potential. This paper pulls together arguments from new and existing literature to highlight the importance of intermediate cities in economic development. In the first section, the paper highlights the growth of intermediate cities, which remain a central – although frequently overlooked – aspect of the urbanization process. Drawing on recent empirical analysis, we turn towards the growing body of evidence that challenges dominant mantras. We stress that large cities are not always the only or even the main drivers of economic growth. Hence, tapping into the untapped potential of intermediate cities is crucial to increase the wellbeing of populations across the world. The world has witnessed a rapid shift towards urbanization in recent decades. The world's urban population has multiplied, with large cities especially growing at a high rate (Jedwab et al., 2015). Between 1950 and 2015, the absolute urban population increased rapidly, with the biggest change coming from low- and middle-income countries, where urban population has increased tenfold to over 3 billion (United Nations, 2016). Africa and Asia have joined the ranks of Europe and the Americas as highly urbanized spaces. In particular, urban rise in Africa and Asia has proceeded at twice the rate of Europe during their early urbanization stages (Jedwab et al., 2015). The rapid growth of large cities across world is noteworthy. As Figure 1 highlights, the share of people living in megalopolis has mostly increased in low- and middle-income countries, while the growth of the largest metropoles in Europe and North America has somewhat stalled (McCann & Acs, 2011). By 2030, there will be 43 megacities of over 10 million, mostly in developing countries, with nearly half the top 30 largest urban areas being in low- or lower middle-income regions (UN-Habitat, 2018). Urbanization, however, has not only come from the growth in population of new or existing megacities. Rather, the growth of intermediate and small cities has often matched – if not outright outstripped – that of large urban areas (Roberts, 2014). Megacities have the as of urbanization and economic are often the growing of the of urban populations & et al., there are around intermediate cities with populations of and as Figure highlights, a large and share of the world's population This is the in the and countries – mostly in Europe and North America – where the share of the population living in cities is to of the urban population By 2030, it is that over billion people will live in intermediate cities with populations and (UN-Habitat, 2014). of economic and social world urbanization The As Figure 3 intermediate cities of and will grow The largest growth will at the lower of the intermediate in cities of and 1 and in middle-income countries It is that, and 2030, of agglomerations will for of urban population growth 2016). This growth is urban highly with a large urban at the to be the most to economic growth however, urban populations at of the as well as the growth of new urban areas, have a in urban across many parts of the world & of national – one of the most measures of urban – that urban have been over the past In of countries that the urbanization and economic development around growth of intermediate cities. As their growing and intermediate cities will have a greater on national and economic development (Roberts, 2014). The of urbanization to what is greater urbanization to economic and which of cities are more to to urban economic (e.g., urbanization and, in particular, the of population in large cities be have been as drivers of economic growth and and cities and megalopolises of that and in and, employment and economic growth. Megacities as and population data to urban agglomerations or and, for are from are of economic growth in a more world, the key of economic growth for their It has often been argued (e.g., that megalopolises in countries – for and to a – can play a role 2011). large cities are often as the main to the urbanization and poverty reduction is and on many empirical the of rising and poverty from rural to rising inequalities & urban systems – where a high of a urban population in the largest – are for their on economic and and Hence, it as no that the has been as the of the and It is that, urban policy on the larger cities, growth will be this is a towards As a it is frequently that to and cities greater growth as it not The dominant is to to which people to where there are providing more not to areas with a lower to the past in the have the economic and urbanization In particular, there is considerable discussion on the of is no of evidence that urban and in many parts of the world. cities have frequently and cities in their Such has been the in many and countries, where the growth of cities – the larger cities – has outstripped the rest of the urban However, this is not always As cities the and is The world's largest cities are not the most in of the top most cities are with populations of than 3 (McCann & Acs, 2011). intermediate cities and small are often at the of urban dynamism & 2018). in the world and, in parts of intermediate cities as drivers of economic development et al., Intermediate cities have continue to as and and, in many have been the of considerable and growth & Intermediate cities have – and frequently remain to – some of the world's and most As in Figure half the are in cities of than are in cities of and million, and in of than of the are in intermediate cities in developing the that small and intermediate cities to large cities in Europe and North America to urban economics, this has not the of highly and – often – of growing to the ranks of the largest the world's largest and in a of a in a and the which in a of than somewhat however, in and Europe and in other and lower middle-income Intermediate cities have largely remained out of the which and as their importance in urban they have to their larger Intermediate cities that they are with considerable which they to development. Despite greater focus on intermediate across parts of Europe and North is their potential for economic development in and Asia and to other areas of the world. In areas, the has been on the with and their rural Intermediate cities have been as the that provide for rural as well as as to larger areas to employment and rural areas and their and et al., 2014). data is to larger cities their economic or This their to and development strategies (Roberts, 2014). intermediate cities are frequently overlooked in national or urban development to a combination of of (e.g., being than large a and the and policy they megacities have been at the of research, in intermediate cities in has at – especially in have the of cities (e.g., et al., et al., et al., the that they are often than cities. The of intermediate cities, especially in and lower middle-income countries, remain a which at a development (Roberts, 2014). only are intermediate cities they have been neglected in The approach of national as well as has been to rural and urban and more and areas in intermediate cities in the of the intermediate cities are a considerable have and to and the for highly on from central (Roberts, 2014). policy has been towards larger cities to political & of or more in large cities, to a have frequently meant that cities grow to larger population than cities As the high of a large has intermediate cities at a to larger to in economic, and social development systems remain intermediate cities have been unable to to their & 2014). have been the that large cities growth and development et al., However, there to be a growing dominant and be this data from countries, especially the and However, new empirical evidence the and economic greater and have a of many of which dominant and economic their no and economic growth. the of larger cities is to economic growth in some countries, this is no the have a on economic growth. in the urban and economic urban economic growth in countries, there is evidence of this in and emerging countries & & is the of poverty and with urban rapid urbanization as a of the growth of cities has a central of national poverty reduction strategies & cities have been with with the to metropoles and lower poverty et al., In many parts of the world, however, this from large cities are their as out of with considerable of living or around poverty and in some and with high of poverty in large cities & et al., 2016). and that, while a poverty the urban remains into large agglomerations not be to Rather, they highlight the which the growth of cities the urban has a greater from cities towards intermediate cities have greater are in evidence of and developing of cities and urban systems are not economic growth to the as they have in of the are they the key to of urbanization are a economic and of in many countries (Jedwab & 2015). megacities are now, in many parts of the world, larger than megacities are on the to economic and urbanization in parts of Africa and America over the past has at and to the growth of and that often in national of and et al., the growth of many megacities has not always been matched growth in This of the with and (e.g., et al., 2015). In for the main cities are large and are not always the catalysts of economic growth in the there is a growing of the of other to the economic dynamism – or – in cities, in the of urban to and in of as 2014). in and, the that many cities in middle-income countries are larger than in countries – and be at the of the – can that the on large areas and, in some This the to a approach to traditional The on large cities in development policy from the focus of urban economic on & which to the of this on the rest of the urban This is at the the growth of in cities be a the to as in empirical & 2016). In the in urban literature have been have been urban and which the large and growing intermediate As will be argued in the section, it is important to a more of urban systems that a of to for the of intermediate cities & to the of urban growth, development strategies more on cities in the of the urban and the development challenges many countries across the world. As the large and intermediate cities will be in policy and (Roberts, 2014). can intermediate cities to greater levels of employment and economic to economic we focus more on the ecosystems and for intermediate cities to large urban agglomerations have dominated the literature on cities and economic a growing body of is more and more the potential of smaller, intermediate cities and areas (e.g., & et al., et al., & however, to the potential of intermediate cities. to the urban economic economic growth in many countries is to from cities the urban there is a greater to what role do intermediate cities play in this urban and what is their potential in a world. Drawing on existing we arguments – that intermediate cities for growth, that they provide an to poverty and and that they a of – to that and the for economic to in intermediate cities is for not greater a more balanced, integrated and economic development. The arguments are as is to that intermediate cities can an for economic growth that a dominated large cities. Indeed, in many countries, intermediate or cities can than many large cities the and of urban growth, and can be to economic growth & 2016). an empirical urban have with the of megalopolises and large cities from the of increased they are with and of & cities to be highly at the large to of which the of economic The to that the of the of large cities as and the there is empirical evidence of the and large cities of however, This has been the during the some of the that large cities have become The role of large cities as has the for the of the while their and have the for It as no that some large and cities and as or have become the of the there is a growing that the urban is from economic growth and development the of this is the of the of large cities (Jedwab & et al., 2016). in many parts of the world has been at with high urban growth & The is that, especially in emerging and developing countries, megacities are emerging at at a where national development remains and are This has important for economic development. cities are more to to and in the world this has been a combination of and that have some large cities to 2014). some large agglomerations a combination of urban and cities have the to & and that some large cities, especially in and emerging countries, are to and urban to and and the of rapid urbanization and high urban As megacities in many parts of the world problems to provide and In the rise of megacities not always in with greater economic development. Hence, or the growth of large cities to and to to national economic growth. this intermediate cities can an from which to urban and maximize the of urban from high or are with they will not to the as in larger cities. the to address of are to in intermediate cities. urban agglomerations and more to be a and of in an intermediate for in large cities with more and from the of new systems to systems many countries, poverty remains to development key this is whether large or cities to poverty et al., 2018). development have argued that cities at the of the urban are central to economic development and the reduction of recent empirical evidence a for the role of intermediate cities in poverty and It has been argued that urban are cities can closer economic and greater and than larger cities (e.g., and intermediate cities in towards development however, have mostly remained with the of and intermediate cities on poverty & as the large or small cities has in the significant potential of intermediate cities in poverty reduction – in particular their to and ecosystems – is coming to are arguments in this intermediate cities play an important role as of As more for rural and and for from large cities to their of the and of intermediate cities more at poverty than larger cities. is a and has important for poverty central of urban is that urban are than rural and with a in of poverty and empirical et al., et al., As rural and populations in their of to cities is with and Hence, the and of cities The and for large and cities are & will the rate of poverty reduction be greater or if people from rural areas and small to intermediate cities or large empirical to this that there are intermediate and large cities. Using data from countries, and there is an on poverty reduction people from rural areas into and that this is greater than if this population to into larger this is the of intermediate cities to et of in to the towards intermediate cities of urban areas. with highlight that intermediate cities are with large urban greater and large cities are as the main areas of cities are to rural as economic Finally, the poverty of new empirical evidence that intermediate cities for economic development. et that the of one in from poverty in the largest the from poverty in an intermediate into intermediate cities remains for on economic their important as for rural and can national The of intermediate cities in and remain central to their potential to economic development. Intermediate cities in most parts of the world are to live and especially with their larger in has important for their economic – it is that as and are key to the of cities as to (Roberts, 2014). economic and social megacities, as levels of or have for their of are and urban of the challenges of large metropoles & In some parts of the world, large cities have and the to & large cities, their over the economic of their countries, significant challenges and frequently remain to live and work. This is in particular, high of urban in countries, a of as and other have to the of population growth many large cities and et al., Indeed, of the cities in the cities are developing world megacities and – only lower in this 2018). have to of in cities. of the intermediate cities on of urban (e.g., In the of it is small cities in the world, as or which top in of cities in countries, do not for in out of a of and developing world cities, and even in while other large agglomerations not – and cities in North America the – and megalopolises the of the – and in Intermediate cities in from to of and The only The of has a of cities at the top of of world cities, they share with the their which the together with – and – are than other agglomerations the as or The and the of in cities. The at the of in 2015, a of cities and cities 2016). The level of in and The of the larger cities, as and This in most of the which with living in their and and the as well as their and 2016). As the and intermediate cities important advantages, for a more to with as in or in in in in or in to a are of what intermediate cities can in of of is growing evidence that are of people from large cities towards intermediate cities on the of or and of the of the have often the to and towards the of the urban or new cities in of more and however, large of to in and often systems & are well the areas of the to intermediate cities that are from the largest as to be the economic and social of megacities. As some urban become intermediate cities more for and to and ecosystems to economic than a of people and cities, intermediate cities are as highly of economic development. the a more in intermediate cities closer with political and with the of a highly for the of As cities for economic intermediate cities can leverage their as a to and a of intermediate cities have the of as important political as or the The economic of intermediate cities is to and intermediate cities have, especially in a the of development strategies. cities as or have been to provide a combination of strategies to the highly while social inequalities and have and in of cities new and in and 2014). many intermediate cities from and – frequently to the of larger cities & – they considerable and rising potential. and in the or in the are of growing and Intermediate cities can as of and in the highest of the employment particular relevance is the growth of which many intermediate cities well to In an remains of that to cities are in urban It is often argued that of and the of and are and are important for cities et al., cities with the highest of are not the largest cities. Intermediate cities, as and in the in in in and in the or in the in or in have become and and in many intermediate cities, in small and areas, as for and & However, are not to the world. emerging countries, many intermediate cities are being as and Such is the of del or in or do in in or in in in in and in (Roberts, 2014). are to the of and the growth of & Intermediate cities of not to the of urbanization in large cities (Roberts, 2014). with the and policy however, there is significant potential to many of the of larger and to growth and this a shift from urban areas into cities with a more for the development of can the of and a more urban This paper the for the potential of intermediate cities and that the ecosystems and for intermediate cities to is for national economic development. now, in urban – and policy – has been on large cities. it is that there is a for greater focus on the growing of cities with populations and across the and developing world. to this is the of new empirical evidence which challenges the that larger cities are key to economic of has that the growth of large cities not with greater development and the focus on large cities have not economic growth in the way as cities have not always delivered the highest level of growth and, do not always the for national Rather, often neglected parts of the urban system have been providing – and will continue to provide – significant economic dynamism that can address some of the growth and employment problems and that large parts of the world. arguments have been in of and policy the growing of intermediate cities. many intermediate cities for economic growth, of and with a more they provide considerable potential for urban and as important for rural and as of and as catalysts for economic and this new empirical evidence highlights that into intermediate cities can have a greater potential on poverty reduction than the in larger cities. intermediate cities can leverage considerable of and to into As intermediate cities can play a role in poverty in the of towards Intermediate cities have considerable potential to grow at a rate and to the growth of the countries where they are with However, their will not come (Roberts, 2014). maximize their they from to This cannot be in the dominant of policy policy with the new of evidence and the potential of intermediate cities as drivers of economic development. this that urban do not remain to megacities and large urban that the challenges that intermediate cities are not to the level of development of the where the is and in the urban Hence, this would imply the of place-sensitive where development strategies are on and empirical while to and to the and challenges that et al., This however, the of large cities. they play a significant role in development Rather, development for cities and for small and rural areas will that the economic potential of cities, regions and not remain untapped and that the economic to urbanization of the We are to and to for their and for the from the to the