R&D Research

Title: Business services and industrial innovation in small scale business environments

Abstract:
The recent decades have witnessed a marked turn towards agglomeration thinking in economics and geography. The formation of New Marshallian industrial districts has not only emerged as an explanation model of Post Fordistic production spaces, but also come to serve as a normative model for how regions can progress in creation of value and employment. Porter’s ideas of clusters of industries have won acceptance among consultants, policy makers and public industrial developers. This thinking is clearly urban in bias. The traditional types of agglomeration advantages were mainly to be found in cities, where firms nearly automatically could obtain external benefits from co-location. To be true, within New Marshallian districts we talk of specific agglomeration advantages, linked to a particular trade or value chain. But also in this context there are benefits linked to size and complexity of the industrial environment as a whole, which presupposes an urban lead. A reinforcement of the urban development bias also follows from the fact that the agglomeration thinking not only is linked to transaction advantages between enterprises in close proximity. The new approach to the issue implies a stronger focus on creation and application of knowledge. Process and product innovations, whether these are secondary or tertiary in character, will far more than earlier depend on supply of knowledge and competence. There are forms of tacit learning contributing to improvement in products and processes. This applies probably mainly to incremental innovations through learning by doing. More radical innovations will usually apply formalised and codified knowledge. This capability may be developed within the firm. In line with restructuring during recent decades it will more probably be provided in a market or by institutions compensating for market failure. In this process producer services play an increasing role. Such firms can through rather routinised functions contribute to innovations in client enterprises. This includes assistance in elementary forms of accounting, law, ICT, architecture etc. Client firms can thus be updated. Service providers can simultaneously accumulate tacit knowledge from their client portfolio. This may later be transferred to client firms, often through “packages of services” both as codified and transferable tacit learning. In this way, producer services perform a key function in agglomerations. Other more research oriented producer services may perform a more tailored assistance to the client firms, explicitly contributing to innovations. These may be product and process innovations, but also radical changes in organisation, marketing, firm strategies etc. It goes without saying that advanced services like these require a certain customer base. This is again most readily found in cities or sizable production environments. Also proximity to universities, research institutes and technology parks is often advantageous. Such institutions are considered by Porter as necessary auxiliary functions in a successful cluster. Research performed up to now on successful competitive milieus, agglomerations and clusters has mainly concerned large-scale cases. In turn, the results from these have formed