R&D Research

Title: Effective or predatory funding? Evaluating the hidden costs of grant applications

Abstract:
Researchers are spending an increasing fraction of their time on applying for funding; however, the current funding system has considerable deficiencies in reliably evaluating the merit of research proposals, despite extensive efforts on the sides of applicants, grant reviewers and decision committees. For some funding schemes, the systemic costs of the application process as a whole can even outweigh the granted resources—a phenomenon that could be considered as predatory funding. We present five recommendations to remedy this unsatisfactory situation. Investment in research is expensive, but can lead to very strong returns in the medium and long term.1 An increasing fraction of research funding is distributed by competitive grant calls rather than through the general base funding of universities and research institutions. The overarching rationale behind competitive funding schemes is to allocate finite resources in a way that enables the most innovative and productive research directions. However, despite extensive efforts invested in applications and evaluations, the current funding system shows striking deficiencies in reliably ranking the relative research quality of proposals.2-4 Besides problems to meaningfully differentiate between too many high-quality proposals, the review process appears to conflate the curriculum vitae of the applicant with the research proposal itself.5 Although there is in principle nothing wrong with taking previous success as an indicator for future success, these observations challenge the need for the most time-consuming, and thus costly, part of the funding application: the composition of the grant proposal itself. In addition, the current practice leads to a considerable concentration of funding resources on few research groups (known as the “Matthew effect”) that is to a considerable degree independent of eventual research impact.6, 7 These observations, in line with general findings on the role of randomness rather than merit for success and failure in society,8 suggest that the current funding system is not always a fair and meritocratic procedure, but to a noteworthy degree a disguised and considerably biased lottery—and a strikingly inefficient one.9-11 More generally, these observations raise an often-neglected question for all funding schemes: do their benefits outweigh their costs, on both the individual and societal level? At first glance, any initiative that provides research funding seems beneficial to research and society. However, writing grant proposals reduces the time available for research, which, at least in case of most academic researchers, is what society is paying them for. In recent years, charities are increasingly discussing how resources can be transformed as efficiently as possible into desired outcomes.12 In contrast to this ideal, we have recently suggested that many funding schemes are inefficient to a degree that they may actually harm rather than support research.13 Here, we further elaborate on this statement and discuss the most important points in more depth. While the situation for the different ERC grants is unsatisfactory to different degrees given that the mere distribution process produces costs for the scientific community (mostly on the applicants' side) ranging from about 10% in the case of advanced grants to nearly 30% in the case of Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions postdoc fellowships, the situation for Cases B and C is considerably worse: if the average work of all people involved per application within these schemes, including meetings, drafting, formatting, revising and budgeting, adds up to considerably more than a week (Case B) or even just a day (Case C), the grant draws more resources from the scientific community than it adds—with the additional costs of review and administration not even considered. Contrary to their official goal of supporting research, these funding schemes actually impede research as a whole, even while supporting a few single actors. To put it somewhat polemically: piling up the cash and burning it in the backyard would have been more beneficial to the targeted research communities than distributing it via the described grant calls. We could call such cases—where the expected value for the scientific community is negative—predatory funding. That is, despite good intentions of the respective funding initiatives, they are detrimental to research and society, as they prevent more research than they enable. One might consider the term “predatory” inappropriate given that it usually implies ill-intent to exploit. While there might be single funding calls that primarily serve merely as PR for the donor, we fully agree that compared with common definitions of “predatory” in the realm of publishing,15 most funding organizations do not prioritize self-interest at the expense of scholarship, push false or misleading information, or use aggressive and indiscriminate solicitation practices. On the contrary, we are convinced that the vast majority of funders have a sincere interest in supporting science, and would be happy to reform any practices that might turn out to be detrimental to this aim. However, just as the actions of predators in the animal kingdom (including some of humankind's most beloved pets) are not an expression of ill-intent, but simply an evolved habit, some of the funding practices that have evolved over time do have unintended effects with a considerable negative impact on the scientific ecosystem. Motivational and epistemic causes for non-effective donations are multifold,16 and it is all too understandable that not all funders are aware of potential inefficiencies or even harmful implications of specific funding distribution practices: potential costs and damages are largely hidden, whereas benefits are very obvious, as the attention of the scientific community, media and funders is focused on the winners of this game, and much less attention is given to the largely futile investments of the typically vast majority of losers in any given call. However, most research funding is intended for scientific endeavors as such, not for the individual benefit of single players. The latter would be patronage, which is a perfectly welcome source of research support as well; however, it requires a subjective and proactive selection of the funding recipient rather than an open call for competing research applications. In addition, whether an open funding initiative is supportive or detrimental for science has to be decided with regard to its value not for single players, but for the scientific community as a whole. On the basis of these considerations, at least two of the criteria used to define predatory publishing can be transferred to funding initiatives15: deviation from best practices and a lack of transparency. Whatever set of best practices for funding distribution one would consider sensible, the imperative that a funding initiative should not waste more resources of the scientific community than it adds should be among them—ideally the benefits should outweigh the costs considerably. To allow relevant stakeholders (individual applicants, the scientific community as a whole and the donors or taxpayers who provided the funding in the first place) to evaluate if this is the case, funding initiatives need to be transparent about the total costs of their funding distribution practices, including not only administrative overhead and reviewer/panel time investment, but in particular also the—so far largely ignored—costs on the side of unsuccessful applicants. We would like to stress this point: the majority of costs related to funding distribution do not accumulate at the level of reviewers and decision panels or the administration of the funder, but—at least in case of competitive calls—at the level of the large number of applicants. The administrative overhead of the largest German funding agency, DFG, lies at a very moderate 2.3%, which translates to less than €1000 administrative costs per application. While resources invested by reviewers and decision panels will likely exceed this number, the costs related to time investments on the side of the applicants can be expected to be considerably higher, despite a comparably generous success rate of 30–36%.17 For most other grant schemes with lower success rates, these numbers look considerably more dire. One of the authors has logged about 1000 h of time investment as one member of a consortium writing a grant proposal for a Cluster of Excellence, the biggest funding scheme in Germany. It is thus worth emphasizing that large grant amounts do not automatically lead to positive expected values—large consortia with extensive proposals, competing for grants with funding rates below 5% (as in many European Union calls), will generate costs that might approach or exceed the mean expected return even for large grant sums. Figures 1 and 2 quantify the extent of the problem from two different angles. Figure 1 shows the net return that an individual grant yields on average, as a function of the time invested in the proposal. The smaller the grant sum and the funding rate, the faster one reaches a negative net return: the cost of the principal investigator's time invested in the proposal exceeds the grant sum. For a €50 000 grant with 5% success rate, the net return is negative if applicants invest more than a total of nearly 50 h into developing the proposal, including drafting, communication with collaborators/administration and so on. From the point of view of the academic funding system, the relevant quantity is the net return as a function of the funding rate, as shown in Figure 2. Depending on the grant size, the funding rate and the mean time invested in proposal preparation, the point of zero net return is crossed at funding rates that are not uncommon in the current funding landscape. A zero net return corresponds to a situation where all funding is spent solely on the acquisition of funding—not a single hour of actual research would be funded. For funding rates below this break-even point, the net return rapidly becomes very negative—such grants effectively cost the academic funding system a substantial amount of money. Only if the total grant sum considerably exceeds the costs of the distribution, that is, producing and evaluating grant proposals plus administrative overheads, does the grant actually support research; otherwise it effectively impedes it. A cynical implication considering contemporary developments of antiscience movements would thus be that an effective way of lobbying against certain types of research would not be open opposition, but to establish a funding organization that offers comparably small grants in combination with the usual extensive application procedures. One might ask whether the entire time spent writing an unsuccessful proposal is in fact wasted. Depending on the discipline and type of grant, a varying fraction of work on the proposal might be recuperated because it can be recycled for other grants schemes or because the underlying conceptualization of a work program benefits the researcher or the field independently of the proposed research.18 However, unless this fraction is close to 1, this will not significantly affect our argument. For example, if an average of 50% of the time can be reused on a different proposal, then the net return (read from Figure 2) would increase the funding rate by a factor of 2. But why would any researcher apply for grants that are clearly inefficient? The first, obvious reason is that the base funding provided by their host institution is often not sufficient to realize the researcher's programs—or even to cover basic necessities such as travel and publication costs. This decline in base funding necessarily forces researchers to invest increasing amounts of time to compete for grants, which in turn increases the competition in the system. Moreover, many researchers apply for funding for ulterior motives: because they are pressured by their institutions, who are in turn often ranked by the amount of aggregated funding; because grants are used as criteria for internal resource allocation; because grants are part of tenure evaluations or more generally, because receiving a given grant is important for the researcher's career advancement or standing in the field. In addition, the aforementioned “Matthew effect” might exert financial incentives beyond the targeted grant: succeeding in a small, ineffective grant might increase the chances of getting the next bigger grant. All these ulterior motivations might be legitimate on the individual level; however, they are not the reason why competitive funding was established. They thus lead to a misalignment of the interests of society and individual researchers. In particular, these motivations can lead researchers to invest time in the aforementioned inefficient grants. Such ulterior motives can also play an important role for some funding agencies: many funders are interested in the prestige of their grants, which is partly tied to their competitiveness. As the bulk of the costs of the funding distribution—thousands of hours applicants spend on writing proposals—are not paid by the funders, their interests are thus not necessarily aligned with those of the research community or society as a whole. Despite their best intentions, some funders effectively draw money from the scientific community, and thus act as predators in the academic ecosystem. In the following, we outline five specific recommendations to remedy this unsatisfactory situation, ordered from the simple to the more ambitious. If the main goal is to support research, our above arguments suggest that all funding agencies should make sure that any call for applications is effective rather than predatory: it should be expected to pour more resources into the scientific community than it draws from it, considering all costs on the side of potential applicants. Even if reliable numbers are not available in a given case, funders should still calculate with the best evidence or prognoses possible. If the expected value of a planned call for the academic community is not clearly positive, the funder should abstain from an immediate call and consider alternatives. While “burning the money in the backyard” might actually be a positive alternative compared with publishing a call with a negative expected value, more reasonable options can be envisioned as well. For example, teaming up with other funding agencies would increase the amount of funding and thus the expected value; a more specific research focus would decrease the pool of potential applicants, which would simultaneously enable funding agencies to steer research into directions of interest. The recommendation “First calculate, then act!” is directed at researchers as well. An informed decision for or against starting a grant application process should be made only after weighing the funding amount against the success rate and all expected costs of the grant application, and after a critical reflection of potential ulterior motives in case the expected value of the application is not clearly positive. We provide a simple calculation tool for such considerations online: f.unding.com. To allow researchers to perform their own cost/benefit analyses before applying to a grant, they need to have accurate figures of funding rates at their disposal. Accordingly, funding agencies need to be able to assess the amount of time spent on writing proposals for a given grant. A sensible best-practice demand thus is to evaluate and publish accurate and up-to-date numbers on the efficiency of funding opportunities: the success rate in previous calls, as well as the average time spent on a proposal, based on input requested from applicants. This would further allow funding agencies to adapt or remove grants that are not efficient. This call for transparency also applies to information given to donors and taxpayers. While many foundations are open about their overhead costs, potential supporters are likely interested in how much of their donation is effectively invested in actual research, after subtraction of all costs including not only administration on the side of the funding body, but also distribution costs on the side of the targeted research community. For a fixed amount available to a given funding agency, the most direct way to increase efficiency is to reduce the costs produced by the call, in particular the expected time spent on proposal preparation—or, more radically, to eliminate proposals entirely. Clearly, the smaller the grant sum, the less time should be necessary to compose a fundable proposal. Beyond reductions of the expected proposal length, simple and streamlined formats, standardized across different funding instruments and agencies, would minimize unnecessary time spent on formatting. Two-stage reviewing processes with very brief expressions of interest in the first stage, and a restricted number of applicants in the second stage, would further alleviate the issue. Finally, in case of rejection, grant agencies should provide detailed feedback and allow of any proposal that is writing grant proposals much more time than the review process even including the of A approach to unnecessary grant and increasing the efficiency of the funding system, is to remove ulterior motives for grant applications. If individual researchers as well as not ranked by the amount of funding this would remove the to apply for grants solely to The number of proposals would increase the efficiency of the system by a substantial As an could base their of and only on grants, as based on the numbers proposed This would the as the to proposals would to those grants for which there is a reasonable return on invested This will also make the funding system more an between efficiency and of grants. To the of the current funding system as in the to the current funding distribution system have been suggested in recent The would be to provide member above a given career of a certain academic community with the amount of funding. A very starting point would be to increase the base funding of research to allow a of necessary research such as travel and publication costs. While this base funding is not distributed based on competitive it up part of the substantial fraction of work time of many researchers spent on grant applications. A more funding distribution would further support research rather than of grants. that the base funding with distribution is and would considerable support by the academic even among most scientific with base funding compared with distributed funding to research In case funders are about quality before the research is about review for research might be would still be as of principal who pool their funding. If of funding is between the increasingly of a funding might serve as an transparent and to allocate large of funding on few researchers rather than distributing it To some degree of competition and the research within the the of funding would allow for an funding is distributed however, researcher has to a certain of their funding to research they Such a system might be beneficial in where the relative efficiency is not the only such as the current rather than of grant writing and the scientific community could in principle within on which groups have the to a research The actual amount that a competitive funding scheme available for research has to factor in the cost of applying for the all applicants. We that if the grant is small, the net amount provided for research becomes negative with funding more time of the academic community into applying for this grant than is by the resources that are funded. are simple that could with this unsatisfactory make funding rates transparent for all grants, so that researchers can how much time to invest in and application procedures. The smaller the grant, the less it should to compose a proposal. This implies that very small grants are very and might be by a reasonable level of base funding. These are simple to while the current of funding A further important is to remove ulterior motives for applying for grants, such as or based on research funding. funding schemes to enable research, rather than the other way Beyond these to the current system, we there is reason to consider alternative funding distribution base funding of universities might be the and most however, in where this is not an a distribution of research to researchers, funding or funding would be alternatives. In the most is likely a combination of some of these on the of the funding and with different in different research at different to against of the community. A of different funding might be able to with the current of research funding at Although some of the proposed might be to example, the applicant pool and it is time to consider these In the of the current costs and inefficiencies of the system, any in this will for research as a whole. This work was by of the of and and the German of Beyond the and funding for a to evaluate the funding system, in the writing of this We for of the funding and by funding and by writing writing review and writing writing review and writing writing review and writing writing review and writing writing review and writing writing review and writing writing review and writing writing review and All authors have an interest in an and fair funding system. than the authors competing All and are available from the authors