R&D Research

Title: Essential ingredients for radical innovations? The role of (un‐)related variety and external linkages in Germany

Abstract:
The role of radical innovations for the economy has received increasing attention by German policy-makers. This paper investigates how (un-)related variety and external linkages influence these innovations in German labour market regions. Evidence is found that related and unrelated knowledge capabilities both support the emergence of radical innovations, although strong related capabilities are especially important. External linkages have an inverted u-shape relation to radically new ideas and can act as substitute for missing unrelated competences in a region. The results shed new light on the emergence of radical innovations and thus have interesting scientific and practical implications. El papel de las innovaciones radicales para la economía ha recibido cada vez más atención por parte de los responsables políticos alemanes. Este artículo investiga la forma en que la variedad (no) relacionada y los vínculos externos influyen en estas innovaciones en las regiones del mercado laboral alemán. Se encontró evidencia de que las capacidades de conocimiento, tanto relacionadas como no relacionadas, apoyan el surgimiento de innovaciones radicales, aunque son especialmente importantes las capacidades fuertemente relacionadas. Los vínculos externos muestran una relación en forma de “U” invertida con las ideas radicalmente nuevas y pueden actuar como sustituto de las competencias no relacionadas que no existen en una región. Los resultados arrojan nueva luz sobre el surgimiento de innovaciones radicales y, por lo tanto, tienen interesantes implicaciones científicas y prácticas. ドイツの政策立案者らは、経済のための急進的イノベーションの役割に注目している。本稿では、関連性のある(または関連性のない)多様性および外部リンケージが、ドイツの労働市場地域において、経済のための急進的イノベーションにどのように影響を及ぼすかを検討する。特に関連性の強いケイパビリティが重要ではあるものの、関連の有無に関わらず知識のケイパビリティが急進的イノベーションの発生を支持していることを示すエビデンスが認められる。外部リンケージは、新しい急進的なアイデアと逆U字型の関係にあり、ある地域では欠落している関連のないコンピテンシーの代替として機能することができる。 During the last decades, innovations have been highlighted as key factor for economic growth (Rosenberg, 2004; Verspagen, 2005). Recently, it has been acknowledged that in particular radical innovations offer great economic potential (Castaldi, Frenken, & Los, 2015). Innovations that are radical in nature combine previously unconnected knowledge domains, which is more uncertain and riskier than combining knowledge that has been combined before (Fleming, 2001). In the event that such innovations are successful, they can form completely new markets and industries and provide the basis for long-term economic growth (Ahuja & Morris Lampert, 2001). A good example is, for instance, the new combination of the technological fields automotive, sensor-based safety systems, communication and high-resolution mapping which are combined for the first time in the self-driving car (Boschma, 2017). The possible catalysing role of radical innovations for the economy has also received increasing attention by policy-makers. For instance, the German government just recently established a public agency for the promotion of radical innovations (BMBF, 2018). Recently, the importance of the relatedness of technologies for technological change, economic competitiveness and diversification processes has been highlighted in a series of studies (Boschma & Iammarino, 2009; Breschi, Lissoni, & Malerba, 2003; Frenken, Van Oort, & Verburg, 2007; Hidalgo, Klinger, Barabási, & Hausmann, 2007). In spite of many papers on the drivers of innovation processes in general and especially the role of existing localized knowledge variety, the driving forces of radical innovations remain relatively unclear. Lately, scholars have started research endeavours in this regard. While Castaldi et al. (2015) find evidence that only unrelated variety positively influences technological breakthroughs, Miguelez and Moreno (2018) discover that not only unrelated knowledge competencies but also related one's favour breakthrough innovations. These results show that further analysis is required in order to understand the impact of knowledge variety on radical innovations in a more comprehensive way. Moreover, radical innovations may not solely draw from local knowledge sources since it can become redundant at some point and cause situations of lock-in (Boschma, 2005). Hence, actors might find complementary knowledge for radical innovation processes through linkages with actors from outside the region (Bathelt, Malmberg, & Maskell, 2004). Formal collaborations may be a specific channel to access this knowledge (Singh, 2008), which have been acknowledged to enhance innovativeness of regions and firms (Fitjar & Rodríguez-Pose, 2013). Although, De Noni, Ganzaroli, and Orsi (2017) have analysed the effects of technological variety and (non-)local linkages on regional inventive performance, it remains unclear how they influence radical innovation processes. This paper aims to shed further light on the determinants enhancing the emergence of radical innovations. In particular, it analyses how (un-)related variety and external linkages drive radical innovation processes. The paper contributes to this issue in several ways: First, we analyse radical innovations from two complementary perspectives, looking at the emergence as well as at the diffusion. Thereby, we include a new indicator to detect radical innovations in the research on regional diversification. Furthermore, we expand the analysis by inspecting the role of linkages with external actors through collaborations and how this influences radical innovation output in the region. Despite contributing to close a research gap, this study also has important implications for policy-makers and managers. The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: The next section gives an overview of the theoretical background and leads to the hypotheses. Section 3 describes the data and methods. The main empirical results are presented and discussed in Section 4 and Section 5 concludes and gives an outlook of possible future research endeavours. During the past decades, innovation processes have been acknowledged as important factor for economic growth (Rosenberg, 2004; Verspagen, 2005). Thereby, innovations are commonly understood as a cumulative process where existing knowledge is combined in unique ways to create something new (Arthur, 2007; Basalla, 1988). Weitzman (1998, p.333) defined the reconfiguration of existing knowledge in a unique fashion to form new artefacts as “recombinant innovation.” This process can lead to both incremental and radical innovations. 1 While the former are considered to develop mostly alongside well-known trajectories and particularly refine existing technologies, the latter introduce a novel artefact or technological approach, which can lead to a paradigm shift and thus radical change (Arthur, 2007; Dosi, 1982; Verhoeven, Bakker, & Veugelers, 2016). This radical change may open up new markets or even industries while causing old ones to disrupt (Henderson & Clark, 1990; Tushman & Anderson, 1986). Hence, radical inventions “serve as the basis of ‘future’ technologies, products and services” (Ahuja & Morris Lampert, 2001, p. 522). The search processes at the heart of these inventions find novelty through the recombination of former unconnected knowledge (Fleming, 2001; Hargadon, 2003; Nerkar, 2003). New combinations then are the result of such search processes, when actors discover a new purpose for their existing knowledge or they fuse together some external expertise with their own mind-set (Desrochers, 2001). These processes introducing novelty are difficult to engage in and also riskier in regard of commercialization since it is uncertain if the activities will have an economic impact in the future (Fleming, 2001; Schoenmakers & Duysters, 2010; Strumsky & Lobo, 2015). As radical innovations can be radical in terms of their degree of novelty as well as with regard to their impact, it is important to analyse them in both dimensions (Dahlin & Behrens, 2005). 2 Radically new ideas emerge through existing knowledge pieces, which are unevenly distributed over regions. However, radical innovations can help regions to obtain a competitive advantage. Hence, scholars and policy-makers seek to understand how regions can strengthen their ability to produce these innovations. To study the impact of localized knowledge on radical innovations we make use of the concept of knowledge variety. The knowledge created over time and embedded in organizations leads to variety of knowledge in an economy, which can be seen as a crucial factor of economic growth (Saviotti, 1996). Although knowledge is based in individual firms, the interaction with other firms in the region is important for the creation of new knowledge (Fleming, 2001). However, to be able to absorb new knowledge spilling over from other firms, actors need to be related to each other in terms of their knowledge to a certain extent (Cohen & Levinthal, 1990). Following the concept of Nooteboom (2000), two knowledge bases are viewed as related to one another if they have a certain degree of overlap and develop through similar skills and abilities. Knowledge variety can be divided into related and unrelated variety. Related variety describes the situation where actors in a region engage in industries with similar knowledge bases. Several empirical studies have shown for different dimensions (e.g., products, industries, and (e.g., labour market that variety in related industries the basis for knowledge and economic growth (e.g., et 2007). and have a comprehensive of these the other unrelated variety describes the situation when a region firms from unrelated unrelated variety have been discussed more scholars & 2010; & scholars have started to variety and inventive processes. These studies find for different dimensions that related variety especially general innovation output et Miguelez & & impact, Castaldi et al. (2015) find only a of unrelated variety. Miguelez and Moreno (2018) that both variety have a the effects of related and unrelated variety on radical innovations are from Following Miguelez and Moreno we that it is to have both related and unrelated knowledge capabilities in a region in order to up with radical innovations. et al. also have in their paper that related and unrelated variety not be considered as but each Moreover, (2017) has that it more that new activities on both related and unrelated First, the of related and unrelated variety the for possible new combinations & 2016). competences related can help to understand unconnected knowledge & Related variety the process of and to unrelated knowledge (Boschma, 2017). Hence, we the and unrelated variety in a region both have a on radical innovations. that related variety might be important since knowledge for the creation of new knowledge related actors (Cohen & Levinthal, 1990; 2001; et 2007). Related competences and to be able to absorb knowledge from unrelated et However, we that unrelated variety has a since knowledge combinations from unrelated can introduce more radical novelty & Frenken, it may radically new ideas by an increasing of possible new combinations related and unrelated industries & 2016). Although it is more uncertain and riskier to with if successful, new combinations of unrelated knowledge might the for technological et 2001). The is as follows: of unrelated variety in radical innovations is more than the of related variety. While knowledge variety in a region is the can be a specific channel to access to complementary In the light of and knowledge (Singh, 2008), is as important to strengthen the innovativeness of firms and regions (Fitjar & Rodríguez-Pose, 2013). actors not only engage in of and but also in order to the of their inventions with the to create radical (Singh, Several have the that complementary knowledge for radically new ideas might be found outside one's own region & and have that external knowledge can situations of regional lock-in (Boschma, 2005). This external knowledge can into a region through collaborations and support the emergence of radical innovations. This can if the knowledge is different but related to the local knowledge (Boschma & Iammarino, 2009; Miguelez & 2018). However, we that collaborations have an a of collaborations increasing for novel combinations of complementary at a certain point the of new with complementary knowledge and the of become to be & 2016). Hence, we the linkages have an inverted u-shape relation to radical innovations. while strong related variety that unrelated competences can be et these unrelated knowledge for radical novelty can be found through unrelated variety in a region or knowledge & 2018). in regions for radical innovations complementary knowledge from local unrelated actors or from actors outside their region. However, combining both and knowledge might be difficult to absorb for economic actors (Boschma, research endeavours in this regard have found that knowledge is if it is different but related (Boschma & Iammarino, 2009; Miguelez & 2018). Hence, we that unrelated variety and external linkages have a on radical innovations. the variety and linkages substitute each other in radical innovations. studies have on to radical innovations. can First, are several scholars that novel and unique have a overlap in the with past and (Dahlin & Behrens, 2005). and Morris point to the that radical innovations not on and and and find that are a good indicator to a and also find evidence that a with impact has with the of future another is to study on on that radical innovations from former knowledge domains, radical innovations can be by which are combined for the first is by their degree of novelty (Fleming, 2007; Strumsky & Lobo, et 2016). also two which can be as previously by & 2013). are in studies on the role of knowledge variety on radical innovations et Miguelez & on the impact an innovation has in the In we to expand this and an indicator for the emergence of radical new combinations of as For radical innovation output is by data from the 3 The of the analysis are and with at one German on are to German labour market regions as defined by and 4 This is that and are to the are to the which their technological they are 5 The the data to the which different This the of in the and a of technologies & 2017). Following the of innovation (Fleming, 2001; radical innovations are defined as the emergence of new in the German knowledge & are by looking at combinations in each and each region and are to a which existing and one before the A combination is considered if it has not been in in the since the are new to The is to the by et al. The is as a the of new that have in each region and each new on an where from the another indicator for radical innovations is which the impact the innovation has on future technological In order to for innovations, other the of is as indicator (Ahuja & Morris Lampert, 2001). are as these may be more than by external & 2005). that radical inventions processes and are by economic Hence, in a relatively of the has been are and This also into the time of the data by This is in order to provide a of different technological and and the indicator is for and by the by the of based on in the and the innovations are then defined as the of based on this & 2018). These are also to the labour market regions. the is as a the of region and it is possible to analyse radical innovations from two complementary from The of new and impact innovations are the the in favour of the As we have data from to we the of the As the in favour of the we use it in next section for more studies on the of knowledge have to knowledge & & However, this has been to have the that not the but the include in & Lissoni, 2004). Hence, we knowledge from external linkages by collaborations as of knowledge & linkages the of collaborations from outside the in and region several have been of the data is from on 3 and for each labour market region. First, we for existing in the by the of we the Moreover, we for effects by into the Furthermore, to for the we include the of with an which is based on based on data from we the of firms in industries the of and to into also include and are by one In order to if it is to analyse both the the two is show as they are and positively Hence, the results of this study empirical by other scholars such as and or et al. also a relation new knowledge combinations and the impact an the is from which is both are in the innovations are considered a event (Fleming, which is by results and new have been that new to is an of new of regions have at one new in the The of new is in the region. can detect and where no radical innovation is in a region. 2 gives a of and the As 1 the output of radical innovations labour market regions. The of new is the in strong regions include and looking at the of German labour market regions have a of two the from to a of can be in the regions have at one The of is which is in which has also the by and as seen in This that is an overlap of but are some order and as well as only in one of the In we can and German regions of the regions in terms of radical innovation processes to labour market regions with the of radical innovations are the in the such as and are for in and as well as and research such as the and the research we find evidence for a strong as the strong regions a 2 of the labour market regions for in a The the of unrelated variety over the while the the of related variety in the regions over the time The that both are positively we can that the regions are in the which for both related and unrelated variety. This first the that both variety might positively influence the emergence of radical innovations. 3 the the that the results show that the are and The main and are which also the The for show that a of is by in external linkages a of the in the ability to produce radical innovations. study to the In order to analyse the impact of knowledge variety and external linkages on radical innovations we make use of two complementary First, we the of for the with the we only the results the in the show the The and in and in that both and than the that are and to be in in 4 the results of The only include the include to hypotheses. show that related and unrelated variety both drive the emergence of radical innovations, which is in with Miguelez and Moreno This evidence 1 that radical innovations from knowledge capabilities in both related and unrelated technological since this for new combinations industries & 2016). Hence, radical innovations not only emerge from unrelated competences but are also by strong related However, we not evidence for In related variety has a than unrelated variety The strong of related variety to the that it is to combine knowledge for the first if they are unconnected but from related industries with at some overlap in the knowledge The of related variety is even in the with impact innovations as The results are since studies the role of knowledge variety in radical innovation processes found evidence that especially unrelated variety radical innovations et 2015). be several for the of related First, as and (2018) although from a unrelated competencies are especially in at an of economic where a more Hence, for it is to engage in products that are more in order to a competitive advantage. are the Furthermore, the strong of related variety from the that from related knowledge competences of in As and innovations are by and and find that this and innovativeness in might to in in to their knowledge to while in the for instance, might the and seek the of combining unrelated knowledge This might also be the for where and have shown that their is a As a might into related 3 for external find that external linkages have an inverted u-shape relation to radical innovations. Hence, we can is to engage in collaborations to a certain in order to up with radically new knowledge from outside the region can help to situations of lock-in and radically new ideas (Boschma, Miguelez & 2018). However, a certain point the to and & 2016). in 4 we find evidence for The interaction unrelated variety and external linkages to the of both knowledge unrelated competences and linkages to actors can both drive the emergence of radical innovations. However, combining both and knowledge might be difficult to absorb for economic actors (Boschma, This is in with the of and and Miguelez and Moreno (2018) found that knowledge is if it is different but regard to we find that is a strong of the emergence of radical innovations. Hence, regions with up with radically new This may be by in general in as well as by which are in in terms of are also positively for which be to the of the interaction However, results show that regions in are more to radical innovations. is also and in but and which from the of some of the such as related variety and external which with the for is and in but when we introduce key for The of firms in a region are only in first has to be with regard to the the data at not a this as an interesting point for further the for and in the region and main results remain In both related and unrelated variety drive the emergence of radical innovations in regions. than strong related have an even than the potential from unrelated possible for new knowledge combinations in radical innovations can be by with actors from other regions. However, this is only up to a certain point and it with regard to the emergence of radical innovations, new knowledge from unrelated and external linkages have a In order to the of the are with of the variety as which is the of et al. is to technological technologies based on their the an & a is et al. to analyse the influence of at the regional As we that both related and unrelated competences enhance a ability to produce radical innovations, we also include the of the As presented in the results show an inverted u-shape unrelated and radical innovations. This that is an of unrelated competences in a region in order to up with radical Hence, regions only on unrelated knowledge but also need related capabilities in order to be able to new knowledge and it into radical innovations et The results external linkages remain However, the unrelated and external linkages is only with regard to impact innovations. In terms of new the to be by a which be to the inverted u-shape of unrelated as to unrelated variety. the results support the main of the Recently, some scholars have started to the impact of technological variety on technological in particular et Miguelez & 2018). However, is to which role related and unrelated knowledge capabilities in radical innovation processes. Furthermore, it remains unclear how external linkages the emergence of radical innovations. we find that related and unrelated variety both have a on the emergence of radical innovations in German labour market regions. This further the that related and unrelated capabilities offer more for new knowledge combinations & 2016). However, the potential of related variety is even than the one of unrelated variety. The of related variety from the that especially similar which is to by is in where and to be more & 2007; & Moreover, we find external linkages to have a up to a certain extent and positively influence the emergence of radical innovations through the access to complementary knowledge et 2017). results show that external linkages a substitute for local unrelated Although both have a on the emergence of radical innovations, combining and knowledge might be difficult to absorb for economic actors (Boschma, the emergence of radical innovations and the drivers it is of for German policy-makers. in the light of a public to support radical innovations. This up to further support from different technological For instance, it with from different and In be as an to unrelated knowledge Furthermore, the results can help of regions strengthen their competencies in related industries to enhance the ability to new the regions activities in unrelated to for new knowledge combinations which result in radical innovations. regions strengthen linkages to other regions in order to access to new the results can help up for radical innovation processes. For instance, they for in with both related and unrelated knowledge capabilities or outside their own region. This paper has some which can for further The of related variety might be to a certain by of German and While this is the of study it be interesting to and to this is Furthermore, the of future studies the analysis other data (e.g., data or Related and unrelated variety also be by data for be by other collaborations such as through data from the German or by other of and an interesting research be to analyse which technologies are combined when novel combinations are Hence, one more knowledge on which local capabilities these radically new ideas The to the of the in the of in and the on and in as well as at the for and Innovations and for on of this The support from the of and