# Billie Jenkins

Billie Jenkins is a fictional character who appeared in the American television supernatural drama Charmed, which aired on The WB from 1998 to 2006. The character was created by executive producer Brad Kern and was portrayed by Kaley Cuoco. Billie was developed in response to The WB's request for a new character, and was intended to expand the show in a new direction for a possible ninth season or a spin-off series, leading to mixed opinions of media outlets.

Billie was introduced as a novice witch seeking training from the series' protagonists Piper Halliwell (Holly Marie Combs), Phoebe Halliwell (Alyssa Milano), and Paige Matthews (Rose McGowan). Her storylines focus on her search for her missing sister Christy Jenkins (Marnette Patterson) and their eventual reunion. She gains the ability to warp reality through the power of projection and is revealed as the "Ultimate Power". Christy and the demonic council known as the Triad manipulates Billie into believing the Charmed Ones are corrupted by their powers but when the truth is revealed, she eventually reconnects with the Halliwells. The character also makes further canonical appearances in the comic books Charmed: Season 9 and Charmed: Season 10 as a friend to the sisters and is referenced in one of the novels.

Critical response to Billie was mixed; some critics felt that she was a strong addition to Charmed while others cited Cuoco's acting and the character's story arc with Christy as signs of the show's declining quality. After speculation about Billie's possible appearance in a spin-off series, it was confirmed all plans for the show were canceled in The WB's transition to The CW. Cuoco later stated that she prefers working on sitcoms over dramatic television shows due to Charmeds demanding shooting schedule.

Development

Casting and filming 
When renewing Charmed for its eighth season, the WB required the show to introduce new characters to either sustain an additional season or lead a potential spin-off; the lead actors Holly Marie Combs, Alyssa Milano, and Rose McGowan did not renew their contracts for further episodes. According to Pam Shae, the executive-in-charge of talent, the casting call for Billie called for a young, female actor who would appeal to the WB executives. When discussing the casting process, Kaley Cuoco described Billie as solely based on her physical appearance, saying: "I think they just wanted a blonde on the show." During an interview for the ten year anniversary of the series finale, executive producer Brad Kern clarified Billie was intended to "lighten the load, screen-time wise" for the three principal actors and "bring new blood to an aging show". He felt Cuoco's presence and comedic timing worked well with Combs, Milano, and McGowan. When describing the introduction of Christy Jenkins, played by Marnette Patterson, Kern said he wanted to end Charmed by returning to its initial focus on sisterhood.

Billie was Cuoco's first role in a television drama series. Cuoco stated she felt comfortable working with the other actors and felt she was part of the show since its beginning, noting the warm reception from the cast and crew. Patterson said she had "instant chemistry" with Cuoco and that their connection made acting out their storyline easier.  During The WB's merge with United Paramount Network (UPN) to form The CW in 2006, network executives said there was not enough room for a Charmed spin-off. In an interview with E!'s Kristin Veitch, Cuoco confirmed a spin-off involving her character would not be developed, saying "Charmed is done" and that she preferred to participate in other projects. Brian Krause, who played Leo Wyatt, said that he was confused at the direction of the final season, stating "I don't know if they were trying to groom talent to go on to something else".

Following the show's cancellation, Cuoco said that she preferred working sitcoms rather than dramas. She felt the "18-hour days where you want to kill yourself" did not leave her with enough time to have a life outside of work and the demanding shooting schedule did not allow her enough time to work with Combs, Milano, and McGowan. Cuoco also said she only understood her performance on the show after watching the final cuts of the episodes with the special effects and animations; she explained: "But when you are working, you are waiting and waiting and then things are invisible and things are being thrown, and nothing's in your hand, and I'm like so confused and always asking everyone, 'What's happening?'".

Cuoco  described the character's wardrobe as "cute and fun", and felt that it matched her own personal style. However, she did take issue with the outfits used for the character's magical transformations. She cried when she first saw her superhero costume for the season eight episode "Battle of the Hexes", which originally included a cape. A writer from WE tv listed Billie's superhero look as one of the show's "sexiest and most bizarre outfits". Cuoco said that she also disliked the black vinyl outfit and wig that she wore during her first two episodes.

Characterization and powers 
For her early appearances on the series, Billie was identified as the Charmed Ones' protégée. Cuoco viewed Billie as a "little sister" to the Halliwell sisters, and attributed her as "very naive and always getting in trouble". Co-executive producer James L. Conway believed Billie's identity as a novice witch added a new dynamic to the show, while Pam Shae called the character "demanding", "spunky", and "very, very confident" despite her inexperience with magic. Keri Blakinger of New York Daily News felt that Billie developed into a "powerful witch in her own right" over the course of the season.

Billie is the younger of Carl and Helen Jenkins's two daughters. Both of her parents are mortal and her powers were inherited from her maternal grandmother, making Helen a carrier of the genes determining magical ability. Billie has the basic abilities of a witch, including casting spells, performing rituals, brewing potions, scrying for lost people or objects using of a crystal pendant, and communicating with the dead. She also has the power of telekinesis and later develops the ability to warp reality using a power known as projection. She is shown mastering her original powers very easily and adapting them using unconventional methods, such as attaching a large quartz crystal to her computer's mouse to scry through a GPS system. Her telekinesis enables her to perform acrobatic moves, such as backflips. She experiences difficulty using her power of projection due to her fear of hurting others. Billie eventually masters this power, and by the series finale she can easily travel through time.

Rumored reboot and reunion 
On October 25, 2013, it was announced CBS, which owns Spelling Television's properties, was developing a reboot of Charmed. Kate Ward of Bustle connected CBS's decision to revisit the supernatural drama with Cuoco's success as "one of the network's most bankable stars" for her role on the sitcom The Big Bang Theory. On August 12, 2014, TVLine's Michael Ausiello announced CBS would not proceed with the reboot.

In an interview with Entertainment Tonight, Milano alluded to the possibility of a Charmed reunion and said; "It seems like that's going to happen any second". Glenn Garner of Out magazine said Cuoco's character should be excluded from the possible reunion. Bustle'''s Sabienna Bowman wrote the reunion should address Billie's fate following the series finale, arguing the character's future should be "more interesting than babysitting for the Halliwell brood". While Shannen Doherty and McGowan publicly supported the idea of a reunion, Dan Avery of NewNowNext.com wondered whether Cuoco had been asked to revisit her role as Billie. On March 5, 2016, Milano said there were no concrete plans for a reunion in development, but confirmed CBS was still in the process of producing a reboot without the original cast.

 Appearances 

 Television 
Billie first appears in the season eight premiere "Still Charmed & Kicking" as a college student who hunts and vanquishes demons while disguised in a black wig and a vinyl outfit. Billie subconsciously calls out to whitelighter Paige Matthews (Rose McGowan) for help. Paige's sisters Piper Halliwell (Holly Marie Combs) and Phoebe Halliwell (Alyssa Milano) initially discourage Paige from contacting Billie to prevent the discovery of their faked deaths and assumption of new identities, which they did so they could live free of magic. Billie later falls into an Alice's Adventures in Wonderland-themed trap set up by demons Paul Haas (Mykel Shannon Jenkins) and Black Heart (Noa Tishby), who were attempting to lure the Charmed Ones out of hiding and prove they were still alive. The Halliwell sisters save Billie from the demons' illusions and agree to train her; they agree she will fight demons for them and keep their secret. Billie's passion for usi