# List of Baywatch characters

This is a list of the characters in the TV series Baywatch and Baywatch: Hawaii.

Cast timeline

Cast notes

Baywatch (1989–1990; 1991–1999)
Mitchell "Mitch" Buchannon (David Hasselhoff, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, seasons 1–9)
The head lifeguard, promoted to lieutenant in the pilot movie, and later to captain in season 8. He shares a son, Hobie, with his ex-wife, Gayle, who lives in Ohio. In later seasons, he is romantically involved with Stephanie, and briefly marries Neely. Hasselhoff also reprises his role as Mitch in the spin-off Baywatch Nights, season 1 of Baywatch: Hawaii (where he is presumably killed in a boat explosion) and the reunion movie Baywatch: Hawaiian Wedding (where it is revealed he survived and was in a coma). The role was originally offered to Tom Selleck who declined. Hasselhoff was hesitant in accepting the part (describing the show as "Knight Rider in a bathing suit") but was eventually cast over actors William Katt, Tom Wopat and Lorenzo Lamas. Dwayne Johnson plays the role in the 2017 film. 
Craig Pomeroy (Parker Stevenson, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, season 1; recurring seasons 8–9)
A lifeguard who works as a lawyer on the side. After the first season, he moves away to Connecticut to start a family with his wife Gina, and works at a law firm in New York. In season 8, he returns to Los Angeles to defend a Chumash elder, having been separated from Gina for months. He eventually becomes romantically involved with lifeguard April Giminski.
Jill Riley (Shawn Weatherly, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, season 1)
The most experienced female lifeguard on the team. She is a former professional volleyball player, and acts as Shauni's mentor during the first season. In the episode "Shark Derby" (1.19), she is attacked by a Great White Shark and dies from blood embolism.
Eddie Kramer (Billy Warlock, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, seasons 1–3) 
A street kid from Philadelphia, who endured a rough childhood in the foster care system. Craig and his wife Gina take him under their wing and he becomes a lifeguard. Later, he becomes romantically involved with Shauni (Warlock and Eleniak also dated offscreen). At the beginning of season three, he and Shauni get married and move to Australia. Warlock left the show as he was unhappy with the direction of the show,  however later reprised his role in a first season episode of Baywatch Nights in 1996, and in the reunion movie Baywatch: Hawaiian Wedding in 2003 (where it is revealed that he and Shauni separated, and that he was now in a relationship with Caroline Holden).
Shauni McClain (Erika Eleniak, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, seasons 1–3) 
A lifeguard rookie and the show's female lead in the first two seasons. Although Shauni lets her fears get the better of her at first, she improves under the mentorship of Jill and is devastated by her death at the end of the first season. Later, she falls in love with Eddie, much to the disappointment of her wealthy businessman father. At the start of season three, Shauni and Eddie get married and move to Australia for a lifeguard exchange problem. 
Trevor Cole (Peter Phelps, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, season 1)
A cocky Australian clubhouse lifeguard and ladies' man. After a boat party leaves his then-girlfriend fighting for her life, Trevor enters rookie school to become a certified county lifeguard where he passes as top of his class. He disappears from the show after "Home Court" (1.13), presumably returning to Sydney, although he remains in the opening credits for the rest of the season.
Hobie Buchannon (Brandon Call, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, season 1; Jeremy Jackson, seasons 2–9)
Mitch's son. He is 10 years old in the first season, and is college age by the time the series ends. He would follow in his father's footsteps and become a lifeguard in later seasons. Jackson reprises his role in a season 1 episode of Baywatch: Hawaii and the reunion movie Baywatch: Hawaiian Wedding (where it is revealed that he had entered a relationship with his long-time former crush, Summer Quinn). According to Hasselhoff, the role almost went to Leonardo DiCaprio. 
Captain Don Thorpe (Monte Markham, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, seasons 1–2)
A senior lifeguard with the rank of captain. He is later promoted to chief and not seen again, although he is mentioned several times. Rob Huebel plays the role in the 2017 film, although he is reimagined as one of the antagonists. 
Gina Pomeroy (Gina Hecht, Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier; Holly Gagnier, season 1)
Craig's loving and supporting wife. In season 8, it is revealed that they have separated and that Gina was living in Washington, D.C.
Sgt. Garner Ellerbee (Gregory Alan Williams, seasons 1, 3–6; recurring seasons 2, 8)
LAPD officer who patrols the beach. He is good friends with the lifeguards, but hates the water. Williams reprises the role for the first season of the spin-off Baywatch Nights, having quit the police force to form his own detective agency with Mitch and Ryan McBride. Yahya Abdul-Mateen II plays the role in the 2017 film.
John D. Cort (John Allen Nelson, season 1; recurring seasons 2, 4–5)
Former US Navy Seal turned lifeguard with a bad boy reputation. He has a romantic history with C.J., and often gets Mitch in trouble with his money-making schemes. Later, he is diagnosed with a degenerative eye disease, forcing him into retirement. Nelson reprises his role in the reunion movie Baywatch: Hawaiian Wedding (where it is revealed that he was now in a relationship with Lani McKenzie).
Harvey Miller (Tom McTigue, season 2)
A free-spirited Australian lifeguard, who often comes up with get-rich-quick schemes and has lofty dreams of seducing beautiful women who are way out of his league. 
Ben Edwards (Richard Jaeckel, season 2; recurring seasons 3–4)
Longest serving lifeguard veteran who retired in 1994. He was part of the first team of lifeguards, known as "The Red Knights", which formed in the 1950s. He had a close relationship with Mitch, and served as a mentor to him.  Sometime before the series started, Ben had crushed his hip when he jumped from a height of 100 feet to save a drowning fisherman. He was unable to swim after this injury and required the use of a walking cane. Captain Thorpe promoted Ben to lieutenant instead of firing him. After Thorpe's departure, he was promoted to captain. The day he resigned, he made his final rescue when he jumped off a pier to save a young boy, happy to "go out on top". Jaeckel previously played veteran lifeguard Al Gibson in Baywatch: Panic at Malibu Pier, who dies at the end of the movie heroically saving Hobie.
Roberta "Summer" Quinn (Nicole Eggert, seasons 3–4)
A lifeguard and star athlete in her hometown of Pittsburgh, who moves to California with her mother Jackie to escape Jackie's abusive ex-boyfriend. Later, she becomes romantically involved with Jimmy Slade and Matt Brody, and struggles with bulimia, which she overcomes with C.J.'s help. She breaks up with Matt and pursues an education at Penn State. Eggert reprises her role in the reunion movie Baywatch: Hawaiian Wedding (where it is revealed that she was now in a relationship with Hobie). Alexandra Daddario plays the role in the 2017 film.
Matt Brody (David Charvet, seasons 3–6) 
A lifeguard from a wealthy family in France, who has to support himself when he is cut off financially by his overbearing father. He becomes romantically involved with Summer in season 4, and with C.J. in season 5. He is forced to resign because of a phony sexual harassment lawsuit filed by Neely, however he is reinstated after the allegations are proven to be false. He leaves for France in season 6, unable to cope with Neely's return, briefly returning for guest appearances and in the main cast for the "Forbidden Paradise" episodes (6.19 & 6.20). Zac Efron plays the role in the 2017 film.
Casey Jean "C.J." Parker (Pamela Anderson, seasons 3–7) 
A former lifeguard and old friend of Mitch's, who left years prior to the show to become a whitewater rafting instructor. She rejoins the team in season 3 with Summer and Matt. She was born in Las Vegas, and has battled a gambling addiction and bulimia. During the series, she becomes romantically involved with John D. Cort, Matt Brody (missing the first 6 episodes of season 6 to be with him in Europe), and Cody Madison. Cody proposes to her in season 7 finale, however she disappears in season 8, where she is said to have left Baywatch to marry a rock singer and run a bar in Mexico. UGO.com voted C.J. Parker one of the top 10 blondes. Anderson reprises her role in the reunion movie Baywatch: Hawaiian Wedding, where it is revealed that she had opened CJ's Bar and Grill in Hawaii. She eventually falls in love and marries one of the resort waiters named Lorenzo. Kelly Rohrbach plays the role in the 2017 film.
Jimmy Slade (Kelly Slater, season 3; recurring season 4)
A gifted surfer trying to go professional, who becomes romantically involved with Summer.