# Fantasticar

The Fantasti-Car is a fictional flying car appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, it first appeared in Fantastic Four #3 (March 1962). The vehicle is depicted as the primary mode of transportation for the fictional Marvel comics superhero team, the Fantastic Four.

Several versions have been created by Reed Richards / Mister Fantastic, leader of the team. There would be other updates of the Fantasti-Car over the years, however, most would be modifications on the first two designs.

Publication history

Fantasticar Mk. I 
The fist Fantasti-Car debuted in Fantastic Four #3 (March 1962), created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. It is an oval-like flying car that can split apart into multiple sections piloted by individual members of the Fantastic Four, a model which would be maintained in all later versions. This model, like all other models used when the Fantastic Four lived in the Baxter Building, was stored in the top floor hangars. It was later replaced.

Fantasticar Mk. II 
The second Fantasti-Car debuted in Fantastic Four #12 (March 1963), created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. It is said to have been built by both Reed Richards and the Human Torch. It is 27 feet long, and can separate into four individual flying segments. It has VTOL capabilities and is powered by electric fans and jet turbines. It can go up to 550 mph, with a maximum altitude of 30,000 feet. While each individual pod was more clearly defined on this model, it had a number of improvements, including a transparent bulletproof windshield which could cover the entire pod, allowing for travel in extra-hazardous circumstances. This model also had a much better range and top speed, as it was able to traverse nearly the entire continental United States in a short period of time and has a range of over 3000 miles.

Reception

Critical response 
Andrew Hard of Digital Trends included the Fantasti-Car in their "The Best Superhero Cars of All Time" list. Dave Golder of GamesRadar+ included the Fantasti-Car in their "Sci-Fis Greatest Flying Cars" list. Brad Hill of Sportskeeda included the Fantasti-Car in their "10 best Vehicles In Comic Books" list.

Comic Book Resources ranked the Fantasti-Car 4th in their "10 Coolest Vehicles In Marvel Comics" list, 8th in their "10 Best Vehicles In The Marvel Universe" list, and 9th in their "10 Most Important Vehicles In The Marvel Universe" list. Jamie Lovett of ComicBook.com ranked the Fantasti-Car 5th in their "5 Coolest Cars In Comics" list. Casey Haney of Screen Rant ranked the Fantasti-Car 13th in their "16 Best Superhero Vehicles" list.

Other versions

Old Man Logan
An alternate version of the Fantasti-Car appears in Old Man Logan. Fifty years after all the heroes were killed by the organized coalition of supervillains, the descendants of the Hulk are in possession of the Fantisticar, which they use to head to Logan's ranch.

Ultimate Marvel
An alternate version of the Fantasti-Car appears in the Ultimate Universe. It was still invented by Reed Richards, and resembles a hybrid of the original Fantasti-Car from classic Marvel continuity and a modern sports utility vehicle. It was introduced in the tenth issue of Ultimate Fantastic Four. The name is soundly mocked by Ben and Johnny.

In other media

Television

 The Fantasti-Car appears in The New Fantastic Four. This version resembles the original model.
 The Fantasti-Car appears in Fantastic Four (1967). This version resembles the second model.
 The Fantasti-Car appears in Fantastic Four (1994). This version resembles the second model.
 The Fantasti-Car appears in Fantastic Four: World's Greatest Heroes. This version is unique to the series and seen to be far more advanced.

Film

 The Fantasti-Car was introduced to film in the 2007 motion picture Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer, and appears to be a much sleeker version of the original Fantasti-Car. It is shown as being able to travel from New York to Siberia in a matter of minutes on autopilot, and can be summoned from Reed's palm top computer. Like its comics counterpart, it can also split into multiple sections (only three in this version, since the Human Torch can fly). In an element of product placement, the Fantasti-Car has the Dodge logo (presumably inspired by the Juggernaut meme) on its front end, prompting Johnny to ask if it is powered by a Hemi, to which he is told "of course."
 A reference to the Fantasti-Car was made in the 2015 reboot film Fantastic Four, in which after a young Reed claims to have already built a teleportation device, his teacher sarcastically asks, "Is it next to your flying car?," which Reed responds, "I don't work on that anymore." The car was axed from the film's script.

See also
Fantasticopter

References

Fantastic Four
Marvel Comics vehicles