# List of Torchwood items

This is a list of extraterrestrial, supernatural, otherworldly and futuristic items featured in the BBC science-fiction drama Torchwood and its spin-off media.

0-9

3-D glasses
Originally used by the Tenth Doctor in "Doomsday" to detect particles from the void between universes, Jack Harkness now owns a pair which he keeps on his desk ("Small Worlds").

A

Alien knife
See Life knife

Alien pendant
A communication device used by the inhabitants of Mary's home planet of Arcateen 5. It allows the wearer to hear thoughts and feelings of others; it can backfire if the ones the wearer is listening to have terrible secrets. The only known pendant on Earth was destroyed by Toshiko Sato in "Greeks Bearing Gifts". As Tosh pointed out, the only truthful thing Mary said about the pendant is that it can be too much for the wearer to handle.

Amnesia pill
Amnesia pills to cause someone to forget recent memories. The amnesia can be cured if the person's memories are triggered by one specific image (and if they are intelligent enough). Jack used this on Gwen Cooper after she first learned about the Torchwood Hub. It contains a special compound known as B67 or Retcon (in reference to retroactive continuity). The website reveals the pills were developed by Torchwood One under Yvonne Hartman, as well as several details about its effectiveness. 2 oz of B67 is only sufficient to cause mild confusion in young children (6–7), with 4 oz being able to cause memory loss in older persons (61–64), and 8 oz is sufficient to cause memory loss in people in their late 20s although in one instance, caused a stress-induced heart attack in a 64-year-old man. Gwen Cooper feeds Rhys retcon whilst confessing her affair with Owen, so that he will not remember. It is revealed in "End of Days" that those dismissed from Torchwood are "Retconned" within 24 hours. Other suggested names for the compound included Goldfish and Scooter.

Jack appears to have a supply of, or made, his own Retcon during the events of Season Four - "Miracle Day". He drugged Esther with it, only for it to prove pointless in the following episode where she is forced to join Torchwood, and someone from the Three Families that was spying on Gwen to see if she had any contact with Jack.

The Amok
The Amok is a multi-dimensional coin-shaped item which appears to be a recreational game for an alien race. As humans only operate within a four-dimensional world, the incomprehensible dimensions of the Amok cause surrounding humans to go mad with desire to take their turn playing. When in possession of the Amok, humans talk unintelligibly about things being "big big big" and witness blue lights behind their eyelids. The madness is so acute that humans can kill each other or themselves in an attempt to take their turn. When the Torchwood team encounter the Amok in the novel Border Princes by Dan Abnett, they are also affected by it, but eventually manage to contain it safely behind a physical firewall; it is subsequently destroyed in the same novel by Mr Dine.

Anti-Cyberman Special Weapons
Anti-Cyberman Special Weapons are special rifles designed and developed by scientists from the Parallel Torchwood to fight the Cybermen, and brought to Earth during the Cyberman Invasion, subsequently being retained by Torchwood in case the Cybermen ever return from the void. Torchwood Three has a supply of these weapons in the Weapons Room (which was sealed during the event caused by Cyberwoman Lisa Hallett, where cutting off the Hub's power supply caused the facility to go into lockdown and prevent access to the weapons). An aesthetically similar weapon, possibly an upgraded version, of the anti-cyber weaponry was seen and fired in the Doctor Who episode "A Nightmare in Silver."

Anti-Droon audio paddle
A plastic paddle that, when held to the forehead of a Droon host, ejects the Droon forcibly through the nostril of the victim. The paddle is used in the Torchwood spin-off novel Border Princes by Dan Abnett.

Antitoxin Kit
A piece of human-made technology created by Torchwood in response to numerous encounters with alien contagions and diseases. In "Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang", Owen Harper used one of the kits to save Gwen Cooper from death by Captain John Hart's lip-gloss toxin.

Anti-Weevil clamps
A piece of metal tape that, when wound round a captive's ankles or wrists, then pressed together, would meld into an unbreakable loop, mimicking a pair of handcuffs. The loop can only be broken by irradiating it with low-level microwaves. Though called Anti-Weevil clamps, they can be used on people or other aliens.

Anti-Weevil spray
A spray that causes short term pain to Weevils, allowing them to be subdued in a similar manner to the use of pepper spray on humans. It is first seen in "Everything Changes". However, by "Combat", the Weevils appear to be gaining an immunity to it.

Atom accelerator
An essential component of the Eleventh Doctor's TARDIS from "The Eleventh Hour" until "The Angels Take Manhattan". A similar-looking item can be seen in Torchwood's headquarters in "Day One", "Greeks Bearing Gifts" and "Random Shoes", all of which predate this prop's first appearance on Doctor Who.

B

Bekaran deep-tissue scanner
An X-ray device of alien-origin used by Owen in his medical analysis. It is capable of producing a photo-realistic X-ray on a tiny screen on the device, that can be viewed at any depth by adjusting the resolution. It appears in the novels Another Life, Border Princes and Slow Decay. It also appears in the radio play "Lost Souls".

Binoculars
Jack still has the futuristic binoculars that he used in the Doctor Who episode "The Empty Child".

Black Tile
A piece of alien exotic technology that has been in Jack Harkness's possession since he joined Torchwood. Its function remains mostly unknown, but is assumed to be a form of early warning system. It was seen in Border Princes.

Brudyac psychic receiver
A small, spherical item, chrome in colour, inserted into the spine of any creature that the Brudyac wishes to control. It allows a Brudyac to take psychic control of the victim, with the only disadvantage being that it uses up the spinal fluid of the victim, requiring them to drink more. The device also injects the Brudyac's food source into the victim's stomach, where it grows. In the novel Another Life by Peter Anghelides, several characters have this device implanted into their spines, among them, Owen and Jack.

C

Compact M1911
A .45 Caliber handgun used by everyone but Jack Harkness on the Torchwood team, the gun is a modern variant of the Colt Government M1911 model. It features a lightweight design while still packing a large amount of firepower.

Contact lenses
Special contact lenses which allow Torchwood headquarters to see everything the wearer sees. It also has special lip-reading technology to simulate hearing for the viewer, but only when lips are sufficiently visible. The wearer can receive instant messages from HQ. It was worn by Martha Jones in "Reset" to infiltrate the Pharm. In "Children of Earth", it was worn first by Lois Habiba to allow Torchwood to spy on negotiations between the British government and the 456 and then by Bridget Spears to gather information to force Prime Minister Brian Green out of office after his failures in handling the situation. It works by exploiting a solution to the EPR Paradox which is a supposed problem in the quantum theory relating to one of the three states of quantum particles, entanglement (See Quantum Physics). They are powered by body heat, so they only work when you wear them (Reset). Also, the contact lenses are untraceable by human technology (Reset and Children of Earth).

In Children of Earth (2009), Gwen, Rhys and Ianto share a moment of embarrassment after realising that they'd all used the Contact Lenses for "personal use" (hinted to be of a sexual nature). In Miracle Day (2011), they are given the name Eye-5 lenses; Gwen says they are the only piece of Torchwood technology they managed to keep following the events of Children of Earth. In "Escape to L.A.", they were used in reverse; projecting an image of a PhiCorp executive's eye over Gwen's to spoof iris recognition. In "The Middle Men", Gwen uses them to record her blowing up a concentration camp in Wales; later, they are hacked into by Olivia Colasanto to tell Gwen that her family has been kidnapped and that she must deliver Jack. Rex subsequently uses them in "End of the Road" to record Brian Friedkin's confession.

Cryo-chamber
Used by Torchwood to store corpses indefinitely. One of its uses is to provide corpses which can be disfigured and dumped to provide identifiable bodies for people who have been vapourised, eaten or otherwise destroyed by aliens ("Day One"). The source of the bodies is unclear. The body of Suzie Costello was seen being placed in storage at the end of "Everything Changes" and it has been used since on several occasions including when Jack is thought to be dead in "End of Da