# November 1966

The following events occurred in November 1966:

November 1, 1966 (Tuesday)
Inventor Candido Jacuzzi of Lafayette, California, was granted U.S. Design Patent No. 206,143 for a large "Hydrotherapy Tub" that would bear his family's surname.  Jacuzzi, who had immigrated to the United States from Italy at the age of 17, had developed the initial technology, a pump that could create a swirling whirlpool within a standard bathtub, in 1947.  The invention had arisen from necessity, to ease the rheumatoid arthritis of Candido's child, who would document the history in a 2005 book.
Haryana became the 17th state of India, after being separated from the existing Punjab State by the Indian government. B. D. Sharma was installed as the first Chief Minister of Haryana at the capital, Chandigarh.
On All Saints' Day, the National Football League awarded an expansion franchise to the largest city of Louisiana, and the owners announced that the pro football team would be called the New Orleans Saints.
Twelve firefighters in California were trapped and burned to death while fighting a blaze inside a canyon in the Pacoima area of the San Fernando Valley. All were members of the "El Coriso hot shots", a service crew for the U.S. Forestry Service in the nearby Cleveland National Forest. Ten died in the fire and two died a few days later in hospital from injuries sustained in the blaze. This event is known as the Loop Fire.
Hospital administrators at the Riverdell Hospital in Oradell, New Jersey, opened an investigation of one of the staff physicians, Dr. Mario Jascalevich, after a hospital surgeon discovered 18 open bottles, most of them almost empty, of the poison curare in Dr. Jascalevich's locker.  Suspicion had arisen after nine of Dr. Jascalevich's patients had died after minor surgeries in the previous eleven months, the most recent victim being a 36-year-old mother who had died on October 23 after a Cesarean section.  The doctor's explanation for the curare was that he had been "engaged in personal experiments on dogs", and he would continue to practice until 1976, when his indictment for five murders in what would become known as the "Dr. X killings" because of efforts to protect his anonymity during the trial.  Jascalevich would be acquitted in 1978, and the case remains unsolved.

November 2, 1966 (Wednesday)
A low-level conflict within the Korean Demilitarized Zone began as six American soldiers and one South Korean were killed by members of the North Korean Army, who had penetrated  inside South Korea. The attack, which followed a call on October 5 by North Korea's Kim Il Sung for "a positive struggle against U.S. imperialism", coincided with a visit by U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson to South Korea.
Israel moved one step closer to developing its own nuclear bomb when its armaments agency, RAFAEL (an acronym based upon Reshut l'pituah Emtzaei L'ehima, Hebrew for "Authority for the Development of Means of Warfare") achieved a successful test implosion of a nuclear device. RAFAEL Director Munya Mador would later describe the date as the moment that "a test of special import" was achieved, representing "unambiguous experimental proof of the efficacy of the system" that "we had waited many years for."
Leaders of West Germany's ruling coalition, the Christian Democratic Union and the Christian Social Union, called upon their leader, Ludwig Erhard, to resign as Chancellor of West Germany.
The Cuban Adjustment Act came into force, allowing automatic permanent residency (a prerequisite to United States citizenship) for any citizen of Cuba who had legally immigrated to the United States after January 1, 1959. The Act affected 123,000 refugees and their families who had fled the regime of Fidel Castro.
Legislative elections were held in Barbados, in preparation for independence, with a 79.7% voter turnout. The Democratic Labour Party, led by Errol Barrow, won a majority in the new parliament, capturing 14 of the 24 seats.
Air Canada began the first North American air services to the Soviet Union, starting with the flight of a DC-8 jet from Montreal to Moscow. The first Aeroflot flight from the Soviet Union to Canada would be inaugurated two days later.
George E. Mueller told the Directors of Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) and Manned Spacecraft Center (MSC) that he now had a "reasonable plan" to proceed with the Apollo Applications Program (AAP). First, Mueller stated that the Orbital Workshop mission could best achieve AAP objectives by launching the complete airlock, Workshop, and multiple docking adapter uncrewed into a one-year orbit, with activation to be accomplished by a separately launched crew. The first two AAP missions, said Mueller, would thus provide a three-person, 28-day flight and, at the same time, would establish a large clustered space configuration for use during subsequent missions. Secondly, Mueller posited that the ATM to be developed by MSFC could be integrated into an Apollo Lunar Module (LM) ascent stage and could be scheduled for launch during 1968. Mueller planned to present AAP planning along these lines during discussions regarding NASA's planning for human spaceflight in the post-Apollo era.
Born: David Schwimmer, American television actor (Friends), in New York City
Died:
Sadao Araki, 89, war criminal, general in the Imperial Japanese Army, and Minister of War during World War II, who served ten years in prison after being convicted of war crimes;
Peter Debye, 82, Dutch chemist who won the 1936 Nobel Prize in Chemistry;
Mississippi John Hurt, 73, African-American singer and guitarist

November 3, 1966 (Thursday)
The Nobel Committee announced in Stockholm that Professor Robert Mulliken of the United States would receive the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for "his fundamental work concerning chemical bonds and the electronic structure of molecules by the molecular orbital method", and Professor Alfred Kastler of France would get the Nobel Prize in Physics for "the discovery and development of optical methods for studying Hertzian resonances in atoms".
Che Guevara, who had helped Fidel Castro take power in Cuba before setting off on fomenting similar popular uprisings in other nations, arrived in La Paz, Bolivia, with plans to help lead a guerrilla war against the Bolivian government.  Clean-shaven, bald and wearing glasses, Guevara, entered the country with a passport from Uruguay as "Adolfo Mena Gonzalez", and was identified as a "Special Envoy of the Organization of American States". Within two months after his arrival, however, he found that the Bolivian Communist Party had no wish to start a violent revolution, and set off to conduct his own fight, eventually being captured and executed in 1967.
Died: Fritz Baumgarten, 83, German illustrator of children's books;

November 4, 1966 (Friday)
A flash flood killed 149 people when the Arno River swept through the city of Florence in Italy.  Shortly after 9:00 p.m., the Arno's waters swept through the city.  Exacerbated by the ancient city's narrow streets, the water level rose  within two hours.  With "a combination of moderately high tide, the runoff of torrential rain from the day before, and a sirocco wind blowing northward up the Adriatic", the river brought the highest recorded water level in Florence, peaking at . Besides the death toll (with 35 of the deaths in Florence itself, and another 114 in the surrounding countryside), the flood of the Arno destroyed millions of dollars worth of Renaissance art masterpieces and rare books, and causing more damage than had been suffered during World War II.  The basements and first floor of the renowned Uffizi Gallery were inundated with water and mud, and water filled the Convent of St. Mark and the Florence Cathedral.  Damaged also were the holdings of the Santa Croce Basilica, and six million books in the Italian national library and state archives (Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale).  The previous recorded high had been exactly 633 years earlier, on November 4, 1333.  In Venice, which suffered its worst flooding in several centuries, the rise of the waters to more than six feet above normal "cut the country virtually in half", destroyed gondolas and boats, and damaged many of the foot bridges over the canals.
In Cairo, Prime Minister Yusuf Zuayyin of Syria signed a mutual defense pact with Egypt, committing each nation to coming to the other's aid in the event of a war with Israel.  The treaty had been proposed by Egypt's President Gamel Abdel Nasser, who believed that Syrian provocation of Israel would end up bringing the entire Middle East into a war, as an attempt to bring Syria's incursions under control by requiring that the two nations consult with each other before undertaking military action.

November 5, 1966 (Saturday)
Ghana released the Foreign Minister of Guinea, General Joseph Ankrah, and 18 other Guineans who had been held as prisoners in Accra since being taken off of an airliner while on their way to the meeti