# Education in Jordan

The education system of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan includes basic, secondary, and higher education and has dramatically evolved since the establishment of the state in the early 1900s. The role played by a good education system has been significant in the development of Jordan from a predominantly agrarian to an industrialized nation over time. 

Jordan has the highest number of researchers in research and development per million people among all the 57 countries that are members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC); in Jordan there are 8,060 researchers per million people, while the world average is 2,532 per million.

In 2003, the share of budget dedicated to education was 6.4 percent of total government expenditure; education spending as a percentage of GDP was 13.5 percent in the same year. At 8.9 percent, Jordan has the lowest illiteracy rate in the Arab world (as of 2012). The primary gross enrollment ratio has increased from 71 percent in 1994 to 98.2 percent in 2006. The transition rate to secondary school, during the same period, increased from 63 percent to 97 percent and transition rates to higher education have varied between 79 and 85 percent of secondary school graduates. Along with these high enrollment and transition rates, Jordan has achieved a 97.89% gender parity in literacy by 2012, and full parity in primary and secondary enrollment by 2008.

Jordan is ranked 95 out of 187 in the Human Development Index. Despite strained resources, the Ministry of Education of Jordan has developed highly advanced national curriculum, and many other nations in the region have developed their education system using Jordan as a model. Jordan ranks number one in the Arab World in education. 

The Ministry of Education (MoE) is responsible for the pre-primary, primary, and secondary levels of education. Post-secondary education is the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MoHESR), which includes the Higher Education Council and the Accreditation Council.

The Human Rights Measurement Initiative (HRMI) finds that Jordan is fulfilling only 63.7% of what it should be fulfilling for the right to education based on the country's level of income. HRMI breaks down the right to education by looking at the rights to both primary education and secondary education. While taking into consideration Jordan's income level, the nation is achieving only 62.1% of what should be possible based on its resources (income) for primary education and 65.2% for secondary education.

Education Management System 
The Ministry of Education (MoE) is responsible for the pre-primary, primary, and secondary levels of education. Post-secondary education is the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MoHESR), which includes the Higher Education Council and the Accreditation Council. The MoHESR has outlined a National Strategy for Higher Education for the years 2007–2012.

Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) at the post-basic level (excluding community colleges) as well as applied vocational education, administered by the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), is under the authority of the Ministry of Labor.

School Education
The structure of the educational system in Jordan consists of a two-year cycle of preschool education, ten years of compulsory basic education, and two years of secondary academic or vocational education after which the students sit for a General Certificate of Secondary Education Exam (Tawjihi). Basic Education is free of charge, and so is secondary education in public schools.

Basic Education

Basic Education is a 10-year compulsory and free level of education (grades 1-10). Study books are standard books distributed by the Ministry of Education. Education is compulsory for all through the age of sixteen.

More than half of the Jordan population is below the age of 30 years. About 42.2 percent are 14 years or younger, whereas 31.4 percent fall between 15 and 29 years of age; almost one-third of the Jordanians are enrolled in educational facilities. As of 2007/2008 the  gross primary enrollment rate is 95.7 percent which is  higher than the regional average of 93 percent. Jordan also ensures a high level of gender parity in access to basic services; the gender parity index for gross enrollment ratio in primary education is 0.98, better than other Arab countries. It  is also one of the few Arab countries that have very small  disparity in primary school attendance rates among urban and rural areas. This is mainly because public financing for basic schooling is more pro-poor than that for any other education level.

Schools in Jordan have two main categories, government and private. The private education sector accommodates more than 31.14 percent of the student population in the capital of Jordan, Amman. This sector is still heavily taxed, up to 25%++, although it takes a high burden off the government of the Kingdom, which makes school fees relatively high, starting at $1000, and going up to $7000. These values for private education fees are extremely high when compared to the average family incomes.

Secondary education
Students in this education level, choosing the scientific stream, are required to take nine  subjects: Arabic, English, mathematics, computer studies, geology and environment, chemistry, biology, physics and cultural studies. While students choosing the classical stream, are required to take the following subjects: Arabic, Advanced Arabic, English, mathematics, computer science, and history. Islamic studies are also mandatory for all students except for Christian students. However that there are reforms planned to the secondary education system from 2020 onwards that might alter the streams available and the list of subjects. 
The secondary education level consists of two years' study for students aged 16 to 18 who have completed the basic cycle (ten years) and comprises two major tracks:
 Secondary education (managed by the Ministry of Education), which can either be academic or vocational. At the end of the two-year period, students sit for the general secondary examination (Tawjihi) in the appropriate branch and those who pass are awarded the Tawjihi (General Secondary Education Certificate). The academic stream qualifies students for entrance to universities, whereas the vocational or technical type qualifies for entrance to Community Colleges or universities or the job market, provided they pass the two additional subjects.
 Applied secondary education (managed by the Vocational Training corporation), which provides intensive vocational training and apprenticeship, and leads to the award of a certificate (not the Tawjihi). Practical training is made through apprenticeship, and not in school workshops as in vocational secondary education.

Primary to secondary transition rate has reached 98.79 % as of 2013, The enrollment in secondary vocational education as a share of total secondary enrollment declined from 18 percent in 2000 to 12 percent in 2005.

In international assessments, such as TIMSS and PISA, Jordan has performed well in comparison to other countries, Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) Report in 2003 ranked Jordanian students' scores to be 22 points above international average in science and mathematics.

Since tertiary education is not free, the rate of transition to tertiary education is highly correlated with family incomes; there are 3 times more students at the university level from families in upper two income quintiles than those from families in the lower three.

UNRWA in Jordan
The United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) operates one of the largest school systems in the Middle East which has provided basic and preparatory education to Palestinian refugees for nearly five decades. The Agency provides basic education free of charge to all Palestinian refugee children in its area of operations, which includes Jordan. There are also vocational training courses provided in eight training centers, two of which are in Jordan, and have been in operation for the past four decades. The Agency has established an Institute of Education, which is headquartered in Amman, to provide training to the UNRWA teaching staff.

In Jordan, not all refugee children attend UNRWA schools. Most Palestinian refugees have access to government schools and many of them choose to send their children there.
Most of the UNRWA schools run on more than a single shift. Approximately 83 percent of UNRWA elementary schools and 62 percent of UNRWA preparatory schools are operated in full double shifts. The Jordan Field has the highest percentage of double shift schools, averaging about 93 percent. The total refugee pupil enrollment in Jordan at various education levels is the following:

Total Refugee Pupil Enrollment in Jordan distributed by Education Level