# Addison Montgomery

Addison Adrianne Forbes Montgomery, M.D., F.A.C.S., F.A.C.O.G  is a fictional character who appears as a supporting main character on the ABC television series Grey's Anatomy, and as the protagonist of its spin-off  Private Practice played by Kate Walsh. Addison is a world-class neonatal surgeon with board certifications in both Obstetrics and Gynaecology and Maternal and Fetal Medicine. Additionally, she has completed a medical genetics fellowship. She works at the Oceanside Wellness Group, a fictional practice located in Santa Monica, California.

Addison joined the series in the first-season finale as Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey)'s estranged wife. Initially set for a recurring guest stint on Grey's, Walsh's character expanded into a series regular position as Rhimes grew fond of Walsh's portrayal of the character. She is promoted to series regular in season two episode seven, "Something To Talk About". She makes her final appearance as a series regular in the season three finale, "Didn't We Almost Have It All?", but returns as a guest star for the following five seasons, including a two-part guest stint in the fifth season. 

Once the love-triangle storyline had been resolved, Rhimes created the first spin-off of Grey's Anatomy based on the character named Private Practice which saw Addison move to Los Angeles to start anew, after two seasons as a series regular. The spin-off lasted six seasons, running concurrently with the fourth to ninth seasons of Grey's Anatomy. Walsh deciding to retire the character after eight years of portraying her, making her final series regular appearance in the Grey's Anatomy universe in the Private Practice series finale, "In Which We Say Goodbye" on January 22, 2013. Walsh returned to the role almost nine years later in recurring capacity, for the eighteenth and nineteenth seasons of the original series.

Storylines

Backstory 
Most of Addison's past is presented in a non-linear fashion, primarily revealed in the second season of Grey's Anatomy and the second and third season of Private Practice. Addison is the daughter of wealthy parents and has a $25 million trust fund. Addison's father is nicknamed "The Captain" and is a doctor who teaches medicine at a university where Addison would sit and watch as a child. Her father used spending time with his daughter as a pretense for his many affairs. Addison's mother is Beatrice "Bizzy" Forbes Montgomery and her brother, Archer, is a world-class neurologist and successful author. Addison met her future husband, Derek Shepherd, in medical school. Addison is a Yale University graduate and attended Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City for medical school. She met future colleagues Sam and Naomi Bennett there as well. Addison and Derek each began their practice in New York City, which placed a strain on their marriage. Their marriage was troubled in the years leading to Derek's decision to leave New York as it is eventually revealed in both Grey's Anatomy and Private Practice that Derek's mother did not approve of her (choosing to give her dead husband's ring to Derek's second wife,  Meredith Grey) and Addison's brother Archer disliked Derek. Addison's affair with Derek's best friend Mark Sloan drove the wedge even further and Derek's departure to Seattle. Addison briefly attempted to have a relationship with Mark, which resulted in her becoming pregnant. She then had an abortion soon after she discovered that Mark cheated on her, and as she was still in love with Derek. She then moved to Seattle.

Grey's Anatomy 
The character Addison first appears in the season one finale of Grey's Anatomy, arriving at Richard's behest. She tries to reconcile with Derek, despite his relationship with Meredith Grey, but he is still angry with her, and there is a period of antagonism between them. Addison's presence, however, does reinvigorate their relationship, and ultimately leads to Derek choosing Addison over Meredith, despite Derek eventually admitting that he fell in love with Meredith. They attempt to return to their former life, taking residence in his trailer, and Addison becomes the head of a unique surgical service integrating neonatal surgery and obstetrics and gynecology. She realizes that Derek still has feelings for Meredith, and their marriage is tested further when Mark arrives in Seattle looking for Addison. Mark makes Addison realize that Derek is in love with Meredith and that he (Mark) does love her. Derek sleeps with Addison after he sees that Meredith has moved on. When Addison finds out that Derek had sex with Meredith, she gets drunk and sleeps with Mark. He asks for a relationship, but she rejects him.

During season two, Addison punishes Alex Karev, by putting him on her service, because he almost got her arrested. However, by season three, she begins to feel an attraction towards Alex and eventually sleeps with him, only to discover that he is not interested in a relationship with her. Feeling alone, Addison decides to have a baby and visits Naomi, who is a fertility specialist. This storyline introduces Addison's transition from Grey's Anatomy to its spin-off, as it serves as the backdoor pilot for Private Practice. Soon after, Addison decides to leave Seattle and move to Los Angeles, joining Oceanside Wellness, led by Sam and Naomi. This marks Addison's departure from Grey's Anatomy as a regular, although she makes at least one guest appearance per season until the eighth season.  

On September 2, 2021, it was announced on social media that Kate Walsh would return to play Dr. Montgomery for the show's eighteenth season. She reprised her role for three episodes: "Hotter than Hell", "With a Little Help From My Friends" and "Should I Stay or Should I Go?".

On season 19 episode 11, "Training Day", she is hit by a car.

Private Practice 
In the series' first episode, Addison is made to feel unwelcome by the other doctors but chooses to stay. Addison is attracted to Pete Wilder, the practice's alternative medicine specialist. When Pete stands her up on a date, Addison decides they should be friends and nothing more and instead accepts a date with Kevin, a police officer she met through work. In a crossover episode, Addison briefly returns to Seattle Grace to help with a patient. Before she leaves, Addison advises Meredith not to let Derek get away.

In season two, Addison learns from Naomi that the practice is failing financially. She tells Sam against Naomi's wishes, and, feeling betrayed, Naomi breaks off her friendship with Addison. Addison inadvertently prompts the staff to vote between Sam and Naomi and is surprised when instead, she is elected to lead the practice as its director.

Addison's relationship with Kevin is tested when her brother Archer tells Kevin he is not good enough for her. Addison reassures him, but it causes them to break up later. Addison is surprised when Archer begins working for Pacific Wellcare Center, a rival practice. When he experiences multiple seizures and believes he has a brain tumor, Addison asks Derek to treat Archer in another crossover episode with Grey's Anatomy. Derek discovers he has parasites in his brain, and successfully removes them. Naomi and Archer begin dating, which puts some strain on the friendship between Addison and Naomi. Addison also dates a man who is later revealed to be married. Also during this time, it is shown that Addison's mother Bizzy is a lesbian who has been in a long-term affair with her best friend. Addison is angry because she always blamed her father for his numerous extra-marital affairs and was angry at how he treated Bizzy, not realizing that her mother was the one in a serious extramarital relationship. Addison's father is aware of her mother's affair, but they decided a long time ago that they would stay married to one another because Bizzy is not comfortable with others knowing about her sexuality. Although the relationship with her parents is strained from this, in the end, they make peace.

Addison and Sam start developing feelings for each other. It is revealed that, back in college, Sam wanted to ask Addison out but was too nervous, and he ended up with Naomi. They shared a kiss after a terrifying ordeal when they tried to save a married couple who got into a devastating car accident. They kiss again when Addison decides to sleep over at Sam's. Addison and Sam grow close, but she chooses to put a halt on their developing relationship, worried about the consequences in her friendship with Naomi. Addison revealed that she was in love with Sam and Pete, but she decided to begin a relationship with Pete instead, while Sam was with another doctor. Despite them being with other people, they still show they harbor feelings for each other, including jealousy when they see the other with their current significant others. After Sam becomes single again, he kisses Addison again. Although she was with Pete, she kisses Sam back and Pete c