# RAF Heathfield

Royal Air Force Heathfield, or more commonly RAF Heathfield, sometimes known as RAF Ayr/Heathfield due to its proximity to Glasgow Prestwick Airport, which was also used by military flights, is a former Royal Air Force station. It opened in April 1941 as an airbase for day and night fighter squadrons. In September 1944 it transferred to Fleet Air Arm control and commissioned as HMS Wagtail. The Royal Navy paid off the airbase in March 1946 and it was reduced to care and maintenance. The United States Air Force used it for storage between 1951 and 1957, with the designation USAAF Station 570.

Like many other wartime airfields, its runways were of the triangular layout.

History

Royal Air Force use 

The following units were posted here at some point:

Units

Royal Navy use 

The airbase was transferred on loan to the Admiralty, from No. 13 Group RAF, on 6 September 1944. The Royal Navy took over with the Commanding Officer, Commander (A) H.L. McCullock. Known as Royal Naval Air Station Ayr (RNAS Ayr), it was commissioned shortly afterwards, on 20 October, as HMS Wagtail.  One runway was redesigned and used by the Royal Navy's Fleet Air Arm to practice aircraft carrier landings.

The airbase was home to various Royal Navy units which were part of the Fleet Air Arm (FAA) including: the Bombardment Spotting School, No.3 Barracuda Servicing Unit and the Flag Officer Carrier Training Squadron. Also operating out of RNAS Ayr was 772 Naval Air Squadron which was a Fleet Requirements Unit. The airbase also included accommodation for disembarked FAA squadrons and additionally there was accommodation for two RAF Squadrons.

The following units were posted here at some point:

RNAS Ayr was 'paid off' by the Royal Navy on 10 March 1946 and it was reduced to Care & Maintenance Status, administered by RNAS Abbotsinch.

United States Air Force use 

The site was used by the United States Air Force (USAF) between 1951 and 1957, designated USAAF Station 570, for aircraft storage use. From then on the USAF decided to solely use the adjacent Prestwick.

Current use

The site is now a mixture of housing, farmland and a golf club.

See also
 List of former Royal Air Force stations

References

Citations

Bibliography
 Berry, P (2005) Prestwick Airport and Scottish Aviation

Royal Air Force stations of World War II in the United Kingdom
Royal Air Force stations in Ayrshire
Buildings and structures in South Ayrshire
Defunct airports in Scotland