# List of Jimmy Neutron characters

Characters in the American film Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius, the animated television series spin-off The Adventures of Jimmy Neutron, Boy Genius and other media include:

Main

Cast table

James Isaac Neutron (voiced by Debi Derryberry) is an extremely intelligent boy who uses scientific knowledge and inventions to solve problems, most of which he causes himself. He is 10 years old in the first season, 11 in the second season, and 12 in the third and final season. His name is a reference to Isaac Newton. He is the son of Judy and Hugh Neutron. Although he is a genius, he is a kid at heart and has more often than not proven so. Due to the events in Retroville, Jimmy is key in resolving most situations. Jimmy will usually exclaim "Gotta think..." when he begins formulating a solution for the dilemma, accessing a vast wealth of information gathered during the dilemma. Once he has developed a plan, he usually exclaims "Brain blast!" His best friends are Sheen Estevez, Carl Wheezer and his robot dog Goddard. He and Cindy Vortex have a dislike for each other, although it is revealed in later episodes that they secretly love each other. In addition to his parents, several of his other relatives have also appeared on the show.
Carlton Ulysses "Carl" Wheezer (voiced by Rob Paulsen in the film and TV series and Wally Wingert in the 2002 PS2 and GameCube game) is a bespectacled dimwitted boy and one of Jimmy's best friends. Carl and his parents have numerous allergies, at times even to things that are incapable of triggering allergic reactions. He passionately loves llamas, hanging posters of them throughout his room and playing llama-themed video games. His passion for llamas is often used as a running gag throughout the series. In later episodes his apparent crush on Jimmy's mom is a running gag, and he sometimes tapes his own face over Hugh's in pictures. An extraterrestrial character named Doppy, with similarities to Carl, is a main character in Planet Sheen. His extreme obsession for the llama originated when his parents expanded their cable lineup and he became devoted to a show called Llama Boy The Super Hero. Since his obsession began he has gone to great lengths to express his love for them, going as far as to join a fan club called The Llama Love Society, which he likely created himself. It is worth noting, Carl is afraid of lima beans, germs, and scary stories. He is also known to have asthma and uses an inhaler, and he is very stressed about his multitude of allergies and is terrified of getting any sort of illness, similar to his parents. Also, when he is tired, his mom makes him warm milk, rubs his tummy, and sings "nani nani nani", which he blurts out in an episode. A recurring gag throughout the series is Carl singing melodramatic ballads about mundane tasks, such as "Folding and Hanging", "Bending and Stretching" or the self-referential "Sitting and Singing".
Ramón Juarrea "Sheen" Estevez (voiced by Jeffrey Garcia) is Jimmy's slightly older, hyperactive, addled best friend, characterized by his unhealthy obsession with the fictional superhero "UltraLord" and the television series, video games, and merchandising inspired by UltraLord. Sheen lives with his father and grandmother. Sheen's father makes a brief appearance in season one, although his face is not shown. Sheen is noted for his extreme, constant bouts of hyperactivity, which he demonstrates multiple times per episode, along with his misdirected, limited intelligence and short attention span, to the annoyance of his peers. Alongside UltraLord, Sheen also appears to be interested in superheroes in general and in typical masculine subjects such as wrestling and is strongly infatuated with Libby, becoming her boyfriend by the time of the program's conclusion.  Sheen would later star in his own spin-off show, Planet Sheen, which premiered in 2010. In this series, he goes into Jimmy's lab and steals his new rocket ship, which crash lands on the planet Zeenu. Due to the series being short-lived, he is never shown returning to Earth. However in the episode "The Tomorrow Boys", Sheen is shown to be living on Earth in the future. (This implies that he does make it back to Earth from Zeenu as his best friends rescue him sometime after the show.)  His full name is a reference to the last names of both stage names and real names of father-son actors Martin Sheen, Charlie Sheen, and Emilio Estevez.
Cynthia Aurora "Cindy" Vortex (voiced by Carolyn Lawrence) is a blonde-haired girl who lives across the street from Jimmy. She is a very sarcastic and independent tomboy who enjoys tai chi and karate, and will do anything for attention. She is also very smart and achieves the highest grades in her class besides Jimmy, a point of competition between the two of them. She feels that Jimmy is only ahead of her because he was given the better lot in life, and envies his lab. Despite frequently talking down to Jimmy and labeling him a "nerd", she herself isn't popular with many people aside from Libby, her best friends and compatriot. She has always had a crush on Jimmy but because of her pride it takes a while for her to admit it. In seasons 2 and 3, however, a recurring theme in the episodes is Jimmy and Cindy being put in situations where they need to work together, where they eventually come to terms with and realize their affection for each other. She often serves as an antagonist, but Jimmy also considers her part of his friend group.
Libby Folfax (voiced by Crystal Scales) is an African-American girl who is a dancer and especially adores, funk music, emo rock, and boy bands. Early in the series, Libby dislikes Jimmy and his friends and often sides with her best friend Cindy, but as the series continues, Libby become more attached to Jimmy, Carl, and Sheen. In "Beach Party Mummy", while exploring an Egyptian tomb, Libby and her friends discover that Libby strongly resembles Egyptian Queen Hasabataslapya. During the episode, Libby masqueraded as the queen in order to distract a group of revived mummies (as the ancient portrait of the queen strongly resembles Libby). For the rest of the series, Libby kept the new braided bob hairstyle in homage to her likely ancestor. After Sheen professes his crush to her in "Love Potion 976/J", Libby takes a romantic interest in him. Libby's father appears in the episodes "Make Room for Daddy-O", "Men at Work", and "Win Lose and Kaboom". He has also made cameo appearances in several episodes. Libby's mother (also voiced by Scales) appears in "Journey to the Center of Carl" and "The N-Men".
Goddard (voiced by Frank Welker) is a robotic dog, invented by Jimmy. He is loyal to his owner and often accompanies him on his adventures, including to different planets. Jimmy has programmed Goddard to arrive when called via Jimmy's phone. Goddard has various features including self-propelled flight, storage, and a rocket propelled bicycle-like transportation, complete with handle bars. Jimmy often uses Goddard to help weigh options for his dilemmas, which Goddard displays on a computer monitor covered normally by his breastplate. He has mostly the disposition of a normal dog, but occasionally uses voice clips to communicate. Jimmy can have Goddard "play dead", which causes him to self-destruct. Despite being blown to pieces, Goddard can instantly reconstruct himself back to normal from the scrap without any assistance. This has become a running gag for him. He is named after the late famous American physicist, Robert H. Goddard.
Hugh Beaumont Neutron (voiced by Mark DeCarlo) is Jimmy's father and Judy's husband. He is portrayed as a clueless, dimwitted, but good-natured man who works in an automotive assembly plant. He frequently offers advice to Jimmy in an attempt to be a better father. Ducks are Hugh's favorite hobby; he enjoys collecting and buffing duck decoys, displaying them around the house. Hugh also professes an obsession for pie, especially those baked by Judy. In one episode, Hugh invented a holiday called "Pule" (a combination of Pie and Yule) when Jimmy accidentally causes Christmas to be replaced by messing with Santa's atoms. In another episode, Hugh gets hooked on shows from outer space. This proves vital as his knowledge of these shows ended up saving Earth when he had to answer a question related to one of the shows. The character is named after actor Hugh Beaumont, who played Ward Cleaver in Leave it to Beaver. His voice was in part an impression of one of the series producers, Paul Marshal.
Judith "Judy" Neutron (voiced by Megan Cavanagh) is a homemaker and baker, Jimmy's mother and Hugh's wife. She is a responsible parent for her son Jimmy, and often professes a similar role for her husband Hugh. She addresses Jimmy by his full name whenever she scolds him or one of his inventions mess up. Regardless, she has stated that she appreciates her union to Hugh and is happy in their marriage.

Recurring
Betty Quinlan (voiced by Kath Soucie) is an Asi