# Baby-Sitters Little Sister

Baby-Sitters Little Sister is a series spin-off of The Baby-Sitters Club novel series. Written by Ann M. Martin, the series centered on six later seven-year-old Karen Becky Sue Brewer, the stepsister to Kristin Amanda "Kristy" Thomas, who is President of The Baby-Sitters Club. In this series, Karen is a second grader at Stoneybrook Academy. The stories are about the adventures that Karen and her best friends Hannah "Hannie" Papadakis and Nancy Dawes have. Karen usually tries to do the right thing, but because she has been through some hard times in her young life, she sometimes makes a mistake. She does, however, learn from her mistakes.

In the beginning of the series, Karen and her younger brother, Andrew, live primarily with their mother, Lisa, and stepfather, Seth Engle in Forest Drive. Karen and Andrew do not get to spend much time with their father, Watson Brewer, and stepmother, Elizabeth "Liz" Thomas-Brewer in McLelland Road every other weekend. Therefore, they end up missing the extended family so much that they request to spend equal time with both families. Karen and Andrew now spend one month at the "little house" and another month at the "big house".

Although the series covered holiday celebrations every year in real-time, Karen only celebrated her birthday once (she turned seven years old in Baby-Sitters Little Sister #7, Karen's Birthday).

On April 30, 2019, it was announced that there are plans for a series of Baby-Sitters Little Sister graphic novels illustrated by Katy Farina and colored by Braden Lamb. The first graphic novel, Karen's Witch, was released on December 26, 2019. Three more graphic novels followed: Karen's Roller Skates was released on July 7, 2020, Karen's Worst Day was released on December 29, 2020, Karen's Kittycat Club was released on July 20, 2021, Karen’s School Picture was released on February 1, 2022, Karen's Birthday was released on January 3rd, 2023, Karen's Haircut was released on July 4th, 2023, followed by Karen's Sleepover in May 2024.

See also

List of The Baby-sitters Little Sister novels

References

Series of children's books
The Baby-Sitters Club