# Lowell E. English

Lowell Edward English (July 8, 1915 – September 29, 2005) was a highly decorated officer in the United States Marine Corps with the rank of major general who served in World War II, Korea and Vietnam. He is most noted for his service as assistant division commander, 3rd Marine Division during Vietnam War and later as commanding general, Task Force Delta. He completed his career as commanding general, Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego in 1969.

Early career

English was born in Fairbury, Nebraska, on July 8, 1915, and completed the high school in Lincoln, Nebraska. He subsequently attended the University of Nebraska and graduated in summer 1938 with Bachelor of Arts degree. During his time at the university, he was a member of Army ROTC unit and also played three years for the varsity football team, which was one of the Big Six Champions at the time. He turned down an offer to play football with the Chicago Bears in favor of the Marine Corps.

He entered the Marine Corps service on July 1, 1938, and was commissioned second lieutenant on that date. English was then ordered to the Basic School at the Philadelphia Navy Yard for basic officer training, which he completed in June 1939. During his time at the school, English had the opportunity to work with many great names of modern Marine Corps history, when Leonard B. Cresswell, Chesty Puller, Roy M. Gulick, Howard N. Kenyon or Russell N. Jordahl served as his instructors.

Also many of his classmates became general officers or had very distinguished careers later: Gregory Boyington, Hugh M. Elwood, Carl J. Fleps, Edward H. Hurst, Charles J. Quilter, Donn J. Robertson and Alvin S. Sanders. He was subsequently attached to the Marine detachment aboard the battleship USS Nevada and participated in the patrol cruises in the Pacific Ocean.

After one year of sea duties, English was ordered to the Marine Corps Base San Diego, California and served as a recruit training officer until December 1940, when he joined newly activated 7th Defense Battalion under Lieutenant Colonel Lester A. Dessez. This new kind of Marine units was designated for the defense of the Pacific islands from the attack from the sea and air and consisted of the batteries with 5"/51 caliber guns, searchlight and aircraft sound locator and antiaircraft groups with M2 Browning and M1917 Browning machine guns.

English spent next three months with the intensive training, before he sailed as platoon leader to Tutuila, American Samoa in March 1941 and participated in the Rainbow Five plans. During his time in Tutuila, English participated in the training of 1st Samoan Battalion, a native reserve unit. Before he left for South Pacific, English married Eleanor R. McCallum on February 24, 1941, and their marriage lasted until his death, having three children together: Loellen Kay, Bruce Browning and Becky Lynne. While at Samoa, English was promoted to the rank of first lieutenant.

World War II

Following the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, the Headquarters Marine Corps activated the 3rd Marine Regiment and deployed it to American Samoa in September 1942. English was meanwhile promoted to captain and appointed company commander with 2nd Battalion. The 3rd Marines served as the part of Defense Force, Samoan Group and underwent intensive jungle training. The regiment remained on American Samoa until May 1943, when it was ordered to New Zealand in order to reinforce newly activated 3rd Marine Division.

The units of 3rd Marine Division moved to the staging area on Guadalcanal during August 1943 and began with the preparations for upcoming task – Bougainville in the North Solomon Islands. The 3rd Marine Division units were ordered to combat at the end of October and English participated in the Landing at Cape Torokina on November 1. He and his men faced heavy Japanese resistance and constant attacks of mosquitoes. He participated in the combat on Bougainville until Christmas Day of 1943, when 3rd Marines were ordered back to Guadalcanal for rest and refit.

English was subsequently promoted to major and transferred to 21st Marine Regiment, where he was appointed executive officer with 2nd Battalion under Lieutenant Colonel Eustace R. Smoak. He supervised the training of the regiment until July 1944, when they sailed to recapture Guam in the Mariana Islands. English went ashore with his battalion on July 21 and remained in the combat area until August 10. For his service on Guam, he was decorated with the Bronze Star Medal with Combat "V".

Even after Guam was declared secure, the 21st Marines continued to patrol the northern jungles for disorganized remnants of the enemy. Following the promotion of Lieutenant Colonel Smoak in late 1944, English was himself promoted to lieutenant colonel and appointed commander of 2nd Battalion, 21st Marines. He spent several months with training, before the 21st Marines were ordered to Iwo Jima in February 1945.

The whole regiment was kept in reserve until February 21, when they landed under heavy enemy fire with the orders to capture the high ground between Airfields No. 1 and No. 2. The scarred and pitted terrain made progress slow and costly. The 2nd Battalion suffered heavy casualties, and English was himself wounded on March 2, when a Japanese bullet went through his knee. His battalion was being rotated to the rear, but instead of that, he received orders to turn his men around and plug a gap in the front lines.

English later recalled the situation:

Postwar service

Due to his wounds, English was relieved by his executive officer, Major George A. Percy, and ordered to the rear for treatment. For his service on Iwo Jima, English was decorated with the Legion of Merit with Combat "V" and also received the Purple Heart for his wounds.

He was back to the United States and after full recovery in September 1945, he assumed command of Guard Battalion, Replacement Training Command at Camp Pendleton, California. English held that command until early 1946, when he was ordered to the academic staff at the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, as a military psychology and leadership instructor. After three years in that capacity, he was transferred to the same position within United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, and remained there until fall of 1952.

English was then ordered to the instruction at Armed Forces Staff College at Norfolk, Virginia, which he completed in January 1953 and immediately left for Korea. He was attached to the 1st Marine Regiment as an executive officer and participated in the defense actions on the Main line of resistance until April 1953, when he assumed command of 3rd Battalion, 1st Marines.

He held that command only for one month; the 1st Marine Regiment was ordered to reserve and English was attached to the headquarters of U.S. Eighth Army under Lieutenant General Maxwell D. Taylor as Marine liaison officer. He remained in Korea until early 1954, when he was ordered back to the United States. English was decorated with his second Legion of Merit with Combat "V" for his service with 1st Marines and also received his second Bronze Star Medal with Combat "V" for service with Eight Army.

Following his return to the United States in May 1954, English was promoted to colonel and appointed chief of staff, Marine Corps Recruit Depot San Diego under Major General John C. McQueen. He remained in that capacity until June 1957, when he assumed command of Training and Test Regiment at Marine Corps Schools, Quantico. While at Quantico, English was appointed commanding officer, The Basic School and was responsible for the basic training of newly commissioned officers until June 1960, when he was ordered to the instruction at Army War College at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania.

He graduated in June 1961 and joined the Office of Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs under Paul Nitze and served in that capacity until his promotion to brigadier general in August 1963. While in that capacity, English graduated from George Washington University with a master's degree in international relations.

English then served as chief of staff, U.S. Naval Forces, Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean under Admiral Charles D. Griffin with headquarters in London, England. He returned to the United States in January 1964 and assumed duty as Deputy Chief of Plans Directorate of United States Strike Command under General Paul D. Adams at MacDill Air Force Base, Florida.

Vietnam War

English was ordered to South Vietnam in December 1965 and joined 3rd Marine Division as assistant division commander under Major General Lewis W. Walt in Da Nang. He shared this responsibility with Brigadier General Jonas M. Platt, who served as second assistant division commander with headquarters at Chu Lai. The new commanding general of 3rd Marine Division, Wood B. Kyle, ordered English to move his headquarters to Phu Bai, where he assumed comma