# SD Gundam Musha Banchō Fūunroku

is a short-lived SD Gundam manga series, a spin-off from the popular Gundam anime. It is authored by Masato Ichishiki and ran in Comic Bom Bom. The Bancho in the title is Japanese slang for student delinquents

Story

The series appears to be a sequel to the earlier SD Gundam Musha Maruden. Official relations were formed between Earth and the land of Ark. At an inter-racial school attended by humans and Mobile Citizens, young Ryuunosuke befriends fellow student Kokuryu. Life at the school can sometimes be fierce, with student gangs seeking to disrupt the harmony. But in the face of this, Kokuryu reveals a powerful ability- although he normally looks like a little kid, he can transform into the maturer samurai warrior Kokuryu Gundam. The series initially involves his battles against similar robotic creatures along with Gundam friends such as the bishōnen Hakuou Gundam and good natured/rough and ready Sekijishi Gundam. Eventually a mysterious group emerges, forcing Kokuryu and company to leave simple schoolyard scraps behind and engage in life or death combat.
The general merchandising gimmick for this series involves the Gundam's being able to combine. This is similar to the gimmick for the series Transformers: Energon

Characters

Each of the Gundams are introduced in an order with visual similarities to the same order of the Universal Century:
Kokuryu Gundam resembles the RX-78GP01 Gundam "Zephirantes" from Mobile Suit Gundam 0083:stardust memory
Hakuou Gundam resembles the MSZ-006 Zeta Gundam from Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam
Sekijishi Gundam resembles the MSZ-010 Double Zeta Gundam from Mobile Suit Gundam ZZ
Seirou Gundam resembles the RX-78GP02A Gundam "Physalis" from Mobile Suit Gundam 0083: Stardust Memory

Main characters
Kokuryu Gundam (黒龍頑駄無(こくりゅうがんだむ)) - "Black Dragon Gundam". A transfer student from the land of Ark and star of the story, Kokuryu is similar to many past SD Gundam leads and leads of the shōnen genre. Although generally energetic and easy going, he also possesses a strong sense of justice and fiery temper which triggers his transformation to Bancho form. When Ryuunosuke and himself were brutally attacked by the Dom Alliance, his rage sparked the Hot-Blooded Circuit (Nekketsu Kairo/熱血回路(ねっけつかいろ)). In his Bancho form he has access to a range of powerful weapons including his signature samurai sword, leg cannons and an unbreakable head crest which can deflect most attacks. He also suffers a slight personality change; aware of his own power, the maturer Kokuryu is a Gundam of few words who often only talks to belittle his opponent for an ineffective attack. However, he still retains a strong desire to protect innocents and will panic if his opponent endangers his friends. The main causes of anger for him are insults, such as someone threatening his friends or his pride (usually done by Hakuou). He usually reverts to his child form once his adrenaline rush has worn off. His strength in battle is countered by his struggles with his school work, where he consistently receives low grades due to a mix of his own inability and having his time eaten up by his recent adventures. He has an addiction to pudding, once over eating so many of them he lacked the energy and motivation to transform. Kokuryu's transformed form is a mix of the look of a samurai and the stereotypical Japanese school punk. His personal symbol is a star. Near the end of the series, Kokuryu seemingly perished attempting to destroy the Axis that was about to strike Earth (a reference to Char's Counterattack). However, he returned alive and well a few years later, after having crashed down in America.
Kokuryuu Gundam Special Attack  (龍頑駄無・特攻(こくりゅうがんだむ・とっこう))- After Kokuryu is mortally wounded by Seirou, Ryuunosuke becomes desperate to find a way to save his friend. Venturing out with the Dom Alliance he encounters the Death Teacher Fukutsuzawa, who claims to be capable of healing Kokuryu. What he does, however, is remove the Hot-Blooded Circuit, plunging Kokuryuu into catatonia, and implanting it in his own created Banchou, Grey. As Ryuunosuke and the others are thrashed, their memories of Kokuryuu inspire them to launch one final attack: a simultaneous headbutt very much like Kokuryuu's trademark Sunrise attack. This event reawakens Kokuryuu and spurs his transformation into a new form. This new look includes flame patterns on his armour and clothes and a new sword. This form lasted only a short period and Kokuryu soon powered down into his standard mature form during a second battle with Seirou. He has since used it twice more in battles where his regular Banchou form has proven too weak to win. The fact it can only be used for a few minutes and the end of the limit signalled by a beeping sound marks it as a possible reference to Ultraman.

Yoshikumo Ryuunosuke (良雲龍之介(よしくもりゅうのすけ)) - A young boy who is bullied by the Dom Alliance at school, Ryuunosuke befriends Kokuryu when the latter is transferred to his school, becomes his classmate and his homestay charge. This friendship led to Kokuryu transforming for the first time to protect Ryuunosuke and himself from an unprovoked attack by the Doms. Ryuunosuke is an only child who lives with his mother. His hobby is building Gunpla models, an interest which becomes of benefit to Kokuryu once they discover model kit parts can become actual upgrades for Mobile Citizens. After Kokuryuu sacrifices himself against the axis, Ryuunosuke goes on to graduate from primary school and is seen as a ninth-grader at the end of the final chapter.
Dom Alliance (怒武連合(どむれんごう)) - Initially a small student gang who cruelly victimizes Ryuunosuke with intense beatings, they become allies out of respect when Kokuryu bests them in a fight. After helping to fight off the Tears Of Time Group, they earn new respect from their fellow students and begin to become better members of society. Their leader is the mohawk wearing Gaia Dom and their signature attack is Jet Scream Attack.
Hakuou Gundam (白凰頑駄無(はくおうがんだむ))- "White Phoenix Gundam". This handsome gentleman student council president of the 7th Musha Elementary School with a devoted fanbase of young women and an ego to match, Hakuou Gundam is yet another character based in a typical anime character type (the refined pretty boy). Although publicly he presents himself as friendly and good natured, in private he is revealed to be more calculating. Possessing a large ego, he personally arranged a tournament in an attempt to beat Kokuryu in a fight, where they were revealed to be evenly matched and managed to completely destroy the large stadium Hakuou had booked for their duel. Hakuou has somehow learned how to remain in his mature form constantly though excessive energy use will revert him to his child form, as was the case during his fight with Kokuryu. Once reverted to his child form he loses his usual cool and desperately demands that people show him respect. He also appears to know of the concept of Gigantic Musha Mode, and drops subtle hints that his battle against Kokuryu also serves as a test to see if his opponent would give him a significant power boost if combined with. He launched a mission to rescue the captives of Gaza Captain which forced him to yet again team with Kokuryu and new ally Sekijishi. Although his attitude and charms can often annoy Kokuryu, they are often forced to be allies. Hakuou's long hair can split in half and attach to his arms as feathers, giving him the ability to fly. His personal symbol is a bird. At the end of the series he is shown to have become student council president at his new middle high school, having been elected the first year he came. He may have feelings for Tomoe.
Hakuou Gundam Elegant (白凰頑駄無颯爽(はくおうがんだむえれがんと))- After learning of Kokuryu's upgrade, Hakuou tries without luck to grant himself a similar form to match his rival. A mysterious silent tengu-like Gundam engages him in combat, easily outmatching his skill. When Hakuou's aides intervene, the mysterious Gundam attacks them too. Desperate to save his friends and aware of their importance to him, Hakuou unlocks his new form. Emerging from a giant white rose bud, he is dressed much like a buccaneer and shares a similar power growth to Kokuryu. Likewise, the form lasts only a short time (currently, even shorter than Kokuryu's upgrade). Hakuou summoned the power again to help Kokuryuu in the final battle.
Sekijishi Gundam (赤獅子頑駄無(せきじしがんだむ)) - "Red Lion Gundam". A good natured, rough and ready Gundam Bancho who Kokuryu and Ryuunosuke encounter during a class visit to the Doros Ocean Primary School. Aware of Gaza Captain's evil plans to take over another beach, Sekijishi attacks the school and attempts to destroy it with a missile. Kokuryu stops him and convinces him that his friends consider him more important than the beach. Soon after he saves Kokuryu from an assassination attempt from Seirou by using the 'forbidden' attack from his head mounted cannon. Seirou abducted him, leading to