# List of Star Wars species (A–E)

This is a list of Star Wars species, containing the names of fictional sentient species from the Star Wars franchise beginning with the letters A through E. Star Wars is an American epic space opera film series created by George Lucas. The first film in the series, Star Wars, was released on May 25, 1977, and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon, followed by five sequels, three prequels and several spin-off films and television series. Many species of alien creatures (often humanoid) are depicted.

Abednedo
The Abednedo are a common sentient species native to the planet of the same name. Abednedos are tall humanoids with mouth tendrils, long faces, and widely spaced fleshy nostrils; often brown or tan in skin color. Abednedos appearing in the Star Wars saga include Resistance pilots Ello Asty and C'ai Threnalli.

Abyssin
The Abyssin inhabit the planet Byss. They are a nomadic race, often described as "brutish and violent."  They stand approximately two meters tall and have a humanoid appearance, with long limbs and weathered skin. They also possess a single large slit-pupiled eye which dominates their greenish-tan foreheads. Abyssins do not take kindly to derogatory nicknames regarding their eye, such as "monoc," "one-eye," or "cyclops." They are quick to anger, especially when taunted or insulted. They are known to look for conflict and rarely show restraint. All Abyssins have the ability to heal quickly and to regenerate body parts, which leads to their belief that change is impossible, and as such they rarely stray from their home world. Abyssins dislike blaster fire and space-battles.

Aleena
The Aleena are a short-bodied alien race native to the planet Aleen. They are characterized by their thick bodies and short limbs. They waddle when they walk, and are ungainly to look upon. Their heads are dominated by a long, thin plate of body which extends back from the skull, and their faces are flat. Two little eyes sit over a wide mouth which is filled with short, sharp teeth. Individuals are bred for their color variation, another way they avoid becoming prey. As a people, the Aleena have a strong warrior tradition. They possess exceptional reflexes as well as a fast metabolism which allows them to convert food into energy very rapidly in order to escape predators (such as sagcatchers) on their harsh home planet.

Amani
The Amani are large, mainly  arboreal aliens descended from planarian worms. They have long arms and a broad body, and their heads resemble that of a hooded cobra, but with a humanoid face. They hail from Maridun, where they prefer to travel in the trees, using their arms to swing among branches, but their shapes also allow them to curl into a ball and roll at incredible speeds. They organize into small, technologically primitive tribes that form war parties to fight the other tribes for territory. They have a cultural aversion to advanced technology introduced by the “off-worlder” or greater outside galactic civilization, and they generally prefer to fight with traditional spears and arrows. Despite their reluctance to use advanced technology or interact with the broader galactic community, the Amani are effective fighters and are galaxy-renowned for their combat and hunting skills. This reputation grew when they wiped out an entire stormtrooper division that had set up on their home planet. They are also popular as guards and bodyguards with the criminal elements of the galaxy. The Hutts are the biggest users of their services.

An Amanin can be seen briefly in Return of the Jedi. This alien serves as one of Jabba's guards in his palace and can be seen guarding one of Jabba's most prized possessions: Han Solo encased in carbonite. He is yellow with brown/green stripes and carries a long spear decorated with severed humanoid heads.

Amaran
Amarans are fox-like sentients from the planet Amar which are heavily involved in the animal trade.

Annoo dat Prime
The Annoo dat Prime is a four eyed, reptilian race hailing from the planet Annoo. The average height for an Annoo dat Prime is . They tend to have rough, yellow scaled skin, with a small row of spines running down their backs and to the end of their short tails. They have four eyes, the upper two red and the lower two blue. The only Annoo dat Prime to ever be named or shown in expanded universe was the separatist General Ashaar Khorda. He appears in the Zam Wessel comic book, and subsequently dies following a plot to destroy Coruscant.

Anomid
Anomid are humanoid, with gray hair and silver-blue eyes, and are native to the Yablari system. They communicate largely by using their own sign language. Boba Fett impersonated one in Rebel Dawn, part of the Han Solo trilogy of books. They are reportedly one of the more social species in the Star Wars galaxy.

Ansionian
Ansionians are tall and thin. In addition to possessing a single nostril, they have relatively large eyes. The Ansionians hail from the planet of Ansion, and are known to be lovers of peace. Many Ansionians, called Alwari, live in tribal factions on the plains, away from the human settler-created cities. They are relatively nomadic and resent technology and the fact that it has ruined the face of their planet, but not to such an extent so as to cause violence.

Anzati
These aliens appear similar to humans, the only differences being two prehensile probosci and a somewhat enlarged nose and surrounding facial structure. People of their species are rare, but they have a lifespan that can last for over a millennium. They tend to behave like vampires. The proboscises lie coiled and hidden in pockets within the cheeks and can be extended to drain a victim's 'luck' or 'soup' by piercing the brain through the nose. The Anzati are capable of mild telepathic control to render their victims paralyzed, and are assassins of legendary skill. The Jedi hunting mercenary Aurra Sing was trained by these assassins, as was the Jedi Master Tholme. Their planet of origin has never been verified, as all sent to investigate the planet suspected to be Anzat are never seen again. Two more famous Anzati were Dannik Jerriko, an assassin of great renown who hunted Han Solo, as written in Tales from the Mos Eisley Cantina. (Dannik Jerriko appears in person and actually demonstrates killing someone in Galaxy of Fear: Ghost of the Jedi) and the dark Jedi Nikkos Tyris.

Aqualish
The most notorious of the Aqualish, Ponda Baba, suffered a severed arm at the hands of Obi-Wan Kenobi during a fight in the Mos Eisley cantina. The species has a reputation for being nasty, crude and aggressive, and generally pursue careers as mercenaries, bounty hunters and pirates. The Aqualish are divided into three different subspecies, the Aquala, the Ualaq and the Quara; these subspecies are differentiated by their hand structure (the Aquala have large, finlike hands, while the Quara and the Ualaq possess five fingers with clawed digits) and facial appearance (the Ualaq have four eyes and bear some resemblance to Earth spiders, while the Aquala and the Quara have two eyes and more closely resemble a walrus; this can be confirmed by the fact that the Kenner action figure of Baba was called "Walrus Man").  The Aqualish hail from the planet Ando. Their home planet is almost entirely covered by water; the only hospitable land consists of a few rocky outcroppings and swamp-covered islands. Aqualish flesh does not cauterize, nor does their blood coagulate, when wounded by a lightsaber. This can be seen in Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope. Aqualish also have the tendencies to involve themselves in the spice trade.

Arcona
Arcona are scale-less, reptilian humanoids. They have flat, anvil-shaped heads, with clear, marble-like eyes, and skin tone that ranges from mahogany to ebony. The native planet of the Arcona, Cona is always hot, and has very little water. The atmosphere is filled with ammonia vapor. The Arcona's weaknesses have been exploited in the past; off-worlders used to trade water for mineral rights, but discovered their easy addiction to salt. Traders then imported large amounts of the mineral before communities outlawed the dealings. When the species has become addicted to salt, their eyes turn from green to gold. To survive an Arconan must periodically consume a substance known as dactyl. Salt increases an Arconan's need for this substance by a hundredfold. A well known Arcona was the Jedi Knight Izal Waz
(Troy Denning's Star Wars: The New Jedi Order - Star By Star).

Argazdan
Argazdans were a green-skinned humanoid species native to the planet Argazda.

One individual named Raygar was first featured in the Ewoks episode "Battle for the Sunstar".

Aruzan
Aruzans, the inhabitants of Aruza, are humanoids with faintly blue skin and dark, nearly black hair. They have the ability to share their memories and emotions with one another by means of cybernetic implants During the time of Imperial subjugation, the Aruzans hired Dengar to assassinate General Kr