# Nevatim Airbase

Nevatim Airbase () , also Air Force Base 28, is an Israeli Air Force (IAF) base, located southeast of Beersheba, near moshav Nevatim in the Negev desert. It is one of the largest in Israel and has three runways of different lengths. Stealth fighter jets, transport aircrafts, tanker aircrafts and machines for electronic reconnaissance/surveillance, as well as the so-called Israeli Air Force One, are stationed there.

History
It was built as a rough runway in 1947 for the Sherut Avir, the air wing of the Haganah, and was named Malhata after the archaeological site on which it was partly built. It was reopened in 1983 as a new modern airbase with two runways as the result of joint Israeli and US government funding as part of the IAF's redeployment out of its bases in the Sinai after it was returned to Egypt following the Camp David Accords.

The 140 Squadron "Golden Eagle" with F-16A/Bs, transferred from the abandoned Etzion Airbase to Nevatim, was on Operation Opera, involved in the attack and destruction of the Iraqi nuclear reactor on June 7, 1981. Since 2003 the base has gradually received more squadrons of F-16s. A third runway was built in the mid-2000s decade as part of a project to accommodate the transfer of military activities previously taking place at Ben Gurion Airport (Air Force Base 27) to Nevatim. All F-16s were retired in the mid-2010s.

F-35I Adir
The first F-35I Adir fighter jets arrived at Nevatim in December 2016, declared operational a year later and the first combat mission was flown in May 2018. There are now three growing squadrons of these, which will ultimately comprise 75 machines. At the same time, a flight simulator was also installed for pilot training.

While transport and tanker aircraft as well as reconnaissance and surveillance aircraft are stationed on the southern area of the airbase with one runway, the northern area with its two runways is reserved for the three squadrons with F-35I fighter jets. Two other runways located there are no longer in operation.

Other airplanes
The Boeing 707 Re'em tanker aircraft stationed on Nevatim will be gradually replaced by the newer Boeing KC-46A Pegasus. At the beginning of 2021, Israel signed a preliminary contract for initially two tanker aircraft; in the medium term, up to eight examples are planned, which are to be delivered from around 2025.

The Nevatim Airbase is also the home base of the so-called Israeli Air Force One, a converted Boeing 767 for international visits by the President of Israel or the Prime Minister. Officially called Wing of Zion, it is operated by the IAF and has its own hangar on Nevatim (see map and image in the galleries). The purchase and maintenance of this machine are very controversial in Israel, which led to it being shut down before it was put into operation in 2022.

International Airport
Since the international Ben Gurion Airport near Tel Aviv has been reaching its capacity limits for years, there are considerations to convert one of Israel's military airbases completely or partially into a civilian airport or to expand it accordingly. In addition to a complete conversion of the Ramat David Airbase in the north of Israel, a dual use of the Nevatim Airbase is being discussed, as it could be expanded without major problems because it is surrounded by desert. The proximity to the growing city Beersheba (around 20 km) also speaks for this. The IAF is against this proposal as it believes it would restrict military flight movements too much.

Units
 103 Squadron "Elephants" – operating the C-130J Super Hercules Shimshon
 116 Squadron "Lions Of The South" – operating the F-35I Adir
 117 Squadron "First Jet" – operating the F-35I Adir for pilot training
 120 Squadron "Desert Giants" – operating the Boeing 707 Re'em as a flying tanker
 122 Squadron "Nachshon" – operating the GV  Shavit and G550 Eitam & Oron as SEMA/CAEW/ELINT/COMINT planes
 131 Squadron "Knights Of The Yellow Bird" – operating the C-130H Hercules Karnaf
 140 Squadron "Golden Eagle" – operating the F-35I Adir
 Operating the Wing of Zion with its own hangar aka Israeli Air Force One

Note: IAF aircraft can usually be assigned to their squadron by the symbols on the tail or the air intakes

References

External links

Nevatim from globalsecurity.org
Aeroflight World Airforces

Military units and formations established in 1947
Israeli Air Force bases