# Air transport of the British royal family and government

Air transport of the British Royal Family and government is provided, depending on the circumstances and availability, by a variety of military and civilian operators.  This includes an Airbus Voyager of the Royal Air Force (RAF), No. 10 Squadron, and the King's Helicopter Flight, which forms part of the royal household.  Civil aircraft and scheduled commercial flights are also utilised.

History

Royal Family
The first aircraft ordered specifically for transport of the Royal Family, two Westland Wapitis, were delivered to No. 24 Squadron at RAF Northolt in April 1928.  Although the Royal Air Force maintained at least one of these aircraft for a time, the Prince of Wales eventually became solely responsible for the aircraft.  When the Prince ascended to the throne in 1936 as Edward VIII, The King's Flight was formed as the world's first head of state aircraft unit.  In contrast the first flight of a sitting U.S. president was in January 1943.  This unit initially used the King's own de Havilland DH.89 Dragon Rapide.  The flight was commanded by the prince's personal pilot, Edward 'Mouse' Fielden, who continued to lead the flight before and after the war.

In May 1937, an AS.6J Envoy III replaced the Rapide.  The King's Flight Envoy had seats for four passengers plus a pilot, wireless operator, and steward.  When Nevil Shute Norway of Airspeed queried the need for a steward on flights of up to two or three hours, he was told by the Captain of the Flight, Wing Commander Fielden "of the fatigue that royal personages must endure ... of radiant people who had opened a Town Hall and shaken a thousand hands ... collapsing in a coma of fatigue directly the door was shut, grey faced and utterly exhausted".

The outbreak of World War II in 1939 led to the replacement of the Envoy III with an armed Lockheed Hudson.  A de Havilland Flamingo was added to The King's Flight in September 1940.

In 1942, The King's Flight was disbanded and its responsibilities transferred to No. 161 Squadron.  No. 161 Squadron was an operational military squadron, involved in the dropping of supplies and agents over occupied Europe throughout the War.  The King's Flight was reformed on 1 May 1946 at RAF Benson with a single aircraft, a de Havilland Dominie and, soon after, with four Vickers Viking C.2.

As The Queen's Flight from 1952, the unit operated a variety of aircraft for the transport and pilot training of members of the royal family, including Vickers Viking, Avro York, de Havilland Heron and Devon, Westland Whirlwind, Westland Wessex HCC.4, Douglas Dakota (for the Royal Visit to Nepal in 1960), de Havilland Canada DHC-1 Chipmunk, Beagle Basset, and Hawker Siddeley Andover aircraft.

On 2 November 1977, Queen Elizabeth II travelled for the first time aboard Concorde (aircraft G-BOAE).  She then flew from the Grantley Adams International Airport, Barbados, to London Heathrow, England.  That occasion was also the first visit by a Concorde aircraft to Barbados.

In 1983, the Royal Air Force leased two BAe 146 aircraft to assess their suitability as replacements for The Queen's Flight's Andovers.  The trial was a success, and three VIP-configured BAe 146-100s entered service with The Queen's Flight (as BAe 146 CC.2s) from 1986 as the flight's first jet aircraft.  In 2002, one of these BAe 146s was sold as surplus.  These jets, also known as the BAe 146 Statesman, had a specially designed Royal Suite cabin.  Although the civilian BAe 146-100 has 70-94 seats, the two BAe 146 CC.2 are configured for 19 or 26 passengers in comfort.

The Royal Squadron

On 1 April 1995, The Queen's Flight was merged into No. 32 Squadron RAF to become No. 32 (The Royal) Squadron.  Its BAe 146s and two Westland Wessex HCC.4 helicopters moved from RAF Benson to 32 Squadron's base at RAF Northolt.

The responsibility for the Royal Family’s travel was transferred to the Royal Household on 1 April 1997.  Before then, it was shared by the Ministry of Defence, the Department of Transport, and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.  The funding comes in the form of a royal travel grant-in-aid provided by the Department for Transport.  Later in 1997, the Royal Yacht Britannia was retired and not replaced, and the Royal Household was given authorisation to acquire a helicopter for its private use.

The Royal Helicopter and the Royal Train are insufficient to meet all the travel requirements of the Royal Family, even for domestic travel.  The King does not travel on scheduled flights, but other member of the Royal Family do whenever possible.  Members of the Royal Family are normally flown on private charters, either large fixed-wing aircraft, small fixed-wing aircraft, or helicopters, depending on the distance and the size of the official party.

The squadron merger ended the RAF's provision of dedicated VIP transport aircraft; the aircraft of 32 Squadron are only available to VIP passengers if not needed for military operations.  This was declared officially in 1999, with the Ministry of Defence stating "the principal purpose of 32 Squadron [is] to provide communications and logistical support to military operations; the Squadron's capacity should be based on military needs only; and any royal or other non-military use of... spare capacity is secondary to its military purpose".  The effect of this declaration was to reduce the charge per hour to the royal travel grant-in-aid for flying in an RAF jet radically, because now only the variable costs of the flight were charged to the royal travel budget.

BAe 146
Operated for The Queen's Flight since 1986, two of these aircraft remained available to No. 32 Squadron as short-haul VIP configured airliners.

It was also announced in the Strategic Defence and Security Review 2015 that the current Command Support Air Transport fleet aircraft would be replaced as they reached the end of their life to increase their operational utility and ensure continued effective transport for the Royal Family and senior ministers.

In February 2022, Defence Equipment and Support (DES) announced that the four BAe 146 aircraft would be replaced by two Dassault Falcon 900LX aircraft.

Other aircraft
Other RAF aircraft have transported members of the Royal Family and ministers, particularly for long range trips for which The King's Flight and Royal Squadron planes were unsuitable.  This most often involved Vickers VC10 C.1s, XR807 and XV106, of No. 10 Squadron, later subsumed by No. 101 Squadron based at RAF Brize Norton.

Occasionally, the supersonic passenger aircraft, Concorde of British Airways, was used to transport the Prime Minister and Royal Family, particularly to international conferences abroad.  The first supersonic flight that Queen Elizabeth II experienced was on 2 November 1977 at the end of her Silver Jubilee.

Current aircraft
Most air travel by cabinet and junior ministers is on scheduled commercial flights.  Travel on 32 Squadron aircraft is recommended where it is more cost-effective than using commercial air transport, or where security considerations dictate that special flights should be used.  In 2016, the RAF VIP Voyager became the first dedicated VIP transport plane for government ministers and the Royal Family, after such plans had been proposed and shelved repeatedly since the 1990s. 

The majority of non-scheduled travel for the Royal Family is provided by private charter, with Luxaviation UK being the exclusive supplier of private charters to the Royal Family since April 2009.

Principal VIP aircraft

Airbus Voyager

Historically, only the Royal Family had dedicated aircraft; government ministers would fly on commercial flights, rented private jets, or occasionally RAF-operated flights.  Proposals to provide a new dedicated VIP transport aircraft, for governmental or royal use, were first mooted in 1998.  However, in March 2009 a proposal for a £7 million 12-seater private jet plans were halted by recession.  In November 2015, it was announced the government would fit VIP seating to one of the nine core fleet of RAF Airbus Voyager tanker / transport aircraft for the use of senior government officials and members of the Royal Family.  The Voyager refit cost £10 million, and the government estimated the use of the aircraft would save £775,000 a year versus the cost of charter flights; the new arrangement was expected to cost around £2,000 per flying hour as opposed to £6,700 for long-haul charter.  The refit included a secure satellite communications system, missile detection, conference facilities, a changing room, 58 business class seats and 100 economy seats.

The aircraft, the RAF VIP Voyager, retained the standard Royal Air Force grey livery and continued its primary military duties when not in use by the government.  Its first use as a VIP transport was on 8 July 2016, when it was used to take government ministers from London Heathrow airport to the 2016 NATO conference in Warsaw, Poland.

In 2018, the then Foreign Secretary, Boris Joh