# Anglican Diocese of Armidale

The Anglican Diocese of Armidale is a diocese of the Anglican Church of Australia located in the state of New South Wales. As the Diocese of Grafton and Armidale, it was created (from the Diocese of Newcastle) by letters patent in 1863. When the Anglican Diocese of Grafton was split off in 1914, the remaining portion was renamed Armidale, retaining its legal continuity and its incumbent bishop.

Once relatively Anglo-Catholic in its liturgical and theological leanings, since the mid-20th century the diocese has leant more towards the Diocese of Sydney and its particular form of Evangelical teaching and liturgy. The diocese is theologically conservative and holds to the traditional Anglican beliefs on human sexuality, disapproving same-sex unions.

The diocese includes the regional cities of Tamworth and Armidale and the towns of Glen Innes, Tenterfield, Inverell, Moree, Gunnedah and Narrabri.

On 12 December 2020, the synod of the diocese elected Rod Chiswell, vicar of South Tamworth, as the 8th Bishop of Armidale. Chiswell was installed on 27 February 2021.

Cathedral
The cathedral church of the diocese is St Peter's Cathedral in Armidale. It was consecrated for worship in 1875. The cathedral was designed by the Canadian architect John Horbury Hunt who also designed the University of New England. The foundation stone was laid by James F. Turner, Bishop of Grafton and Armidale.

Schools
The Diocese of Armidale has three affiliated independent Anglican schools:
The Armidale School (TAS), founded 1894 
New England Girls' School (NEGS), Armidale, founded 1895
Calrossy Anglican School, Tamworth, incorporating Calrossy Anglican School for Girls (founded 1919), William Cowper Anglican Boys High School and William Cowper Primary School

Linked diocese
Following a 2004 synod visit by Edward Muhima, Bishop of North Kigezi in Uganda, there has been a forging of a support link between the two dioceses. The Diocese of North Kigezi is in the South West of Uganda, with its office in Rukunjiri.

Ordination of women 
The Diocese of Armidale has licensed deaconesses to lead parishes and teach congregations, ordained women as deacons since 1989 and ordained two women as priests. Some leading advocates for women's ordination have been associated with the diocese.

Early in their ministries in the 1970s two women deaconesses from the Sydney diocese served the Armidale diocese through leading parishes and teaching congregations; Maureen Cripps and Jacinth Myles. Maureen Cripps was made a deaconess in the 1960s in Sydney and was placed as Deaconess-in-Charge of the parish of Tingha in Armidale from 1971 to 1973. She was ordained as deacon in Sydney in 1989 and appointed to a position in the diocese of Sydney that was seen as a pre-cursor to the Archdeacon for Women's Ministries. From 1974 to 1980 Jacinth Myles was recruited by Clive Kerle to Parish Assistant at St Peter's Cathedral, Armidale. Myles led services, preached to the cathedral congregation, led adult and children's Bible study groups and took baptisms and funerals. She was supported by the bishop, dean and archdeacon to attend the Sydney Diocesan College of Preachers.  In 1989 she was ordained as deacon in Sydney and later became Assistant Minister for Sydney parishes where she led services, preached and acted as rector.

The Movement for the Ordination of Women (MOW) and advocates for women's ordination were active in Armidale. Two Armidale convenors of MOW   were Margaret Ann Franklin, sociologist at the University of New England and later Ruth Sturmey Jones. Franklin wrote about her efforts to honour the 11 women deacons who were prevented from being ordained priests in St Saviour's Cathedral Goulburn in February 1992, by praying for them and placing eleven red roses in St Paul's cathedral and St Mary's church, with the help of Barbara Field, another MOW member.  Franklin also edited two books about women and their experience in the church. Other advocates for women's ordination have been the long-serving Chancellor of the diocese, Keith Mason, former member and legal advisor for MOW and president of the Appellate Tribunal  and Kevin Giles, chaplain at St Mark's chapel, University of New England, Armidale 1975-1980 who wrote books and articles from that time advocating for the ordination of women.

The first woman ordained as a deacon in the Armidale diocese was Jennifer (Jenni) Thompson (later Weekes) in 1989. After serving as a deacon in Armidale and other dioceses, she was ordained priest in the Northern Territory in 2010 and became Priest-in-Charge of a parish.

In order to ordain the chaplains of New England Girls School (NEGS) as priests for the girls at the school, Armidale twice temporarily adopted the General Synod's Law of the Church of England Clarification Canon 1992  which repeals any inherited law of the Church of England preventing the ordination of women as priests. Julie Mackay (Cook) was ordained deacon then priest in 1996 and was chaplain of NEGS from 1996-2002.  Rebecca Eastment, NEGS chaplain 2003-05 and 2014-15, was ordained deacon in 2002 then as priest in 2003.

List of bishops

See also

Anglican Pacifist Fellowship
Church Missionary Society
Anglicare
Evangelical Anglicanism
Low church
Calvinism
Fellowship of Confessing Anglicans
GAFCON
Ordination of women in the Anglican communion

References

External links
Diocese of Armidale

 
Armidale
Anglican bishops of Armidale
New England (New South Wales)
Armidale
Evangelical Anglicanism
Evangelicalism in Australia
Anglican Church of Australia Ecclesiastical Province of New South Wales
Anglican bishops of Grafton and Armidale
Lists of Anglican bishops and archbishops
Grafton, New South Wales
Lists of Australian people by occupation
New South Wales-related lists
1863 establishments in Australia