# Taxis of the United States

The taxicabs of the United States make up a mature system; most U.S. cities have a licensing scheme which restricts the number of taxicabs allowed. As of 2012 the total number of taxi cab drivers in the United States is 233,900; the average annual salary of a taxi cab driver is $22,820 and the expected percent job increase over the next 10 years is 16%.

Some cities use "taxi medallions" as permits for taxicab drivers to pick up passengers. Because the medallion system is a government-created intentional constraint on the supply of taxicabs, and historically cities have increased the number of medallions much more slowly than the growth in demand for taxis, medallions have generally been considered a great investment; though recently the increased supply of cars for hire created by ridesharing companies has been eroding the value of medallions.

Taxicab companies may be independently owned small businesses with only one taxicab and driver or have fleets of 100 or more taxicabs. Drivers are rarely employees of the company, and usually lease the taxicab on a per-shift basis. Cabs can also be owned by separately-incorporated small businesses that subscribe to a dispatch service. The owner/driver will pay a monthly fee to the taxicab company; purchase and maintain his own vehicle, and may in turn lease shifts to other drivers.

Ridesharing companies are major competitors to taxi companies, providing on-demand for-hire car service through a smartphone app in many US cities. They are generally treated as black-car services from a legal standpoint and are not generally regulated under Taxi laws. This can cause friction with both local governments and taxi companies.

Taxicabs across the US 
The taxicabs of the United States make up a mature system; most U.S. cities have a licensing scheme which restricts the number of taxicabs allowed. As of 2012, in the United States: the total number of taxi cab drivers is 233,900; the average annual salary of a taxi cab driver is $22,820; the expected percent job increase over the next 10 years is 16%.

Medallions 

In New York City and other cities, a "medallion" is required in order to legally pick up passengers flagging on the street. In Saint Augustine Florida medallions sell for just $50.00 and the city requires yearly car inspections. Medallions, or CPNC (Certificate of Public Necessity and Convenience), may also be sold in Boston, or Chicago, but in San Francisco—one of the few other cities that has medallions—the sale of medallions became prohibited by Prop K in 1978. This proposition was adopted to stop speculators from driving the price of medallions up beyond the reach of the people who provide the service—the drivers. In 2010, the City of San Francisco attempted to allow the sale of medallions (for an estimated $250,000 each) in order to balance the City budget.

According to The Washington Post, medallions were "the best investment in America", but, due to increased competition from mobile app-based vehicle for hire companies, taxi medallions are now decreasing in price.

Operations 
Some taxicab companies are independently owned small businesses with only one taxicab and driver, but many cab companies have fleets of 100 or more taxicabs. Drivers are rarely employees of the company, and usually lease the taxicab on a per-shift basis. Lease drivers receive no benefits from the taxicab company, and often have to bribe dispatchers to get a shift. However, in some cases, cabs can also be owned by separately-incorporated small businesses that subscribe to a dispatch service, in which case the company logo on the door is that of the dispatch association. The owner/driver will pay a monthly fee to the taxicab company; purchase and maintain his own vehicle; and may in turn lease shifts to other drivers.

A suburban taxi company may operate under several different names serving several adjacent towns.  They often provide different phone numbers for each fleet, but they usually all ring into a central dispatch office.  They may have subsidiary taxi businesses holding licences in each town.  Taxi companies also may run multiple businesses, such as non-taxi car services, delivery services, and school buses, for additional revenue, as the infrastructure required for maintaining, operating and dispatching the fleet can be shared.

Safety 
Taxi driving is considered one of the top 10 most dangerous jobs. One study concluded that taxi drivers had the fifth worst job of 2011.

New Orleans

Safety 
The murder of cab driver Monier Gindy on January 4, 2007, in Marrero, Louisiana, was not an isolated incident. Ever since Hurricane Katrina in 2005, cab drivers have increasingly been the targets of criminals terrorizing the New Orleans metropolitan area. The president of United Cab discourages his drivers from carrying firearms, instead advising them to accelerate the car and crash into a lamppost or even a police car if they are threatened with a gun.

Transportation 
In June 2015, the city council voted unanimously to increase taxi fares; this was the first time in six years that rates had gone up. There were mixed opinions about this change within the taxi industry. Some said it was long overdue and others, including United Cab president Syed Kzmi, noted that it could affect local ridership. The industry had already experienced some competition from services such as Uber, which would not be subject to the same regulations.

Boston 

The City of Boston (Massachusetts)'s Police Department issues Hackney Carriage (Taxi) Licenses. The BPD Hackney Carriage Unit handles the regulation of the city's 1,825 medallion-taxis.

To become one of the city's roughly 7,000 licensed Boston Hackney Carriage Drivers one must report to the Hackney Carriage Unit at Police Headquarters, located next to the Ruggles T station on the Orange Line. The applicant must produce documentation that he/she is legally eligible to work in the United States and must have had a Massachusetts driver's license for a minimum of one year. In addition, Hackney Officers will run a Criminal Records and Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles check on the applicant.

According to an April 2011 study by the Chicago Dispatcher, a Chicago taxi industry monthly newspaper, Boston has one of the highest standard cab fares in the country, charging an estimated $18.53 for a distance of five miles with five minutes wait time (compared to an estimated $14.57 in Philadelphia and $14.10 in New York City).

Due to the different rates set by each city's taxi regulators, renting a taxi for a 12-hour shift in Boston can also be more expensive than in New York City. Using figures from the New York Taxi & Limousine Commission and the Boston Police Department's Hackney Carriage Unit, actual rates for the Chicago newspaper's hypothetical five-mile trip with five minutes wait time in Boston is $18.60. In New York, the same trip can cost either $15, $15.50 or $16, depending on time of day, due to varying surcharges and the fifty-cents NY State Sales tax added to each fare.

In virtually all industries the law of supply and demand affects prices charged to consumers, whether for goods or services. In the case of taxi service, the lower the number of residents and tourists in a city, the higher taxi fare rates are likely to be because of lower usage. New York City, the largest city in the United States, can easily afford to have lower taxi fares. The city's more than 12 million residents and 8.25 million visitors have created a vibrant non-stop city in which taxicabs find it difficult to stay empty for very long. The greatest number of taxi trips typically run less than three miles, which is where cabdrivers make the most money, due to the $3.50 "flag drop" (initial dollar-amount when the meter is started) at some of the busiest hours of the day.

Due to a combination of its age, its early Puritan roots and a large college student demographic, Boston's mass transit closes up at 1:00am for four hours of maintenance and drinking establishments are shuttered by 2:00am.

Taxi security 

Boston started the mandatory partition installation requirement, in 1970, shortly after NYC made their first partition rule for fleet cabs.
 1969: First cab regulation for mandatory partition requirement. Approx Cost: $100.00. This requirement, initially, was implemented specifically to stop an assailant's bullet from hurting the cab driver. Cab regulators instituted the partition requirement over the strenuous objections of cab drivers and cab owners. Their objections were regarded as less important than the speculations of an alleged majority of cab drivers. A slim majority of the cab drivers that were polled stated that they were in favor of a mandatory partition requirement according to the cab regulators. The drivers responded to the mail-in poll conducted by the BPDHD. The material used was 1/4" Plexiglas and was not at all bullet resistant.  It was not bulletproof either. Nothing is bull