# Starfarers of Catan

Starfarers of Catan is a multiplayer board game loosely based on the Settlers of Catan series of games. It was created by Klaus Teuber as an official spin-off and is distributed by Kosmos in German and Mayfair Games in English.

Setting 

Starfarers takes place in a futuristic setting where, in the distant future, the human race has perfected a method to travel faster than light. As a result, it settles on a distant star system known as Catan, where it encounters five peaceful alien races: the Green Folk, the Scientists, the Merchants, the Diplomats, and the Travelers, as well as an intergalactic council that serves as the diplomatic body in the Catanian sector.  The players serve as the role of Catanians operating a fleet that seek to colonize unknown planets in order to ensure the growth of humanity, while maintaining strong ties to these alien races.

Although Starfarers uses much of the same game mechanic as Settlers, there are many differences, the most notable of which was the use of a fixed game board and the use of moving ships.  Like Settlers, gameplay is mainly played on the intersections of a hexagonal grid.

Objective 
Like other games in the Catan series, the objective of Starfarers is to score a number of Victory Points—in this game, fifteen Victory Points are required to win the game. Unlike other Catan games, however, the fixed board contains a "victory point" track that aids players in keeping track of the scores for all players (so long as it is sufficiently updated).

Equipment 
Whereas Settlers is light in terms of equipment due to its modular structure, Starfarers requires a large amount of equipment to play.

The Board 
The fixed board is a noticeable feature of Starfarers.  At the beginning, the players have settled the Catanian colonies, represented by planets along the bottom edge of the gameboard. The players must expand to other planets in the middle and on the other side of the board.  Along the edges of the board are the home planets of four of the five alien races (the 5-6 player expansion also includes the home planets of the fifth race), where trading posts may be established for victory points and additional benefits.

The Mother Ship 
Each player begins with a "mother ship", a small model spaceship that represents the overall power of their starships during the game.  The mother ship also acts as a die - by turning the ship over and shaking well, one can roll the die such that, when the ship is placed on a flat surface, two of four colored balls will be revealed at the bottom.

Over the course of the game, the mother ship can be equipped with up to four add-ons: freight rings representing the trading ability of the player's ships, boosters representing the speed of the player's ships, cannons representing combat ability, and fame rings representing the overall fame of the player's ships.  At the start of the game, each player begins with only a single fame ring, and, in a 5-6 player game, a booster and either a freight ring or a cannon.

A player may have up to six boosters, six cannons, and five freight rings, as well as ten fame rings.  The former three are also referred to collectively as expansions of the ship.

Number Tokens 
Like Settlers, Starfarers contains a series of number tokens. Some of these are specifically designated for the Catanian systems, some are designated for the colonizable planets in the middle of the board, and some are kept in reserve.  Each planetary system consists of three planets, which have either a red, blue, or yellow dot on it - at the start of the game, a number token with the corresponding dot on the back is placed face down over the planet.  Likewise, the number tokens for the Catanian planets have a Greek letter on the back, with the tokens being placed randomly such that the Greek letters match the group of planets they are referring to.

Like Settlers, the standard number tokens are ranged from 2 to 12, with tokens for 6 and 8 being in red.  The background of the token contains phases of the moon, and is an indicator of the relative probability of rolling a number with two dice.  There are also special number tokens, which serve a special purpose in the game.  In the 5-6 player expansion, the background may also have a blue tint - these are to be solely used with the new planetary systems introduced in the expansion.

Transporters 
Each player is also given three transporters, which can be combined with a colony to form a colony ship, or a trading post to form a trade ship.  Each transporter has a fixed number of rings at the front of the ship - the transporter in play with the fewest rings is referred to as the player's first ship.  Colony ships are used to form colonies and trade ships are used to form trading posts.  When either is established, the transporter is returned to the player's reserves, allowing for its reuse.

Resources 
As in Settlers, there are five resources in the game, each of them being represented by resource cards.  There are 20 of each resource in a 3-4 player game and 30 of each resource in a 5-6 player game.  At the start of the game, 12 cards of each resource type are shuffled together to form a reserve pile.  If this reserve is exhausted at any point in the game, six cards of each resource type (ten in a 5-6 player game) are shuffled together to form the reserve pile.

Starting the Game 
To begin a game, each player begins by placing either a colony or spaceport in a guerilla fashion (similar to the setup in Settlers).  Two colonies and a spaceport are placed in such a manner among the Catanian colonies (one spaceport and one colony in a 5-6 player game), with the player choosing the order in which colonies and spaceports are placed.  The player is also given a free colony or trade ship, which is placed in any intersection adjacent to the player's spaceport.

In a three-player game, there is also the restriction where only two of the three colonizable intersections in a system of planets may be occupied at any given time, the setup phase notwithstanding.

After setting up the initial colonies and ships, each player draws three cards from the reserve pile to begin the game.

Playing the Game 
Each turn consists of three main phases - production, trading and building, and flight.

As in Settlers, two dice are rolled, and, if a 7 is not rolled, any planet with a matching number token produces one resource for every nearby colony or spaceport.  If a 7 is rolled, however, every player with more than seven resource cards must return half of their resources (rounded down), akin to discarding on a 7 in Settlers, and the player on move may afterwards steal a resource card from another player.

Unlike in Settlers, however, if there are insufficient resources for all of the players, resources may still be collected, starting with the player on move and proceeding in turn until there are no remaining resources.

If a player has less than nine Victory Points, they are also entitled to draw a card (two in a 5-6 player game) from the reserve pile, regardless of the outcome of the dice.

Trading and Building 

By producing resources, a player may trade them or use them to build items.  Trading and building may be done in any order.  Players may trade resources with opponents for any agreed upon price (although as with Settlers the player on move must be involved in every such transaction), or they may trade with the Galactic Bank.  When trading with the Galactic Bank, the player may trade resources at a three-to-one rate, or two-to-one in the case of the trade good resource.  This rate may be improved with Merchant friendship cards.

Spaceports 
A player may choose to upgrade their colonies to spaceports.  Unlike in Settlers, there is no increased production to spaceports - however, ships may be deployed at intersections adjacent to spaceports, which may be convenient as the Catanian colonies are considerably distant from the planets in the middle of the board and the trading bases at the edges of the board.  Each player begins the game with one spaceport, and may build two additional spaceports over the course of the game.

Spaceships 
If a colony ship or a trade ship is built, the ship is placed on any intersection adjacent to one of their spaceports.  There is no requirement as to which of a player's available transporters are to be used - if the transporter with one ring is in use and a new ship is built, the player may choose whether the newly built ship becomes the player's first ship (by choosing the transporter with no rings) or whether the existing ship retains the first ship designation (by choosing the transporter with two rings).

A player is given a total of nine colonies and seven trading posts.

The Extended Building Phase 
In a 5-6 player game, if a player chooses to build during their turn, the other players may also build (but not trade, unless it is with the player on move) during that turn.

Flight 
After trading and buildi