# BAF Shaheen Colleges

BAF Shaheen College () is an educational institution established and controlled by the Bangladesh Air Force. There are seven BAF Shaheen Colleges and a BAF Shaheen English Medium College that are operated by the Bangladesh Air Force situated near airbases in Bangladesh. The colleges have classes from kindergarten to the Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC). The colleges are co-educational.

Colleges
There are seven BAF Shaheen Colleges and a BAF Shaheen English Medium College that are operated by the Bangladesh Air Force situated near airbases in Bangladesh.

BAF Shaheen College Dhaka

BAF Shaheen College Dhaka () also known as BAFSD or Dhaka Shaheen is a co-educational Bangladeshi college (grades KG-XII) established and controlled by the Bangladesh Air Force and primarily for the children of Air Force personnel. But students from the civilian section can also study at the college.  This educational institution is located at Jahangir Gate, Dhaka Cantonment, Dhaka, Bangladesh. There are seven BAF Shaheen Colleges across the country including one more in Kurmitola, Dhaka and a BAF Shaheen English Medium College that are operated by the Bangladesh Air Force.

BAF Shaheen College Kurmitola
BAF Shaheen College Kurmitola was established in 1972 as 'BAF High School'. The school was renamed as 'BAF Shaheen School' in 1980. Higher Secondary School Certificate course was introduced in the school from 1982 and then it was named as 'BAF Shaheen School and College'. In 1986 it was again renamed as 'BAF Shaheen College Kurmitola'. Students are taught from KG to XII classes in a coeducation environment.

BAF Shaheen College Chattogram 

BAF Shaheen College Chattogram was established in 1978 by Bangladesh Air Force as per the rules and regulations of Ministry of Education of the Government of People's Republic of Bangladesh and Secondary Education Board Chittagong. This school was upgraded to Higher Secondary from the session 1985–86. From the year 2006 English curriculum under NCTB has been introduced as one section each of the classes from II to V along with the existing Bangla curriculum.

BAF Shaheen College Shamshernagar
BAF Shaheen College Shamshernagar was established in 2011 with 1000 students in 6 classes from KG to class VI. The school opened a new class every year up to XII in 2013. The school has preliminary permission from the education board in Sylhet to run the education activities of classes VI to XII. It is now a college. About 2118 students study there in 48 sections.

BAF Shaheen College Jashore

On 26 January 1976, the foundation was laid in Jessore for what was then called Satadal School. Three years later it was renamed BAF Shaheen School. It was upgraded to a college (up to class XII) in 1984.

BAF Shaheen College Paharkanchanpur
BAF Shaheen School, PKP began in 1997 with 51 students in three classes from KG to class II. The school opened a new class every year up to class VIII in 2003. The school has preliminary permission from the education board in Dhaka to run the education activities of classes VI to VIII. Now it teaches until higher secondary. In 2014, the first batch attend to HSC examination under Dhaka education board.

BAF Shaheen English Medium College

BAF Shaheen English Medium College (), or commonly known as BAF SEMC - is a college in Dhaka Cantonment, Dhaka, Bangladesh. Its education is based on Cambridge International Examinations of UK under the direct supervision of the Bangladesh Air Force. From the year 1998, BAF SEMS' students have started sitting for the O’Level exam under University of London.

BAF Shaheen College Bogura 
BAF Shaheen College Bogura is a privatized educational institution run by the Bangladesh Air Force.The inaugural ceremony of BAF Shaheen College Bogura was held on 1 January 2020 and the youngest of BAF Shaheen College Family.

References

External links 

 Official Website of BAF Shaheen College Dhaka
 Official website of BAF Shaheen College Kurmitola

Bangladesh Air Force
Universities and colleges in Dhaka
Schools in Dhaka District
Colleges in Bangladesh
Schools in Bangladesh
1960 establishments in East Pakistan
Educational institutions established in 1960