# Rayman

Rayman is a franchise of platform video games, created by video game designer Michel Ancel for Ubisoft. Since the release of the original Rayman game in 1995, the series has produced a total of 45 games across multiple platforms.

The series is set in a fantastical, magical world which features a wide range of environments that are very often based on certain themes, such as "the Eraser Plains", a landscape made entirely of stationery. The core games of the series are platformers, but there are several spin-off titles in other genres. The protagonist is Rayman, a magical limbless being renowned for his courage and determination who, with the help of his friends, must save his world from various villains.

Games

Main series

Spin-offs

Raving Rabbids

Other

Cancelled games 

 Rayman (SNES) - Ancel initially produced Rayman for the Atari ST, a 16-bit personal computer system, working alone on every aspect of the game. Following Houde's arrival on the project, Ancel noticed that public interest in the ST had started to wane and looked to the Super NES CD-ROM, a CD peripheral for the 16-bit Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES). However, in 1993 Nintendo abandoned the project before the hardware was produced. Ancel and Houde ruled out a release for the cartridge-based SNES, doubting its ability to handle the large amount of information they wanted to incorporate into the game. The pair switched focus towards newer and more powerful consoles, leaving the SNES version of the game unfinished. This led to the decision to produce Rayman for the Atari Jaguar, a 64-bit cartridge-based system that the team felt could handle the graphics they wanted. In late 1994, magazine advertisements announced the game as a Jaguar exclusive title. Between 1993 and 1994, Rayman originally was submitted to Apogee Software by Ancel, however the publisher was scrapped.
 Rayman 2 (2D platformer) - Rayman 2 was originally conceptualised as a sidescrolling 2D platformer, like the first game. Development on the prototype began in early 1996 with a team of six people and a budget of 10 million francs. It was slated to be released on the PlayStation, Sega Saturn, and Microsoft Windows in the fourth quarter of that year. The prototype of Rayman 2 featured some usage of prerendered bitmaps of 3D computer models, differing from the hand painted presentation of its predecessor, beginning in 1998. A prototype containing a single level is playable in the final PlayStation version of the game if the player completes a certain percentage of the game.

 Rayman 4 - Two years after the release of Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc, Ubisoft had foreseen the development of the sequel. The initial stages of development began in 2005, with totally different concepts and without the presence of the Rabbids, and were entrusted to the studios of Phoenix Interactive. The programmers created a considerable amount of concept-artworks, of which a good part was gradually revealed to the public in the following years. These artworks show that the game should have 3D features faithful to many environments of Rayman, such as the "Land of Music" and "Picture City", as well as a new presumed return of Bad Rayman. After four months of initial production, development of the game was canceled. It appears that the game was to be a reboot/retelling of the original Rayman game, and would have involved Rayman revisiting numerous locations from the original game recreated in 3D and to a high level of accuracy.  In the book L'Histoire de Rayman, it was revealed that the Robo-Pirates and the Livingstones/Lividstones were planned to return in Rayman 4, also the evil counterpart Dark Rayman and even Mr. Dark were planned to return. There is also concept art of a young human girl named "Cielle" who was intended to appear in the game. It is unknown what her role was to be in the game or if she was intended to be playable.  On December 24, 2022 most of the assets and levels used in the prototype were leaked by an anonymous user on Internet Archive including the original designs of the Rabbids, the rideable creatures, some of the cutscenes and the levels. However, when Rayman gets hit by the Rabbids, he loses his clothes for some reason.
 Rayman Raving Rabbids (platformer) - From the previous project a second development was started at the studio of Ubisoft Montpellier, the studio that developed the first three chapters of the series. In 2006, the second phase was again geared towards the development of a 3D platform game designed by Michel Ancel and known by the final title of Rayman Raving Rabbids. This new title, which Michel Ancel himself referred to as Rayman 4, was to be an adventure story in which Rayman teams up with his former enemy André from Rayman 3 to save the world by an army of Rabbids. In addition to the characters already appeared in previous titles, there were new ones, among which stand out an anonymous female one belonging to the same lineage as Rayman who served as damsel in distress, and a hedonistic emperor of the Rabbids. Michel Ancel also stated that in the course of history the main purpose would have consisted also in saving, in addition to the aforementioned girl, André himself and the latter's girlfriend. Gameplay innovations included attacking enemies with punches and kicks, the ability to ride creatures such as giant hawks, tarantulas, sharks, and warthogs, and in an end-of-level minigame where you had to hypnotize the Rabbids by dancing to access new areas to play.  The project was supported for several months, until the developers received the Nintendo Wii development kit. With these tools, the developers experimented with further varieties of play styles and as a result the action and platform elements were removed and replaced by the final party-style version of Rayman Raving Rabbids, followed over time by new titles of the same kind.  However, the Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS versions were not generally released as a party but as a side-scrolling platform game and very similar to the gameplay of the Game Boy Advance version of Rayman 3, and the storyline is a fusion of the first two projects.

Characters

Rayman 
Rayman is the title character and main protagonist of the series. He is an anthropomorphic birdlike human hybrid, or a “thingamajig” who has no limbs, though he has hands, feet, and a head that are able to move independently from his body. Due to his lack of limbs, he can use his hair as a helicopter blades means of transportation, punch at a distance and in some games, even able to project balls of energy from his hands. He is typically found wearing white gloves, a red neckerchief on a purple body with a white ring in the center (the neckerchief was replaced with a hood in later entries), and yellow trainers (which are also slightly modified in the later games). He was voiced by Steven Perkinson in the 1995 video game of the same name. He was voiced by Billy West in Rayman: The Animated Series, although he was given a "New Yorker" accent. He was voiced by David Gasman in Rayman 2: The Great Escape, Rayman M, Rayman 3: Hoodlum Havoc, Rayman Raving Rabbids, Rayman Raving Rabbids 2, Rayman Raving Rabbids: TV Party, and Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope. He has been voiced by Douglas Rand in the video games since Rayman Origins, and was voiced by David Menkin in the 2023 adult animated series Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix.

Michel Ancel first drew him at the age of 20. Ancel later returned to those early sketches in 1992 to create a demo for French software developer Lankhor. The character was named after a ray tracing software which Ubisoft used for the original game. Rayman originally had limbs, which was one of his major characteristics. When the developer tried to install the game on the systems, it did not work properly, leaving him with a floating body on the screen. At the time, it was technically impossible to display this character with animated limbs and programmers had trouble rendering them. The creative answer was to create the character without limbs. 

Rayman had other appearances such as the Super Smash Bros. series as a trophy and spirit, and in Mario + Rabbids Sparks of Hope as a playable character in a DLC expansion which was announced by Davide Soliani at a Ubisoft Forward 2022 event. DLC expansion was later revealed as Rayman in the Phantom Show and was released on August 30, 2023.

Secondary characters 
Globox is a Glute, a toad-like creature who is Rayman's dimwitted best friend and sidekick. Although easily frightened, he has often demonstrated his courage and has a heart of gold. However, from Rayman Arena and onward, he is no longer cowardly. He and his wife Uglette have over 650 children. For his speaking role, in Rayman 2, he is voiced by Christian Erickson, but in Rayman 3 he is voiced by John Leguizamo.
Grand Minimus is the king of Teensies, magical creatures created to protect the Heart of the world. In Rayman 2, after Rayman s