# Jai Narain Vyas University

Jai Narain Vyas University (JNVU, formerly known as University of Jodhpur) is an educational institution in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India. The institution is the only residential university in the state, catering mainly to the needs of students of western Rajasthan (Marwar). Many of its research and development activities focus on the heritage, society, and challenges of the Thar Desert region, in which it is located. As the westernmost university of the country, research is conducted in border areas with Pakistan.

History

Jai Narain Vyas University is the second university in the state of Rajasthan. The Jodhpur University Act (Act XVII), enacted by the state legistlature for the Unitary Teaching University, combined the state colleges Jaswant College (Faculty of Commerce campus), Shri Maharaj Kumar College (Faculty of Law, Institute of Evening Studies, and undergraduate Faculty of Arts campus), M.B.M. Engineering College (Faculty of Engineering campus), and Kamla Nehru Girls College (multi-faculty constituent college campus). Shah Goverdhan Lal Kabra Teachers' College, a formerly private university, has joined JNVU since. The university received University Grants Commission (UGC) recognition as a university on 14 July 1962 and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan opened the university on 24 August 1962. Jaswant and Shri Maharaj Kumar Colleges were converted into the Faculties of Arts, Commerce, Law, Science, and Social Sciences, while M.B.M. and Kamla Nehru retained their identities. In 2021, M.B.M. became an independent institution.

The name changed from Jodhpur University to Jai Narain Vyas University on 12 February 1992 to honour the late Jai Narayan Vyas. In February 2022, K. L. Shrivastava was appointed Vice Chancellor.

Academics
The university provides education and research facilities to the residents of the region and to the wards of defense and paramilitary forces along the border of Pakistan. There are more than 40 postgraduate programs, 30 undergraduate programs, and five diploma and certificate courses. Faculties include the Faculty of Arts, Education, and Social Sciences; the Faculty of Sciences; and the Faculty of Commerce and Management Studies. The Faculty of Science has partnerships with the Government of India's departments of Science and Technology, Biotechnology, and Electronics and Information Technology; University Grants Commission (UGC); Council of Scientific and Industrial Research; the Indian Councils of Agricultural Research and Forestry Research and Education; Defence Research and Development Organisation; and the Indian Space Research Organisation.

JNVU offers classes to professionals via the Institute of Evening Studies. The Educational Multimedia Research Center produces films for the UGC's Countrywide Classroom (CWCR) program and has been nationally recognised for contributions to electronic media. The centre is fully funded by the UGC.

Campuses
The Jai Narain Vyas University has five campuses: New Campus, Jaswant Campus ( Old Campus), K. N. College for Women, M.B.M. Engineering College, and the S. M. K. campus. New Campus is the main campus and is home to the Faculties of Science, Arts, Education, and Social Sciences, as well as the university press, universal scientific instrumental courses, central library, maintenance cell, gymnasium, sports facilities, and hostels for males and post-graduate females. It spans ,  of which is built up. The other four serve as satellite campuses. The Jaswant Campus is located on  with buildings concentrated on  area. The Women's College takes up  of a  tract of land and the M.B.M. Egineering College is  on . In total,  of the  are constructed areas.

Affiliated colleges

With JNVU's jurisdiction extending over five districts, including Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jalore, and Pali in addition to Jodhpur, it has a number of affiliated colleges:

 Adarsh Mahavidyalaya (Jodhpur)
 Aishwarya College of Education (Jodhpur)
 Aman Mahila Teachers Training College (Jodhpur)
 Atmanand Teachers Training College (Jodhpur)
 Bharat Women B.Ed. College (Jodhpur)
 Central Modern Women Teachers Training College (Gujrawas Khurd)
 Chopasani Teachers Training College (Jodhpur)
 Dr. Radhakrishnan Women Teacher's Training College (Jodhpur)
 G. D. Memorial College (Jodhpur)
 Gomi Devi Women Teacher's Training College (Jodhpur)
 Gurukul Institute of Commerce and Advance Courses (Jodhpur)
 Gyandeep Shodh Shikshak Prashikshan Mahavidyalaya (Jodhpur)
 H. K. Hi-Tech College (Jodhpur)
 Holy Spirit Institute of Technology & Science Research College (Jodhpur)
 JIET School Of Management For Girls (Mogra Khurd)
 Kumodini Mahila Shikshak Prashikshan Mahavidhyalay (Jodhpur)
 Lachoo Memorial College of Science and Technology (Jodhpur)
 Lucky Institute of Professional Studies (Jodhpur)
 Maa Saraswati B.Ed. College (Jodhpur)
 Maharshi Dadhichi Mahila Mahavidyalaya (Jodhpur)
 Mahila P.G. Mahavidyalaya (Jodhpur)
 MBR Govt PG College (Balotra)
 Marwar Shikshak Prashikshan Mahavidyalaya (Basni Karwar)
 Maulana Azad Muslim Mahila Teacher's Training College (Jodhpur)
 Mayurakshi Teachers Training College (Basni Karwar)
 Onkarmal Somani College Of Commerce (Jodhpur)
 Shanti Devi Teachers Training College (Jodhpur)
 Shree Umrao B Ed College (Nandra-Khurd)
 Shri Nakoda Parshvanath Jain Mahavidyalaya  (Jodhpur)
 Thomas Cangon Teachers Training College (Jodhpur)
 Trinity Women Teachers Training College (Jodhpur)
 Vidhyashram Institute of Teacher's Training (Jodhpur)
 Vyas Institute of Management (Jodhpur)
 Vyas Institute of Commerce and Business Administration (Jodhpur)

Notable alumni 
 Dalveer Bhandari (Faculties of Humanities and Law), judge in the International Court of Justice and former judge in the Supreme Court of India
 Ashok Gehlot (BSc, LLB), Chief Minister of Rajasthan and member of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly
 Rajendra Mal Lodha, former Chief Justice of India and former chief justice of the Patna High Court 
 Justice Dinesh Maheshwari (LL.B), Former Judge Supreme Court of India and former Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court & High Court of Meghalaya
 Gajendra Singh Shekhawat (MA, MPhil), Union Cabinet Minister in the Ministry of Jal Shakti and former Minister of State in the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare
 Ashok Kumar Singhvi (BSc), geoscientist, former Dean of the Physical Research Laboratory, and former vice-president of the Indian National Science Academy

See also
List of institutions of higher education in Rajasthan

References

1962 establishments in Rajasthan
Universities and colleges established in 1962
Universities in Jodhpur