# Working for the Weekend

"Working for the Weekend" is a song by Canadian rock band Loverboy, from their second studio album, Get Lucky (1982). It was written by guitarist Paul Dean, vocalist Mike Reno and drummer Matt Frenette; and produced by Bruce Fairbairn and Dean. The song was released as the lead single from the album in October 1981. It has more of a power pop feel than the band's other songs, but this new sound proved to generate success; the song reached number 29 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, and number two on Billboards Mainstream Rock chart in January 1982.

"Working for the Weekend" is ranked number 100 on VH1's 100 Greatest Songs of the 80s.

Background
The song originated when guitarist Paul Dean was out walking one Wednesday afternoon, looking for inspiration in his songwriting. He noticed that much of the area was deserted, as most people were at work. "So I'm out on the beach and wondering, 'Where is everybody? Well, I guess they're all waiting for the weekend,'" he later said. Mike Reno, the band's vocalist, suggested they change the title to "Working for the Weekend". According to Dean, he first began writing the song in a hotel room following a Montreal concert. At the time, the band were still playing bars to little response from patrons. After completing the song, they used it to open one set, and Dean recalled that "the dance floor was packed".

Charts

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

Cover versions 
The song was covered by former American Idol contestant and country music singer Josh Gracin on the 2005 soundtrack to the final installment of the Herbie franchise, Herbie: Fully Loaded, starring Lindsay Lohan and Justin Long in the scene where the team works to fix Herbie overnight in time for the final race.
American virtuoso guitarist Paul Gilbert included an instrumental cover of this song as the first track on his 2014 album Stone Pushing Uphill Man.
Ron Burgundy (Will Ferrell) performed a parody version of the song on Conan on November 20, 2013, suggesting he had been asked by Rob Ford to cover the song as Ford's campaign song for re-election as Mayor of Toronto, the lyrics parodying Ford's ongoing substance abuse scandal.

References 

1981 singles
1981 songs
1982 singles
Columbia Records singles
Epic Records singles
Loverboy songs
Power pop songs
Song recordings produced by Bruce Fairbairn
Songs about social issues
Songs written by Matt Frenette
Songs written by Mike Reno
Songs written by Paul Dean (guitarist)