# Raven: The Island

Raven: The Island is a BBC Scotland children's adventure game show, and the first spin-off to the main series, Raven. It comprises one series, initially airing in 2006 on the CBBC Channel, and then during CBBC on BBC One. In this series, warriors compete as teams and attempt to complete the many challenges on the island of Alaunus, retrieving timepieces in the hope of defeating the evil Nevar.

Plot
Raven: The Island sees the island of Alaunus, Raven's homeland as a child, come under control by the evil force of Nevar and his demons. Raven has been exiled from the island, and so his close and trusted friend, Princess Erina, assists Raven's young warriors in their quest, with the help of her sprite companion, Haryad. Their only hope of restoring the Island lies with the three teams of four warriors, who must travel to the island and towards the ruined fortress that once belonged to Erina's father, collecting timepieces along the way that Nevar, unable to destroy them, has attempted to hide in perilous traps and challenges. Using the timepieces, together with an upcoming solar eclipse, they must then enter the fortress and take an acorn from the Great Oak, stolen and locked away by Nevar to cut new Staffs of Power for his elite demons, so that a new tree may be planted away from the island, far from Nevar's dark domain.

Format
Raven: The Island features a set of different challenges for the warriors, but differs in that the warriors are split into teams; in Raven: The Island, this consists of three groups of four. These teams have different animal associations and colour clothing; the Lions wear green clothing, the Wolves wear blue clothing, and the Eagles wear maroon. Each team also has a team leader, and follow separate paths to the fortress, undertaking different challenges along the way.

This series does not provide the concept of lives or rings: should a warrior fail a task by being caught by a demon, or fail to navigate an obstacle in a challenge, that warrior is instantly eliminated and plays no further part in the quest, and cannot be returned or brought back (in contrast to collecting rings in Raven, or exchanging jewels in the second spin-off, The Secret Temple).

Characters
Raven (James Mackenzie): Raven makes appearances in this series, but does not guide the warriors as frequently as in Raven, or The Secret Temple. He converses with Princess Erina on the warrior's progress, and talks to Cyrus to gain information about matters such as the upcoming eclipse, and the timepieces.

Princess Erina (Lindsay McKenzie): Raven's close and trusted friend. She carries a Staff of Power with her (topped with a crown carving) and is helped by a tree sprite named Haryad. Erina lives on the Island of Alaunus, which used to belong to her father before Nevar took it over with his dark magic, and is the one who leaves signs and clues to guide the warriors to Nevar's fortress. She cannot meet the warriors herself until the quest is over, for her life force, and that of her Staff of Power made from the ancient Oak, would guide demons straight to them.

Haryad (occasionally appears visible as a sprite, played by Jack Gilliland; voiced by Jo James): Erina's companion is a tree sprite – the spirit of the Great Oak that Nevar has stolen – who appears as a blue ball of light, and reports the warriors' progress back to her.

Cyrus the Astronomer (Michael MacKenzie, James Mackenzie's father): An old and wise astronomer who works out when the eclipse is due; he also discovered the many magical properties on Alaunus, such as the Time Wells and the Pearls of Wisdom, when sorcery returned to the island. His great knowledge has been passed on to Erina, and he is seen explaining such matters as the eclipse, and the nature and location of the timepieces, to Raven.

Nevar: The main antagonist of all the Raven stories, Nevar has seized control of Alaunus by capturing the Enchanted Oak, from which the Staffs of Power for Raven, Erina and his own were cut. He has locked it within the Ruins of the Castle of Alaunus, which he now controls, and has begun to cut Staffs of Power for his black-robed Elite Demons, slowly causing the death of the Oak.

Warriors
Twelve warriors started the quest, with four to each team. As with the main Raven series, each warrior is given their own warrior name, comprising a mix of letters from the first name and surname. Each team has a distinct animal association, and different colours for their outfits.

The teams and warriors are listed below, with yellow cells indicating the warriors escaped the island safely.

Challenges
Each team follows a different path using one third of the map of Alaunus that Erina has given them, and each faces different challenges along the way. Nevar, who cannot destroy the timepieces, instead hides them in locations difficult to reach, and from the fourth day – when timepieces become part of the challenges – the warriors may attempt to retrieve them if they so choose.

Lions
 Near Drune Hill, Directory: the team must use their map and identify stones using a riddle from their Rune Book to navigate their way forward.
 Edge of the Forest of Dawn Time, Symbol Path: after hanging the scattered rune boards on the trees in the correct places, the warriors must use a riddle in their Rune Book to find the two runes that denote which two trees they must walk through to continue their quest.
 Forest of Dawn Time, Stone Circle: the warriors must rebuild a circle of stones, eight of which have runes on their faces. Using the Rune Book, they must then decode the word, which will turn the circle to point the correct way forward.
 Forest of Dawn Time, Speed Run: the team members must jump to grab bags moving up and down above their heads, and open them to see if they contain a timepiece or worthless rocks. They must also watch out for the approaching wood demons, as Nevar hopes to trap the warriors by keeping them there for too long.
 Drune Hill, Stone Trolls: one of the Lions must climb Drune Hill and collect three timepieces hanging from stone trolls on the cliff face.
 Vale of Melwa, Time Well: the Lions must use one of the three Time Wells on the island to generate a timepiece, by reassembling the five stones according to the riddle in the Rune Book.
 Og Wood, Archery: targets that open and close must be hit to secure each of the four timepieces, but they must be wary of approaching demons, who will be alerted once the first target is hit.
 Devlin's Water, Raft Build: the Lions work to reconstruct a boat, broken by demons, and use it to retrieve the single timepiece on a small island in the middle of the water.
 Shadow Wood, Watch Tower: one Lion must climb an ancient watchtower, and walk over the narrow wooden plank connecting it to an adjoining tower, in order to collect a timepiece hanging from a stone gargoyle there, before making the return journey.
 Flint Drop, Abseiling: to continue their journey, each Lion must abseil down the cliff face.
 Loch Ula, Giant Lilies: one of the Lions must swim out to the giant lilies floating on the loch to retrieve timepieces, whilst avoiding the enchanted seed-pods, which will eliminate a warrior if touched.
 River of the Rising Moon, River Crossing: timepieces can be retrieved from the threads above the stepping stone path that provides a way across the river for the Lions. Norso fell into the river jumping onto the first stepping stone, and was eliminated.
 Stoorworm Marsh, Bog Crossing: the team must cross the deadly marsh by stepping across toadstools, and may collect timepieces that lie on poles at the sides of the marsh.
 Battle of Glen Morrigan, Bones of the Vanquished Warriors: to collect two timepieces, one blindfolded warrior must be guided through a field, littered with the remains of the final mighty battle against Nevar during the last eclipse. If they touch any part of the debris, they will be eliminated.

Wolves
 Forest of Dawn Time, Cairn Milestone: after rebuilding the shattered statue, whose face displays pictures, an arrow on the statue shows the true path forward.
 Forest of Dawn Time, Compass Stone: using a riddle in their Rune Book along with their compass, the warriors must correctly rotate the compass stone to find the correct two marker stones to continue their journey through.
 River of the Rising Moon, Thrall River: the warriors must travel upstream, avoiding the many thrall threads strung across the river's width that are connected to bells. If a warrior triggers a bell, they will alert the thrall demons to their presence, instantly ending their quest. This happened to Jenso, who touched one of the strings, and lost his place in the quest.
 Green Lady Wood, Archery: targets that open and close must be hit to secure each of the four timepieces, but they must be wary of approaching demons, who will be alerted once the first target is hit.
 Loch of Loarn, Giant Lilies: one of the Wolves must swim out to the giant lilies floating on the loch to ret