# Bartok the Magnificent

Bartok the Magnificent is a 1999 American direct-to-video animated adventure comedy film directed by Don Bluth and Gary Goldman. It is a spin-off to the 1997 film Anastasia which was also directed by Bluth and Goldman.

The film centers on the kidnapping of the young czar prior to the Russian Revolution. Hank Azaria reprises his role from the previous film as Bartok, a bumbling small albino bat, who becomes a magician.

While several of Bluth's films have received sequels, spin-offs and television shows, this is the only such project he has been involved with.

Plot 
Bartok the Magnificent, an albino bat magician and a con artist, arrives in Moscow and makes himself known by performing for the locals. His grand finale involves defeating a savage bear. Delighted with Bartok's bravery, the young czar Ivan Romanov gifts Bartok with a royal ring, much to the chagrin of his adviser, Ludmilla. After the show, Bartok counts his earnings and is startled by the stirring bear, revealed to be his business partner, Zozi. Although Zozi is apprehensive about the ring and tells Bartok that he should return it, Bartok refuses stating that it was a gift.

When Ivan is apparently captured by the witch Baba Yaga, there is an immediate investigation. In seeking a rescuer, two children nominate Bartok, who, with Zozi, was already on his way to St. Petersburg when spotted by Cossacks. Bartok is brought before the townspeople, who are relying on his courage to save Ivan. Reluctantly, Bartok accepts, despite Zozi's objection. Bartok and Zozi set out for the Iron Forest. Upon arriving at Baba Yaga's hut, the duo must answer a riddle given by the entrance, a giant talking skull. With the riddle solved, Bartok is then captured by Baba Yaga, who explains that, in order to save Ivan, Bartok must retrieve three artifacts from the forest, without any assistance: her pet pink snake-like creature named Piloff, Oble's crown, and the Magic Feather. However, Bartok quickly finds that these tasks are difficult, as Piloff is frozen to a metal boulder; Oble, a giant red ogre blacksmith surrounded by an aura of fire, must be tricked into letting his crown be stolen; and the Magic Feather must be obtained without flight, utilizing only the previous two items, with Piloff removed from the boulder when Bartok brought them to the Skull. Meanwhile, back at Moscow, in between Bartok's second and third tasks, Ludmilla takes Ivan's throne. 

Returning to Baba Yaga with the objectives completed, the witch reveals that she needs something from Bartok himself. Baba Yaga rejects all his offers and, outraged, Bartok lashes out at her, accusing her of lying and cheating. Suddenly stricken with guilt, Bartok apologizes and cries, allowing Baba Yaga to obtain the most important ingredient: tears of compassion from the heart. She conjures up a potion from a portion of Piloff's essence, energy from one of the crown's jewels, the magic feather's magic, and Bartok's tear. Baba Yaga reveals that she never kidnapped Ivan, as she has Bartok see Moscow's castle's tower, implying that Ivan is imprisoned there. Baba Yaga also reveals that the potion was intended for Bartok himself; it will make whatever he is in his heart ten times on the outside. Bartok and Zozi return to town. Bartok explains to Ludmilla and people in the throne room his adventure. He then leads Ludmilla and Vol, the Captain of the Guard, up to the top of the tower, where Ivan is imprisoned.

Ludmilla imprisons Bartok and angrily scolds at Vol about Ivan being imprisoned, revealing that she had Vol impersonate Baba Yaga and kidnap the prince while she framed the real Baba Yaga as part of her plan to steal the throne. Ludmilla wanted Vol to kill Ivan after kidnapping him, but Vol mistakenly imprisoned him. Ludmilla imprisons Vol as punishment for his confusion, steals Bartok's potion, and leaves her prisoners in a well tower, which quickly floods with water. Ludmilla drinks the potion, thinking that it will make her a much more powerful leader who would show her inner beauty, but instead, it slowly transforms her into a giant, purplish-pink, wingless, morbidly obese, horned dragon, reflecting her evil heart, conceit, and greed. After seeing her reflection, Ludmilla gets surprised at her new form, making her so shocked that her mind becomes that of a savage beast and she goes on a rampage, burning the town with her fiery breath.

Zozi comes and rescues Bartok, Ivan, and Vol. Bartok battles Ludmilla. He uses his skills from his tasks in the Iron Forest to trick her into climbing the tower. When Ludmilla reaches the top, her increased weight causes it to collapse, crushing her and unleashing a wave of gushing water that douses the flames. As the townsfolk gather around the wreckage, Zozi discovers that Baba Yaga is not really wicked, and hails Bartok as a true hero; not only for defeating Ludmilla, but also for showing Baba Yaga compassion. Ivan and the people praise Bartok for his heroism. Bartok returns Ivan's ring and when Bartok sees Baba Yaga and Piloff flying to see and congratulate him for his heroism, he thanks Baba Yaga for his skills. The three hug before Bartok bids farewell to them, and he undoubtedly counts on seeing them again someday.

Cast 
 Hank Azaria as Bartok the Magnificent
 Kelsey Grammer as Zozi, the Bear.
 Catherine O'Hara as Ludmilla, Ivan's advisor who is the true main antagonist of the film. 
 Andrea Martin as Baba Yaga
 Tim Curry as The Skull, the entrance/guard to Baba Yaga's hut.
 Jennifer Tilly as Piloff, Baba Yaga's pet pink snake-like creature who is talkative. She can retract her arms. 
 French Stewart as Oble, a fiery red ogre and metalworker. 
 Phillip Van Dyke as Tsar Ivan Romanov, the young prince of Moscow who admires Bartok. 
 Diedrich Bader as Vol, Ivan's friend and the Captain of the Guard who secretly works for Ludmilla on her evil plan without knowing it.
 Glenn Shadix as Townspeople Ensemble
 Danny Mann as Head Cossack
 Zachary B. Charles as Little Boy
 Kelly Marie Berger as Little Girl

Bartok's master in Anastasia, Grigori Rasputin, makes a silent cameo appearance among the many townsfolk who gather around the wreckage of Ludmilla's crashed tower during the film's epilogue.

Production 
A spin-off film was devised as "Hollywood audiences went batty over the impish Bartok in Fox's 1997 animated musical Anastasia". Chris Meledandri, then-president of 20th Century Fox Animation, said: "Once we thought about a lot of ideas, our favorite idea was the one you see".

Music
The film's songs were written by Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens, both returning from Anastasia.

Songs

Release

Marketing 
In late 1999, pancake purveyor IHOP started selling two versions of Bartok, as part of promotion. The company planned "to sell about 500,000 of the six-inch-high toys - Bartok Puppet and Turban Bartok - for $2.99 with any food purchase". It was "also offering $2 mail-in rebate coupons for the $20 video...and free activity books for children".

Home media 
Bartok the Magnificent was first released on VHS and DVD by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment on November 16, 1999, and was later re-released in 2005 as part of a 2-disc set alongside Anastasia entitled Family Fun Edition. Bartok the Magnificent was also included as a special feature on Anastasia Blu-ray, released in March 2011.

The tape and DVD conclude with sing-along segments that reprise the original tunes by Stephen Flaherty and Lynn Ahrens - "Bartok the Magnificent", "A Possible Hero", "Someone's in My House" and "Once Upon a December" (from Anastasia). Other DVD extras also include Bartok and Anastasia trailers, and a Maze Game that features three mazes.

 Visual and audio
The aspect ratio is 1.33:1 – Full Frame. The DVD release has the original aspect ratio, and it is not anamorphic. As the source is video and not film, and because there is no widescreen aspect ratio available, the quality is at the same level of the original film. Digitally Obsessed says: "The colors are nicely rendered, with a minimum of bleeding" but when viewed on "a 115 foot projection screen through a progressive scan player...the image was fairly grainy and uneven". The film has English and French audio. Digitally Obsessed says: "The DS2.0 mix is more than adequate for this fun little bat romp [though there is a] lack of directionality in the mix. The dialogue is clear and center speaker weighted". It concluded by saying that "this is a great DVD for kids, because besides just watching the movie they can enjoy the three sing-alongs or try to find Prince Ivan in the mazes. Bartok teaches moral values in a way that kids can understand". According to LoveFilm, the film has been dubbed into English, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Swedish, and Dutch. It has subtitles in Dutch, French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Swedish. Fort Worth Star-Telegram implied this was one of the rare direct-to-video films that is great quality, saying "the made-for-tape bin can yield