# Cody Rhodes

Cody Garrett Runnels Rhodes  (né Runnels; born June 30, 1985) is an American professional wrestler currently signed to WWE, where he performs on the Raw brand. He is also known for his time in All Elite Wrestling (AEW) from 2019 to 2022, where he served as an executive vice president and was the inaugural and record-tying three-time AEW TNT Champion. 

Rhodes rose to prominence during his first tenure with WWE from 2006 to 2016, where he performed under his real name, as well as under the gimmick and ring name Stardust, an overly deep, dramatic, and sparkling spin-off gimmick of his half-brother's Goldust character. Rhodes has also wrestled for various other notable promotions, including Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), Ring of Honor (ROH), and New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW). Outside of wrestling, he served as a judge on the competition series Go-Big Show, and starred with his wife Brandi Rhodes on the reality show Rhodes to the Top.

Rhodes is the son of wrestler Dusty Rhodes and the half-brother of fellow wrestler Dustin Rhodes. After an amateur wrestling career that resulted in him becoming a two-time Georgia state champion, he followed his father and older brother's footsteps into the professional ranks and joined WWE in 2006, initially being assigned to the company's developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). After becoming a Triple Crown Champion in OVW, he was promoted to WWE's main roster in 2007 and remained there for nine years, performing under his real name and later under the gimmick of Stardust. During his first run in WWE, Rhodes became a two-time Intercontinental Champion and was a prolific tag team wrestler, winning six world tag team championships (three World Tag Team Championships and three WWE Tag Team Championships) with four separate tag team partners. Rhodes left WWE after requesting his release in May 2016.

Following his departure from WWE, Rhodes began wrestling on the independent circuit, also making several appearances in TNA; he wrestled under the shortened name Cody, due to WWE owning the Cody Rhodes name, until 2020 when WWE surrendered their trademark. In the time frame spanning from early 2016 to early 2017, he competed at WWE's WrestleMania, ROH's Final Battle, and NJPW's Wrestle Kingdom events, as well as appearing for Impact Wrestling (formerly TNA) at Bound for Glory. In September 2017, Rhodes wrestled in ROH, where he became a one-time ROH World Champion. He would later become a one-time IWGP United States Heavyweight Champion and a one-time ROH World Six-Man Tag Team Champion (with Matt Jackson and Nick Jackson). In September 2018, he won the NWA Worlds Heavyweight Championship (due to ROH's partnership with the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), with he and Dusty becoming the first father and son to win the title. All totaled between WWE, AEW, NWA, ROH, and NJPW, Rhodes has held 15 championships, including two world titles, and in early fall 2018, held the NWA Worlds Heavyweight Championship, IWGP U.S., and ROH Six-Man titles simultaneously.

In January 2019, Rhodes was unveiled as an executive vice president of the newly formed AEW, where he would also serve as a wrestler. After failing to negotiate a new contract, Rhodes relinquished his executive position and he and his wife departed AEW in February 2022. He returned to WWE at WrestleMania 38 that April, defeating Seth Rollins. In 2023, Rhodes won the 2023 Men's Royal Rumble match, earning him a championship match at WrestleMania 39. At WrestleMania 39, Rhodes main evented the second night of the show in a losing effort against Roman Reigns for the Undisputed WWE Universal Championship. Later, he would win the Undisputed WWE Tag Team Championship with Jey Uso, marking his fourth reign with the Raw Tag Team Championship (formerly WWE Tag Team Championship) and first reign with the SmackDown Tag Team Championship.

Early life 
Rhodes was born Cody Garrett Runnels on June 30, 1985, to the highly successful professional wrestler Virgil Runnels Jr., known professionally as Dusty Rhodes, and his second wife Michelle Rubio. In addition to half-brother Dustin, he also has a half-sister from his father's first marriage and a full blooded sister Teil from Dusty Rhodes and his second wife Michelle Rubio. When he was a teenager, he legally changed his name to Cody Garrett Runnels Rhodes. Rhodes attended Lassiter High School and had a successful high school wrestling career. He placed sixth in the  division as a sophomore. As a junior, he won the Georgia state tournament at  in 2003 and repeated as champion his senior year. He had planned to wrestle collegiately at Penn State University, but decided to become a professional wrestler instead. During his time in high school, Rhodes also acted as a referee in his father's Turnbuckle Championship Wrestling promotion. After graduating high school, Rhodes attended an acting school.

Professional wrestling career

World Wrestling Entertainment/WWE (2006–2016)

Ohio Valley Wrestling (2006–2007) 

Rhodes credits his father, Dusty Rhodes, for starting his wrestling training when Cody was 12 years old; this was limited mainly to simple fundamentals and taking bumps. From there his training was provided by Al Snow, Danny Davis, Randy Orton and Ricky Morton. Using his birth name Cody Runnels, Rhodes began wrestling in Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) in May 2006. Runnels formed a tag team with Shawn Spears in mid-August 2006 and won the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship twice. He also won the OVW Heavyweight Championship and the OVW Television Championship.

Teaming with Hardcore Holly (2007–2008) 

On the July 2, 2007, episode of Raw, Runnels made his television debut, using his family's wrestling last name, Rhodes, in a backstage segment with his father Dusty Rhodes and Randy Orton, where Orton introduced himself to Rhodes and then slapped Dusty as a sign of disrespect. Cody Rhodes made his main roster in-ring debut losing to Randy Orton via pinfall on the July 16, 2007, episode of Raw. Rhodes appeared at The Great American Bash to prevent Orton from further attacking his father. The next night on Raw, Rhodes challenged Orton to a rematch from the previous week, only to lose again. Orton followed this up by kicking Rhodes' father in the head. 

On September, he began a feud with Hardcore Holly and lost three consecutive matches to him. Later, they would work as a tag team and they defeated Lance Cade and Trevor Murdoch on the Raw 15th Anniversary special episode for the World Tag Team Championship, marking Rhodes' first championship in WWE.

In May 2008, Ted DiBiase began feuding with the duo, threatening to take their titles in his first match as part of the Raw brand. At the pay-per-view event, Night of Champions on June 29, Rhodes turned on Holly by revealing himself as Ted DiBiase's partner to help DiBiase win the match and also become a two-time World Tag Team Champion, turning heel in the process

The Legacy (2008–2010) 

After holding the championship for just over a month, they dropped it to John Cena and Batista on the August 4, 2008, episode of Raw, but regained it the next week. Rhodes and DiBiase were then joined by Manu, the son of Afa, in September, forming a stable of multi-generational wrestlers. On the October 27 Raw, Rhodes and DiBiase lost the World Tag Team Championship to Kofi Kingston and CM Punk.

On November they began a storyline with Orton and, at Survivor Series, Rhodes, along with Orton, was a survivor, for Orton's team, in the annual Elimination match. The three of them created a stable with Orton called The Legacy.

As part of the Legacy, Rhodes entered the Royal Rumble match in order to help Orton win, and lasted until the final three, before being eliminated by Triple H. Rhodes and DiBiase became involved in Orton's scripted rivalry with the McMahon family, helping him to attack Shane and Stephanie McMahon, and Stephanie's real-life husband, Triple H. Rhodes was elevated to main event status as a result of joining the Legacy, competing in handicap and six-man tag team matches against Orton's opponents and rivals.

On April 26 at Backlash, Rhodes, DiBiase, and Orton defeated Triple H, Batista, and Shane McMahon in a six-man tag team match, which, per the pre-match stipulation, resulted in Orton winning the WWE Championship. Rhodes suffered a minor neck injury in June, but continued working.

Throughout mid-2009, Rhodes and DiBiase continued to compete against and attack Orton's rivals, especially Triple H. This led to Triple H reforming D-Generation X (DX) with Shawn Michaels, and DX defeated Rhodes and DiBiase at SummerSlam. Rhodes and DiBiase defeated DX at the following pay-per-view, Breaking Point in a submissions count anywhere match, but were defeated in a Hell in a Cell match at the Hell in a Cell pay-per-view in October, when Rhodes was pinned following a sledgehammer shot to the head. Rhodes represented Team Raw at the first Bragging Rights pay-per-view in Oc