# 1934 in baseball

Champions

Major League Baseball
World Series: St. Louis Cardinals over Detroit Tigers (4-3)
All-Star Game, July 10 at Polo Grounds: American League, 9-7

Other champions
Negro League Baseball All-Star Game: East, 1-0

Awards and honors
Most Valuable Player:
American League: Mickey Cochrane, Detroit Tigers, C
National League: Dizzy Dean, St. Louis Cardinals, P

MLB statistical leaders

Major league baseball final standings

American League final standings

National League final standings

Negro leagues final standings

Negro National League final standings

*Source refers to the league as the "East-West League", but the league was more generally known as the "Negro National League". Several games were included in the standings against non-League teams.

Source: 

Post-season:
Chicago won the first half, Philadelphia won the second half.
Philadelphia beat Chicago 4 games to 3 games (1 tie) in a play-off.

Events

January–June
January 19 – Baseball commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis denies Shoeless Joe Jackson's appeal for reinstatement. Jackson was one of eight Chicago White Sox players banned for their part in throwing the 1919 World Series against the Cincinnati Reds.
February 5 – Hank Aaron is born in Mobile, Alabama. Aaron will later set a major league record 755 home runs.
April 5 - New Reds owner Powel Crosley, for whom the Cincinnati park was renamed Crosley Field, hires Red Barber to broadcast the Reds' games on WSAI, a radio station owned by Crosley.
April 8 - In front of 15,000 fans, the Philadelphia Phillies defeat the Philadelphia A's 8-1. What made this inter-city exhibition game significant is that it is the first major league game of any kind to take place on a Sunday. 
April 17 – Opening day, Casey Stengel makes his Major League managerial debut, as his Brooklyn Dodgers lose to the Boston Braves, 8–7 at Ebbets Field.
April 17 – Opening day, Lon Warneke of the Chicago Cubs throws first of two consecutive complete game one-hit victories, defeating the Cincinnati Reds, 6–0. Warneke will throw his second consecutive one-hit victory on April 22, defeating Dizzy Dean and the St. Louis Cardinals, 15–2.
April 18 – Paul Dean, younger brother of Dizzy Dean, makes his major league debut on the mound for the St. Louis Cardinals, while allowing four earned runs in just two innings.
April 22 – Moe Berg's American League record of 117 consecutive errorless games for a catcher, dating back to , comes to an end. Nevertheless, Berg bats three-for-four to lead the Washington Senators to a victory over the Philadelphia Athletics, 4–3.
April 29 – The Pittsburgh Pirates defeat the Cincinnati Reds 9–5 at Forbes Field, in the team's first ever Sunday home game after Pennsylvania's "Blue Law" prohibiting games on Sundays was repealed.
May 25 – The Cleveland Indians trade Wes Ferrell and Dick Porter to the Boston Red Sox in exchange for Bob Seeds, Bob Weiland and $25,000.
June 3 – In the sixth inning with two outs, the St. Louis Browns string together nine consecutive hits to beat the first place Cleveland Indians, 12–8.

July–September
July 4 – The Pittsburgh Crawfords' Satchel Paige pitches a 4-0 no-hitter against the Homestead Grays in Pittsburgh, then drove to Chicago to shut out the Chicago American Giants 1-0 in twelve innings, giving him two shutouts in two different cities on the same day.
July 6 – Jocko Conlan makes his major league debut in right field for the Chicago White Sox. After two seasons as a part-time player with the ChiSox, Conlan retires in order to pursue a career as an umpire.
July 10 – At the All-Star Game held at the Polo Grounds in New York City, New York Giants pitcher Carl Hubbell strikes out five consecutive American League batters: Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Jimmie Foxx, Al Simmons, and Joe Cronin, all future Hall-of-Famers. The American League defeated the National League, however, 9–7.
July 13 – Babe Ruth finds the 700 home run club. He will be the only member for almost 40 years.
August 4 – Already up 10-4 in the second game of a double header, the New York Giants score eleven runs in the ninth inning.
August 14 – The Detroit Tigers sweep the New York Yankees in a double header to bring their winning streak to fourteen games. The Yankees beat them the following day to end the streak.
September 16 – In the first game of a double header with the Brooklyn Dodgers, Phil Cavarretta makes his major league debut for the Chicago Cubs at barely eighteen years old. He strikes out in one at-bat as a pinch hitter.
September 21 – St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Dizzy Dean throws a three hitter in the first game of a doubleheader against the Brooklyn Dodgers. In the nightcap, his younger brother Paul no-hits them.
September 23 – With a 2½ games lead in the National League, the New York Giants lose the second game of a double header to the Boston Braves. The Giants lose their last five games of the season, to end two games back of the St. Louis Cardinals, who win their last four.
September 26 – The Detroit Tigers sweep a double header from the Chicago White Sox, giving Chicago ten losses in a row, and 97 losses for the season. The ChiSox, however, go 2-2 in their final four games to avoid 100 losses for the season.
September 30 – Dizzy Dean of the St. Louis Cardinals shuts out the Cincinnati Reds, 9-0, to reach his 30th win of the season.

October–December
October 3 – Sloppy play by the Detroit Tigers (five errors) helps the Cardinals cruise to an 8-3 victory in game one of the 1934 World Series.
October 4 – Goose Goslin's single in the twelfth wins it, as the Tigers take game two, 3-2.
October 5 – With two outs in the ninth inning, Paul Dean allows the Detroit Tigers their only run of the game. The Cards take a 2-1 series advantage with both wins come with one of the Dean brothers on the mound.
October 6 – This time it is the Cardinals who commit five errors in one game, two of which came in the Tigers' five run eighth inning, as Detroit wins game four, 10-4.
October 7 – The Detroit Tigers take game five of the World Series, 3-1. Dizzy Dean in the losing pitcher.
October 8 – Daffy Dean pitches nine innings, and again just gives up one earned run. Sloppy play, however, allows the Tigers to plate two more. Dean helps his own cause with a single in the seventh to drive in the game-winning run as the Cardinals win 4-3 to even up the series.
October 9 – The St. Louis Cardinals defeat the Detroit Tigers, 11–0, in Game seven of the World Series to win their third World Championship, four games to three. All four games are won by one of the Dean brothers (Dizzy is 2-1, Paul is 2-0). The St. Louis "Gashouse Gang" collected 73 hits in the series.
November 21 – The New York Yankees acquire Joe DiMaggio from San Francisco of the Pacific Coast League.
December 26 – Matsutaro Shoriki, head of Yomiuri Shimbun, announces the formation of the first professional baseball team in Japan, the Yomiuri Giants. The team is composed primarily of players who had played the American All-Stars who had toured Japan.

Births

January
January 8 – Gene Freese
January 16 – Jim Owens
January 20 – Camilo Pascual
January 23 – Joey Amalfitano
January 24 – John Briggs
January 25 – Ted Kazanski
January 28 – Bill White

February
February 1 – Bob Conley
February 3 – Noboru Akiyama
February 5 – Hank Aaron
February 9 – Ted Wills
February 16 – Don Eaddy
February 17 – Willie Kirkland
February 22 – Sparky Anderson
February 25 – Johnny Schaive
February 26 – Don Lee

March
March 3 – Bobby Locke
March 8 – Marv Breeding
March 8 – Willard Hunter
March 9 – Jim Landis
March 10 – Ken MacKenzie
March 18 – Charley Pride

April
April 1 – Rod Kanehl
April 8 – Turk Farrell
April 10 – Wes Stock
April 14 – Marty Keough
April 15 – J. C. Hartman
April 18 – Deacon Jones
April 26 – Mary Weddle
April 28 – Jackie Brandt
April 29 – Luis Aparicio
April 30 – Ken Retzer

May
May 3 – Chuck Hinton
May 4 – Barbara Gates
May 5 – Don Buddin
May 6 – Tom Baker
May 6 – Leo Burke
May 12 – Louise Clapp
May 13 – Arlene Buszka
May 13 – Don LeJohn
May 13 – Leon Wagner
May 15 – Bill Conlin
May 21 – Moe Thacker
May 22 – Arlene Kotil
May 22 – José Valdivielso
May 26 – Jim Mahoney
May 27 – Ray Daviault
May 28 – Bob Smith

June
June 3 – Jim Gentile
June 8 – Bill Smith
June 10 – Gloria Schweigerdt
June 16 – Pancho Herrera
June 22 – Russ Snyder
June 27 – Ed Hobaugh
June 29 – Duane Wilson

July
July 5 – Gordy Coleman
July 11 – Bob Allison
July 13 – Ken Hunt
July 19 – Bill Kirk
July 22 – R. C. Stevens
July 29 – Félix Mantilla
July 30 – Bud Selig

August
August 4 – Dallas Green
August 9 – Eli Grba
August 15 – Seth Morehead
August 18 – Roberto Clemente
August 18 – Billy Consolo
August 22 – Angelo Dagres
August 23 – Johnny Romano
August 25 – Ralph Mauriello
August 26 – Mary Froning
August 27 – Em Lindbeck
August 28 – Shirley Crites

September
September 2 – Margaret Jurgensmeier
September 6 – Tom Flanigan
September 10 – Roger Maris
September 11 – Marlan Coughtry
September 12 – Albie Pearson
September 13 – Tom Hughes
Sept