# National Observatory of Athens

The National Observatory of Athens (NOA; ) is a research institute in Athens, Greece. Founded in 1842, it is the oldest research foundation in Greece.  The Observatory was the first scientific research institute built after Greece became independent in 1829, and one of the oldest research institutes in Southern Europe.  It was built around the same period as the United States Naval Observatory.

World-renowned Greek-Austrian astronomer Georgios Konstantinos Vouris lobbied to create the National Observatory of Athens in the newly founded state.  He persuaded wealthy Greek-Austrian banker Georgios Sinas to pay for the new massive observatory. The Austrian-born Greek King found out the news and awarded Georgios Sinas's son the Order of the Redeemer. The King also selected the architects for the building under Georgios Konstantinos Vouris's supervision. He chose Eduard Schaubert and Theophil Hansen.

The Athens observatory since its inception aided astronomers to conduct research in the field starting from Georgios Konstantinos Vouris's catalog for the complete determination of 1000 stars observed from Greece relative to the position of the Athens observatory.  The second director Ioannis Papadakis used the facility to observe the Moons of Jupiter and Johann Friedrich Julius Schmidt German-born Greek astronomer conducted countless observations and created a Moon map of the lunar surface from the Athens observatory.   

After Schmidt, Demetrios Kokkidis briefly directed the observatory and expanded the existing weather stations adding Corfu, Zakynthos, and Larissa.  By the early 1900s, Astronomer  Demetrios Eginitis observed the rare phenomenon known as Halley's Comet from the Athens observatory and wrote about it in his article entitled  Sur la Comète de Halley.  By the middle of the 20th century Stavros Plakidis continued the legacy of Greek astronomy at the observatory writing countless research papers and continuing his lifelong research on variable stars. 

Eginitis and Plakidis allowed a young twenty-two-year-old astronomer named Jean Focas to assist them at the observatory.  The young astronomer had no education in the field.  After many years at the Athens observatory, later in life, he acquired a Ph.D. in the field of astronomy in Paris, and two craters are named after him for his extraordinary contribution to the field, one of the craters is the Focas (lunar crater).

Currently, the National Observatory of Athens operates in four distinct locations: the National Observatory of Athens main branch operates in Thiseio, Penteli Astronomical Station is located in Penteli, Kryoneri Astronomical Station is in the Northern Peloponnese region, on the top of Mount Kyllini and finally, the fourth and largest research infrastructure is the Chelmos Observatory located on top of mount Chelmos, near Kalavryta, southern Greece.

History

1842: Foundation
Greek-Austrian astronomer Georgios Konstantinos Vouris studied astronomy at the Vienna Observatory under the supervision of Joseph Johann von Littrow.  Vouris eventually moved to Greece.  He became a professor at the newly founded University of Athens.  He wanted to build an observatory in Greece.  He lobbied Austrian banker Baron Georgios Sinas around 1840 with the help of the Austrian ambassador in Athens Prokesch-Osten.  Georgios Sinas was the Greek ambassador in Vienna.  Georgios Sinas expressed his intention to make a donation for scientific development in Greece. Vouris became the first director of the Athens Observatory and was also involved in the construction of its first building.  He chose the instruments for the new observatory.

The first building and instruments
The first building, known as Sinas building, was based on a project presented by Eduard Schaubert and designed by the Danish architect Theophil Hansen, it was the first building erected by the world-renowned architect. The cross-like neoclassic building has its sides oriented toward the four directions of the horizon. There is a small dome for a telescope in the center of the construction. The building was completed in 1846.  Two years after the United States Naval Observatory was completed.

The Observatory of Athens foundation ceremony was on June 26, 1842, the day of a Solar Eclipse, it was a magnificent official event, and the King of Greece, members of the Government, and the Greek Church were all present. A large crowd of people filled up the vicinity of the location selected for the Observatory, a location on the hill of Nymphs at Thiseio, facing the Acropolis. Following the panegyric speech by professor Georgios K. Vouris, the foundation stone was set under musical sounds and cannonade by a Danish frigate anchored at the port of Piraeus.

Vouris was responsible for purchasing and selecting the correct instruments for the newly founded Observatory.  He chose a refracting telescope 158 mm in diameter which featured 6.2" (15.8-cm, 250cm focal length, f/15)  Plößl of Vienna. It was created by Simon Plössl. The second telescope was made by Christoph Starke of Vienna. He worked with optics by Fraunhofer of Munich. The device was a meridional telescope 3.7" large (94mm, f/15, diameter 1m).  Vouris also purchased a timer and two pendulums along with five small telescopes and a complete line of meteorological equipment.  They were the most advanced scientific instruments of the day.

The observatory was fully operational and Georgios was the first director. He conducted scientific work in the field of astrophysics, astronomy, and geodesy publishing articles periodically in Astronomische Nachrichten. He became internationally renowned in the field of astronomy and created a catalog for the complete determination of 1000 stars peculiar to Greece and the position of the Athens Observatory while also determining the geographic coordinates of the Observatory, which formed the basis for the mapping of Greece.  Vouris did significant research on the movement of Sirius, Neptune, and Mars.  He made specific observations of Mars with the Athens Meridian Circle and his research was used by American astronomer James Melville Gilliss.

From Vouris to Ioannis Papadakis and Johann Friedrich Julius Schmidt
In 1855, Vouris became ill and moved back to retire in Vienna, where he died on January 2, 1860. Prof. Ioannis Papadakis, full Professor of Mathematics, since August 17, 1854, at the University of Athens was chosen as an interim Director. In December 1858 the nomination for the new permanent director took place, on December 4 Johann Friedrich Julius Schmidt was nominated, and on December 16 Julius Schmidt became the new director of Athens Observatory.

1858-1884: The "classical" period of J. Schmidt
Utilizing the Sina's family donation, Johann Friedrich Julius Schmidt repaired and maintained the instruments.  He started to observe the Sun, Moon, planets, comets and variable stars. He enriched the Observatory's library with many scientific books and journals. Some of them were donated by other European observatories. Schmidt also started editing the Publications of the Observatory of Athens.

During the 25 years of his work at the Athens Observatory, he performed more than 70,000 observations of variable stars and discovered several periodic variables and two Novae stars. Most of the results were published in the journal Astronomische Nachrichten.

For many years, J. Schmidt studied the planets Mars and Jupiter and drew the changes on their surfaces. He observed the bright comet of 1860 and two years later discovered a periodic comet. The clear sky allowed him to make thousands of observations of meteors. He also had the opportunity to observe a number of solar eclipses of the Moon.

The Topographical Chart of the Moon (Chaptre der Gebirge des Mondes) published in Berlin, is his main work. In an area of two meters diameter, consisting of 25 parts and representing the visible surface of the Moon, there are about 30,000 craters drawn as observed with the 158 mm Ploessl telescope. He conducted a significant study of the crater Linne showing apparent morphological changes.

Julius Schmidt reorganized the meteorological service of the Observatory of Athens. He performed meteorological observations in many places in Greece and regularly sent data to the Observatory of Paris. These results were presented in his work Beiträge zur physikalischen Geographie von Griechenland (1864).

Schmidt showed a significant interest in the field of seismology. With the help of volunteers, he recorded more than 3,000 earthquakes and published his work entitled Studien über Erdbeben (1975). He observed the Santorini volcano eruption in 1866 and published the study and three other studies on the volcanos (Etna, Vesuvius, Stromboli) in 1874.  Julius Schmidt traveled to the ancient city of Troy and performed geographical and archeological studies.

1884-1890: D. Kokkidis
Demetrios Kokkidis undertook the Direction of the Observatory of Athens in 1884. Because of