# When Your Heart Stops Beating

When Your Heart Stops Beating is the only album by the American rock supergroup +44, released on November 14, 2006, by Interscope Records. Mark Hoppus and Travis Barker of Blink-182 formed +44 as an experimental electronic outfit following the breakup of Blink-182. The project started in early 2005, and was later joined by lead guitarist Shane Gallagher and rhythm guitarist Craig Fairbaugh.

Recording began in earnest shortly after the band purchased the Los Angeles-based studio Opra Music. The electronic demos evolved into more rock-based, full band compositions over the course of the recording process in 2006. Jerry Finn, who had worked extensively with Blink-182, came into the studio late in the production process to oversee completion of the album. Its dark lyrical content primarily reflects the demise of Blink-182, although it is stylistically upbeat and inspired by bands such as the Postal Service and the Cure.

Although anticipated by music press, When Your Heart Stops Beating undersold commercial expectations and received mixed reviews from critics. The album's title track was released as its lead single and peaked at number 14 on Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart. +44 embarked on a worldwide touring schedule to support the album, and played the 2007 Honda Civic Tour alongside headliner Fall Out Boy. With the 2009 reunion of Blink-182, When Your Heart Stops Beating stands as +44's only album to date.

Background
By 2004, Blink-182, consisting of bassist Mark Hoppus, guitarist Tom DeLonge, and drummer Travis Barker, had achieved significant commercial success in the mainstream. The band had taken a brief break in late 2001 when DeLonge suffered a herniated disc in his back, during which time he collected several darker musical ideas he felt unsuitable for Blink-182, compiling them into a record, Box Car Racer. The album, recorded with the help of Hazen Street guitarist and longtime friend David Kennedy, was intended as a one-time experimental project but evolved into a full-fledged band upon Barker's involvement. The side project would cause great division between DeLonge and Hoppus, who felt "betrayed." Blink-182 regrouped in 2003 to record and release their eponymous fifth studio album, which, not unlike Box Car Racer, reflected what critics believed to be a darker, more experimentalist tone.

The trio embarked on a European tour the following autumn. DeLonge became uncomfortable with the hefty touring schedule, during which he was unable to see his family. He eventually expressed his desire to take a half-year respite from touring in order to spend more time with family. Hoppus and Barker protested his decision, which they felt was an overly long break. DeLonge did not blame his bandmates for being disappointed with his requests, but was dismayed that they could not seemingly understand. In addition, DeLonge protested the idea of Barker's reality television series, Meet the Barkers, which was being produced for a 2005 premiere. DeLonge disliked television cameras everywhere, feeling his personal privacy was invaded. Following the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, DeLonge agreed to perform at Music for Relief's Concert for South Asia, a benefit show to aid victims. Further arguments ensued during rehearsals, rooted in the band member's increasing paranoia and bitterness toward one another. He considered his bandmates priorities "mad, mad different", and the breakdown in communication led to heated exchanges, resulting in his exit from the group. Geffen announced on February 22, 2005 that Blink-182 would be going on an "indefinite hiatus." Label president Jordan Schur reportedly advised Barker to downplay events in the press.

Hoppus and Barker began developing new songs with near immediacy following the band's implosion, recording in Barker's basement and Hoppus' dining room. The two musicians experimented with electronic drums, samples, keyboards and direct computer recordings during this period. These recordings were ambient and quiet by necessity. "We were recording and we didn't want the cops showing up at our house at 2 a.m. because we recording drums," remembered Hoppus. While away on a trip in April 2005, Hoppus participated in an interview with MTV News in which he revealed the band's existence, saying "Right now, Travis and I are using the time off to start this project called Plus-44 […] It's very exciting, like a breath of fresh air." When the two regrouped, they decided to stop giving interviews about the new project. "It was strange to be talking about music that we were just in the very first steps of writing," recalled Hoppus. "It didn’t feel right to talk about yet."  The band's name is a reference to the country code needed when placing a phone call to the United Kingdom, where Hoppus and Barker first discussed making music alone. "When we first started talking about ever doing anything outside of Blink was on the last European tour where Tom was telling us that he needed to take a year off from the band. […] We never did anything about it until Tom quit the band, but that's where it first started," said Hoppus.

Recording and production

The addition of other members to +44 came gradually. In April 2005, Barker invited his friend Carol Heller to provide vocals on a track. Formerly of the all-girl punk quartet Get the Girl, Heller shared vocals with Hoppus on most of the band's early demos. Meanwhile, Hoppus invited friend Shane Gallagher to play guitar on a few tracks the band began working on, and he soon joined the group. Production on the record moved along swiftly once the duo purchased their own North Hollywood studio, which they dubbed Opra Music. The space — which featured two recording rooms, a lounge and a small outdoor courtyard — was purchased in October 2005 from former Poison guitarist Richie Kotzen. After moving all band gear into the new recording center, the entire direction for the band changed course significantly, opting for a more rock-based sound. Hoppus and Barker had believed the electronic elements would always be a startup method and nothing more; Hoppus told label executives near the beginning of the project that "We’re just using these tools at the beginning to start off this thing." Heller became uneasy with the new direction and, with a desire to start a family, parted ways with the band by the end of the year. Shortly afterward, friend Craig Fairbaugh came in to observe and listen and play to songs; he was later asked to become the fourth member of the group.

In February 2006, the band began recording "in earnest" for the record. The band considered many producers for the album, among those Danger Mouse. Eventually, the record was produced by Hoppus and Barker, with longtime associate and friend Jerry Finn in the role of executive producer. Finn came in late into production to oversee completion, but eventually contributed heavily to the album's writing. Producer Dan "The Automator" Nakamura was called in to "tinker" with a track. Upon completion, the record's tentative title was Little Death. By August, the band decided on naming the album When Your Heart Stops Beating. "We always thought of the phrase 'when your heart stops beating' as capturing the good and the bad in the world in everything," said Hoppus of the title. "When you fall in love with a lady and your heart skips a beat or something great happens. And also, obviously, when your heart stops beating, the end of things."

There were several songs that did not make the final cut, including an uplifting "indie country" track that was among the last to be developed. The album artwork and photography were created by Estavan Oriol. The artwork of the jewel case pictures the words "When Your Heart Stops Beating" in black with the letters "ART" of "heart" standing out in blue.

Composition

Music

The tone of the album has been described as "consistently upbeat," showcasing a variety of influences. The music of the album is influenced by artists such as the Postal Service, Missing Persons, and the Cure. The album experiments with unusual song structure and temperaments, and the first six tracks of the album alternate between uptempo rock songs and ballads. Many songs feature a dynamic utilizing soft verses and louder choruses. According to Corey Apar of AllMusic, +44's original electronic influence is evident in the music, although it has "ultimately [taken] a backseat to guitar-driven rock".

"The whole album is about everything that's happened, including Blink, and the ugly feelings that were left over afterwards," Hoppus said of the album's lyrical content. "Lyrically, it's some of the most positive stuff I've ever written, but it's also some of the darkest shit, too." The album is composed of both dark and introspective songs, but also upbeat and "positive" tracks. Hoppus also described the music as "the most lyrically personal music I've ever written." For Barker, the writing of the record's lyrics was inspired by t