# The Doraemons

is a Japanese manga series that is a spin-off of the long-running Doraemon series.

Synopsis
The spin-off series originated from the 1995 short film 2112: The Birth of Doraemon, where the six additional characters appeared. The original author, Fujiko F. Fujio, agrees with the story and adds these settings in the original series, even though the settings would not appear in any of the original manga and anime series.

This subseries ran the short anime movie series from 1995 to 2002, and included two versions of the manga by  and .

Plot
The Doraemons, or Dora Dora Seven DD7, is an old boys' association of the  that Doraemon attended. All of the seven male members are cat-like robots of the same type; they enjoy dorayaki, but usually add their own seasoning. They have rock-hard heads that they can use as a weapon or to break things. Doraemon has an especially hard head, since he has no other special weapons, and has no ears or hat to get in the way when using this mode of attack. The gadget that can connect them is the Friendship Telecard. They can call each other with the card from anywhere when one of them is in need.

Characters

The Doraemons
The main characters of the series. One or more of them has played a prominent role in several manga volumes as well as the anime short films.

(Voiced by Nobuyo Ōyama or Chisa Yokoyama)
The titular character and co-protagonist of the main series. He acts as the leader of the team due to being the most optimistic and moderate member of the seven cat robots. In the chapters set when the Doraemons were still in the Robot School (as well as the 1995 short film 2112: The Birth of Doraemon), He had yellow skin, which made him resemble his sister, Dorami (who at the time had not yet been manufactured), even more, as well as ears, which had been eaten by mice by the time Doraemon first visited Nobita. He even had a high-pitched voice at that time, which was toned down significantly when he wept uncontrollably after accidentally drinking the Potion of Sadness. A running gag in the main series is that he gets mad when others thinks he’s a racoon dog. He has the normal four-dimensional pocket on his stomach, and likes to have plain dorayaki.

(Voiced by Chisa Yokoyama→ Yoku Shioya→ Keiichi Nanba) 
Nicknamed Kid, he works for a sheriff's deputy in Texas, USA (which was changed to a Western-style planet in some versions), with the old sheriff captain and his granddaughter Anyi. Kid is also a secret agent of the Time Patrol Police. He is good at quick shooting like Nobita, however he has a fear of heights (acrophobia). Kid's weapon of choice is the Air Gun, which appears to be the front muzzle of a giant revolver that is equipped onto Kid's arm (He has no fingers to fire a regular pistol). The Air Gun shoots out a big blast of air that can knock down anyone that gets hit. His variation of Doraemon's four-dimensional Pocket is the  that Kid wears on his head. Kid enjoys his dorayaki with ketchup and mustard on it, much like a hot dog. Though he thinks girls are troublesome most of the time, he is often the sweet (or romance) character when he faces the girls. It is proven when he and Dorami fall in love with each other. In one chapter, he is best known as a samurai. In one of the Doraemons specials, he tries to let Doraemon eat a dorayaki shaped like a mouse but Doraemon declines, due to his fear of mice.
Throughout various chapters of the story, Dora-the-Kid has been described as a symbol of American patriotism.
 Chinese: 王哆啦
(Voiced by Kumiko Nishihara→ Megumi Hayashibara)
He is the smartest member among the Doraemons and is a master of kung fu. He studies medicine in the Qing Dynasty while he works for an assistant of a doctor of Chinese medicine. His only weakness is that he cannot face girls, even though he has a girlfriend, a female robot called Mimiko. Wang Dora's variation of the four-dimensional pocket is his  on his shirt. He enjoys his dorayaki with rāyu. He is best friends with El Matadora, however they have often clashed with each other and are both rivals, so they fight often.
 Arabic: دورا ميد الثالث; Hebrew: דורה-ים-תיכוני השלישי; Persian: دورا-مد ۳
(Voiced by Masaharu Satō)
He wears Arabian clothes and forecasts from the tarot. He chose to be a royal consultant in Saudi Arabia on Middle East, but despite being Saudi Arabian, his home is located in Baghdad, Iraq. Needless to say, though, he cannot swim, due to his fear of water. He is also quite proficient in magic and the black arts. His dream is to open a "Water Land" theme park for children who live in desert regions. When he gets angry, he grows several times his size (proportional to how angry he is,) becoming a giant. Dora-Med III's variation of the four-dimensional pocket is his . Despite this, he was using the normal four-dimensional pocket on his stomach in the ending to The Mysterious Puzzling Dorapin. He enjoys frozen dorayaki due to his fear of water. 
 Russian: Дора-ников
(Voiced by Teiyū Ichiryūsai→ Toshiharu Sakurai)
He is a silent member of the Doraemons, living in Siberia, Russia. As one of the poorest members in The Doraemons, he is a Cossack, whose clothes derived from the historic Siberian Cossack farmers of the past. He often works in Hollywood as a popular movie actor of Werewolf series in the 22nd century, or even travels to the past when Russia is ruled by Tsar Nicholas II, even he comes back to Boris Yeltsin's era. He is taciturn (and can only communicate with growls, etc.) and is extremely sensitive to the cold. He can transform himself into a wolf if he looks at something that looks like the moon; in this form, he can attack enemies by biting or simply wreaking havoc, etc. He is able to blow fire out of his mouth by taking something hot like Tabasco. Dora-nichov uses the  covering his face as an alternative to the four-dimensional pocket. He likes his dorayaki with dog food, however he usually does not eat dorayaki in front of others because the round shape of the snack would accidentally transform him into a wolf and cause him to wreak havoc. His love interest is Momo in the anime, who is a student of the school he attended in; in the manga, his love interest is Nina, a poor Russian singer living in Moscow who later becomes popular thanks to him.

(Voiced by Kazue Ikura→ Kyousei Tsukui→ Ryūsei Nakao) 
He is the strongest member of the team. He likes napping (siesta), even naps in any danger or anywhere when he wants to. He lives in Barcelona, Spain and works for a roast meat restaurant "Carmen" (which is named after the daughter of the chef, and also El's love interest, Carmen), but also masking himself to save the poor, as an alter-ego Keikai-Dora, a parody of Zorro (This form isn't much different from his original appearance, except with his Magic Cloak pulled over the top of his head). His dream is to become a famous bullfighter, otherwise known as a matador. He likes dorayaki with spaghetti sauce. His Magic Cloak can blow enemies away or deflect bullets, among others. Unlike his friendly rival Wang Dora, he is a playboy among girls. El Matadora is the only other Doraemon robots (other than Doraemon himself) to use the four-dimensional pocket on his stomach, and is the only Doraemons member to have ox horns instead of cat ears.

(Voiced by Mie Suzuki) 
He is the quickest member of the team, who can run very fast and possesses many powerful soccer skills. He lives in Brazil and spends days in playing association football with the . The Mini-Doras each has a miniature version of Doraemon's four-dimensional pocket that Dora-rinho could take gadgets from; though the gadgets are equally as small as the Mini-Doras. He is also a coach of a Brazilian boy, . He can attack enemies by kicking soccer balls at them. He enjoys dorayaki with Tabasco sauce. He has a cat bell in the form of a soccer ball. In the manga, his soccer-shaped bell turns into an ordinary-looking cat bell when he is angry. He often has derpy eyes and is forgetful due to his clumsiness.
While it has been said that Dora-rinho was inspired by José Mourinho (whose name was inspired from) and Mario Balotelli (whose character personality is based on), contrary to popular belief, Dora-rinho was neither inspired by any of them, especially since they both have achieved successes well after the spin-off series ended its run in 2001/2003.

Allies

(Voiced by Keiko Yokozawa)
She is Doraemon's younger sister, who first appeared in the main series. She appears prominently in the 1996 short film and in one story of the manga where Dorami's graduation ceremony in the Robot School that the Doraemons plan to attend goes awry when a disposed school guardian wakes up and brainwashes all robots. She and Dora-the-Kid are the only ones who managed to escape and free the school from that guardian. They develop a stronger relationship after that incident. She is Dora-the-Kid's love interest and girlfriend.

(Voiced by Ichirō Nagai) 
The principal of the Robot School in t