# List of DuckTales characters

This article includes a list of characters from the Disney DuckTales animated franchise, including the original 1987 series and the 2017 reboot series, as well as one theatrical movie and a variety of additional spin-off media merchandise, including video games (most notably DuckTales and its updated remake DuckTales: Remastered) and comics. Prior to the series, many of the characters appeared in the Uncle Scrooge comic book stories, in particular the ones created by Carl Barks.

Overview

Main characters

Scrooge McDuck
Scrooge McDuck (voiced by Alan Young in the 1987 series, DuckTales the Movie, and DuckTales: Remastered; David Tennant in the 2017 series) is the richest duck in the world, a distinguished citizen of Duckburg, Calisota, the uncle of Donald Duck and Della Duck, the grand-uncle of Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck, and the main protagonist of the original series and the 2017 reboot series, originally created by Carl Barks for his 1947 story "Christmas on Bear Mountain".

In the 1987 series, Scrooge is constantly seeking ways to further increase his wealth (his favorite pastime appears to be treasure hunting), and to avoid losing it. He is a self-made billionaire who left Scotland in his youth and came to America with his Number One Dime, eventually establishing his home in McDuck Manor and erecting his famous Money Bin. He sports a blue jacket with red cuffs and a red collar. Pat Fraley provided the voice for the younger Scrooge in flashback episode "Once Upon a Dime".

In the 2017 series, Scrooge's Scottish heritage, the Money Bin, and the Number One Dime remains the same, but he is well known as a seasoned "adventure capitalist" and CEO of McDuck Enterprises. Born in Glasgow, Scotland in the mid-19th century and getting rich during the Klondike Gold Rush in the 1890s, his decreased aging has been explained by him spending time "stuck in a timeless demon dimension". In his younger days he used to conduct adventures with his nephew Donald and niece Della joining him. However, Della's disappearance led to Donald cutting off his relationship with his uncle, and Scrooge losing the spark for adventure. Ten years later, as seen in the pilot episode, Scrooge regains his energy when he is reunited with Donald and introduced to his grandnephews for the first time. The reboot sees him wearing a red jacket with visible pockets and black cuffs, spats, and collar, as per his comic book appearance.According to Frank Angones, several lines involving Scrooge using Scottish slang or dialogue are improvised by Tennant, who is also Scottish, to provide an accurate depiction of Scottish people.

Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck
Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck (all voiced by Russi Taylor in the 1987 series, DuckTales the Movie, and DuckTales: Remastered; Danny Pudi, Ben Schwartz and Bobby Moynihan in the 2017 series, respectively) are the nephews of Donald Duck, the sons of his sister Della Duck, friends of Webby, and the grand-nephews of their uncle Scrooge McDuck. They were originally created for the comics by Ted Osborne and Al Taliaferro in 1937.

In the 1987 series, the boys are sent to Scrooge to stay with him, while Donald leaves to join the navy. All three tend to be playful and mischievous, while also being devoted members of the Junior Woodchucks scouts. They are identical in appearance and personality, and wear identical outfits – a cap and jumper – with the only difference between each of them being the color of their clothing: Huey wears red, Dewey wears blue, and Louie wears green. The introduction of this scheme by DuckTales was adapted for later use in future animations that featured the triplets. Avery Schreiber voiced the adult Huey, Dewey and Louie in a possible future scenario in the episode "Duck to the Future".

In the 2017 series, Huey, Dewey, and Louie (short for Hubert, Dewford, and Llewellyn) are slightly older, and each have different appearances, voices, and personalities – Huey, wearing a red polo shirt and cap, is the intelligent older brother, and a devoted Junior Woodchuck; Dewey, wearing a blue T-shirt with a light blue long-sleeved T-shirt underneath, is the adventurous, courageous, and sensitive brother, and the one most eager to find out what happened to their mother Della; and Louie, wearing a green hoodie, is the laid-back, money-obsessed younger brother, and a resourceful schemer, jokingly described as the "evil triplet". Although all three are mischievous and sneaky around Donald, they are wide-eyed admirers of Scrooge's fortune and the legends of his adventures. Initially, the boys are sent to stay with Scrooge while Donald attends a job interview during "Woo-oo!", but after renewing Scrooge's spirit for adventure, and Dewey accidentally wrecking their houseboat, Donald and the boys move into McDuck Manor and accompany him on his new adventures. Della had initially wanted to name her sons "Jet, Turbo, and Rebel", respectively; but Donald came up with their current names in her absence.

Webby Vanderquack
Webbigail "Webby" Vanderquack (voiced by Russi Taylor in the 1987 series, DuckTales the Movie, and DuckTales: Remastered; Kate Micucci in the 2017 series) is the granddaughter of Mrs. Beakley and friend of Huey, Dewey and Louie Duck who, like them, also refers to Scrooge as Uncle Scrooge.

In the 1987 series, she visually resembles April, May, and June from the Disney comics. She is characterized as younger than the nephews, despite being the same size. She is a tenderhearted girl who is always seen carrying her "Quacky-Patch" doll. Her love for animals is a recurring theme, be it penguins, koalas, dinosaurs, or even the Yeti. Webby is typically wearing a pink shirt and a large bow on her head, she is usually rather timid, and often has difficulties being accepted by the boys, although she is also a capable Junior Woodchuck scout.

In the 2017 series, Webby is around the boys' age, being an intellectual nerd and somewhat of an athletic genius, with her character wearing a pink shirt with a blue sleeveless sweater vest, a purple skirt, and a smaller bow on the side of her head. She is also an enthusiastic adventure fan and Clan McDuck historian who idolizes Scrooge and Donald as two of the greatest adventurers of all time. Having spent most of her life sheltered from the outside world by her grandmother, Webby's curiosity drives her towards new experiences as the boys' arrival in McDuck Manor finally causes Beakley to allow her more freedom. While the boys find her slightly intimidating upon their first meeting, they soon accept her as a close friend and surrogate sister, as her optimism and energy often help encourage them. In the series finale "The Last Adventure!", it is revealed that Webby is actually a clone of Scrooge originally named "April", and was created by F.O.W.L. to find the Papyrus of Binding for them until she was rescued and raised by Beakley. Upon learning of this, Scrooge happily accepts Webby as his daughter.

Launchpad McQuack
Launchpad McQuack (voiced by Terry McGovern in the 1987 series, DuckTales the Movie, and DuckTales: Remastered; Beck Bennett in the 2017 series) is Scrooge's pilot, and an original DuckTales character. He is an able flyer, but is somewhat incompetent and rarely ever lands a plane safely, usually crashing them and walking away without injury.

In the 1987 series, he uses the motto "If it has wings, I can crash it". He is introduced in the third part of the pilot episode, but has been Scrooge's pilot since his early youth. He is of Irish descent and his ancestor Rhubarb McQuack played an important role in the American Civil War, and prior to the series Launchpad used to perform with his parents and sister as the stunt pilot team "The Flying McQuacks". Aside from being a pilot, he is also a Junior Woodchuck scout leader. His physical appearance is somewhat heroic, with his clothing being similar to that of early era pilots, including a leather cap with flight goggles, an aviation scarf, and a brown flight jacket with light brown pants. He later crossed over as a main character in Disney's Darkwing Duck.

In the 2017 series, Launchpad initially works for Scrooge as his limo driver, before being placed in charge of piloting various craft including the airplane "The Sunchaser", which becomes his signature vehicle. While his physical appearance is the same as his 1987 counterpart, he wears an outfit resembling that of private commercial pilots from the 40s/50s, including a baseball cap, a bomber jacket with a fur lined collar, a green undershirt, and white slacks. The goofy aspects of the character have been enhanced, often giving Launchpad the role of a comic relief. Like his 1987 incarnation, Launchpad is a Junior Woodchuck scout leader. He is also an avid fan of the Darkwing Duck show-within-a-show (an allusion to his role in the original Darkwing Duck series), as evidenced by a bobblehead and a series of video tapes he owns as well as his watching the show with the fam