# Ottawa Paramedic Service

Ottawa Paramedic Service is a uniformed municipal public safety agency providing emergency and non-emergency paramedic care to residents and visitors of city of Ottawa, Ontario. It is the sole, licensed, statutory provider and is operated directly by the city. The Service is an independent third service provider.  This means that it is part of the Emergency and Protective Services  department of the city but functions as an independent and separate agency from other services.  The Ottawa Paramedic Service operates in compliance with legislation and licensing standards overseen by the government of Ontario. It also provides routine, non-emergency transports and emergency paramedic coverage for special events. It is the only service provider permitted to service medical emergency calls in the City of Ottawa.

History

The first known Ottawa (called Bytown) hospital was created in 1827 by Lt. Col. John By who was commissioned to build the canal and join the Ottawa river with Lake Ontario. This military hospital most likely had some form of ambulance, but no records or documentation can support its use.  The population of Ottawa was only a few thousand, and it did not have an ambulance service since no general hospital existed.

Early diseases and first hospital

Communicable diseases, mostly malaria, cholera, influenza, typhus and smallpox were common causing the religious community to ask Montreal Grey Nuns for assistance in establishing a permanent hospital in By-Town.  Elizabeth Bruyere opened the Ottawa General hospital on May 10, 1845.  Located at 169 St. Patrick Street,  it contained 7 beds.  Their first patient transport was completed by the sisters on the same day, a 40-year-old tubercular patient who was brought in on a hand cart two pushing and two pulling. Mother Bruyere faced her first typhus outbreak in 1847, which led to the construction of an emergency hospital.  Many Irish immigrants in that year were escaping Great Famine of Ireland, and searching for work on the Rideau Canal. More than 3,000 Irish immigrants passed through Ottawa in that year, causing disease rates to skyrocket.  In this outbreak 172 patients of the 532 patients died.  Even more devastating were 17 out of 21 nurses became infected while providing care but were able to recover.  Mother Bruyere and the sisters would remove the deceased to the graveyard at night and bury them so that the residents would not be alarmed by the devastation Ottawa's outbreaks caused.  This placed an enormous strain on Ottawa's infant health care system.  Mother Bruyere dealt with three decades of severe outbreaks, traumas, and poverty in Ottawa; she died  at 58 years on April 5, 1876, her selfless dedication, devotion to her faith and the Citizens of Ottawa is unsurpassed.

City of Ottawa involvement

The first known ambulance reference is in the City of Ottawa by-laws and was possibly enforced earlier than 1890.  It was written that police could use any for hire wagon to “assist in the conveyance of any person to hospital or elsewhere as may be required, who may be wounded or met with accident, or who may have been suddenly taken ill, provided the sickness is not infectious in nature, and such owner or driver shall be entitled after the performance of such service to the usual fare therefore from the proper authorities”  This implies that any taxi, wagon, or cart was used by police to move patients around.  This method would have been most effective in the early years since officers patrolled the streets and would have been notified of any traumatic or accidental emergency.

Ottawa's first public ambulance

The first designated and public ambulance operator was the Women’s Humane Society (Ottawa Humane Society)that began service shortly after their inception in 1888.  Seeing a need in the Ottawa community, a hand ambulance was purchased for the conveyance of injured persons and children.  In their first few years as a society, the scope included: “We believe it to be our duty bettering the lot of neglected children by urging legislation to provide foster homes; supervising the overhaul of Ottawa’s only ambulance; and stirring up the public conscience to the fair treatment of all animals..”  In addition to their hand ambulance, they also became advocates for heroism and first aid resources.  Each year, awards for Bravery were given out to members of the public who put their lives in danger for another.  The Ottawa Humane Society also raised funds to have large waterproof banners with resuscitation instructions and rescue buoys were put in the most frequent drowning sites.  In under ten years, it was clear that providing ambulance services for the City of Ottawa was too large of a service for the Humane Society.  With the final report given on the condition of their ambulance, the hand ambulance was donated in 1895 to the City of Ottawa's fleet under the care of Mr. McKinstry of Queen Street.

The City of Ottawa accepted on October 6, 1890, to purchase a contagious disease ambulance (similar time frame to Women's Humane Society donating their ambulance).  Medical Health Board wrote to the council, “The time has arrived when the City should own and control such means of conveyance”.  Records suggest that the City of Ottawa owned the disease ambulance that became associated with the Strathcona Hospital and was used only for contagious disease cases.  The horse-drawn ambulance was relieved of service in 1919 after Ottawa faced the 1918 Influenza Epidemic and was replaced by a much needed motorized ambulance.  This vehicle was staffed with nursing students out of the Civic hospital and they attended the patients while a 'skilled chauffeur' was in charge of driving.  This vehicle was not sent on emergencies with lights and sirens activated, but it was considered an ambulance.  This vehicle was replaced again in the 1930s with a Hudson 8 ambulance.  This vehicle was then taken out of service when the Strathcona Hospital closed.

Funeral homes come to Ottawa's aid

Each year the City of Ottawa would ask for tenders to provide ambulance service for emergency calls excluding contagious disease cases.  A variety of offers would come in showing the vast interest in providing ambulance service, but it also showed a lack of direction since the lowest tender was almost always the one taken.   Alphonse Julien, Woodburn, Gauthier, Landreville, Hulse, Brady and Harris, Whelan, Tubman, A.E. Veitch, Geo. B. Burney, Rogers, McEvoy, Radmore and Stewart, Rancine, and Fred N. Garrett funeral services were all known to bid on these contracts or offer private ambulance service for the residents of Ottawa from as early as 1898 to almost 1968.  Other potential ambulance operators were Louis Duhamel a carriage maker turn of the century and ambulance mechanic, Medric Landreville (son of Joseph Landreville who owned Landreville Funeral Home) and Peter Shorkey operated taxi services in the 1930s as well as ambulance services. Arthur Wilson Ambulance Service provided service for a short period of time.  These services valiantly took on the task of providing ambulance care, but with unpaid accounts, lack of accountability and few resources, each provider amalgamated, discontinued ambulance service and sold their equipment to the next generation of ambulance providers.

The next generation of ambulance providers were now primarily in the business of ambulance care instead of it being a secondary operation.  There was a wide range of success for these services most notably were Exclusive Ambulance Service and Twin City Ambulance Service.  Queensway Ambulance Service and Arthur Wilson Ambulance Services both existed for short periods of time, but very little to no information has survived to today.

Exclusive Ambulance  began in 1948 when Eric Magladry returned home post war to find his wife Edith Magladry had purchased an ambulance service from three interns working out of the Civic Hospital.  Living on 338 Somerset Street with the garage below, they began providing ambulance services to Ottawa.  In 1955 the City of Ottawa renewed their contract with Exclusive ambulance after stating they had received satisfactory service.  At this time they had three ambulances and charged five dollars per call.  In 1961 the service was moved to 61 Louisa, possibly for expansion.  This move was followed almost immediately by another when Louisa Street (and other nearby) residents were expropriated for the first Ottawa Urban Renewal Project – the building of the Queen Elizabeth Way (the 'Queensway' or Highway 417). The Magladry family and Exclusive Ambulance was moved to 71 Le Breton Street in November 1965, the property being sold for $42,500 and no remuneration was given to relocate Ottawa's largest ambulance service.  Eric was forced to go farther in debt to support his business since many accounts went unpaid.  Eric offered hospital bed delivery, home oxygen supplies, transfers, body removal and other medical equipment