# History of the Time Lords

The Time Lords are a fictional humanoid species originating on the planet Gallifrey, seen in the British science fiction television series Doctor Who. Time Lords are so called because they are able to travel in and manipulate time through prolonged exposure to the time vortex.

Details of the history of the Time Lords in the television series are sketchy and, as is usual for Doctor Who continuity, fraught with supposition and contradiction. This history covers the various versions given on screen and in the spin-off media based on the television series.

On screen

What little has actually been established on screen, arranged roughly in chronological order, is as follows:

Before Time Lord society was founded, Gallifrey was inhabited by an indigenous species called Shobogans. Tecteun, a Shobogan scientist and explorer, helped develop space travel and the Shobogans began to explore the universe. During her travels, Tecteun found a gateway on a distant planet, said to be the boundary to another dimension, and discovered an abandoned child whom she adopted. After an accident, the child (who would come to be known as "The Timeless Child") was shown to possess the unique genetic ability to repair bodily damage and even survive death by rewriting their entire physiology. Tecteun experimented on the child and was eventually able to replicate this ability among a subset of the population who would go on to become the Time Lords, granting them the power of regeneration. Using a chameleon arch, the Timeless Child had its memory wiped and its regenerative abilities limited, becoming a seemingly-ordinary Time Lord who would eventually become the renegade known as The Doctor. This account was redacted and its records in the Matrix obscured, with Rassilon taking credit for regeneration and Tecteun disappearing into obscurity as the mysterious figure in Time Lord mythology sometimes referred to as "The Other". From the shadows, Tecteun would go on to found and run The Division - a multi-species taskforce 
created in secret by the Time Lords to shape the course of history in the universe to their liking while the Great Houses maintained a policy of non-intervention.

The Time Lords became the masters of time travel. Many years later, one of their number, the scientist Omega, created an energy source to power their experiments in time. To this end, Omega used a stellar manipulation device, the Hand of Omega, to rework a nearby star into a new form to serve as that source. Unfortunately, the star flares into a supernova, then collapses into a black hole. Omega is thought killed in the explosion, but somehow survives in an antimatter universe beyond the black hole's singularity.

The founder of Time Lord society, however, and its most revered figure, is Rassilon. Rassilon's name is used frequently throughout Time Lord legend and culture, and is applied to many artifacts of power. Rassilon takes a singularity (assumed by fans and the spin-off media to be the same one as Omega's) and places it beneath the Time Lords' citadel on Gallifrey. This perfectly balanced Eye of Harmony then serves as the power source for their civilisation as well as their time machines.

The early part of Time Lord history is known as the Dark Time, when the first Time Lords abuse their powers over time by manipulating lesser species. Among these abuses is the use of the Time Scoop to abduct beings from throughout history to participate in gladiatorial games (with the exception of such races as Daleks and Cybermen who "play the game too well" and are thus considered too dangerous to be used) in an area of Gallifrey known as the Death Zone.

During his rule, Rassilon leads the Time Lords in a war against the Great Vampires, a war so horrific that the Time Lords forswear violence from that point on. The weapons used by the Time Lords against the vampires in that war include Bowships that fired giant bolts through the Great Vampires' hearts. The Doctor encounters a surviving vampire in E-Space in the serial State of Decay.

Eventually, Rassilon dies, or is deposed; contradictory legends surround his demise. His body is placed in the Dark Tower in the Death Zone, which becomes known as the Tomb of Rassilon.

Over 4.6 billion years prior to 2007 AD, the Time Lords wipe out the Racnoss. The surviving Racnoss escape in their ship, which drifts into the Solar System and eventually forms the core of the planet Earth.

At some point in their history, the Time Lords interact with the civilisation of the planet Minyos, giving them advanced technology. This has disastrous results, with the Minyans destroying themselves in a series of nuclear wars.

Apparently as a result of this, the Time Lords adopt an official policy of neutrality and non-interference, acting only as observers save in cases of great injustice.  But given the existence of the Celestial Intervention Agency and of renegade Time Lords such as the Doctor, the Master, the Meddling Monk, the Rani and the War Chief, the policy seems to have frequently been breached (although it has been mentioned that such interference by 'renegades' carries the Death penalty). The Time Lords also have a shadow organization known as the Division which acts outside their neutrality protocol when necessary and employs agents of other species, the Doctor revealed to be a former agent prior to becoming the First Doctor.

The Time War

Much of the revived series features arcs touching on the Time War and the supposed destruction of Gallifrey.

In "The End of the World" (2005), the Ninth Doctor reveals that Gallifrey has been destroyed in a "war" his people lost and that he is the last of the Time Lords. In "Dalek" (2005), the Ninth Doctor further reveals that the "Last Great Time War" involved the Dalek race and the Time Lords, and that both sides were obliterated in the final battle. Executive producer Russell T Davies wrote in issue #356 of Doctor Who Magazine that the Time War in the series and the one in the novels are unrelated.

In "The Satan Pit" (2006), the Beast identifies the Tenth Doctor as "[t]he killer of his own kind." In "The Sound of Drums" (2007), the Tenth Doctor confirms his involvement in killing all of the Time Lords when he says that he was the only one that could end the War and that he had tried "everything". In "The Stolen Earth" (2008), the Tenth Doctor reveals that the entire Time War is "time locked", which means it is theoretically impossible to enter.

The 2009–2010 two-part special "The End of Time" reveals more about the conclusion of the Time War. The Time Lords are depicted as planning on eradicating the material universe in order to win the war, hoping to live on as beings of pure consciousness, in a manoeuvre Rassilon dubs "the Final Sanction". The Time Lord High Council is warned that the Doctor that fought in the Time War is in possession of a weapon called "the Moment" and is willing to use it to prevent this happening. When the Master opens the time lock of the War, the Time Lords intend to carry out the Final Sanction, until the Tenth Doctor and the Master together reseal the events of the Time War within the lock. Rassilon describes Time Lord history in this story as having lasted "a billion years" up until the end of the Time War.

"The Day of the Doctor" (2013) shows these last days from the point of view of the War Doctor, the incarnation of the Doctor born at that time. The Moment, itself sentient, brings the War Doctor into his own future where he meets the Tenth and Eleventh Doctors, and together, they are able to freeze Gallifrey and the Time Lords in time and put them into a "parallel pocket universe", causing the Daleks to destroy themselves. However, because of the time streams being out of sync, the War Doctor realises this means that he will still have to live the memory of burning Gallifrey, even though he actually tried to save it.

The Return of Gallifrey 
In "The Time of the Doctor" (2013), the Time Lords reach out to the universe through a crack in time on the planet Trenzalore, broadcasting the message "Doctor who?" through time and space to draw the Doctor in. They also send through a truth field so that when the Doctor arrives he will say his real name, with the field making sure it's the real one, which will be a signal for them to return. As "half the universe" are at Trenzalore waiting for this, the Eleventh Doctor refuses as it will restart the Time War. When a very old and frail Doctor goes to meet his demise at the hands of the Daleks, Clara Oswald begs the Time Lords through the crack to intervene, and the Time Lords grant the Doctor a new regeneration cycle through the crack before closing it, changing the Doctor's future and allowing him to defeat the Daleks and save Trenzalore.

In "Hell Bent" (2015), Gallifrey is revealed to have come back from the pocket universe it was frozen in and exists at the end of the universe. The Twelfth Doctor, backed by Gallifrey's armed forces, d