# Alice Pieszecki

Alice Elisabeth Pieszecki is a fictional bisexual character on the Showtime television network series The L Word, and the sequel series L Word: Generation Q, shown nationally in the United States. She is played by American actress Leisha Hailey.

Alice lives in Los Angeles, California, and mostly hangs out in West Hollywood. During the first seasons, she is often seen with her best friends, Shane McCutcheon (Katherine Moennig) and Dana Fairbanks (Erin Daniels). Further into the show, she befriends Helena Peabody (Rachel Shelley), and has romantic relationships with various recurrent lead characters, most notably Dana Fairbanks (Erin Daniels) and Tasha Williams (Rose Rollins). She was listed in AfterEllen.com's Top 50 Favorite Female TV Characters.

Storylines

Backstory
Alice is a journalist for LA Magazine. Among her group of lesbian friends, she is the only self-proclaimed bisexual. Her bisexual mother Lenore is an actress, and the only one in the family who accepts Alice's sexuality. Alice is estranged from her two siblings, who disapprove of bisexuality, as well as her father, whom she simply describes as "distant".

Alice is obsessed with The Chart, a recompilation of all the relationships and one-night stands which she knows of, and how this network of affairs is linked to her. Alice strongly believes everyone is sleeping with everyone else, and her chart is the most valuable evidence supporting her theory.

The L Word
Alice briefly dates Lisa, a Lesbian identified man but realizes that her true feelings lie with Dana Fairbanks, with whom she is best friends. Dana is 
currently engaged to Tanya. Shortly after Dana and Tanya announce their engagement, Alice visits Dana to tell her she can't marry Tanya and impulsively kisses her, and their true feelings for one another are revealed as Dana kisses her back. Dana eventually splits up with Tanya (made easier when Tanya casually admits she had been cheating on Dana, implying that Tanya was only interested in Dana for her fame). Though the two seem happy in their relationship, Dana's ex Lara comes back at the end of the second season, raising Alice's suspicions, particularly when Dana shows surprise at Alice's suggestion that they live together and refuses to say she loves her. Though Dana confides in Alice that she wants to visit Lara to talk and get closure on their past relationship, Alice's fears are realized when it is revealed in the third season that Dana's dinner with Lara was Lara's attempt to resume their relationship knowing that Alice is with Dana. As a result, Alice is subsequently left devastated to the point of stalking and obsessing over Dana despite her friends' attempts to get her to move on. Alice has a brief affair with a woman named Uta, whom Alice becomes convinced is a vampire, and is slowly able to overcome her heartbreak, but Dana is later diagnosed with terminal breast cancer, and in her depression she shuns Lara, telling her to leave and find someone else, and turns to Alice for support. Alice and Dana's friends all provide her with love and friendship during her final weeks.  After Dana dies Alice and the others are devastated. They attend her visitation but are treated as secondary people by not being allowed to sit near the front, which was for "close friends and relatives". During the service the minister said Dana could have found a man to care for her, which does not go over well with her friends and ends with Alice standing up and proclaiming that "Dana was Gay" and then leaving the room.

The group of friends are then seen sitting in the hallway waiting for Alice who returns with a paper cup with Dana's ashes in it saying they were going to have their own service for Dana at the camp Dana had told Alice about shortly after they met.  Losing Dana weighed heavily on the group of close friends but especially to Alice who said that Dana was the love of her life.

Alice begins video podcasting on OurChart and discovers a woman named Papi who has the highest amount of sexual encounters on the chart. Through her, she later meets and starts dating Tasha Williams, a Captain in the Army National Guard. During a confrontation between Papi's friends in Alice's apartment, Tasha accidentally hits her in the eye while trying to break up a fight and has to take her to the hospital. While at the hospital Alice realizes Tasha's commitment to being loyal and honoring the Army's code of honor resulting in the two of them  having a disagreement about the ethics of the Iraq war. Despite their differences in politics, they choose to continue their relationship.

The following season, after Tasha is seen in public with Alice by one of her homophobic subordinates in the Army, Alice is drawn into an investigation which results in Tasha ending her military career.
 During the investigation, two Army investigators come to her apartment and start to invade her privacy looking for evidence of Tasha having a lesbian relationship with her. Alice asks the officers to leave and then proceeds to hide evidence of her relationship with Tasha. In response, Tasha goes to her lawyer's house and berates him for not giving her prior warning of the visit by the investigators.

Alice is invited to a party for closeted homosexual celebrities and, despite signing a non-disclosure agreement, captures a video of Daryl Brewer, a closeted pro basketball player, in an intimate moment with another man. Later, Tasha and Alice watch Brewer make homophobic remarks on the news in response to another player coming out as Gay. After processing the homophobic actions of the ball player Alice decides to put the incriminating video on her podcast. It goes viral and Alice becomes the center of a media storm for outing Brewer, subsequently destroying his career and his family. Alice defends her actions on a national news broadcast. This angers Tasha because it jeopardizes her Army investigation and opens another rift in her relationship with Alice.

Shortly after, Alice and Tasha decide they can no longer be together. During Tasha's separation board hearing for homosexual conduct, Alice testifies in front of Colonel Gillian Davis, who herself is implied to be a closeted lesbian, and makes a statement about being outed that caused Davis to back off on trying to get Tasha discharged. However, Tasha decided that she no longer wanted to serve in the Army if she cannot be with the person she loves and admits to the board that she is indeed in love with Alice, effectively outing herself and resulting in her discharge.

After Tasha is discharged from the Army under Don't ask, don't tell, they continue their relationship where it left off, though it's a little unsteady. Just about the same time, Alice gets a host spot on a TV show called "The Look", where she meets Clea Mason, a clothing designer from Aotearoa (New Zealand). Alice develops an instant attraction to her, but decides to resist those feelings in order to work on her relationship with Tasha.

As Alice and Tasha's relationship continues to wane, she tries her best to make things work. An encounter with Gabby Deveaux at Papi's house on the season premiere triggers Alice to admit her troubled past, and to refuse to part ways with Tasha. They are shown visiting the show's recurrent therapist Dan Foxworthy, who decrees their relationship to be ill-fated. Nonetheless they try to stick together.

Also on this season, Alice has decided to venture into the film business by writing a treatment on a killer idea she had. A potential conflict of interest with Jenny is hinted as a not-very-excited Schecter is suggested as a reviewer for the treatment by Tina. Jenny later diminishes Alice's treatment as unoriginal. But when Jenny eventually writes and sells a script featuring the exact premise of Alice's treatment, Alice is furious and gives an ultimatum to Shane, who is now romantically involved with Jenny, to dump Jenny or lose their long-standing friendship.

In her job as a host on The Look, Alice reads a letter on the air from a girl whose brother was killed in a hate crime because he sent a love letter to another boy. This results in her being fired, but also results in a call from a woman named Jamie Chen, who works at a Gay and Lesbian Center, to help talk the letter writer off a ledge.

Alice becomes more heavily involved with the center after doing this, and she and Tasha become fast friends with Jamie. It becomes obvious to some of Alice's friends that Alice, Jaime and Tasha are all becoming attracted to each other, but as time passes, Alice begins to suspect that the attraction between Tasha and Jamie, who are much more closely matched than either woman with Alice, is stronger. After the three friends lose a dance contest at the charity dance for the Gay & Lesbian Center that they orchestrated, Alice tearfully tells Tasha to pursue a relationship with Jamie, and then again presents this idea during a later lunch meeting with the pair, where Jaime admits t