# Eduardo Reck Miranda

Eduardo Reck Miranda (born 1963) is a Brazilian composer of chamber and electroacoustic pieces but is most notable in the United Kingdom for his scientific research into computer music, particularly in the field of human-machine interfaces where brain waves will replace keyboards and voice commands to permit the disabled to express themselves musically.

Biography

Early life
Miranda was born in Porto Alegre, Brazil. As one of the largest cities in Southern Brazil and a cultural, political and economical center, Porto Alegre had significant influence on Miranda's music.

Education
In the early 1990s, Miranda attended the University of Vale do Rio dos Sinos (UNISINOS) in Brazil where he received a degree in Data Processing Technology in 1985. Miranda then attended the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) where he studied music composition. Desiring to learn more about music technology and experience more of the world, Miranda made his way to the United Kingdom, where he started his post-graduate research studies at the University of York. At York, he developed an in-depth study into musical composition using cellular automata. In 1991, he received his MSc in Music Technology from York. After receiving his MSc, Miranda went briefly to Germany to study algorithmic composition at the Zentrum für Kunst und Medientechnologie in Karlsruhe.

In 1992, Miranda gained admittance to the Faculty of Music of the University of Edinburgh in Scotland where he obtained his PhD in the combined fields of music and artificial intelligence in 1995. For his doctoral thesis, he focused on musical knowledge representation, machine learning of music and software sound synthesis.

Experiences
After receiving his PhD, Miranda worked at the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre (EPCC). At EPCC, he developed Chaosynth, an innovative granular synthesis software that uses cellular automata to generate complex sound spectra.

In the mid-1990s, Miranda joined the Department of Music at the University of Glasgow, where he lectured music technology and electroacoustic music composition for a number of years. Then he moved to Paris, to take up a research position at Sony Computer Science Laboratory in the late 1990s.

At Sony, Miranda conducted research aimed at gaining a better understanding of the fundamental cognitive mechanisms employed in sound-based communication systems. This research led Miranda to focus on the evolution of the human ability to speak and the role of our musical capacity in the development of spoken languages. While at Sony, Miranda filed patents in the field of speech processing and made scientific contributions in the fields of speech synthesis, evolutionary music (computational) and cognitive neural modeling.

In the early 2000s he was appointed Visiting Professor of Interactive Media Arts at MECAD (School of Media Arts and Design) in Barcelona and Adjunct Associate Professor of Computer Science at the American University of Paris.

In 2003 Miranda moved to the University of Plymouth in the UK where he presently is a full Professor in Computer Music and Head of the  Interdisciplinary Centre for Computer Music Research (ICCMR). He is also an active associate member of the Computer Music Lab at the Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), in his native town of Porto Alegre.

Musical compositions
Miranda's musical compositions have been broadcast and performed in a number of concerts and festivals worldwide, including the Festival Latino-Americano de Arte e Cultura (Brasília, 1987), the Encompor (Porto Alegre, 1988–89, 1995), the International Symposium for Electronic Arts (Minneapolis, 1993), the Festival Elektronischer Frühling (Vienna, 1993–94), and the Ciclo Acusmático (Bogotá, 1995). His music has won prizes and distinctions in Europe and South America, including awards at the Concours International de Musique Électroacoustique de Bourges (1994), the Concurso de Composição de Londrina (Brazil, 1995) and the Concorso Internazionale Luigi Russolo di Musica Elettroacustica (Italy, 1995, 1998). A review of his latest solo CD Mother Tongue, in The Wire magazine, reads, "These are immensely sophisticated pieces that constitute an electronic global music of convincingly organic simplicity."

Scientific research
Miranda is an active researcher in the field of Artificial Intelligence in Music. He is currently conducting research into neuroscience of music and into simulations of biological natural processes in music origins and evolution. Miranda has turned to artificial life models to coax computers into composing music.

Just as IBM's Deep Blue showed the world a computer can play chess as well as a human master, Miranda aims to demonstrate a computer program able to compose original music. So far, neural networks have succeeded in imitating distinct musical styles, but truly original compositions have remained elusive. Miranda is tackling this problem with an orchestra of virtual musician agents who interact to compose original music.

Published works

Print (language)

Published books
 Miranda, Eduardo Reck. (1998). Computer Sound Synthesis for the Electronic Musician. Focal Press, publisher. 
 Miranda, Eduardo Reck, editor. (1999).  Música y Nuevas Tecnologias: Perspectivas para le Siglo XXI. Publisher: L'Angelot. ISBN
 Miranda, Eduardo Reck, editor. (2000). Readings in Music and Artificial Intelligence. Publisher: Routledge. 
 Miranda, Eduardo. (2001). Composing Music with Computers. Publisher: Focal Press. 
 Miranda, Eduardo. (2002). Computer Sound Design: Synthesis Techniques and Programming. Publisher: Focal Press. Second edition. 
 Miranda, Eduardo Reck, and Wanderley, Marcelo. (2006).  New Digital Musical Instruments: Control And Interaction Beyond the Keyboard. Publisher: A-R Editions, Inc.

Published book chapters
(See  Computer Music Research publications)
 Miranda, E. R. (2005). "Musique de la Vie Artificiel", L. Poissant (Ed.), Art et Biotechnologies. Montreal, Canada: Presses de l'Universite du Quebec.
Todd, P. and Miranda, E. R. (2005). "Putting some (artificial) life into models of musical creativity", I. Deliege and G, Wiggins (Eds.), Musical creativity: Current research in theory and practice. London, UK: Psychology Press. (To appear)

Published research papers
Miranda's papers have been published by many international journals, including Evolutionary Computation, Brain and Language, Digital Creativity, Contemporary Music Review, Computer Music Journal, Journal of New Music Research, Journal of the Audio Engineering Society, Leonardo, Leonardo Music Journal, and Organized Sound.

Samples of published journal papers
 Miranda, E. R. (2006). "Artificial Phonology: On Synthesising Disembodied Humanoid Voice for Composing Music with Surreal Languages", Leonardo Music Journal, 15.
 Miranda, E. R. and Matthias, J. (2005). "Granular Sampling using a Pulse-Coupled Network of Spiking Neurons", In F. Rothlauf et al. (Eds.) EvoWorkshops 2005, Lecture Notes in Computer Science 3449, pp. 539–544. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
 Miranda, E. R. and Brouse, A. (2005). "Interfacing the Brain Directly with Musical Systems: On developing systems for making music with brain signals ", Leonardo, 38(4):331–336.
 Valsamakis, N. and Miranda, E. R. (2005). "Iterative Sound Synthesis by means of Cross-Coupled Digital Oscillators", Digital Creativity. 16(2):79–92.
 Miranda, E. R., Roberts, S. and Stokes, M. (2004). "On Generating EEG for Controlling Musical Systems", Biomedizinische Technik, 49(1):75–76.
 Miranda, E. R. (2004). "At the Crossroads of Evolutionary Computation and Music: Self-Programming Synthesizers, Swarm Orchestras and the Origins of Melody", Evolutionary Computation, Vol. 12, No. 2. pp. 137–158.
 Miranda, E. R., Kirby, S. and Todd, P. (2003). "On Computational Models of the Evolution of Music: From the Origins of Musical Taste to the Emergence of Grammars", Contemporary Music Review, Vol. 22, No. 3, pp. 91–111.
 Miranda, E. R., Sharman, K., Kilborn, K., Duncan, A. (2003). "On Harnessing the Electroencephalogram for the Musical Braincap", Computer Music Journal, Vol. 27, No. 2, pp. 80–102.
 Miranda, E. R. (2003). "On the Music of Emergent Behaviour: What can Evolutionary Computation Bring to the Musician?", Leonardo, Vol. 36, No. 1, pp. 55–58.
 Miranda, E. R. (2003). "On the evolution of music in a society of self-taught digital creatures", Digital Creativity, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 29–42.
 Westerman, G. and Miranda, E. R. (2003). "Modelling the Development of Mirror Neurons for Auditory-Motor Integration", Journal of New Music Research, Vol. 31, No. 4, pp. 367–375.
 Westerman, G. and Miranda, E. R. (2003). "A New Model of Sensorimotor Coupling in the Development of Speech", Brain and Language, Vol.82, No.2, pp. 393–400.

Samples of published conference papers
Miranda, E. R. and Tikhanoff, V. (2005). "Musical Composition by an Autonomous Robot: An Approach to AIBO Interaction". Proceedings of TAROS 2005 – Towards Autonomous Rob