# Comparison of C Sharp and Visual Basic .NET

C# and Visual Basic .NET are the two primary languages used to program on the .NET Framework.

Language history
C# and VB.NET are syntactically very different languages with very different histories.

As the name suggests, the C# syntax is based on the core C programming language originally developed by Dennis Ritchie at Bell Labs (AT&T) in the 1970s. Java and C++ are two other programming languages whose syntax is also based on the C syntax, so they share a common look and feel.  See Comparison of Java and C Sharp for more on this topic.

BASIC's roots go back to Dartmouth College. BASIC (Beginner's All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code) was developed in the 1960s as a method to overcome the difficulties of using assembly language written for processor-specific and/or brand name specific mainframes and hardware. Programming was hardware dependent by design more so for marketing reasons than to preserve the logical composition of programming that should transcend hardware. (Microsoft's claim to fame with its operating system was to free consumers from hardware-specific devices by encapsulating those tasks within its operating system.) Code became "portable" due to the compiler, and in fact, both Visual Basic .NET and C# use the same CLR (Common Language Runtime) today. Microsoft and HP were interested in creating an ISO standard language, which was the original goal, however; HP dropped its support, and the ISO computer language never materialized as an International Standard.

VB.NET finds its roots in BASIC. In its beginning, BASIC was used in the college community as a "basic" language for first exposure to computer programming and the acronym represented the language accurately. In the 1970s, the language was picked up by microcomputer manufacturers of the era to be used as both a simple ROM embedded programming language as well as a quasi operating system for input/output control. In the early 1980s, the language was picked up by Microsoft and expanded significantly beyond its original intent into their "Visual Basic" language/platform that was sold throughout the 1990s as a "rapid application development" (RAD) tool for Windows programming.  It competed directly against other RAD tools of the 1990s such as PowerBuilder.  Even though Visual Basic was a successful development platform, it was discontinued after its 6th version (VB6) when Microsoft introduced the .NET Framework and its related Visual Studio development platform in the early 2000s.  At that time, the current C++ and VB6 languages were used by Microsoft as the basis for two new programming languages in their new "Integrated Development Environment (IDE)". These languages were named C# and VB.NET.

In February 2017, Microsoft communicated their intent to end the "co-evolution" strategy between the two languages that had existed since 2010 and allow the two languages to again evolve independently.   C# is now the dominant Microsoft-based development language.    Developers will notice that VB 15 (first appearing in Visual Studio 2017) lacks certain language capabilities contained in the new C# 7.3.

Language comparison
Though C# and VB.NET are syntactically very different, that is where the differences mostly end.  
Microsoft developed both of these languages to be part of the same .NET Framework development platform.  They are both developed, managed, and supported by the same language development team at Microsoft.  They compile to the same intermediate language (IL), which runs against the same .NET Framework runtime libraries.  Although there are some differences in the programming constructs (discussed further below), their differences are primarily syntactic and, assuming one avoids the Visual Basic "Compatibility" libraries provided by Microsoft to aid conversion from VB6, almost every command in VB has an equivalent command in C# and vice versa.  Lastly, both languages reference the same Base Classes of the .NET Framework to extend their functionality.   As a result, with few exceptions, a program written in either language can be run through a simple syntax converter to translate to the other.  There are many open source and commercially available products for this task.
The only fundamental differences between the languages can be found in the implementation of interfaces and in the declaration, raising and handling of events. Although both languages are high-level programming languages, VB.NET maintains a slightly higher level of abstraction in some respects.

Runtime multi-language support
One of the main goals of .NET has been its multi-language support. The intent of the design was that all of the various Microsoft languages should have the same level of access to all OS features, should be able to expose the same level of power and usability, and simplify calling from a module in one language to that written in another language.

In implementation, all .NET programming languages share the same runtime engine, uniform abstract syntax tree, and Common Intermediate Language. Additionally all .NET languages have access to platform features including garbage collection, cross language inheritance, exception handling, and debugging. This allows the same output binary to be produced from any .NET programming language.

Development environment
Visual Studio provides minor differences in the development environment for C# and VB.Net. With each subsequent release of Visual Studio, the differences between development environments for these languages have been reduced. For instance early versions of Visual Studio had poor support for Intellisense in C# compared to Visual Basic .NET, and did not offer background compilation for C#. Currently, the main differences in the development environments are additional features for Visual Basic .NET that originated in VB6, including:

 The default namespace is hidden (but can be disabled)
 Certain project files are hidden (the user can show them)
 The auto-generated My.* namespaces contain many commonly used shortcuts brought over from VB6, such as methods for operating on the registry and application configuration file

Background compilation is a feature of the Visual Studio IDE whereby code is compiled as it is written by the programmer with the purpose of identifying compilation errors without requiring the solution to be built. This feature has been available for Visual Basic since .NET 1.1 and was present in early versions of Visual Studio for Visual Basic .NET. However, background compilation is a relatively new concept for Visual C# and is available with service pack 1 for Visual Studio 2008 Standard Edition and above. A distinct disadvantage for C# is that the Error List panel does not update until the solution is rebuilt. Refactoring large projects in C# is made more difficult by the need to frequently rebuild the solution in order to highlight compilation errors. Such is not the case with Visual Basic because the Error List panel is synchronized with the background compiler.

Background compilation is less demanding on system resources and results in faster build cycles. This is a particular advantage with large projects and can significantly reduce the time required to start debugging in the IDE.

Language features
The bulk of the differences between C# and VB.NET from a technical perspective are syntactic sugar. That is, most of the features are in both languages, but some things are easier to do in one language than another. Many of the differences between the two languages are actually centered around the IDE.

Features of Visual Basic .NET not found in C#
 Variables can be declared using the WithEvents construct. This construct is available so that a programmer may select an object from the Class Name drop down list and then select a method from the Declarations drop down list to have the Method signature automatically inserted
 Auto-wireup of events. VB.NET has the Handles syntax for events, which connects event handlers to object variables rather than to objects.
 Firing of events is done with the RaiseEvent keyword, giving the IDE the chance to show a list of available events to pick from. RaiseEvent implicitly checks if there are any event handlers wired up. (in C# raising an event is syntactically identical to calling a procedure, and it requires an additional line of code to check for wired event handlers)
 Delegates for events don't need to be declared. They are implicitly declared in the declaration of the events.
 Referring to an object using an unqualified dot reference, using the With ... End With structure
 XML Literals
 Inline date declarations, e.g. #12/31/2000#
 Module (although C#'s static classes with additional semantics, but each field must be individually declared as static)
 Members of Modules imported to the current file, can be accessed with no preceding container accessor 
 The My namespace. 
 COM components and interoperability was more powerful in VB.NET, as the Object type is bo