# Research Council of Finland

The Research Council of Finland (, ) is a governmental funding body for scientific research in Finland. Until August 2023, its official English-language name was Academy of Finland. It is based in Helsinki. Yearly, the council administers over 260 million euros to Finnish research activities. Over 5000 researchers are working on projects supported by the council.

The Academy of Finland should not be confused with The Finnish Academy of Science and Letters (Suomalainen tiedeakatemia) and the Finnish Society of Science and Letters (Finska Vetenskaps-Societeten) which are the two Finnish learned societies for scientists and scholars. For engineers, there are two language-based honorary academies, the Finnish Academy of Technology (Teknillisten Tieteiden Akatemia) and the Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences in Finland (Svenska tekniska veteskapsakademien i Finland).

The Finnish title of Academician (akateemikko / akademiker) is an award given by the President of Finland upon the recommendation of the Research Council to the most distinguished Finnish scientists, scholars and artists. It may also be bestowed on foreign scientists, scholars or artists who have contributed very significantly to Finnish intellectual life. At any time, there may be a maximum of 12 living scientific and scholarly academicians and eight living artistic academicians. The number of foreign academicians is not limited. The Academicians do not have any organizational connection to the Academy of Finland, although this was the requisite for membership in 1947–1969.  Personnel funded by the Research Council can use the title referring to it, e.g. distinguished professors funded by the council are called Academy Professors. The funding period for Academy professors is 5 years.

Academy Professors

Terms
The Academy of Finland appoints Academy Professors. The term is five years. There are 32 serving currently, with two carrying specific name and branch. Minna Canth Academy Professor focuses on Social equality and Women's studies. Martti Ahtisaari Academy Professor focuses on International Conflict management.

Currently serving
Academy Professors in spring 2018:

See also 
 Tekes
 SITRA

References

External links 
 Academy of Finland website in Finnish
 Swedish
 English

Science and technology in Finland
Funding bodies
Organisations based in Helsinki
Research funding agencies