# ExFAT

exFAT (Extensible File Allocation Table) is a file system introduced by Microsoft in 2006 and optimized for flash memory such as USB flash drives and SD cards. exFAT was proprietary until 28 August 2019, when Microsoft published its specification. Microsoft owns patents on several elements of its design.

exFAT can be used where NTFS is not a feasible solution (due to data-structure overhead), but where a greater file-size limit than that of the standard FAT32 file system (i.e. 4 GB) is required.

exFAT has been adopted by the SD Association as the default file system for SDXC cards larger than 32 GB.

Windows 8 and later versions natively support exFAT boot, and support the installation of the system in a special way to run in the exFAT volume.

History 
exFAT was introduced in late 2006 as part of Windows CE 6.0, an embedded Windows operating system. Support was added to regular Windows with Windows Vista Service Pack 1 and Windows Server 2008, both released on February 4, 2008. An update for Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 was later released.

Most of the vendors signing on for licenses are manufacturers of embedded systems or device manufacturers that produce media formatted with exFAT. The entire File Allocation Table (FAT) family, exFAT included, is used for embedded systems because it is lightweight and is better suited for solutions that have low memory and low power requirements, and can be easily implemented in firmware.

Features 

Because file size references are stored in eight instead of four bytes, the file size limit has increased to  (, or about , which is otherwise limited by a maximum volume size of  or ), raised from  () in a standard FAT32 file system. Therefore, for the typical user, this enables seamless interoperability between Windows and  platforms for files in excess of 4 GB.

Other specifications, features, and requirements of the exFAT file system include:
 Scalability to large disk sizes: about 128 PB () maximum, 512 TB () recommended maximum, raised from the 32-bit limit (2 TB for a sector size of 512 bytes) of standard FAT32 partitions.
 Support for up to 2,796,202 files per directory. Microsoft documents a limit of 65,534 (216 − 2) files per sub-directory for their FAT32 implementation, but other operating systems have no special limit for the number of files in a FAT32 directory. FAT32 implementations in other operating systems allow an unlimited number of files up to the number of available clusters (that is, up to 268,304,373 files on volumes without long filenames).
 Maximum number of files on volume C, to 4,294,967,285 (, up from about  in standard FAT32).
 Free space allocation and delete performance improved due to introduction of a free-space bitmap.
 Timestamp granularity of 10 ms for creation and modified times (down from 2 s on FAT, but not as fine as NTFS's 100 ns).
 Timestamp granularity for last-access time to double seconds (FAT had date only).
 Timestamps come with a time zone marker in offset relative to UTC (starting with Vista SP2).
 Optional support for access-control lists (not currently supported in Windows Desktop/Server versions).
 Optional support for TexFAT, a transactional file system standard (optionally WinCE activated function, not supported in Windows Desktop/Server versions).
 Boundary alignment offset for the FAT table.
 Boundary alignment offset for the data region.
 Provision for OEM-definable parameters to customize the file system for specific device characteristics.
 Valid data length (VDL): through the use of two distinct lengths fields one for "allocated space" and the other for "valid data" exFAT can preallocate a file without leaking data that was previously on-disk.
 Cluster size up to 32 MB.
 Metadata integrity with checksums.
 Template-based metadata structures.
 Removal of the physical  and  directory entries that appear in subdirectories.
 exFAT no longer stores the short 8.3 filename references in directory structure and natively uses extended file names, whereas legacy FAT versions implement extended file names through the VFAT extension.

Windows XP requires update KB955704 to be installed, and Windows Vista requires its SP1 installed. Windows Vista is unable to use exFAT drives for ReadyBoost. Windows 7 removes this limitation, enabling ReadyBoost caches larger than 4 GB. Windows 10 only allows formatting exFAT and NTFS on non-removeable volumes sized larger than 32 GB with the default user interface, and FAT32 format is suggested for smaller volumes; command-line utilities don't accept quick format using FAT32 if volume is larger than 32 GB.

The standard exFAT implementation is not journaled and only uses a single file allocation table and free-space map. FAT file systems instead used alternating tables, as this allowed recovery of the file system if the media was ejected during a write (which occurs frequently in practice with removable media). The optional TexFAT component adds support for additional backup tables and maps, but may not be supported.

The exFAT format allows individual files larger than 4 GB, facilitating long continuous recording of HD video, which can exceed the 4 GB limit in less than an hour. Current digital cameras using FAT32 will break the video files into multiple segments of approximately 2 or 4 GB. 

EFS supported in Windows 10 v1607 and Windows Server 2016 or later.

Efficiency 
SDXC cards running at UHS-I have a minimum guaranteed write speed of 10 MB/s, and exFAT plays a factor in achieving this throughput through the reduction of the file-system overhead in cluster allocation. This is achieved through the introduction of a separate cluster bitmap where the reservation state of each cluster (reserved/free) is tracked by only one bit, reducing writes to the much larger FAT that originally served this purpose. 

Additionally, a single bit in the directory record indicates that the file is contiguous (unfragmented), telling the exFAT driver to ignore the FAT. This optimization is analogous to an extent in other file systems, except that it only applies to whole files, as opposed to contiguous parts of files.

Adoption 
exFAT is supported in Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 with update KB955704, Windows Vista Service Pack 1 and later, Windows Server 2008 and later (except Server Core), macOS starting from 10.6.5, Linux via FUSE or natively starting from kernel 5.4, and iPadOS as well as iOS starting from 13.1.

Companies can integrate exFAT into a specific group of consumer devices, including cameras, camcorders, and digital photo frames for a flat fee. Mobile phones, PCs, and networks have a different volume pricing model.

exFAT is supported in a number of media devices such as modern flat-panel TVs, media centers, and portable media players.

exFAT is the official file system of SDXC cards. Because of this, any device not supporting exFAT, such as the Nintendo 3DS, may not legally advertise itself as SDXC compatible, despite supporting SDXC cards as mass storage devices by formatting the card with FAT32 or a proprietary file system tied to the device in question.

Some vendors of other flash media, including USB pen drives, compact flash (CF) and solid-state drives (SSD) ship some of their high-capacity media pre-formatted with the exFAT file system to ensure compatibility with any given device. For example, Sandisk ships their 256 GB CF cards as exFAT.

Microsoft has entered into licensing agreements with BlackBerry, Panasonic, Sanyo, Sony, Canon, Aspen Avionics, Audiovox, Continental, Harman, LG Automotive and BMW.

Mac OS X Snow Leopard 10.6.5 and later can create, read, write, verify, and repair exFAT file systems.

Linux has support for exFAT via FUSE since 2009. In 2013, Samsung Electronics published a Linux driver for exFAT under GPL.
On 28 August 2019, Microsoft published the exFAT specification and released the patent to the Open Invention Network members. The Linux kernel introduced native exFAT support with the 5.4 release in November 2019.

ChromeOS can read and write to exFAT partitions.

Technical specifications

File name lookup 
exFAT employs a filename hash-based lookup phase to speed certain cases, which is described in US patent Quick File Name Lookup Using Name Hash. Appendix A of the document contains details helpful in understanding the file system.

File and cluster pre-allocation 
Like NTFS, exFAT can pre-allocate disk space for a file by just marking arbitrary space on disk as "allocated". For each file, exFAT uses two separate 64-bit fields in the directory: the valid data length (VDL), which indicates the real size of the file, and the physical data length.

To provide improvement in the allocation of cluster storage for a new file, Microsoft incorporated a method to pre-allocate contiguous clusters and bypass the use of updating the FAT table, which was patented December 10, 2013. One feature of exFAT (used in the exFAT implementation within embedded systems) provides atomic transac