# Dimethoate

Dimethoate is a widely used organophosphate insecticide and acaricide. It was patented and introduced in the 1950s by American Cyanamid. Like other organophosphates, dimethoate is an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor which disables cholinesterase, an enzyme essential for central nervous system function.  It acts both by contact and through ingestion. It is readily absorbed and distributed throughout plant tissues, and is degraded relatively rapidly.

Uses 
Dimethoate is a general use insecticide for combatting insects such as aphids, mites, beetles, weevils, and leafhoppers. Dimethoate is formulated as emulsifiable concentrates or wettable powders to be applied primarily as foliar sprays. The majority of the approximately 1.8 million pounds of dimethoate used annually in the U.S. is accounted for by applications on alfalfa, wheat, cotton, and corn crops. In 2005, dimethoate usage was cancelled in the U.S. for use on apples, broccoli raab, cabbage, collards, grapes, head lettuce, and spinach due to being identified as significant dietary risk contributors. Dimethoate also has applications as a form of botfly and mite control in livestock. As of 2000, dimethoate is cancelled for usage in residential and non-agriculture applications in the U.S

Fruit fly control efforts 
The Queensland fruit fly, or Bactrocera tryoni, is a tephritid fly species that has caused more than $28.5 million a year in damage to Australian fruit crops. In order to combat infestation, farmers treated crops with dimethoate and fenthion. In 2011 the Australian Pesticides and Veterinary Medicines Authority (APVMA) banned the use of dimethoate containing products on food producing plants in home gardens, as well as on a variety of fruits, berries, cucurbits, and vegetables. In September 2023, due to concerns that dimethoate and omethoate levels were exceeding acceptable maximum residue limits on avocados and mangoes, the APVMA issued a 12-month suspension notice on the use of dimethoate containing compounds as a post-harvest dip to control fruit flies on certain tropical fruits, including avocados and mangoes.

Trade names
Dimethoate is sold under various trade names, including Cygon, De-fend, Rogor, Rogodan, Rogodial, Roxion, Dimetate, Devigon, Dicap, Dimet, and B-58.

Poisoning incidents
In late October 2020 a Bulgarian farmer, a previous jackpot winner of the national 'toto' lottery drank a glass of the Russian B-58 brand, as of early November 2020 he is hospitalised in a comatose condition, he has a history of psychiatric issues but it is currently unknown whether the incident was accidental or intentional.

References

External links 
 EPA Report on Dimethoate 

Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors
Organophosphate insecticides
Phosphorodithioates
Carboxamides