# WMAC Masters

WMAC Masters is an American live-action television show produced by Norman Grossfeld featuring choreographed martial arts fights.  It was created and produced by 4Kids Productions (later known as 4Kids Entertainment) in conjunction with Renaissance Atlantic Entertainment (best known as the co-producers of the Saban's Power Rangers franchise), and syndicated by The Summit Media Group (4Kids and Summit Media were divisions of licensing agency Leisure Concepts Inc., later becoming the now-defunct 4Licensing Corporation).

The show, while featuring real martial arts by trained martial artists, depicted a fantasy setting using fictional episodic stories, with each episode relating a life lesson. Battles were fought on elaborate closed sets, with an omniscient narrator, on-screen scoring and health gauges, giving the show a feel of a cinematic live-action video game.

WMAC stands for the fictional World Martial Arts Council, where the best martial artists compete for the ultimate prize, the Dragon Star.  The Dragon Star is a gold trophy that looks like a shuriken surrounded by a dragon; it was proof that its holder was the best martial artist in the world.

The show lasted for two seasons, from 1995 to 1997.  The first season was hosted by Shannon Lee, the daughter of martial artist Bruce Lee and the sister of actor Brandon Lee. In season 2, Shannon Lee was no longer the host, and the show focused more on fantasy and less on real-life issues.

Quest for the Dragon Star

Form demonstrations
Many episodes featured masters doing demonstrations, with some demonstrations being known as "Master Blaster" competitions. Some were done to inaugurate a new Master (such as Hien "Tsunami" Nguyen ("Man Without Sight"), Tracy "Tracer" Swedom ("Army of One"), and Carmichael "Kid Carmichael" Simon ("Flight of Freedom"). Others included: 
Wind, Earth & Ice: Jamie "Great Wolf" Webster broke a WMAC record held by Chris "Red Dragon" Casamassa, which was successfully breaking 2 large ice blocks (weighing in at a total of 600 pounds) stacked on top of each other. Just before that feat, he broke a slab of Indian red stone while clenching a raw egg in his hand without breaking it.
Table of Terror: Erik "Panther" Betts balanced himself above a bed of 900 razor-sharp nails.
Rite of Passage: Willie "Bam" Johnson did his form with his son, Lil Bam, as a rite of passage ritual.
Herb "Olympus" Perez did one to test out his new weapon, the Disk Launcher. 
Richard "Yin Yang Man" Branden demonstrated the Ancient Weapons of Wushu.
Fire & Ice: Martial Arts Extreme: Tsunami performed the "Volcano Walk" (walking barefoot on flaming hot coals) before freezing himself and a bucket of water in a cryogenic chamber; the water turned to a solid block of ice, which Tsunami then broke with his bare fist.
Michael "Turbo" Bernardo and Ho Young "Star Warrior" Pak demonstrated a "Speed Breaking" contest to settle a few weeks-long dispute (which in the end was won by Star Warrior).

Preliminary matches and Battledome finals
In most episodes, it begins with 4 combatants, 2 of them fight in 2 separate matches.  They fight in the Battlezones against ninjas.  After a short melee with the ninjas, depending on your health gauge, the fighters will fight each other until one of them is the victor. (In rare instances, if the fighters fight each other long enough that there is no winner yet, the ninjas will re-emerge).

There have been four instances where the match ended abruptly.  The first incident took place in the Doom City battlezone, when Jamie Webster (Great Wolf) won by accidentally knocking out Johnny Lee Smith (Tiger Claw) with a double inside crescent kick to both sides of Smith's head; this kick was a move Smith taught Webster, who promised Webster he wouldn't use that move against him if Webster promised to not use it against Smith. The second incident occurred at the Danger Dock battlezone, when then-rookie Kid Carmichael had knocked Yin Ying Man into the water – because Yin Yang Man was all wet, Kid Carmichael immediately won the match. Then, in the Stone Valley battlezone, Red Dragon got disqualified after inadvertently hitting Superstar with a live bare hand after he had removed the glove from that hand due to a nagging, itching burn (this was due to itching powder being placed in his gloves by Great Wolf and Baby Doll, who were trying to get back at Warlock, but ended up mistakenly booby-trapping Red Dragon's gloves minutes before his bout, thinking those were Warlock's gloves). The final incident was another where Red Dragon lost by getting knocked into the water by the Machine in the Mayan Mystery battlezone and ending up all wet.

There was also one instance where the match ended in someone surrendering, and this occurred in the second episode of WMAC Masters. The Pak brothers, Ho Young and Ho Sung (Star Warrior and Superstar, respectively) were pitted in a preliminary match against one another, and just as Superstar's gauge was almost at the bottom when Star Warrior had him beaten, Superstar bowed to his brother, signifying that he was giving up, thus awarding Star Warrior the win. The storyline was that Star Warrior had saved his brother's life using Drunken Fist many years ago. When Superstar saw his brother switch forms to Drunken Fist in the match, he bowed out.

The two combatants who win their respective preliminary matches will face off in the "Battledome". The match lasts 2 minutes. The fighters each try to force the opponent into the cage wall. If successful, the fighter will get points, and the opponent will receive a mild electric shock. The higher the points, the better chance of winning. Ninjas will invade the cage during the match, and if a ninja forces one of the fighters into the cage, the opponent gets the point. Also, if a fighter chooses to hold on to the cage after being knocked into it, no scoring can take place until he lets go. In case of a tie, the fighters will compete in sudden death.  The winner will receive the opponent's "Ki-Symbol" and have it placed on their "Dragon Belt".

Super Challenges and 4-man Battledome finals
In other episodes, 6 masters take part in what was called a "Super Challenge." One at a time, they would compete in separate battlezones against a group of ninjas in 45 seconds of time, and would be scored at the end of the time period. The 4 top-scoring combatants move onto the Battledome in a 2-minute free-for-all match with the same rules as the regular matches (score points by knocking the opponent onto the cage wall), with the winner receiving 3 Ki-Symbols, one from each of the defeated opponents.  No ninjas would participate in this sort of Battledome match, but Sudden Death rules still applied in case of a tie at the end of the match.

Only three of these were ever held, one in the first season and two in the second season. Before the start of the first Super Challenge, Olympus, the Dragon Star champion at the time, was asked to demonstrate a Ninja Challenge. He would be surrounded by ninjas in the WMAC Arena, where he would then proceed to battle them for the 45 seconds. Once the demonstration was finished, the real challenge began.

Challenge 1 results, including the Battlezones fought in and the final ranking going into the 4-Man Battledome Finals, were as follows (in order of appearance. Those that moved on to the 4-Man Battledome Finals are in bold print):

Red Dragon (Mayan Mystery): 92 points. Final rank: 5th place
Tsunami (WMAC Arena): 101 points. Final rank: 3rd place
Great Wolf (WMAC Arena): 126 points. Final rank: 1st place
Warlock (WMAC Arena): 102 points. Final rank: 2nd place
Tiger Claw (Mayan Mystery): 90 points. Final rank: Last place
Panther (WMAC Arena): 97 points. Final rank: 4th place

Battledome Finals Winner: Tsunami. Final score: Great Wolf 1, Warlock 1, Tsunami 4, Panther 1.

Challenge 2 results:

Yin Yang Man (Mayan Mystery): 79 points. Final rank: 3rd place
Turbo (Mayan Mystery): 77 points. Final rank: 4th place
Great Wolf (Ghost Town): 73 points. Final rank: 5th place
Star Warrior (Mayan Mystery): 91 points. Final rank: 1st place
Bam (Ghost Town): 72 points. Final rank: Last place
Olympus (Pressure Pit): 80 points. Final rank: 2nd place

Battledome Finals Winner: Turbo, by Sudden Death. Final score: Olympus 2, Yin Yang Man 3, Star Warrior 0, Turbo 3. (Note: With Turbo and Yin Yang Man tied at the end of regulation, Olympus and Star Warrior were told to leave the dome, so the other two could conclude the match under Sudden Death rules. Turbo came out the victor.)

Challenge 3 results:

Great Wolf (Ghost Town): 75 points. Final rank: 5th place
Kid Carmichael (Doom City): 74 points. Final rank: Last place
The Machine (Ghost Town): 92 points. Final rank: 1st place
Tsunami (Ghost Town): 88 points. Final rank: 2nd place
Warlock (Doom City): 86 points. Final rank: 3rd place
Tiger Claw (Dark Alley): 86 points. Final rank: 3rd place

Battledome Finals Winner: Warlock. Final score: The Machine 2, Tsunami