# List of A Different World characters

A Different World is a spin-off from the American television sitcom The Cosby Show with Denise Huxtable, in the first season. It aired on NBC for six seasons, from 1987 to 1993.

Main characters

Denise Huxtable Kendall

A native of Brooklyn; Denise Huxtable is the daughter of Hillman alumni Dr. Heathcliff Huxtable and Clair Hanks Huxtable, Esq. She enrolled in Hillman and was roommates with Maggie Lauten and Jaleesa Vinson during her sophomore year. Denise was a poor student who often procrastinated and struggled to manage her time and money. She disliked Whitley Gilbert and endured Dwayne Wayne's crush on her. She left Hillman at the end of her sophomore year to travel to Africa. There, she met and married Lt. Martin Kendall of the U.S. Navy and became the stepmother of Olivia Kendall. She only reappears once in season 3 to give Dwayne closure on his crush.

Note: Denise originated as a regular character on The Cosby Show, on which she was featured on a regular basis during seasons 1–3, 6 and 7, and on a recurring basis during seasons 4 and 5. She left "A Different World" after season 1.

Whitley Gilbert-Wayne

Whitley Marion Gilbert-Wayne is an Art History and French major at Hillman. A native of Richmond (Virginia), she is daughter of Hillman alumni and divorcees Mercer and Marion Gilbert. She began the series with a snobbish, prissy attitude and disliked by many of the characters although following Denise's departure after season 1, the show was retooled to feature her in the lead. As a consequence, Whitley's character was mellowed out and she was paired romantically with Dwayne, with whom she had an on again-off again relationship. Whitley originally went to college to land a husband although she quickly realized she enjoyed art history and stayed at Hillman for a fifth year to take business courses. After graduation, she was engaged to Dwayne and had a part-time job at E.H. Wright Industries as an assistant art buyer and as a dorm director at Hillman. After learning that Dwayne went on a date with another woman, Whitley broke off their engagement although the two reunited when Whitley cheated on her fiancé Byron Douglas III with Dwayne. Still, she was ready to marry Byron until Dwayne interrupted her wedding and declared his love for her. The two married and spent their honeymoon in Los Angeles, which coincided with the 1992 riots following the verdict in the Rodney King trial. After being laid off at E.H. Wright Industries, Whitley was employed in a series of odd jobs until she became a teacher at a school for troubled adolescents. At the end of the series, Whitley learns she's pregnant and she and Dwayne move to Tokyo, Japan upon a job offer for Dwayne.

Dwayne Wayne

Dwayne Wayne is a mathematics major at Hillman. A native of Brooklyn, he achieved a perfect score on the math portion of the SAT. He is best recognized by his flip up sunglasses and is known for making unsuccessful advances on numerous women throughout his freshman year. He had a crush on Denise and unsuccessfully ran for the title of "Miss Hillman" at her urging to highlight the sexism of the pageant. His best friend/roommate is Ron Johnson. Although he dated several women across the series, he was most involved in an on-again-off-again relationship with Whitley Gilbert. After working at a summer internship for Kinishewa Electronics in Japan, he began a relationship with Kinu Owens. However, he broke up with her once he realized he was still in love with Whitley. He graduated from Hillman as valedictorian of Class of 1991 and engaged to Whitley. He became a mathematics professor at Hillman but his engagement with Whitley was broken off when he almost cheated on her. However, during her relationship with Byron Douglas III, the two slept together and he interrupted Whitley and Byron's wedding ceremony to declare his love for her. Whitley left Byron at the altar for Dwayne and the two quickly married. They honeymooned in Los Angeles, which coincided with the 1992 riots following the verdict in the Rodney King trial. At the end of the series, Whitley became pregnant with their first child and he designed a new video game for Kinishewa with Ron. The couple decided to move to Japan for his work. In a reunion special, it was revealed that while at Kinishewa, Dwayne invented the flip cell phone, inspired by his flip glasses.

Supporting characters 

Maggie Lauten (Marisa Tomei): A "military brat" and journalism major, she is one of the few white students at predominantly African American Hillman. She transferred to Hillman at the start of the sophomore year and was roommates with Denise Huxtable and Jaleesa Vinson. Maggie was a sweet-natured, although occasionally ditzy, girl. If Maggie would have stayed on the show after season one, Debbie Allen (the show's producer from seasons 2–6) would have given her a black boyfriend and there would have been an episode where Dwayne brings her home for Thanksgiving dinner and Dwayne's parents disapproves of his interracial relationship. Due to Marisa Tomei leaving the show after the first season, the story never happened.

Jaleesa Vinson-Taylor (Dawnn Lewis): native of Camden (New Jersey), sister of Danielle and Yvonne Vinson, ex-wife of Lamar Collins, enrolled at Hillman at age 26, a business management major, roommate of Denise and Maggie during sophomore year, worked part-time at the Hillman library, assistant dorm director of Gilbert Hall, vacationed in Greece with Maggie during the summer of 1988, roommate of Freddie during junior and senior years, worked a summer installing cable television, entered into serious relationship with Walter, co-dorm director of Gilbert Hall, engaged to Walter, couple halts wedding at the altar and mutually separates, graduated (Class of 1990), accepted an entry-level corporate position, off-campus roommate of Whitley, married Colonel Bradford Taylor (in a surprise elopement), stepmother of Suzanne and Terrence, started a temporary employment agency, gave birth to daughter Imani, disappeared after season five.
Comes back to Richmond, Va. with Suzanne, Terrence and Colonel Bradford Taylor and Imani.

Stevie Rallen (Loretta Devine): mother of J.T., graduate student dorm director of Gilbert Hall, replaced by Lettie Bostic

Ronald Marlon Johnson, Jr. (Darryl M. Bell): native of Detroit (Michigan), son of Ron Johnson Sr. and brother of Rachel Johnson, roommate and best friend of Dwayne, involved in serious relationship with Millie, member of the ROTC pledged Kappa Lambda Nu Fraternity and successfully "crossed over", dated numerous women during most of his college career, worked summers as a salesman for his father's automobile dealership, falsely implied that Dwayne's campaign for student body president was endorsed by former presidential candidate Jesse Jackson, member of the Hillman ROTC, managed/performed in the band X-Pression, graduated after nine semesters (January 1992), victim of a bias incident at Virginia A&M University (on the weekend of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day 1992), band breaks up, employed as spokesman for a phone sex hotline, employed as a car salesman (independent of his father), unemployed, criticized Kimberly's interracial relationship with Matthew (but later admitted he was jealous), entered into serious relationship with Kimberly (after pursuing her for months), antagonist of Shazza, cheated on Kimberly with Freddie (while Freddie was involved with Shazza), broke up with Kimberly, entered into serious relationship with Freddie, manager and co-owner of "The Place Where The Blues Will Be Played" with Mr. Gaines, provided the concept which inspired Dwayne's new video game for Kinishewa, chosen to be godfather of Dwayne and Whitley's unborn child.

Walter Oakes (Sinbad): graduate student, football/baseball/basketball/track coach, dorm director of all-male residence hall, involved in serious relationship with Jaleesa, co-dorm director of Gilbert Hall, engaged to Jaleesa, couple halts wedding at the altar and mutually separates, moves to Philadelphia to manage community center.

Leticia "Lettie" Bostic (Mary Alice): enrolled in Hillman, dropped out of Hillman a few credits short of her degree, moved to Paris, met Pablo Picasso, spied for the Allies during World War II, rejected marriage proposal from South African freedom fighter Marcus Mpepo, replaced Stevie as dorm director of Gilbert Hall decades later in 1988, chastises Kimberly for engaging in unprotected sex, disappeared after season two.

Winifred "Freddie" Brooks  (Cree Summer): native of New Mexico, daughter of Joni Brooks, cousin of Matthew, roommate of Jaleesa during freshman and sophomore years, has unrequited feelings for Dwayne, was a student activist throughout her undergraduate career, dated Garth Parks (who almost rapes her), dated Ernest Bennett, roommate of Kimberly during junior and senior years, entered into serious relationship with Shazza Zulu, graduated (Class of 1992), enrolled in Hillman Law School,