# Carol Jackson

Carol Jackson  is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera EastEnders, played by Lindsey Coulson. The character was introduced in 1993 as the mother of the Jackson family. Coulson decided to quit the role in 1997, but she returned temporarily in 1999 within a storyline that contributed to both the introduction of her boyfriend Dan Sullivan (Craig Fairbrass) and the departure of her daughter Bianca (Patsy Palmer); in the storyline, Carol discovers that Bianca had previously had a relationship with Dan and they resumed their affair - which prompted her to end her relationship with Dan, disown Bianca, and leave the square on her own.

On 25 October 2009, it was confirmed that she would return along with other members of the Jackson family - Sonia (Natalie Cassidy), Robbie (Dean Gaffney) and Billie (Devon Anderson), on 15 February 2010, although her first appearance in 2010 is in EastEnders: Last Tango in Walford, an episode released exclusively to DVD on 8 February 2010. Coulson chose to leave the show for a third time in June 2015, with her exit airing on 2 October 2015.

Carol is depicted as a tough, working-class grafter, fiercely defensive of her four children. Her storylines include relationships with several men including David Wicks (Michael French), eventual husband Alan Jackson (Howard Antony), Connor Stanley (Arinze Kene), Eddie Moon (David Essex) and Masood Ahmed (Nitin Ganatra), the death of her youngest son Billie, and her breast cancer diagnosis in January 2014.

Storylines

1993–1997
Carol Jackson first came to Albert Square in 1993, working alongside Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard) as the replacement of her best-friend Dot Cotton (June Brown) in the launderette. She soon moves to the Square with her family, which consists of her partner Alan Jackson (Howard Antony) and his grandmother Blossom Jackson (Mona Hammond) - along with her four children, Bianca (Patsy Palmer), Robbie (Dean Gaffney), Sonia (Natalie Cassidy) and Billie (Devon Anderson), all of whom have different fathers but have taken Alan's surname despite Carol and Alan not being married.

Carol is soon forced to tell her childhood sweetheart, David Wicks (Michael French), that he is Bianca's father when it looks like they are about to start a relationship. David agrees to keep this a secret from Bianca, but is forced to tell her when she tries to seduce him. Carol and Alan attend the wedding of Carol's sister April Branning (Debbie Arnold) to Nikos (Yorgos Glastras), where their father Jim Branning (John Bardon) and brother Derek Branning (Terence Beesley) show their disapproval of Carol and Alan's interracial relationship. After April is jilted by her fiancé, Alan decides he wants to marry Carol there and then. However, Alan grows jealous of Carol's renewed friendship with David and embarks on an affair with singer Frankie Pierre (Syan Blake), moving out of the Jacksons' house, leaving Carol to reignite a romance with David. Both affairs are short lived and Carol and Alan soon reunite.

Billie is the only witness to an armed robbery and is kidnapped to prevent him from testifying in court. He is eventually returned safely, but Carol and the rest of her family (bar Bianca) are placed in a witness protection programme and move away from Walford for their safety.

1999
In her time away, Carol separates from Alan due to his mental breakdown and starts a relationship with Dan Sullivan (Craig Fairbrass). Carol, Robbie and Sonia return to Walford with Dan, and it is revealed that Dan was in a relationship with Bianca when she was 15 and he was married. Bianca keeps this a secret from Carol, but they begin an affair during a family holiday. The affair only ends when Carol becomes pregnant with Dan's baby, however, Carol finds an old photo of Bianca and Dan and quizzes him about it. He tells only part of the truth and says that they had a relationship long before he ever met Carol. Carol believes this but is angry at Bianca for not telling her. Carol confronts Bianca who reveals the affair, not knowing what Dan had said. Carol throws Dan out, tells Bianca's husband Ricky Butcher (Sid Owen) about the affair and disowns her daughter. She aborts Dan's child and leaves Albert Square in October 1999 to care for her critically ill mother, Reenie (Joy Graham), who dies. Following Reenie's funeral, Carol reconciles with Alan and returns to him and Billie in Balham. She tends to her father in 2007 following his stroke, but remains estranged from Bianca and her children.

2010–2015
Carol turns up uninvited to Bianca and Ricky's second wedding to stop her son Billie attending. Despite initial animosity, Carol and Bianca make amends for the past and Carol moves back to Walford, having lost her job in Balham as a school secretary. Billie and Carol regularly clash regarding Carol's controlling parenting and Billie's connection with a gang. When a gang member attempts to shoot Billie, Carol's brother Jack (Scott Maslen) is accidentally shot instead. Blaming himself, Billie joins the army and despite initial opposition, Carol gives her blessing.

Billie is given leave on his birthday, so Carol arranges a party for him and his friends. Copious amounts of alcohol are consumed by Billie and the next day he is found dead on the settee. Distraught, Carol pushes away her family, suggesting they are responsible for Billie's death, until her brother Max (Jake Wood) tells her Billie only joined the army to get away from her. When Carol sees a video on Billie's laptop in which he says she is a control freak and wants her to die, she is devastated. She bans her family from attending Billie's funeral, and it is only she, Alan and Blossom who attend. In her grief, Carol attempts to kiss Alan, but he rejects her as he is now married with a young son. Struck by sadness, Carol plans to commit suicide by overdose, but is interrupted by Connor Stanley (Arinzé Kene), one of Billie's friends and a gang member; they comfort each other and end up having sex. Carol disapproves of Connor's criminality and so their relationship ends and reignites several times. On one break, Connor begins dating Bianca's stepdaughter, Whitney Dean (Shona McGarty). Connor sleeps with Carol and Whitney simultaneously, until Bianca finds out and attacks Connor with a metal pole. Bianca is imprisoned and Connor's mother Kendra (Sharon D. Clarke) warns Carol to leave Connor alone.

In 2011, Carol meets a love-interest, Eddie Moon (David Essex), but their relationship ends when Carol discovers Eddie has been seeing Vanessa Gold (Zöe Lucker). Old feelings resurface between Carol and David when he returns to Walford in 2012 after years away, to visit his dying mother Pat (Pam St Clement). Derek (now Jamie Foreman) still loathes David because of the rivalry in their youth over David getting Carol pregnant; he forbids Carol and David's reunion. David's feud with Derek escalates to violence. After convincing Carol to leave Walford with him, David changes his mind when he sees how much their grandchildren need her; he devastates Carol by leaving without her.

Upon being released from prison, Bianca struggles to support her family and gets into debt. In desperation, she steals money from a market trader; the police are called and Bianca is sent back to prison, in Suffolk, for six months. Wanting to be near Bianca, Carol temporarily moves to Suffolk with her grandchildren. She returns to prepare for Bianca's return and discovers Derek is using the house for criminal activities. She orders him to get rid of his merchandise, but he just stocks it in the garage. Derek dies of a heart attack.

Carol and Masood Ahmed (Nitin Ganatra) bond and arrange a date, but it is not a success, and Carol starts a relationship with Bianca's probation officer, Steve Lowe (Michael Simkins). Bianca objects and Masood breaks up the relationship on Carol's behalf. Carol and Masood then arrange another date and eventually their relationship becomes more serious. David returns to Walford penniless, so Carol allows him to stay at her house. David attempts to charm Carol again, and tries to interfere in her romance with Masood. This does not work initially and Carol moves in with Masood, but soon moves out. Carol finds a lump in her breast and is diagnosed with breast cancer. She then resumes her relationship with David. After ending her relationship with Masood and a heated argument between David and Masood, Carol visits Sonia and her daughter Rebecca (Jasmine Armfield) to tell her about the cancer. Carol worries about being tested for the BRCA2 gene, rebuffing David's advances and rejecting his marriage proposal, though this leads to David inadvertently revealing to her friends and neighbours that she has cancer. David kisses Nikki Spraggan (Rachel Wilde) but accepts Carol's later proposal of marriage and moves back in with her.

Carol tests positive for the gene, and her daughters are also tested. Sonia has inherited the gene, causing tension between her