# List of Cluedo characters

This is a list of characters in the game of Cluedo (UK) / Clue (US).

The Victim 
The victim of Cluedo/Clue is Dr. Black (UK) / Mr. Boddy (US), the wealthy owner of Tudor Mansion (formerly known as Tudor Close/Tudor Hall (UK) and Boddy Mansion/Boddy Manor(US)). In Cluedo, he is the unseen host who is murdered, which inspires the quest to discover who murdered him, with what weapon, and what room in his mansion the crime occurred. Dr. Black was listed in the original patent filing as one of the ten characters created for the game, in which one character was drawn from the suspect cards to be the new victim before the start of a game. Mr. Boddy's name is a pun on the fact that the character is a dead body.

In the 2002 US edition, Mr. John Boddy, also known as Dr. Black, is an eminent anthropologist and the heir of his late uncle's estate, which he is set to fully inherit on the day of his thirtieth birthday. Before then, Boddy discovered a series of secret allowances bequeathed to some of his uncle's former associates. Vowing to get to the bottom of these murky financial dealings, he invites his uncle's associates to Tudor Mansion for a weekend visit. However, Mr. Boddy is murdered by one of them.

In the 2023 edition of the game, the two names are combined into the character, Boden "Boddy" Black Jr, a man who acquired his significant wealth by inheritance. At the time of his murder in the game's updated story, he has used connections to government officials in Hue County, the game's setting, to push through permitting and construction on Boden Black Hotel, a luxury hotel which the public opposes.

In the film, Mr. Boddy is primarily portrayed by Lee Ving while Tim Curry portrays him in one of the film's three endings. He blackmailed the six guests of Hill House and his butler Wadsworth's wife until he is murdered. In Ending A, he was murdered by his maid Yvette on Miss Scarlet's orders. In Ending B, he was murdered by Mrs. Peacock. In Ending C, Boddy is seemingly murdered by Professor Plum, but Wadsworth reveals himself as the real Mr. Boddy while the person Plum killed was his butler. Boddy plans to continue blackmailing the guests before he is shot by Mr. Green.

Suspects
The following are the known suspects in the Cluedo / Clue franchise:

Original suspects

These are the original suspects from the board game in rolling order:

Miss Scarlett
Miss Scarlett is a stereotypical femme fatale, typically portrayed as young, cunning, and attractive. Known as "Miss Scarlet" in North America between 1963 and 2016, she rolls first in the game.

In Clue Master Detective, Miss Scarlet is depicted as an Asian woman nicknamed the "Mercenary of Macau".

In the film, she is portrayed by Lesley Ann Warren and is depicted as a sassy Washington DC madame who runs an underground brothel. In Ending A, she orders her former call girl and Mr. Boddy's maid, Yvette, to murder her employer and the cook before murdering her in turn, along with a cop she was bribing and a passing motorist and singing telegram girl. Nonetheless, Scarlet is eventually exposed, subdued, and arrested. In Ending C, she only murders the cop before being exposed and arrested.

In the 1990s ITV game show Cluedo, Vivienne Scarlet is the stepdaughter of Mrs. Peacock.

In the 1996 musical, Miss Scarlet used to work as a lounge singer in Las Vegas.

In the 2023 edition, she is a Black British gossip columnist who writes under the pen name "Cyan".

Colonel Mustard
Colonel Mustard is a stock military officer who rolls second. He is usually portrayed as a dignified, dapper, and dangerous military man. Originally known as Colonel Yellow, his name was changed before the game's first edition was published.

In Clue Master Detective, his full name is Algernon Mustard and is known to sleep with a revolver under his pillow.

In the film, he is portrayed by Martin Mull and is depicted as a war profiteer who sold stolen air force radios on the black market and was later involved in a top-secret fusion bomb project. In Ending C, he kills a passing motorist after recognizing him as his driver from World War II before he is exposed and arrested.

In the 1990s ITV game show Cluedo, Colonel Mike Mustard is a ex-officer of the Special Air Service and a regular visitor of Arlington Grange who is in a love triangle with Mrs. Peacock and her step-daughter Miss Scarlett.

In the 2002 US edition, he is Michael Mustard, a former officer of the Royal Hampshire Regiment, where he first met Sir Hugh. He is very nostalgic for his war days and has convinced a publisher that his military exploits would make for a good book.

In the 2016 edition, Colonel Mustard is a successful and popular officer. However, behind his medals of honor, are rumors of treason and war profiteering which he has paying someone to hide for far too long. Believing Mr. Boddy is blackmailing him, Mustard eagerly comes to Tudor Mansion in search of evidence.

Mrs. White / Chef White
Mrs. White is usually portrayed as a frazzled servant who worked as Mr. Boddy's cook and housekeeper. Originally known as Nurse White before her name was changed following the first edition's publication, she rolls third in the game. Various variations have been made to the character, diverging from her working class origins.

In Clue Master Detective, she is Blanche White, who has been a long-time maid to Mr. Boddy and has an eye squint from spying in keyholes.

In the film, she is portrayed by Madeline Kahn and is depicted as the widow of a nuclear physicist, an illusionist, and three other men, all of whom died under mysterious circumstances. In Ending C, she kills Yvette out of jealousy upon discovering she had an affair with one of her previous husbands before being exposed and arrested.

In the 1990s ITV game show Cluedo, housekeeper and cook Mrs. Blanche White has worked for Mrs. Peacock at Arlington Grange for the past 25 years. Additionally, series one featured her husband Mr. White before the character was dropped.

In the 1998 musical, Mrs. White is the chief domestic at Boddy Manor.

In the 2002 edition, Mrs. Blanche White is the housekeeper and cook of Tudor Mansion. She also served as the nanny of her current employer, Mr. John Boddy, during his childhood. For all her years of dedicated service, she has little to show for it.

In Clue: Discover the Secrets, Diana White is a former child celebrity who desires to be in the spotlight again.

In the 2012 edition, White is an alias given to Alexis Villenueve, a lawyer who will do anything for justice, including turning vigilante.

Although originally planned to be in the 2016 edition, Mrs. White was replaced as a suspect by a new character, Dr. Orchid.

In the 2023 edition of the game, the character returned as Chef White, a younger character with short white hair and a white chef's uniform coat. She worked for Boddy Black at one point before starting her own restaurant, using the budget money she skimmed from her old boss to fund it.

Reverend Green / Mr. Green / Mayor Green
Originally patented as "The Reverend Mr Green", he is a hypocritical Anglican priest who wavers when the subject is murder. In North America, Mr. Green has taken money-oriented roles from mobster to businessman. Parker Brothers insisted on the name change, believing that the American public would object to a parson as a murder suspect. He rolls fourth in both versions.

In Clue Master Detective, he is a mobster named Thallo Green.

In the film, Mr. Green is portrayed by Michael McKean. For most of the film and Endings A and B, he is depicted as a closeted homosexual who is concerned that his secret might cost him his job as a State Department employee. In Ending C, he is a heterosexual, undercover FBI agent working to expose Mr. Boddy.

In the 1990s ITV game show Cluedo, Jonathan Green is a regular visitor at Arlington Grange.

In the 1996 musical, Mr. Green is an entrepreneur.

The 2002 edition attempted to combine the two variations of the character. Mr. John Green, also known as "Reverend Green", has a reputation for fraud, money laundering, and smuggling.

In the 2016 edition, Green is a charming con artist who is in hiding, disguised as a priest.

The 2023 edition updated the character to Mayor Green, the Mayor of Hue County who sports a goatee and a green business suit.

Mrs. Peacock / Solicitor Peacock
Mrs. Peacock is a stock grande dame and a middle-aged woman who nearly always maintains her dignity and rolls fifth in the game.

In Clue Master Detective, her full name is Henrietta Peacock and is depicted as an elderly ornithologist with a specialty in birds of prey who wanted Mr. Boddy to turn his manor into a bird sanctuary as part of a donation to the Peacock Salvation Society.

In the film, she is portrayed by Eileen Brennan and is depicted as the wife of a U.S. Senator who is accused of taking bribes. In the film's second ending, or Ending B, she kills Mr. Boddy, Yvette, her former cook Mrs. Ho, who became Mr. Boddy's