# Cardiff Rift

The Cardiff Rift is a fictional wormhole in the science fiction television series Doctor Who and its spin-off series Torchwood, one end of which is located in Cardiff Bay, Wales. The other end is apparently floating freely through spacetime, and matter and radiation can pass through the Rift, allowing extraterrestrial and extratemporal artifacts, and occasionally life-forms, to "wash up" in Cardiff. It is described as "Unpredictable and elusive, it’s a gateway for alien creatures, alien weapons, all manner of alien technology and time anomalies to enter our world" and the "flotsam and jetsam of the universe since the dawn of time."

The Rift has been featured in episodes of Doctor Who and is central to the Torchwood, which concerns a branch of the Torchwood Institute created to monitor activity around the Rift. The Rift acts as a plot generator, providing a wide and potentially unlimited array of possible plots for the series, much like the Hellmouth in Buffy the Vampire Slayer and the Bajoran wormhole in Star Trek: Deep Space Nine.

Appearances in the Doctor Who universe

Doctor Who

The Rift first appears in the Doctor Who episode "The Unquiet Dead". This episode occurs in 1869, when the Gelth, gaseous humanoid organisms, pass through the Rift into a funeral parlour, where they can "possess" the corpses. It is established that the Rift releases radiation, prolonged exposure to which can grant psychic powers to people, including Gwyneth, a servant in the parlour. The Doctor speaks with the Gelth via Gwyneth in a séance, where they claim to be few following the Time War and ask for the Rift to be widened, allowing the remaining Gelth to live in the corpses. However, after the Doctor discovers that the Gelth is far more crowded than first claimed and intends to slaughter the human race to provide themselves with inhabitable corpses, Gwyneth sacrifices herself by causing a gas explosion, which seals the Rift and kills the Gelth.

The episode "Boom Town", set in modern-day Cardiff, revisits the Rift. The Rift now runs through Roald Dahl Plass and emits radiation that the TARDIS can harness for use as fuel. However, a member of the Slitheen crime family, Blon Fel-Fotch Pasameer-Day Slitheen, disguised as a woman named Margaret Blaine, becomes the elected Mayor of Cardiff and plans to build a defective nuclear power station on the Rift, which would then cause a nuclear meltdown. The resulting energy shockwave would destroy the planet but allow Blaine to escape on a tribophysical waveform macro-kinetic extrapolator, described as a "pan-dimensional surfboard". The Doctor, Rose, Mickey Smith and Jack Harkness manage to foil her plan, but the extrapolator latches onto the TARDIS and causes the Rift to split open, which causes earth tremors across Roald Dahl Plass. The TARDIS finally seals the Rift.

The Tenth Doctor and Martha Jones briefly revisit the Rift in "Utopia" to refuel, treating it as a "pitstop". The Doctor revisits Cardiff to drop off Jack Harkness in "Last of the Time Lords". In "The Stolen Earth", the Torchwood Three team and supercomputer "Mr Smith" use the Rift's energy to signal the Doctor through the Medusa Cascade. Later, in "Journey's End", the Doctor uses the Rift - after Mr Smith has interfaced with the TARDIS to allow it to lock on properly - as a towrope to literally" tow" the Earth back to its proper location in time after the Daleks stole it.

Torchwood 

The Rift features regularly in Torchwood, with almost every episode involving material or life forms passed through the Rift. The Torchwood Institute website suggests that Torchwood Three was formed in Cardiff when the Torchwood Institute became aware of the Rift's presence.[1][2] Torchwood Three has also been described as merely a "monitoring station" for the Rift.[3] The website lists among the items in the Rift "3 new Weevil clusters... [7] items of unknown provenance... 2 weapons... 2 EBEs".[2] However, the Rift appears to be one-way; craft sent through the Rift have been unable to either return or send a signal.[1]

In "Out of Time", the Rift facilitates the misplacement of people on board a plane from 1953 to the show's present day. In the episode's conclusion, a temporal immigrant, feeling it will take her home or somewhere new, ventures back into the sky, leaving her ultimate fate unclear.

In "Captain Jack Harkness", the Rift is responsible for sending Jack and Tosh back to 1941. In the present day, Owen uses a "Rift machine" designed by Toshiko to open the Rift and bring them back (this episode shows the Rift's event horizon correctly for the first time).

The consequences of Owen's actions resonate in the next episode, the first series finale, "End of Days". By opening the Rift, he has allowed more "flotsam and jetsam" to come through, including a Roman soldier, a group of mediaeval plague sufferers, and even a giant UFO. As Jack puts it, opening the Rift has caused the cracks in time to widen globally. The time travelling Bilis Manger shows Gwen a vision of the death of her boyfriend Rhys, convincing her to open the Rift even wider to reverse the damage already done. When this happens, the entity known as Abaddon rises from "beneath the Rift". Jack sacrifices himself to destroy Abaddon, and the Rift immediately closes. The team (including Jack, who has come back from the dead again thanks to his past experiences) still retains the memory of what happened. Still, some events have been reverted (such as Rhys returning to life), and Owen spearheads a minor clean-up mission.[4] A year later, in "Exit Wounds", Jack's brother Gray has Captain John Hart widen the Rift again to unleash chaos across Cardiff, unleashing monsters such as Hoix, Weevils and cowled ghouls from distant times and places. As a Time Agent, Captain John can use his wrist-strap vortex manipulator to travel to Cardiff through the Rift.

In "Adrift", it is revealed that as well as depositing creatures and items in Cardiff, the Rift also takes people, depositing them anywhere in space or time. Gwen discovers that this is the cause of a drastic increase in the amount of missing people in the Cardiff area. In an effort to right itself, the Rift often returns people again. However, they often see such graphic images that they develop mental illnesses.

At the start of Torchwood: Children of Earth (2009), the Hub is destroyed, and Torchwood relocates to London as a fugitive. Torchwood itself is later destroyed by the end of the serial. Fans were left asking about the fate of, among other things, the Rift. The subsequent 2011 series of Torchwood relocates primarily to the United States. When asked in an interview with SFX magazine, Davies stated, "I like to think that when [subsequent Doctor Who executive producer] Steven Moffat so thoughtfully closed all those cracks in the universe, the Rift in Cardiff closed up simultaneously. I used to wonder what the hell happened to that Rift, and now it's all solved. When I watched those cracks seal up, I was like, 'Oh, thank you.'" [volume & issue needed] This refers to the events of the 2010 Doctor Who episode "The Big Bang" written by Steven Moffat. However, Torchwood Media in 2011 provided a direct explanation for the Rift. In the radio drama "The House of the Dead", Jack visits a haunted location where the Rift allows ghosts, including the deceased Ianto Jones, to enter the living world. To close the Rift forever and seal an ancient evil on the other side of it, Jack creates a device designed to fill the Rift. The device will also provide Jack with an end to his cycle of resurrections. However, Ianto's spirit tricks Jack into leaving and detonates the instrument, closing the Rift "forever" and, with it, the barrier between the living and the dead.[5]

Other media 
In the Torchwood novel Border Princes by Dan Abnett, it is revealed that several other planets border permanent points where the Rift has anchored. One such planet has a similar organization to Torchwood entitled The First Senior, whose title for the Rift translates as The Stumble, The Misstep or The Border. When The First Senior heard of Torchwood, they inserted a Principal, a spy who could observe how they handle the Rift, purely for research into how other "Rift guardians" operate. Like all Doctor Who and Torchwood spin-off media, its place in canon is unclear.

Attributes and effects
The Rift has facilitated an underground Weevil infestation and allows for alien technology to wash up in Cardiff, which are sometimes acquired by Torchwood Three. Creatures have been known to pass presumably through time because of the Rift, including a pterodactyl. It can be used as a source of power for the TARDIS, perhaps replacing the Eye of Harmony. The landing of the TARDIS near the fountain in Roald Dahl Plass resulted in the ship's "perception properties" being welded to the Rift, creating a "perception filter" that prevents anyone outside that spot from noticing anything inside. In 19th-century C