# Asian Dust

Asian Dust (also yellow dust, yellow sand, yellow wind or China dust storms) is a meteorological phenomenon that affects much of East Asia year-round and especially during the spring months. The dust originates in the deserts of China, Mongolia, and Kazakhstan, where high-speed surface winds and intense dust storms kick up dense clouds of fine, dry soil particles. These clouds are then carried eastward by prevailing winds and pass over China, North and South Korea, and Japan, as well as parts of the Russian Far East. Sometimes, the airborne particulates are carried much further, in significant concentrations which affect air quality as far east as the United States.

Since the turn of the 21st century, coinciding with the rapid industrialization of China, yellow dust has become a serious health problem due to the increase of industrial pollutants contained in the dust. Intensified desertification due to deforestation has been causing longer and more frequent occurrences. The issue has been exacerbated as the Aral Sea of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan has largely dried up. This started in the 1960s with the diversion of the Amu River and Syr River, as part of a Soviet agricultural program to irrigate Central Asian deserts, mainly for cotton plantations.

Ancient reports 
Some of the earliest written records of dust storm activity are recorded in ancient Chinese literature. It is believed that the earliest Chinese dust storm record was found in the Zhu Shu Ji Nian (Chinese: 竹书纪年; English: the Bamboo Annals). The record said: in the fifth year of Di Xin (1150 BC, Di Xin was the Era Name of the King Di Xin of Shang Dynasty), it rained dust at Bo (Bo is a place in Henan Province in China; in Classical Chinese: ).

The first known record of an Asian Dust event in Korea was in 174 AD during the Silla Dynasty.  The dust was known as "Uto (우토, 雨土)", meaning 'Raining Dirt/Earth', and was believed at the time to be the result of an angry god sending down dust instead of rain or snow. Specific records referring to Asian Dust events in Korea also exist from the Baekje, Goguryeo, and Joseon periods.

Composition 
An analysis of Asian Dust clouds conducted in China in 2001 found that they contain high concentrations of silicon (24–32%), aluminium (5.9–7.4%), calcium (6.2–12%), and iron. Numerous toxic substances were also found, including mercury and cadmium from coal burning.

People further from the source of the dust are more often exposed to nearly invisible, fine dust particles that they can unknowingly inhale deep into their lungs, as coarse dust is too big to be deeply inhaled.  After inhalation, these particles can cause long term scarring of lung tissue and induce cancer and lung disease.

Sulfur (an acid rain component), soot, ash, carbon monoxide, and other toxic pollutants including heavy metals (such as mercury, cadmium, chromium, arsenic, lead, zinc, copper) and other carcinogens, often accompany the dust storms, along with viruses, bacteria, fungi, pesticides, antibiotics, asbestos, herbicides, plastic ingredients, combustion products and hormone-mimicking phthalates.  Though scientists had known that intercontinental dust plumes can ferry bacteria and viruses, "most people had assumed that the [sun's] ultraviolet light would sterilize these clouds," says microbiologist Dale W. Griffin, "We now find that isn't true."

Research done in 2014 found that China dust consists of fine dust and ultrafine dust particles. Fine dust consists of fine particular matter (PM). Particles smaller than 10 µm in diameter are classified as fine PM (PM10), while particles smaller than 2.5 µm in diameter are classified as ultrafine PM (PM2.5). Both fine and ultrafine dust particles impose dangers to health. Fine dust particles are small enough to penetrate deep into the lung alveoli. Ultrafine dust particles are so small that they also penetrate into the blood or lymphatic system through the lungs. Once in the bloodstream, ultrafine particles can even reach the brain or fetal organs.

Cause 
The main cause of China dust is desertification of northern China, Mongolia, and Central Asia. Desertification in these regions owe to extensive logging in the forests and extensive harvesting of arable land. The origins of Asian dust are mostly located in developing countries; thus, most of these countries are undergoing rapid population growth. A study pointed to China's deforestation and soil erosion as indirect effects of the nation's booming population. High population growth in China has led to increasing demand for wood for housing and furniture as well as for firewood for cooking and heating. This increase in demand for wood (and firewood) has led to over-cutting of timber. At the same time, there has been an increase in demand for food, which has led to soil erosion due to overgrazing of arable land. For example, the northern part of Shaanxi Province and the Haixi area of Gansu Province was once a deep forest region, but the region now only has treeless mountains. Historically “because peasant farmers continue[d] to rely on low-technology agricultural techniques, they [had] to exploit virgin land to sustain a continually growing population. This led to a vicious cycle. Since traditional agricultural techniques rely heavily on human labor, people continued to have more children, which in turn led to more overgrazing.

Effects

Dangers to health 
Perhaps the most important negative effect is on health. Many studies have found Asian dust to have negative effect on respiratory function and increase the occurrence of respiratory disease. Several research studies conducted in Korea and Japan focused on respiratory function performance by measuring peak expiratory flow. These studies found that individuals with respiratory diseases such as asthma suffer from the most adverse effects. There is also evidence that days with Asian Dust coupled with smog lead to increased mortality due to respiratory and cardiovascular diseases among inhabitants in affected regions. A recent study has also found PM2.5 to have an association with Parkinson's disease and other neurological diseases. The OECD predicted 1,069 premature deaths per million directly attributable to worsening air pollution in South Korea by 2060.

Areas affected by the dust experience decreased visibility and the dust is known to cause a variety of health problems, including sore throat and asthma in otherwise healthy people.  Often, people are advised to avoid or minimize outdoor activities, depending on severity of storms.  For those already with asthma or respiratory infections, it can be fatal.  The dust has been shown to increase the daily mortality rate in one affected region by 1.7%.

Restrictions on outdoor activities 
Due to the concerning health effects, residents of affected regions have reduced their exposure to Asian dust by refraining from outdoor activities. Despite the temperature rise to warm levels during spring season, popular outdoor destinations are empty on days with yellow dust advisory or warning. According to a survey in 2019, 97% of Koreans reported that they suffered from physical or mental distress due to Asian dust including fine dust during the time of the survey.

Since children are among the most vulnerable to fine dust particles, affected countries have come up with measures to minimize the detrimental effects on children; in 2017, South Korea's Ministry of Education have required all primary to high schools to create indoor spaces for sports and outdoor activities. Similar efforts are arising in professional sports. In 2019, the Korea Baseball Organization changed its regulations to cancel or suspend professional games during a severe fine dust warning.

Effects on industries 
In addition to costs incurred by individuals, the rise of Asian dust has led to mixed pecuniary effects in different industries. First, the airline industry have been experiencing external costs due to the increasing severity of Asian dust. Dust collected on the plane surface can decrease the lift of the wings and react with moisture to corrode the aircraft's surface and decolorize the paint. As a result, during spring, when Asian dust levels are at the highest, airlines with aircraft in the affected region spend time and money to wash dust off their aircraft. Washing dust off a single B747 jumbo jet typically takes 6000 liters of water and eight hours with nine people working. Although cancellations stemming from yellow dust are rare, flights are cancelled due to poor visibility on the most severe days.

On the other hand, Asian dust also has led to some positive effects in certain industries. The demand for products to combat Asian dust has increased significantly. During a period of high fine dust levels in 2019, face mask and air purifier sales surged 458% and 414%, respectively, compared to the same period in 2018. The sale of dryers also surged 67% during the same period as outdoor air drying no long