# Uh Oh! (game show)

Uh Oh! is a Canadian television game show that was created by Rick Watts (who also served as producer and director of the show's first five seasons) and Frank Young. Following a sneak preview at YTV Psykoblast on August 16, Uh Oh! aired from August 22, 1997 to April 19, 2003 on YTV, and was a spin-off of the popular variety show It's Alive!, which also aired on YTV. Uh Oh! was part of It's Alives game show segment during its third season, but existed as a parody during its second season. As of 2023, Uh Oh! is the third longest-running show on YTV, behind Hit List and Video & Arcade Top 10, both of which aired for 14 and 15 years respectively. For its entire run, Uh Oh! was taped at Global Television in Toronto, Ontario. The series ended on April 19, 2003.

Background and premise
Uh Oh! was inspired by a game show parody sketch on It's Alive! during its second season, where three contestants were chained up and answered multiple choice questions. If a contestant answered incorrectly, a man known as "The Punisher" would pour slime on them from the rafters. In the third season of It's Alive!, realizing that the game show parody could actually work as a real game show, Uh Oh! debuted as part of the slate of game shows during the show's segment. The game was much shorter than its spin-off, with the game consisting of one round of two spins each. Quickly becoming the most popular game show in the segment, the game was played more frequently than its other games. After It's Alive! ended in 1996, Uh Oh! later became a show of its own, playing with exactly the same rules as when it was originally on It's Alive!, except that there were two rounds, with an additional round between the two rounds called Slime Tour, which was based on the obstacle course segment from It's Alive! involving different teams who were competing against each other in their own competition on location.

The game was played with three colour-based teams that would be battled against each other in each game. The goal of the game was to have more points than the other two teams to take home the grand prize. Teams would consist of two players each and would be either Blue, Green, or Red. Audience members would also pick sides and wear clothes of the colour they supported. Each team member would either spin the wheel for half of the game or participate in whichever activity the wheel lands on. The team members would participate in games that would nearly always involve goo and would be silly. If won, games would provide points for the respective team. According to the original Uh Oh! sketch on It's Alive!, Blue went first, then Green and Red.

Uh Oh! was sponsored by Post Honeycomb for later episodes in the first season. As mentioned, Fruit Gushers became the official sponsor of Uh Oh! for its remaining two seasons.

Characters and hosts
 Wink Yahoo (Scott Yaphe) was the show's main, wacky, zany, and extremely enthusiastic host. Wink wore his hair in a large pompadour and wore flamboyant sequined suits. Wink would sometimes taunt team members and showed no compassion when a team would lose all their points. Wink would always get overly excited when the spinner landed on the Uh Oh! space and would always feign regret if the player got the Uh Oh! question wrong or be disappointed if the player got the question right. Yaphe was one of the cast members from It's Alive! that moved over to Uh Oh!; the others being Patricia Ribeiro and Mike Beaver.
Slashin' Sam and Tearin' Aaron (Samantha Cook and Aaron Alexander) refereed the spinner's partner at the Mayhem games. Jumpin' Joe (Joseph Pierre) also refereed the games on the show's first 13 episodes before Aaron replaced him.
Quizmaster Patricia (Patricia Ribeiro) asked the spinner up to 10 questions at Speed Round. Patricia also watched the spinners' participant at The Dump.
The Slime Master (Shaun Majumder/Ryan Belleville) hosted the Slime Tour and narrated the players' action. Majumder hosted the games up until the end of season 4 before Belleville replaced him.
Christian Hagen, Erin Strimaitis, Akua Otupiri, and Dawn Cox assisted the Slime Master in introducing and refereeing the players at various Slime Tour stations. Cox replaced Otupiri for the show's sixth and final season.
The Punisher (Mike Beaver/Sean "Bubba" Loucks) was a masked character dating back to the It's Alive! segment. However, the Punisher appeared in a somewhat reduced role on Uh Oh!. At the beginning of the show, the Punisher was released from a cage by either Sam or Aaron while being booed by the audience and went on a rampage and would sometimes attack audience members with goo (he even attacked Wink on at least three occasions). Wink would eventually say: "Punisher... control!". The Punisher would then retreat to the slime booth. During the commercial breaks, the Punisher would also mess with the audience. He would also often have a couple of water guns with which to torment them, and gooey pies was one of his favorites during seasons 5 and 6 (where "Bubba" replaces Beaver as the Punisher). His duties during the game were limited by dragging the spinner's partner to the Uh Oh! booth and pouring goo on them if the spinner's answer to an Uh Oh! question (see below) was wrong. He would act disappointed if the spinner answered correctly. In season 1, the Punisher would turn the cranks in certain Mayhem games. There were several occasions where either Uh Oh! wasn't landed on at all, or a question in the Uh Oh! category wasn't answered wrong.
Mr. Voiceman (Dwayne Hill/Mike 'Nug' Nahrgang) is the show's announcer. Like Yaphe, Ribeiro, and Beaver, Hill was also part of the It's Alive! cast, as an audience warm-up.

Gameplay

Opening
The game begins when Mr. Voiceman asks the audience a question: "What do you say when ... (insert type of usual but funny predicament: For example, "When you press the eject button on a toilet seat?")? ", and the audience would respond "UH OH!" with the main theme song heard. After the opening sequence, Mr. Voiceman would introduce the show's main host, Wink Yahoo with a statement themed to his opening question: "The only (Canadian/North American) TV personality who... " with a response of cheering from the audience. Wink would respond in kind to Mr. Voiceman and introduce the show's other hosts. Wink would ask Mr. Voiceman to introduce the teams and its two players, who were thereupon introduced followed by the introduction of The Punisher. Afterwards, Mr. Voiceman's duties were minor throughout the game: to announce the prizes won by the studio teams, Slime Tour players, and lucky audience members.

Round 1
During Round 1, one player from each team are designated to spin a 12-space segmented wheel which featured a variety of possible activities or results that could occur. Their partner, who was located at the other end of the studio and equipped with goggles, was designated to perform the activity that the wheel landed on. Each team take turns spinning the wheel, with two cycles through the three teams. On many episodes, Wink would explain the rules like this:

In the first round, the wheel itself spun, and had pegs around the circumference. The chosen spot was denoted by a spring-loaded pointer that "clicked" past the pegs. Distribution of the spaces on the wheel changed throughout the show, but the first round spaces remained constant. In Season 1, spaces on the Round 1 wheel included 2 "Uh Oh!" spaces, 3 "Mayhem" spaces, 2 "Speed Round" spaces, 2 "The Dump" spaces, 2 "Win and Spin" spaces, and 1 "Trade and Spin" space. In Season 2, the Round 1 wheel was changed slightly with spaces including 3 "Uh Oh!" spaces, 3 "Mayhem" spaces, 2 "Speed Round" spaces, 1 "The Dump" space, 2 "Win and Spin" spaces, and 1 "Trade and Spin" space, and remained that way for the rest of the series. At the end of the round, Mr. Voiceman would announce the grand prize on the show's next episode.

The Slime Tour (Round 2)
The second round features the Slime Tour, which features some footage shot at another location elsewhere across Canada. In its first season, the Slime Tour was played mainly in Yukon. Three contestants, dressed in Yellow, Orange, and Purple, competed in a themed obstacle course race. As mentioned, the Slime Tour was otherwise played the same way as the obstacle course segment on It's Alive!. After the contestants were introduced, the three teams within the studio had to select which colour contestant they thought would win the race. If they were right, they earned 35 points; otherwise, no points were awarded if they pick the runners up.

The obstacle course was generally made up of three different activities separated by a distance that would have to be run. Some of the activities required a physical skill; others simply required speed at completing a task. There was usually at least one task in each course that would get the contestant messy, and usually a task that required carrying something or wearing something throughout the rest