# Bealls (Florida-based department store)

Bealls Inc.  is a Floridan retail corporation with headquarters located in Bradenton, Florida, since its founding in 1915, the family-owned corporation now operates more than 650 stores under the names of bealls, Bealls Florida, Home Centric and Rugged Earth Outfitters.

Bealls Florida was not affiliated with the Texas-based Bealls chain (formerly owned by Stage Stores), although the two brands overlapped in some markets with Bealls Outlet using the name Burkes Outlet where they overlapped. However, in 2020, Bealls bought Stage Stores intellectual property and acquired the rights to the Bealls name nationwide. They also acquired the rights to all of Stage's different chains, private labels, customer lists and a distribution center in Jacksonville, Texas. However, in 2022 they sold the rights to the Stage Stores chains (excluding Bealls) to BrandX.

History
In 1915, 22-year-old Robert M. Beall Sr. opened a dry goods store in Bradenton, Florida called "Dollar Limit" he invested his entire savings in merchandise and empty wooden packing crates were used as the display tables.

In 1920 the store was renamed to V-Dollar Limit Store as the maximum price went up to five dollars. Business prospered during the Florida land boom of the 1920s and in a few years Beall had purchased a vacant lot and built a new modern department store which opened in Christmas of 1924.

The Florida boom ended in a few years, only to be followed by the stock market crash. Hard hit and unable to pay his debts, Robert Beall lost his business to the bank. He stayed on as manager through the depression.  In 1944 after paying off his debts he managed to repurchase the company.

Bealls Stores 

In 1946, Robert was joined by his son E.R. as junior partner. They christened the business Bealls Department Store. Air conditioning and an influx of new residents in the 1950s began to transform the face of Florida.

In 1957, the second Bealls Department store was opened in Bradenton's Westgate Shopping Center and a third store followed in 1961 at the Venice Shopping Center in Venice, Florida. E.R. developed the new chain while his father ran the original downtown store until just prior to his death in 1979.

During the 1960s and 1970s Florida experienced amazing growth and Bealls stores grew with it. In 1980, Robert M. Beall II became president of the corporation—the third generation. E.R. became chairman of the board.  By 1981 the chain had 23 stores. A year later, seven new stores enabled the chain to double its selling space. Bealls continued to grow into new communities and adopt new technologies, introducing in-store kiosks and launching their website in 1998. Bealls' growth philosophy was to self-finance; staying within the limits of its operating cash, and keeping its debt load low. To customize its product line, Bealls opened its own design studio in 2004.

In 2023, it was announced that Bealls would be rebranded to bealls nationwide, and all Bealls stores in Florida would be renamed as Bealls Florida.

Bealls Outlet

E.R. Beall having observed the growth of outlet stores in North Carolina, Bealls ventured into the off-price channel in 1987. After a few hits and misses, Bealls Outlet caught on rapidly. In 1992, Bealls opened its first out-of-Florida Outlet in Arizona, and soon expanded to Georgia. Now Bealls Outlet operates in many different states under the names Bealls Outlet & Burkes Outlet.

In April 2023, it was announced that Bealls Outlet & Burkes Outlet would both be rebranded to "bealls" and that Bealls (in Florida) would be renamed to Bealls Florida.

Home Centric
The Home Centric brand of stores began as a store within a store test concept in select Burkes Outlet and Bealls Outlet stores. The first stand-alone Home Centric store opened in May 2018 in Cary, NC focusing on discount home furnishings and home decor. Home Centric is dedicated to bringing its customers "inspired living for less" maintaining the focus on discounted pricing established by the Burkes Outlet and Bealls Outlet brands.

Community 
Following the sale of the old downtown store, the proceeds were used to establish a charitable foundation named for the founder.  Since then the foundation has provided scholarships to over 600 employees and their dependents. Bealls is a longtime contributor to the United Way and to agencies that help young people and education. In celebration of its centennial year, company outreach assisted Habitat for Humanity and the American Cancer Society; Bealls also sponsors Take Stock in Children, helping to mentor at-risk children throughout Florida.

References

External links
Bealls Inc. website
Bealls Florida retail website
bealls website
Burke's Outlet website
Bunulu website
Home Centric website
Rugged Earth Outfitters
Reel Legends

1915 establishments in Florida
Retail companies established in 1915
Companies based in Manatee County, Florida
Bradenton, Florida
Department stores of the United States
Family-owned companies of the United States