# Thoroughbred (series)

Thoroughbred is a series of young-adult novels that revolves around Kentucky Thoroughbred racing and equestrianism. The series was started in 1991 by Joanna Campbell (better known as Jo Ann Simon, previously Haessig), and numbered 72 books, in addition to several "super editions" and a spin-off series, Ashleigh, by the time it ended in 2005. The series focuses on a group of core characters, primarily Ashleigh Griffen, Samantha McLean, Cindy Blake/McLean and Ashleigh's daughter Christina, as well as Christina's friends. The series originally followed the adventures of Ashleigh as she was growing up; when Ashleigh reached adulthood, the focus of the books shifted to young Samantha McLean. During Samantha's college and adult years, the books centered on Cindy Blake McLean, Samantha's adopted younger sister. Late in the series, there was a large "time gap" before the series focused on to a teenaged Christina and her cousin Melanie.

The books, which are intended for a primarily pre-teen, female audience, explore the characters' adventures in horse racing, eventing, and steeplechase. Christina and Melanie, the two main characters, are both jockeys, and many of the books deal with their challenges on and off the track: while their life with their horses comprises the main storyline, school, boyfriends, and family life often provide subplots. The Reese family farm, Whitebrook, is the setting for most of the series.

Thoroughbred is published by HarperEntertainment, an imprint of HarperCollins. A total of twelve different authors have contributed to the series over the fifteen years of its existence. By book 15, there were two million Thoroughbred books in print.

Structure of the books 
The Thoroughbred series is written in the third-person narrative and is typically told from a single person's viewpoint. For the first twenty-three books, the series is told from the viewpoints of Ashleigh Griffen (#1 - #5), Samantha McLean (#6 - #12), and Cindy McLean (#13 - #23). After book twenty-three, the series started what was called the "New Generation" and skipped ten years to a new group of characters: Christina Reese, Melanie Graham, Parker Townsend, and a small group of minor characters. These books were still written in the third-person, but the viewpoints of characters would alternate between books.

Series overview

Books 1–23: Original series 

Early on, the series primarily focuses on Ashleigh Griffen and her adventures at Townsend Acres, a racing and breeding farm owned by Clay Townsend.  Ashleigh's parents, Derek and Elaine Griffen, take over at the breeding area of Townsend Acres after their own farm, Edgardale, has to be sold because of a virus that spread around the farm and killed both mares and foals.  Ashleigh dislikes her new life at first, but becomes more accustomed to it after an older mare named Townsend Holly gives birth to a small filly whom she names Wonder.  Though Wonder is very weak and nearly dies multiple  times,  through Ashleigh's care, the filly grows up to be a Kentucky Derby and Belmont-winning racehorse.  After Ashleigh grows up, the plot is focused on Samantha McLean afterward.

The New Generation 
After book 23, Cindy's Honor, the series skipped forward ten years and began anew with a focus on eventing. The new series involved Ashleigh Griffen's daughter, Christina, who traded Wonder's latest foal, Wonder's Legacy, for a racehorse, named Sterling Dream, which she turned into an eventer. After 12 books, the series quickly shifted from eventing back to racing due to popular demand from fans.

After Ashleigh's Wonder's death, Christina became attached to Wonder's last foal, Wonder's Star. From this point, the series retained a predominantly Thoroughbred-racing focus, leaving eventing to Parker Townsend, who became a regular part of the series soon after Wonder's death. The series then became focused on Christina and Melanie and their horses Wonder's Star, Perfect Image, and Hi Jinx.

The last main character 
Allie Avery, the final main character of Thoroughbred, was introduced at the very end of the series as the daughter of Craig and Jilly Avery; Craig and Jilly had been removed from the series early on, but were brought back to make the introduction of a new character possible. Allie was both interested in eventing and racing, bringing together the two disciplines in the Thoroughbred series, although she ultimately decided upon becoming a jockey. She is given Wonder's Legacy, the often-forgotten son of Ashleigh's Wonder, as a gift when she is fourteen.

By late 2005, the Thoroughbred series was officially ended. The last book of the series was Legacy's Gift, a book centered on Allie and Wonder's Legacy, as well as the birth of Legacy's daughter, Allie's Wonder. The end of the series was much-protested, despite the seeming decline in quality of plots and writing.

List of major characters
Ashleigh Griffen Reese, the middle child of Derek and Elaine Griffen and the sister of Caroline and Rory Griffen.  Ashleigh is the jockey of Wonder in the Breeders' Cup Classic, a trainer at, and eventually the owner of, Whitebrook Farm. She marries Mike Reese in Thoroughbred No. 9, Pride's Challenge, and has a daughter, Christina. Ashleigh has been in all of the books.
Caroline Griffen, the older sister of Ashleigh and Rory Griffen and the oldest child of Derek and Elaine Griffen. Caroline has been afraid of horses ever since one almost ran away with her prior to the family moving to Townsend Acres. Caroline is interested in fashion, make up, music, and boys. 
Rory Griffen, the younger brother of Caroline and Ashleigh and the youngest child of Derek and Elaine Griffen. Rory is horse crazy just like Ashleigh and their parents. Because he's only seven Rory is too young to understand why his family moved to Townsend Acres. Rory eventually gets a new pony named Moe 2.
Derek Griffen, the father of Caroline, Ashleigh, and Rory Griffen and the husband of Elaine Griffen. Derek is a breeding manager at Townsend Acres. Derek warns Ashleigh not to get too close to Wonder out of fear that she'll die. Derek wants Ashleigh to work on math since it is her worst subject. Derek is concerned about Ashleigh when her grades slip. 
Elaine Griffen, the mother of Caroline, Ashleigh, and Rory Griffen and the wife of Derek Griffen. Elaine is a breeding manager at Townsend Acres. Elaine firmly believes that school comes before horses. When Ashleigh's grades slip due to spending too much time with Wonder Elaine and Derek ground Ashleigh until her grades improve. Elaine wants Ashleigh to stay away from Wonder out of fear that she'll get hurt. 
Clay Townsend, the owner of Townsend Acres and the grandfather of Parker Townsend. He was much more kind to Ashleigh and the other characters than his son or daughter-in-law, although he turned a blind eye when it came to his son. Clay's wife is never mentioned in the books.
Charles "Charlie" Burke, a crusty old trainer with a soft spot for young people, who helped Ashleigh nurse Wonder back to health, train, and race her. He was also instrumental in getting Ashleigh's jockey career started. After Ashleigh's grounded when her grades slip Charlie agrees with her punishment. Charlie explains that Ashleigh's parents are only doing what they think is best. He died in Pride's Challenge, from a heart attack on Ashleigh and Mike's wedding day.
Samantha McLean Nelson, The biological child of Ian and Suzanne McLean and the step daughter of Beth McLean. The half sister of Kevin McLean and the adoptive half sister of Cindy. Ashleigh's close friend, the jockey of Sierra. She marries Tor Nelson. Later in the series, she is pregnant with twins and runs an eventing school, Whisperwood, which is attended by Christina and Parker. Prior to the "Thoroughbred" series Samantha's mother was killed in a riding accident. Ian forced Samantha to stop riding after Suzanne died and only allowed her to groom horses. Ian does this to keep Samantha safe. Ian reluctantly gives Samantha permission to ride again on the condition that she's careful. 
Brad and Lavinia Townsend, the aristocratic owners of Townsend Acres, where Ashleigh once lived. They are the parents of Parker/Ross (as their son's name changes during the series for unknown reasons).
Cindy Blake McLean al-Rihani, Samantha and Kevin's adopted sister. She was a jockey until she tore her rotator cuff in an accident. Cindy eventually marries Ben al-Rihani and they adopt their daughter Allie after her parents die. Cindy's biological parents died in a car accident prior to the events of the series. Cindy remains in foster care until Ian and Beth adopt her.
Ian McLean, Head trainer and breeding manager at Whitebrook Farm. Samantha and Kevin's overprotective father and Cindy's adoptive father, remarried to Beth Raines, Cindy's adoptive mother. His first wife Suzanne was killed in a riding accident prior to the books. Ian refused to let Samantha ride again in an effort to keep her safe. Ian