# Wild 7

is a Japanese manga series by creator Mikiya Mochizuki that debuted on 1969 on Weekly Shōnen King where it ran until 1979. The creation of the manga had been based on the condition that Japan and other non-communist countries were facing in the 1960s and 1970s with the rise of militant student activists and politicians being caught and seen as corrupt with their economies recovering from the days of World War II.

It has been adapted into a live action series, an OVA and a spin-off anime. A live action film adaptation premiered in Japan on December 21, 2011.

Plot
In the wake of rising criminality and terrorist activities in Japan against Japanese nationals, the Japanese National Police Agency has no choice but to authorize the mobilization of a special Counter-terrorist Motorcycle unit consisting of reformed convicts, ranging from simple thugs, individuals forced into prison for simple petty trouble and former Yakuza henchmen and leaders to combat armed criminals and terrorists.

Media

Anime
The Wild 7 OVA is an adaptation of the manga, however Wild 7 Another television series is a sequel of 13 episodes set after the OVA. It was shown in Japan from April 27 to August 31 of 2002 before airing it on Animax for Latin American viewers from September 9 to November 28 of 2006. The television series was released on DVD with Japanese audio and English subtitles by Discotek Media on July 31, 2018.

Live action
A live action drama series ran on NTV from 1972 to 1973. Despite being popular with TV viewers, it was forced to end after 25 episodes due to concerns of violence being shown. A live action film was released on December 21, 2011.

Reception
Tony Salvaggio of Comic Book Resources had said that Wild 7 was one of the best manga/anime from the 1960s and 1970s, similar to what Golgo 13 and Speed Racer had been through as they had fueled adventure to its readers and viewers. He had even pointed out that Wild 7 may have been the antithesis to the popularity of the A-Team.

However, Mike Toole of Anime Jump had said that the OVA's character designs are so horrible that the manga artist may have been responsible for it. But he later suggested that the director of the Wild 7 OVA, Kiyoshi Egami, should be held responsible for the OVA character design instead of Mikiya Mochizuki.

References

External links 
  
 Wild 7 Forever Fan Site 
 Wild 7 World on Web Drama Fan Site 
 

1969 manga
1972 Japanese television series debuts
1994 anime OVAs
2002 anime television series debuts
Action anime and manga
ComicsOne titles
Discotek Media
Films directed by Eiichirō Hasumi
Films scored by Naoki Satō
Japanese drama television series
Japanese television dramas based on manga
Live-action films based on manga
Nippon TV original programming
Police in anime and manga
Shōnen Gahōsha manga
Shōnen manga
Studio Signpost
Japanese action films
Motorcycling films