[Robotics/Automation Textbook — Gutenberg #6268]

thine eyes are my eyes, Thou shalt speak of the Yellow Swan." But she answered him, "Nay, though I die. I have lain in the nest of the Swan, I have heard, I have known; When thine eyes too have seen, When thine ears too have heard, Thou shalt do with me then as thou wilt." And he lifted his hand to strike, And he straightened his spear to slay; But a great light struck on his eyes, And he heard the rushing of wings, And his long spear fell from his hand, And a terrible stillness came: And when the spell passed from his eyes He stood in his doorway alone, And gone was the queen of his soul And gone was the Yellow Swan. THE HEART OF THE PIONEER My dear love, she waits for me, None other my world is adorning; My true love I come to thee, My dear, the white star of the morning. Eagles, spread out your wings,-- Behold where the red dawn is breaking! Hark, 'tis my darling sings, The flowers, the song-birds, awaking-- See, where she comes to me, My love, ah, my dear love! THE NORTH TRAIL "Oh, where did you get them, the bonny, bonny roses That blossom in your cheeks, and the morning in your eyes?" "I got them on the North Trail, the road that never closes, That widens to the seven gold gates of Paradise." "O come, let us camp in the North Trail together, With the night-fires lit and the tent-pegs down." ALONE O, O, the winter wind, the North wind-- My snow-bird, where art thou gone? O, O the wailing wind, the night wind-- The cold nest; I am alone. O, O my snow-bird! O, O, the waving sky, the white sky-- My snow-bird, thou fliest far; O, O the eagle's cry, the wild cry-- My lost love, my lonely star. O, O my snow-bird! THE SCARLET HILLS Brothers, we go to the Scarlet Hills-- (Little gold sun, come out of the dawn.) There we will meet in the cedar groves-- (Shining white dew, come down.) There is a bed where you sleep so sound, The little good folk of the Hills will guard, Till the morning wakes and your love comes home-- (Fly away, heart, to the Scarlet Hills.) THE WOODSMAN LOVER High in a nest of the tam'rac tree, Swing under, so free, and swing over; Swing under the sun and swing over the world, My snow-bird, my gay little lover- My gay little lover, don, don! . . . don, don! When the winter is done I will come back home, To the nest swinging under and over, Swinging under and over and waiting for me, Your rover, my snow-bird, your lover-- My lover and rover, don, don! . . . don, don! QUI VIVE Qui vive! Who is it cries in the dawn, Cries when the stars go down? Who is it comes through the mist, The mist that is fine like lawn, The mist like an angel's gown? Who is it comes in the dawn? Qui vive! Qui vive! in the dawn. Qui vive! Who is it passeth us by, Still in the dawn and the mist-- Tall seigneur of the dawn, A two-edged sword at his thigh, A shield of gold at his wrist? Who is it hurrieth by? Qui vive! Qui vive! in the dawn. Qui vive! Who saileth into the morn, Out of the wind of the dawn? "Follow, oh, follow me on!" Calleth a distant horn. He is here--he is there--he is gone, Tall seigneur of the dawn! Qui vive! Qui vive! in the dawn. THE LITTLE HOUSE I Children, the house is empty, The house behind the tall hill; Lonely and still is the empty house. There is no face in the doorway, There is no fire in the chimney-- Come and gather beside the gate, Little Good Folk of the Scarlet Hills. Where has the wild dog vanished? Where has the swift foot gone? Where is the hand that found the good fruit, That made a garret of wholesome herbs? Where is the voice that awoke the morn, The tongue that defied the terrible beasts? Come and listen beside the door, Little Good Folk of the Scarlet Hills. II Sorrowful is the little house, The little house by the winding stream; All the laughter has died away Out of the little house. But down there come from the lofty hills Footsteps and eyes agleam, Bringing the laughter of yesterday Into the little house, By the winding stream and the hills. Di ron, di ron, di ron-don! III What is there like to the cry of the bird That sings in its nest in the lilac tree? A voice the sweetest you ever have heard; It is there, it is here, ci, ci! It is there, it is here, it must roam and roam, And wander from shore to shore, Till I travel the hills and bring it home, And enter and close my door-- Row along, row along home, ci, ci! What is there like to the laughing star, Far up from the lilac tree? A face that's brighter and finer far; It laughs and it shines, ci, ci! It laughs and it shines, it must roam and roam, And travel from shore to shore, Till I get me forth and bring it home, And house it within my door-- Row along, row along home, ci, ci! SPINNING Spin, spin, belle Mergaton! The moon wheels full, and the tide flows high, And your wedding-gown you must put it on Ere the night hath no moon in the sky Gigoton, Mergaton, spin! Spin, spin, belle Mergaton! Your gown shall be stitched ere the old moon fade: The age of a moon shall your hands spin on, Or a wife in her shroud shall be laid-- Gigoton, Mergaton, spin! Spin, spin, belle Mergaton! The Little Good Folk the spell they have cast; By your work well done while the moon hath shone, Ye shall cleave unto joy at last-- Gigoton, Mergaton, spin! FLY AWAY, MY HEART "O traveller, see where the red sparks rise," (Fly away, my heart, fly away) But dark is the mist in the traveller's eyes. (Fly away, my heart, fly away) "O traveller, see far down the gorge, The crimson light from my father's forge-" (Fly away, my heart, fly away) "O traveller, hear how the anvils ring"; (Fly away, my heart, fly away) But the traveller heard, ah, never a thing: (Fly away, my heart, fly away) "O traveller, loud do the bellows roar, And my father waits by the smithy door-" (Fly away, my heart, fly away) "O traveller, see you thy true love's grace," (Fly away, my heart, fly away) And now there is joy in the traveller's face: (Fly away, my heart, fly away) Oh, wild does he ride through the rain and mire, To greet his love by the smithy fire-- (Fly away, my heart, fly away) SUZON O mealman white, give me your daughter, Oh, give her to me, your sweet Suzon! O mealman dear, you can do no better, For I have a chateau at Malmaison. Black charcoalman, you shall not have her She shall not marry you, my Suzon-- A bag of meal, and a sack of carbon! Non, non, non, non, non, non, non, non Go look at your face, my fanfaron, For my daughter and you would be night and day. Non, non, non, non, non, non, non, non, Not for your chateau at Malmaison; Non, non, non, non, non, non, non, non, You shall not marry her, my Suzon. MY LITTLE TENDER HEART My little tender heart, O gai, vive le roi! My little tender heart, O gai, vive le roi! 'Tis for a grand baron, Vive le roi, la reine! 'Tis for a grand baron, Vive Napoleon! My mother promised it, O gai, vive le roi! My mother promised it, O gai, vive le roi! To a gentleman of the king, Vive le roi, la reine! To a gentleman of the king, Vive Napoleon! Oh, say, where goes your love? O gai, vive le roi! Oh, say, where goes your love? O gai, vive le roi! He rides on a white horse, Vive le roi, la reine! He wears a silver sword, Vive Napoleon! Oh, grand to the war he goes, O gai, vive le roi! Oh, grand to the war he goes, O gai, vive le roi! Gold and silver he will bring, Vive le roi, la reine! And eke the daughter of a king-- Vive Napoleon! THE MEN OF THE NORTH They have wrestled their thews with the Arctic bear, With tireless moose they've trod; They have drained heel-deep of a fighting air, And breasted the winds of God. They have stretched their beds in the hummocked snow, They have set their teeth to the Pole; With Death they have gamed it, throw for throw, And drunk with