Nanomechanics/Robotics Research

Title: Reduced-Order Modeling of Parametrically Excited Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (MEMS)

Abstract:
Reduced-order modeling is a systematic way of constructing models with smaller number of states that can capture the “essential dynamics” of the large-scale systems, accurately. In this paper, reduced-order modeling and control techniques for parametrically excited MEMS are presented. The techniques proposed here use the Lyapunov-Floquet (L-F) transformation that makes the linear part of transformed equations time invariant. In this work, three model reduction techniques for MEMS are suggested. First method is simply an application of the well-known Guyan-like reduction method to nonlinear systems. The second technique is based on singular perturbation, where the transformed system dynamics is partitioned as fast and slow dynamics and the system of differential equations is converted into a differential algebraic (DAE) system. In the third technique, the concept of invariant manifold for time-periodic systems is used. The “time periodic invariant manifold” based technique yields “reducibility conditions”. This is an important result because it helps us to understand the various types of resonances present in the system. These resonances indicate a tight coupling between the system states, and in order to retain the dynamic characteristics, one has to preserve all these “resonant” states in the reduced-order model. Thus, if the “reducibility conditions” are satisfied, only then a nonlinear order reduction based on invariant manifold approach is possible. It is found that the invariant manifold approach yields the most accurate results followed by the nonlinear projection and linear technique. These methodologies are general, free from small parameter assumptions, and can be applied to a variety of MEM systems like resonators, sensors and filters. The reduced-order models can be used for parametric study, sensitivity analysis and/or controller design. The controller design is based on the reduced-order system. Thus, first the reduced-order model of the large-scale system is constructed that captures the essential dynamics. If a controller is designed to stabilize this reduced-order system, then it guarantees that the large-scale system is controlled. The theoretical framework to design linear and nonlinear controllers is also presented.