# List of Astro Boy characters

This is a list of characters from the manga and anime series Astro Boy created by Osamu Tezuka, including the 1963, 1980, and 2003 adaptations.

Major characters

Mighty Atom / Astro Boy

The robot boy fashioned after the deceased son of Dr. Tenma, the head of the Ministry of Science in the year 2000. Aside from possessing the strength of 100,000 horsepower (later 1,000,000, though these numbers often fluctuate between stories) and the kind personality of a child, he has what are called his "seven amazing powers": jet-powered flight, multilingualism, analytical skills, headlight eyes, super-sensitive hearing, hidden weapons in his back, and the ability to tell if a person is good or evil. In addition, he has a built-in Geiger counter and shortwave communication system.

Dr. Ochanomizu

The present head of the Ministry of Science and a fearless campaigner for robotic rights, who believes that humans and robots can co-exist peacefully, unlike most other human characters in the series (particularly Tenma). He is the adoptive father figure and mentor of Astro Boy, whom he recognizes as unique from other robots, following his abandonment by Tenma and is physically characterized by portly stature and cartoonishly large nose, with his English name being an allusion to the latter.

Ochanomizu is responsible for the creation of Astro's sister Uran and his brother and predecessor Cobalt (who only appears in the first animated series). Somewhat eccentric by nature, he tends to be excitable when faced by a scientific mystery, particularly when his opinions are questioned by his scientific colleagues.

The name "Ochanomizu" translates to "Tea Water", and is also a neighborhood in Tokyo. In Atom: The Beginning, Hiroshi Ochanomizu has a sister called Ran, while in the manga Pluto he is shown to be a widower with a granddaughter. The character was voiced by Bill Nighy in the English-language film.

Dr. Tenma 

The former head of the Ministry of Science, who lost his only son, Tobio Tenma, to a traffic accident. Overcome with grief, he vowed to recreate his son as a robot: Astro Boy. Once he activated Astro he was seemingly mentally better, but grew frustrated with the fact that, as a robot, Astro did not grow physically. As a result, he sold Astro off to a circus and disappeared.

In the original manga, Tenma later regrets his rejection of his creation in light of Astro's heroic feats, but knows he can never truly make amends for them, only occasionally reappearing to assist him, such as by constructing robotic parents for him and aiding him in his conflicts with Pluto and the Blue Knight. In the first animated series, Tenma is not heard from again after the first episode until Episode 97, where it is suggested that he has either been institutionalized or committed suicide, while in the 1980s version he does not outright reject Astro, who is instead kidnapped by the circus owner Hamegg.

In the 2003 series, Tenma takes the role of the main antagonist, with his abandonment of Astro being triggered by the latter rebelling against him in light of his cold and destructive treatment of other robots. Upon seeing Astro's heroic acts, Tenma comes to see his creation as a twistedly messianic figure whom he ultimately concludes will lead the robotic population to overthrow humanity. In order to spearhead Astro's development to this end, he constructs a mysterious new robot named Shadow, whose true appearance is eventually revealed to be identical to Tenma himself. The series ends with Tenma being rejected by Astro Boy yet again even after resetting his memory, attempting suicide as a result, but being saved by Astro before being imprisoned for his crimes.

In the 2009 film, the character is given the first name "Bill" and is voiced by Nicolas Cage, while in the 2023 series Pluto, he is voiced by Keith David. These are the only versions where Tenma both comes to accept Astro Boy/Atom as a true son and successfully makes amends with him.

Uran

Astro's robot sister with a shown adoration towards Astro; she is a superhuman robot with a naive, tomboyish personality. Constructed by Dr. Ochanomizu as a "gift" for Astro, Uran is an extremely mischievous little girl who constantly lands her older brother in trouble. While lacking Astro's weaponry and propulsion systems, she is extremely powerful (50,000 horsepower) and regularly accompanies him on various missions (or attempts to). Like Astro, she is fully capable of experiencing human emotions - though being somewhat less 'mature'. In the 2003 anime Uran has the ability to communicate with animals. Her name is based on uranium, a metal used to power nuclear reactors.

Cobalt

Astro's robotic brother. His origins differ in the continuities of the manga and anime versions. In the manga, he is an inferior copy of Astro created as a replacement by Dr. Ochanomizu when he was missing and presumed scrap. In the anime version, he was a defective prototype of Astro built by Dr. Tenma, then sealed within the Ministry of Science archives and later released. Cobalt has abilities comparable to his brother's, but lacks Astro's intelligence and common sense. Clumsy, accident prone and gullible, he is a constant source of trouble for Astro's family (and everyone else who crosses his path). Despite these problems, Cobalt is often shown to be extremely kindhearted and loyal. In addition to the abilities that were copied from Astro, he also shares a kind of telepathic link with his brother that gives him the ability to sense when Astro is in danger and home in his location. His name is based on Cobalt-60, an isotope used in nuclear reactors. Physically, he resembles Astro, but is taller and thinner.

Chiitan

Astro Boy's baby brother created by Dr. Ochanomizu and seen primarily in the last season of the anime.  Created primarily as a comic relief character. Main characteristic is his loud bawling, which can shatter things. Chiitan's name is a pun on Titanium, as in Japan, it is cute to replace "t" sounds with "ch" sounds, thus making Chiitan's name pronounced similarly to "Titan" in Japanese.

Mama & Papa

Astro's robotic parents. Phosphorus is depicted as an idealized 1960s housewife, and she is sweet, kind and nurturing. She is entirely trusting of her son's impeccable nature, knows he would never deliberately lie or harm another being. In contrast, Ethanol is portrayed as something of a well-meaning blowhard, often jumping to conclusions and losing his temper over minor incidents. In some versions Phosphorus is modified to resemble Dr. Tenma's wife who had died of a heart condition shortly after Astro was sold to the circus. Their names are based on chemical elements of the same name.

Shibugaki

Astro Boy's friend, a loudmouthed bully.

Tamao Ōme

Astro Boy's friend, a robotics enthusiast who immediately welcomes Astro into his class and as his friend.

Higeoyaji

Originally introduced as a private investigator, Higeoyaji played several roles in the Japanese strip series, including school teacher and martial arts expert. Like Dr. Ochanomizu, Higeoyaji serves as a surrogate father for Astro and Uran, providing guidance and advice when necessary. While gruff and comically short-tempered, he harbors a deep admiration for Astro, seeing him as the son he never had, and even stands up to the formidable Inspector Tawashi in the boy's defense. In both the original comic strip and the 1980s Japanese series, he was Astro's school teacher (in Naoki Urasawa's Pluto he has apparently been promoted to principal), and his nickname was Mr. Mustachio or Daddy Walrus. In the 2003 remake, he is notably absent from Astro's school, working full-time as a private eye and is also the uncle of Dr. Ochanomizu's assistant, Yuko Kisaragi.

Inspector Tawashi

A highly placed police detective with an innate distrust of androids and robots (the reason to this is never explained in detail). Due to his opposition to Tokyo's robotic population, Inspector Tawashi has a long-stan