# Cybermorph

Cybermorph is a shooter video game developed by Attention to Detail (ATD) and published by Atari Corporation as the pack-in game for the Atari Jaguar in North America on November 23, 1993, and Europe on June 1994. It was also distributed in Japan by Mumin Corporation as a stand-alone release. Taking place in a galactic war, the player pilots the morphing attack fighter TransmoGriffon to battle against the Pernitia empire, who have conquered planets on multiple sectors and whose regenerative robotic technology become entrenched into the planets. The player is tasked with recapturing critical pods, while facing against enemies and bosses, across five sectors in order to defeat the empire.

Attention to Detail were approached by Jon Dean in regards to the Konix Multisystem, working alongside Flare Technology on the operating system, development tools, and demos. One of the demos created by ATD was a 3D landscape, which was based on David Braben's Zarch. It became the basis for Cybermorph, as Atari liked the demo and approached ATD to produce demos for the Jaguar. Atari's testing department was tasked with designing levels and structures, while ATD worked with them to laid down the terrain and enemies in order to implement them into the game. Production proved challenging, as ATD were finishing the game while the hardware was being finalized.

Cybermorph divided critics; some found the pod-collecting gameplay to be dull and repetitive, while others saw it as varied and challenging. Its graphics were generally regarded as a disappointment given the Jaguar's capabilities, while the audio was seen as a bigger disappointment. The more positive commentaries tended to emphasize its gameplay rather than its audio-visual performance, while unfavorable comparisons to Star Fox on Super NES came up frequently in reviews. It was reissued in 1994 as a one-megabyte cartridge, with several features missing compared to the original two-megabyte version from 1993. By 1995, the stand-alone release had sold fewer than 2,000 copies. It was followed by Battlemorph (1995) on Atari Jaguar CD. In 2022, the game was included as part of the Atari 50 compilation.

Gameplay and premise 

Cybermorph is a three-dimensional shooter game played from a third-person perspective. The plot takes place in a galactic war, where the Pernitia empire have conquered planets on multiple sectors and whose regenerative robotic technology become entrenched into the planets. The resistance developed new weapons to overthrow the empire but were intercepted and placed into pods scattered throughout various planets. The pods also contain information, supplies, and cryogenically suspended members of the resistance. The player is tasked with piloting the TransmoGriffon (T-Griffon), a morphing attack fighter prototype employing similar technology to that used by the empire, which is transported by interstellar cruisers and only usable on the planetary surface. It is also equipped with Skylar, an artificial intelligence designed to transmit information.

The main objective of the game is to recapture critical pods, while facing an assortment of enemies, in order to defeat the empire. There are 50 levels in total, each divided into eight planets across five sectors. The player can select a planet, each one showing a mission briefing before being launched into the location. The player must retrieve a pre-determined number of pods, which will open an exit and move into the next planet. The player can also explore each planet to uncover secrets. Some planets feature obstacles such as antimatter vortex towers that destroy pods brought by pod carriers, and the player is forced to abort the mission if enough pods are destroyed. After completing each planet, a boss must be fought before moving to the next sector. Other obstacles are introduced in later sectors like teleporters that warps the player into unreachable areas, as well as force fields which block a particular area and spikes that protect pods. These can be disabled by destroying their respective generators.

Weapons and super weapons are randomly dropped by enemies and cargo carriers when shot down, which expands the T-Griffon's arsenal and can be restocked. Enemies can also drop items such as rapid fire and coins for bonus points. The T-Griffon changes its shape depending on the player's actions and selected weapons. The player can toggle a targeting reticle, switch between camera angles, or changes the perspective from third-person into first-person. Crashing into enemies and mountains damages the ship, while crashing into buildings either on front or reverse instantly destroys the T-Griffon. The player starts with two lives and more can be obtained by finding "X" icons, but the game is over if all are lost.

Development 
Cybermorph was developed by Attention to Detail (ATD), a British game developer co-founded in 1988 by University of Birmingham graduates Chris Gibbs, Fred Gill, Martin Green, Jon Steele and Jim Torjussen. The group had previously worked on the Amiga and Atari ST conversions of Super Sprint for Activision, Octan (1987) for ZX Spectrum, and Night Shift (1990). It was co-produced by John Skruch and Sean Patten of Atari Corporation. Patten also acted as co-level designer and co-tester along with Andrew Keim, Faran Thomason, Hans Jacobsen, Joe Sousa, Shimmy Brandes, Stuart Tilley, Ted Tahquechi, and testing manager Tom Gillen. Gill served as co-programmer alongside sub-contractor Brian Pollock, who also created the game's 3D engine and proprietary map editor. Gibbs, B.J. West, and Ian G. Harling were responsible for the artwork. The game's audio was handled by Tahquechi, Andrew Holtom, and composer David Lowe, whose wife also provided voicework for Skylar.

The ATD team were approached by their mentor Jon Dean for work on the Atari 2600 (VCS) and began production on a prototype but it was cancelled. Dean later approached the group in regards to the then-upcoming Konix Multisystem, working along with Flare Technology on the operating system, development tools to make development easy and attract third-party developers, and demos. One of the demos created by ATD for the Konix Multisystem was a flying carpet-esque 3D landscape, which was based on David Braben's Zarch (also known as Virus) and written from scratch in 11 days. It became the basis for Cybermorph, as Atari liked the demo and initially approached ATD to produce demos for the then-upcoming Atari Jaguar. The game entered production at the same time as Trevor McFur in the Crescent Galaxy.

When showcased in Atari's US offices, the game was in a basic state consisting of only the ship flying and a rudimentary terrain. Atari's testing department was tasked with designing levels and structures while ATD worked closely with them to laid down the terrain and enemies via Pollock's map editor in order to implement them into the game. The program would convert the map into a seed value for a fractal algorithm, which is entered along with color information and object positioning to generate the three-dimensional playfield. Sousa named two levels after his daughters by mixing up their letters to create new names. Patten stated that bringing the testing team to design the game resulted in a lot of work but felt that doing so resulted in making Cybermorph a "much better game in the long run". West was brought at the end of the production, creating artwork for both the cover art and ending sequence. West originally produced more elaborate animation sequences for the game's introduction and ending but were distilled into static images instead due to memory constrains.

Cybermorph makes use of various features within the Jaguar such as Z-buffering for multiple enemies of the game to various effects. Z-buffering is also used to handle drawing of all the objects and the planetary terrain. The game runs between 10 and 18 frames per second, displaying around 6,000 polygons on-screen. Gouraud shading