# List of Mazinger characters

This is a list of characters from the anime and manga series Mazinger Z, Great Mazinger, Grendizer, and Mazinkaiser, as well as the Shin Mazinger reboot. It lists the main players of the plots as well as minor characters or others that did not appear in more than one chapter.

From Mazinger Z

Koji Kabuto 

, also written Kouji Kabuto, is the main character and pilot of super robot Mazinger Z. He makes a comeback in the sequel series Great Mazinger where he helps defeating the Mycenaean Empire. He also features in Grendizer as Duke Fleed's friend and sidekick. His voice actor is Hiroya Ishimaru in the Japanese version of Mazinger Z and Mazinkaiser, and in Toei's 1970s English dub, he was voiced by Dando Kluever. His voice actor in Tranzor Z, in which he was renamed Tommy Davis, was Gregg Berger.  In the English version of Mazinkaiser, his voice actor is Robert Newell while in Shin Mazinger Shougeki! Z Hen, his voice is played by Kenji Akabane. In Mazinger Z: Infinity, Koji is voiced by Showtaro Morikubo while in the English dub, he is voiced by Wayne Grayson. He is a staple character of Super Robot Wars and appears in nearly every incarnation, the exceptions being Super Robot Wars UX and the OG series.  Kabuto's date of birth is November 12.

Aphrodite A 
 is a robot created by Dr. Yumi, Dr. Kabuto's apprentice. Since it was originally built for peaceful uses, at first it didn't feature any weapons. Eventually, it acquires the ability to fire missiles from its chest with what was called the Oppai Missile System (Oppai being a Japanese slang term for breasts). Aphrodite was the first female mecha to have this kind of weapon.

Despite the fact that it was made of the same alloy as Mazinger (Chogokin or Super-Alloy Z), it usually suffers substantially greater damage from attacks. Regardless of these shortcomings, in several opportunities she provides help in battle, and even destroys three Mechanical Beasts in the anime: Gumbina M5 (Chapter 49), Yubrin T9 (Chapter 56), and Giant F3 (Chapter 58). Her missiles also cause the unintentional destruction of Minerva X.

Diana A

Minerva X

Sayaka Yumi 
 is one of the heroine of Go Nagai's manga and anime Mazinger Z. She was a bit hot-tempered and tomboyish, and had a habit of clashing with the story's hero, Koji Kabuto even though she had a romantic interest in him.  In the English Tranzor Z dub, she is renamed Jessica Davis (no relation to "Tommy" (Kouji)).

She was voiced by three people in the original series: Tomoko Matsushima, Minori Matsushima (reprised the role for Super Robot Wars), and Kotoe Taichi (credited as Noriko Egawa, also appeared in Great Mazinger). She was voiced by Ai Uchikawa in Mazinkaiser.  In the Italian dub of the original series, Sayaka is voiced by Liliana Sorrentino, and her Spanish voice actress is Gloria Gonzalez.  Her Tranzor Z voice actress is Mona Marshall, but in Toei's 1970s dub, Sayaka was played by Priscilla Piano.

Sayaka has since made cameos in other Go Nagai series such as New Cutie Honey and the Devilman TV series, and has been featured or mentioned in such diverse places as the Super Robot Wars games and the lyrics of reggaeton songs.

Shiro Kabuto 
 is Koji's younger brother. Most of the time, Shiro's role is to add some comic relief to the plot. He remains in Japan when Koji departs at the beginning of Great Mazinger. His character acquires a bit more depth in Great Mazinger, as he becomes acquainted with his father Kenzo, who was previously thought to be dead. Toward the end of the series, Shiro finally bonds with Kenzo, who died shortly thereafter. He even gets to pilot his own robot in Great Mazinger, the Robot Junior.

Shiro was renamed Toad in Tranzor Z.  He is voiced by Kazuko Sawada in the original version, by Dana Ikeda in Toei's English dub, and by Mona Marshall in Tranzor Z (he is one of the few Mazinger characters whose English voice actor in Tranzor Z has been confirmed).

Boss 
Boss was a main protagonist in both Mazinger Z and Great Mazinger starting in episode 3 of the original series. Boss and his gang, Nuke and Mucha, were the comic relief characters. Boss began as a bully and Kabuto Koji's rival at school, but quickly became an ally, often scouting for Mazinger Z on his motorcycle, or getting into some sort of slapstick mischief. In Great Mazinger, Kabuto Shiro and Bakarasu also join the gang with the latter always annoying Boss. He is also Sayaka Yumi's long-time school friend and has a huge crush on her. In the Great Mazinger, since the firsts episodes, he fall in loves with Jun Hono as well, stricken by her beauty; but she doesn't feel the same for him, and worse, Tetsuya, while not officially her boyfriend, doesn't like Boss's attempts and often fights with Boss.

In episode 48 of Mazinger Z, Boss and his gang found an abandoned warehouse full of junk, and inspired by events from the previous episode kidnapped the scientists at the Photonic Research Institute to build Boss his own giant robot, the Boss Borot, out of the junk in the warehouse. Although it was of poor performance due to being made out of junk, Boss Borot would often fight mechanical beasts, enemy infantry, and later warrior beasts. Although Boss Borot was equipped with a variety of weapons and accessories, it normally went into battle with nothing and was noted for its head changing shape to fit Boss's emotional reactions.

Boss is voiced by Hiroshi Ōtake in the original Japanese version. In Tranzor Z, the American translation of Mazinger Z, Boss was named Bobo, and his robot was named "Bobo-bot". Bobo's English voice actor was Patrick Pinney, though it is likely he had more than one voice actor as he sounded quite different in later episodes. Boss also made occasional appearances in Grendizer, was one of the main characters in the Mazinkaiser mini-series, and was a minor character in the remake Shin Mazinger Shougeki! Z Hen.

Mucha & Nuke 
Mucha and Nuke are Boss's sidekicks who follow him around, help in his schemes and ride with him in Boss Borot.

In Shin Mazinger they are shown to be formidable fighters in their own right, Nuke showing surprising skill in drunken fist kung-fu (claiming to be the Japanese champion) and Mucha specializing in flicking spiked metal balls with great accuracy.

In Tranzor Z, the American adaptation of Mazinger Z, Mucha was renamed Jim and Nuke was renamed Chris.

Misato 
Misato is Boss' cousin, who comes to the Photon Power Laboratory to work as a maid of sorts somewhat after episode 64. She is somewhat resented by Sayaka for the attention Koji gives her. Misato proves herself in combat on multiple occasions, but most of the time she stays at the laboratory.

In Tranzor Z, the American adaptation of Mazinger Z, Misato was renamed Sally. Her Japanese voice actress is Nana Yamaguchi; her English voice actress is unknown.

Gennosuke Yumi 
 was a colleague of Juzo Kabuto and ran the laboratory where Mazinger Z was headquartered. He is the father of Sayaka Yumi, Koji's best friend and love interest. Measured and wise, he is the stabilizing force behind Koji's foolhardiness in battle. Many times he anticipates to Hell's plans and under his guidance many battles are won. Yumi is not particularly demonstrative neither with his daughter nor his fellow scientists, but he seems to care a lot for them. In a couple of occasions, when defeat seems inevitable, he is ready to commit suicide before leaving his Institute, like a captain ready to sink with his ship.

Because of his years working with Dr. Kabuto, he is aware of many of his secrets, such as the plans for Minerva X and the existence of the Mikene Empire. He built Aphrodite A, based on Dr. Kabuto's work, and hence both she and Mazinger share a similar internal structure. His background before his work for Dr. Kabuto and the Institute and the identity of Sayaka's mother are unknown.

In Tranzor Z, the American adaptation of Mazinger Z, Dr. Yumi was renamed Dr. Davis.

Juzo Kabuto 
 was a previous colle