[Robotics/Automation Textbook — Gutenberg #6268]

If I had spoken it--that message of the stars-- Love would have filled thy blood; Love would have sent thee pulsing to my arms, Laughing with joy, thy heart a nestling bird An instant passed--it fled; and now I seek in vain For that forgotten word. WHAT WILL IT MATTER? What will this matter, dear, when you and I Have left our sad world for some fairer sky? What will it matter, dear, when, far apart, We miss the touch of hand and beat of heart; When one's at peace, while unto one is given With lonely feet to walk the hills at even? What will it matter that one fault more now Brings clouds upon one eager mortal brow, That one grace less is given to one poor soul, When both drink from the last immortal bowl? For fault and grace, dear love, when we go hence Will find the same Eternal recompense. THE COURIER STAR Into a New World wandered I, A strong vast realm afar; And down the white peaks of its sky, Beckoned my courier star. It hailed me to mine ancient North,-- The meadows of the Pole; It whistled my gay hunters forth, It bugled in my soul. On plateaux of the constant snow I heard the meteors whir; I saw the red wolves nor'ward go From my low huts of fir. The dun moose ran the deep ravine, The musk-ox ranged the plain; The hunter's song dripped in between In notes of scarlet rain. The land was mine: its lonely pride, Its distant deep desires; And I abode, as hunters bide, With joy beside its fires. Into a New World wandered I, A world austere, sublime; And unseen feet came sauntering by; A voice with ardent chime Rang down the idle lanes of sleep; I waked: the night was still; I saw my star its sentry keep Along a southern hill. O flaming star! my courier star! My herald, fine and tall! You gestured from your opal car, I answered to that call. I rose; the flumes of snow I trod, I trailed to southward then; I left behind the camps of God, And sought the tents of men. And where a princely face looked through The curtains of the play Of life, O star, you paused; I knew The comrade of my day. And good the trails that I have trod, My courier star before; And good the nor'land camps of God: And though I lodge no more Where stalwart deeds and dreams rejoice, And gallant hunters roam, Where I can hear your voice, your voice, I drive the tent-peg home. THE WORLD IN MAKING When God was making the world, (Swift was the wind and white was the fire) The feet of His people danced the stars; There was laughter and swinging bells, And clanging iron and breaking breath, The hammers of heaven making the hills, The vales, on the anvils of God. (Wild is the fire and low is the wind) When God had finished the world, (Bright was the fire and sweet was the wind) Up from the valleys came song, To answer the morning stars; And the hand of man on the anvil rang, His breath was big in his breast, his life Beat strong 'gainst the walls of the world. (Glad is the wind and tall is the fire) HEW None shall stand in the way of the lord, The Lord of the Earth--of the rivers and trees, Of the cattle and fields and vines: Hew! Here shall I build me my cedar home, A city with gates, a road to the sea-- For I am the lord of the Earth: Hew! Hew! Hew and hew, and the sap of the tree Shall be yours, and your bones shall be strong, Shall be yours, and your heart shall rejoice, Shall be yours, and the city be yours, And the key of its gates be the key Of the home where your little ones dwell. Hew and be strong! Hew and rejoice! For man is the lord of the Earth, And God is the Lord over all. O SON OF MAN "Son of man, stand upon thy feet and I will speak to thee." O son of man, behold If thou shouldst stumble on the nameless trail, The trail that no man rides, Lift up thy heart, Behold, O son of man, thou hast a helper near! O son of man, take heed If thou shouldst fall upon the vacant plain, The plain that no man loves, Reach out thy hand, Take heed, O son of man, strength shall be given thee! O son of man, rejoice: If thou art blinded even at the door, The door of the Safe Tent, Sing in thy heart, Rejoice, O son of man, thy pilot leads thee home! AT THE END OF THE WORLD In the lodge of the Mother of Men, In the land of Desire, Are the embers of fire, Are the ashes of those who return. Who return to the world; Who flame at the breath Of the Mockers of Death. O Sweet, we will voyage again To the camp of Love's fire, Nevermore to return! O love, by the light of thine eyes We will fare over-sea; We will be As the silver-winged herons that rest By the shallows, The shallows of sapphire stone; No more shall we wander alone. As the foam to the shore Is my spirit to thine, And God's serfs as they fly,-- The Mockers of Death- They will breathe on the embers of fire We shall live by that breath. Sweet, thy heart to my heart, As we journey afar, No more, nevermore, to return! WAYFARERS War does the fire no longer burn? (I am so lonely) Why does the tent-door swing outward? (I have no home) Oh, let me breathe hard in your face! (I am so lonely) Oh, why do you shut your eyes to me? (I have no home) Let us make friends with the stars; (I am so lonely) Give me your hand, I will hold it; (I have no home) Let us go hunting together: (I am so lonely) We will sleep at God's camp to-night. (I have no home) THE RED PATROL He stands in the porch of the World-- (Why should the door be shut?) The grey wolf waits at his heel, (Why is the window barred?) Wild is the trail from the Kimash Hills, The blight has fallen on bush and tree, The choking earth has swallowed the streams, Hungry and cold is the Red Patrol- (Why should the door be shut?) The Scarlet Hunter has come to bide-- (Why is the window barred?) He waits at the threshold stone-- (Why should the key-hole rust?) The eagle broods at his side, (Why should the blind be drawn?) Long has he watched and far has he called-- The lonely sentinel of the North-- "Who goes there?" to the wandering soul Heavy of heart is the Red Patrol-- (Why should the key-hole rust?) The Scarlet Hunter is sick for home, (Why should the blind be drawn?) Heavy of heart is the Red Patrol-- (Why should the key-hole rust?) The Scarlet Hunter is sick for home, (Why should the blind be drawn?) Hungry and cold is the Red Patrol-- (Why should the door be shut?) The Scarlet Hunter has come to bide, (Why is the window barred?) THE YELLOW SWAN In the flash of the singing dawn, At the door of the Great One, The joy of his lodge knelt down, Knelt down, and her hair in the sun Shone like showering dust, And her eyes were as eyes of the fawn. And she cried to her lord, "O my lord, O my life, From the desert I come; From the hills of the Dawn." And he lifted the curtain and said, "Hast thou seen It, the Yellow Swan?" And she lifted her head, and her eyes Were as lights in the dark, And her hands folded slow on her breast, And her face was as one who has seen The gods and the place where they dwell; And she said, "Is it meet that I kneel, That I kneel as I speak to my lord?" And he answered her, "Nay, but to stand, And to sit by my side; But speak: thou has followed the trail, Hast thou found It, the Yellow Swan?" And she stood as a queen, and her voice Was as one who hath seen the Hills, The Hills of the Mighty Men, And hath heard them cry in the night, Hath heard them call in the dawn, Hath seen It, the Yellow Swan. And she said, "It is not for my lord"; And she murmured, "I cannot tell; But my lord must go as I went, And my lord must come as I came, And my lord shall be wise." And he cried in his wrath, "What is thine, it is mine, And