# List of Shadow Raiders characters

The following is a list of characters from the animated television series, Shadow Raiders.

Planet Rock
Planet Rock is a planet made up mostly rocks. That contain many types of minerals. The appearance of people of planet, look mostly like humans made of stone, with patterns on their bodies and their hair that look like jewels. Planet Rock is the second planet to join the Interplanetary Alliance.

Graveheart
At the beginning of the series, Graveheart is a simple miner working for Lord Mantel. However, when discovering Tekla and being ambushed by Beast Drones on Planet Ice during routine exporting, Graveheart realizes he must step into the leader seat and bring the worlds together to stop a common enemy.  He is a very noble, brave man, though he often suffers from lack of self-confidence, deeming himself as "just a miner and nothing more". When put into battle, he immediately takes charge and commands his troops with authority and skill. Those around him respect him to the fullest. Formerly a Quarrior (a portmanteau of warrior and quarry, he quit Planet Rock's military when he failed to save his younger brother, Mica, during a raid on Planet Fire. He often has his doubts about himself, but Jade is always there to reassure him of his abilities. Graveheart was exiled from Planet Rock when he formed the Alliance, leaving himself and Jade as the only two citizens of Rock in the group. Notably, he wears a black version of the standard Miner's armor. What this means is never revealed, but he calls the Miners "his men". He also called "sir" by the other miners, implying he is of a higher rank, most likely a miner foreman. He is voiced by Paul Dobson. His name and design is a reference to the movie, “Braveheart”.

Jade
Tough and uncompromising, Jade is Captain of the Guard of Planet Rock and Graveheart's best friend.  She loves Graveheart very much, though she is unwilling to admit it.  While working with the Alliance, her loyalties lie with Planet Rock first and foremost.  Lord Mantel was very reluctant to exile Jade as she had asked, but agreed to it for her to be able to watch over the Alliance.  Jade rarely shows her feelings, but what she has shown is a great dislike for Emperor Femur.  After Lord Mantel's death at Blokk's hands, Jade underwent a psychological test and became ruler of Planet Rock.  She is voiced by Enuka Okuma.

Lord Mantel
The ruler of Planet Rock, a harsh and merciless man.  He is unwavering in his beliefs that Planet Rock is superior to all other planets.  This forces him to refuse Rock's participation in the Alliance.  He is stubborn and arrogant, but quite well liked on the planet. In exchange for lending the Battle Moons to the Alliance, he has Jade collect information on it and eventually got its command codes. With Graveheart gone on the Prison Planet, Mantle uses the Battle Moons to attack the Beast Planet to prove Rock is superior, leaving the planet defenseless. He is eventually killed by Blokk after the Beast Planet invades his planet. His funeral is later made but his deception is kept a secret otherwise it would demoralize the Alliance. He is voiced by Blu Mankuma.

Commander Feldspar
The commander of Planet Rock's military and guardian to the entrance of Lord Mantel's fortress.  He commands Planet Rock's Battle-Moons; he also takes over Jade's duties after she is exiled.  He doesn't believe in or trust the Alliance.  After the Beast Planet's invasion, he is brutally killed by Blokk.  He is voiced by Alec Willows.

Planet Ice
Planet Ice is made up mostly of ice, which is stolen to be used for water. The people of Plant Ice take the appearance of blue insectoid's. Planet Ice is the first planet to become part of the Interplanetary Alliance.

King Cryos
The wise and admirable king of Planet Ice, Cryos is admired by all of his people for his intelligence.  Although he seems quiet at a glance, he is very thoughtful and the brains behind the Alliance.  He is also one of the founding members, as he is one of the first to realize the threat that the Beast Planet is able to cause.  He truly believes that peace between all of the worlds can be established, but that everyone must work hard for it.  Because of their similar beliefs, Cryos and Graveheart become very close friends throughout the series.  Cryos is also constantly worrying over his daughter, Zera's, safety.  Regardless, he never hesitates to engage the minions of the Beast Planet in battle, and is a very capable tactician and a valuable asset to the Alliance.  He is voiced by Mark Oliver.

Lady Zera
The curious and childish daughter of King Cryos, Lady Zera is a dreamer and wishes she could go on adventures like her father.  Often, she'll stow away on her father's vehicles, but he always finds her.  She can act quite arrogant at times, but she is actually quite caring and sweet.  Jade eventually teaches her how to battle so she can be safe while her father is on Alliance missions and Zera, like her father, is a skilled sharpshooter.  She also builds a very close friendship with the prince of Planet Fire, Pyrus.  She is voiced by Tegan Moss.

Commander Medstar
Besides the royal family, he is the highest-ranking member of Planet Ice. He was made king temporarily when Cryos stepped down, he then gives the throne back to Cryos just before the fight against Remora. He is voiced by Garry Chalk

Planet Fire
Planet Fire is known for it fire energy, and is mostly made up of volcanoes and lava pools. The people of Planet Fire are humanoid with different body types, what is common between all of them is that they have fire on the top of their heads. Planet Fire is the third plant to join the Interplanetary Alliance.

Prince Pyrus
The young and naive prince of Planet Fire, Pyrus took on the responsibility of ruling his world at a very young age.  His father died when he was quite little, and ever since then, Pyrus was raised by the Vizier.  He is a very kind, compassionate individual, but he can revert to a childish mood when set off.  He's very quick-tempered, and tends to do things without thinking them through.  Regardless, he is always putting the people of his planet first, which makes for a great leader.  When first approached about the Alliance, Pyrus enthusiastically joined, and was quick to realize the threat of the Beast Planet.  Pyrus gets along very well with mostly everyone from the Alliance, particularly Zera and Femur; he is the only member of the Alliance who trusts Femur, initially refusing to believe that Femur was retreating from the Remora battle.  He is voiced by Matt Hill.

The Grand Vizier
Prince Pyrus' royal counselor and surrogate father, the Vizier is a rough, untrusting old man.  He is a firm believer in old tradition and the way things were in the past, and is very loyal and protective of his prince.  He eventually sacrifices his life in hopes of destroying the Beast Planet, but before he dies, he witnesses Graveheart save Pyrus' life, and realizes the Alliance will give Pyrus a new home. The Beast soon recreates him and Planet Fire, so as to lure its inhabitants to be fed to it. However, it made a few flaws in the faux Vizer, such as his former mistrust of the Alliance. When Pyrus realized the truth, he allowed the faux Vizer to fall into an ocean of null energy, destroying the planet. The Vizier has several similarities to Captain Ahab from Moby Dick and his last words "For my planet's sake, I spit my last breath at thee". are almost the same as Ahab's final words before his own death. He is voiced by Jim Byrnes.

Captain Blaze
The captain of the Igneous Knights and of Pyrus's personal guard he is loyal in equal amounts to the heart of fire and to his prince. He is seen several times and at one stage he commands a battle moon to attack the beast planet so as to "go out in a blaze of glory", he also takes the bone emperor Femur along with him. However, when the prince is attacked by beast drones when attempting to follow him and bring him back Blaze rea