[Robotics/Automation Textbook — Gutenberg #25453]

lifted her gentle face with a pleading gesture. "May it please your Majesty," she said, earnestly, "I do not deserve to be so highly honoured; my sisters have all done as well as I have." "No, little Violet," said the Queen, smiling, "you have done best of all. We well know what your work has been.--Listen!" Then Violet listened, and she heard a wondrous song, which, rising and falling with each change of the fitful breeze, now broke into a wild strain of piercing sweetness, and anon died away into a soft musical murmur like the rippling of fairy streams. "That song, little Violet," said the Queen, "is the record of your life on earth.--Listen again." They all listened, while the marvellous strain sang of Violet's gentle life on earth. Not a loving word she had ever said, not a kind deed she had ever done, not a smile her loving arts had brought to the lips of the dying girl, not a blessing uttered by the mother unconscious to whom she owed the peace and quiet of her daughter's last days; not a fragrant breath from rescued flower, not a song from grateful bird, but added its sweet note to that marvellous song. Had there been one unkind word, one selfish thought, one cruel deed, the song would have been broken by jarring discords; but all was harmony, not one harsh note disturbed the rippling melody. As one by one Violet's beautiful secrets were brought to light, the fairies looked on her with loving admiration, but Violet was quite ashamed at being praised so openly, and hid her blushing face on Anenome's shoulder. When the story of Violet's deeds was ended, and the wild mysterious music had lulled into inarticulate murmuring, the Fairy Queen looked round upon her subjects, and asked once more, "To whom shall I give the fairest crown?" And all the fairies cried again, more eagerly than ever-- "To Violet! To Violet!" Then Violet could refuse no longer, but bent gracefully on one knee before the throne, while the Queen placed the crown on her shining hair. The wonderful music died away into silence, and was never heard again, but the court-minstrel who had listened eagerly to its wild strains, caught the beautiful melody, and repeated it on his harp; and to this day, at fairy-feast and revel, the favourite legend is that which tells how the Fairy Violet lost and won her wings. [Illustration] Bellenden Series OF STORIES FOR CHILDREN. By M. L. B. KER. _Author of "Eva's Victory" &c., &c._ ILLUSTRATED BY J. A. MARTIN. 1. HOW THE FAIRY VIOLET LOST AND WON HER WINGS. _Will shortly be published--_ 2. HANS VOGLER. =PRICE FOURPENCE.= * * * * * Transcriber's Notes: Obvious punctuation errors repaired. Page 23, "desevre" changed to "deserve" (do not deserve)