# Lego Mindstorms NXT

Lego Mindstorms NXT is a programmable robotics kit released by Lego on August 2, 2006.
It replaced the first-generation Lego Mindstorms kit, which was called the Robotics Invention System. The base kit ships in two versions: the Retail Version (set #8527) and the Education Base Set (set #9797). It comes with the NXT-G programming software, or optionally LabVIEW for Lego Mindstorms. A variety of unofficial languages exist, such as NXC, NBC, leJOS NXJ, and RobotC. The second generation of the set, the Lego Mindstorms NXT 2.0, was released on August 1, 2009, featuring a color sensor and other upgraded capabilities. The third generation, the EV3, was released in September 2013.

NXT Intelligent Brick 

The main component in the kit is a brick shaped computer called the NXT Intelligent Brick. It can take input from up to four sensors and control up to three motors, via a modified version of RJ12 cables, very much similar to but incompatible with RJ11 phone cords. The plastic pin to hold the cable in the socket is moved slightly to the right. The brick has a 100×64 pixel monochrome LCD and four buttons that can be used to navigate a user interface using hierarchical menus. It has a 32-bit ARM7TDMI-core Atmel AT91SAM7S256 microcontroller with 256 KB of FLASH memory and 64 KB of RAM, plus an 8-bit Atmel AVR ATmega48 microcontroller, and bluetooth support. It also has a speaker and can play sound files at sampling rates up to 8 kHz. Power is supplied by 6 AA (1.5 V each) batteries in the consumer version of the kit and by a Li-Ion rechargeable battery and charger in the educational version.

The Intelligent Brick remains unchanged with NXT 2.0. A black version of the brick was made to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Mindstorms System with no change to the internals.

Development kits
Lego has released the firmware for the NXT Intelligent Brick as open source, along with schematics for all hardware components.

Several developer kits are available that contain documentation for the NXT:
 Software Developer Kit (SDK), includes information on host USB drivers, executable file format, and bytecode reference
 Hardware Developer Kit (HDK), includes documentation and schematics for the NXT brick and sensors
 Bluetooth Developer Kit (BDK), documents the protocols used for Bluetooth communications

Programming 

Very simple programs can be created using the menu on the NXT Intelligent Brick. More complicated programs and sound files can be downloaded using a USB port or wirelessly using Bluetooth. Files can also be copied between two NXT bricks wirelessly, and some mobile phones can be used as a remote control. Up to three NXT bricks can communicate simultaneously via Bluetooth when user created programs are run.

The retail version of the kit includes software for writing programs that run on Windows and Mac OS personal computers. The software is based on National Instruments LabVIEW and provides a visual programming language for writing simple programs and downloading them to the NXT Brick.  This means that rather than requiring users to write lines of code, they instead can use flowchart like "blocks" to design their program.

NXT-G 
NXT-G v2.0 is a graphical programming environment that comes bundled with the NXT.  With careful construction of blocks and wires to encapsulate complexity, NXT-G can be used for real-world programming.  Parallel "sequence beams" are actually parallel threads, so this software is quite good for running a handful of parallel sense/respond loops (example: wait 60 seconds, play a "bonk" sound at low volume if battery is low, loop), or blending autonomous control with bluetooth or other "remote control".  The language supports virtual instruments for all Lego branded and most 3rd party sensors/components. Version 2.0 contains new tutorial challenges, a remote control, custom graphics and sound designers, and new Lego color sensor support.  Community support is significant.

C# with Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio 
Free tools (Visual Studio Express in combination with the Robotics Developer Studio) enable programming the NXT using the C# language. Other supported languages include IronPython and VB.NET.

BricxCC, Next Byte Codes, Not eXactly C 
Bricx Command Center (BricxCC) is the integrated development environment (IDE) used to write, compile, and edit NBC and NXC programs for the NXT. Also, as BricxCC was originally made for the RCX, programs for it can be written using NQC via BricxCC.
Different firmware versions can be flashed to the NXT using BricxCC.

BricxCC has many utilities such as NeXTExplorer (upload/download files, defragment the NXT, use file hex viewer), NeXTScreen (view what's on the NXT's LCD, and capture images and video).

Next Byte Codes (NBC) is a simple open source language with an assembly language syntax that can be used to program the NXT brick. BricxCC also has the capability to decompile standard .rxe NXT executables to NBC.

Not eXactly C (NXC) is a high level open-source language, similar to C, built on the NBC compiler. It can also be used to program the NXT brick. NXC is basically NQC for the NXT. It is one of the most widely used third-party programming languages for the NXT. In NXC, even creating video games for the NXT is possible. Some people have even got working grayscale on the NXT Screen.

Robolab 
Robolab 2.9
Robolab is the newer programming environment originally used on the RCX programmable brick.  Version 2.9 has been updated so that it can be used to program the NXT brick.  Lego has announced that it will stop officially supporting Robolab but Robolab 2.9 is still available and there are still many user forums and other sources of help available.

RoboMind 
RoboMind is educational software that is specially developed to teach students about logic, programming and robotics. The strength of RoboMind is the compactness of the learning environment, which allows to quickly develop and test scripts in a virtual environment. The scripts can then directly be transferred to a Lego Mindstorms NXT robot, to see the result in real life. RoboMind script run on the standard firmware.

Enchanting 
Enchanting brings NXT programming into the popular Scratch IDE, designed by the Lifelong Kindergarten Group at MIT to make programming intuitive even for young children.  The resulting NXT programs have the compactness and clarity offered by that programming environment.

ROBOTC 
ROBOTC is a programming-language based on C for VEX, the VEX Cortex, FIRST Tech Challenge, and Lego Mindstorms. ROBOTC runs a very optimized firmware which allows the NXT to run programs very quickly, and also compresses the files so that a large number of programs can fit into the NXT. Like other NXT languages, ROBOTC requires this firmware to be downloaded from the ROBOTC interface in order to run.

NXTGCC 
NXTGCC is a GCC toolchain for programming the NXT firmware in C.

leJOS NXT 
leJOS NXJ is a high level open source language based on Java that uses custom firmware developed by the leJOS team.

nxtOSEK 
To be able to write in C/C++, nxtOSEK can be used, but that requires custom firmware too.

ICON 
To write files on the NXT itself, ICON by Steve Hassenplug is an ideal resource.

MATLAB and Simulink 
 MATLAB is a high-level programming language for numerical computing, data acquisition, and analysis. It can be used to control Lego NXT robots over a Bluetooth serial port (serial port communication is part of the base functionality of MATLAB) or via a USB connection; for example using the RWTH – Mindstorms NXT Toolbox (free & open-source).
 Simulink is a block diagram environment for modeling and simulating dynamic systems. Using Simulink, a user can design and simulate control algorithms and Lego systems, and subsequently automatically program the Lego NXT or EV3.  Support for programming the Lego NXT or EV3 only requires Simulink and is available at no additional charge.

MATLAB and Simulink Support for Lego Mindstorms program