# List of bagpipes

Northern Europe

Ireland
Uilleann pipes: Also known as Union pipes and Irish pipes, depending on era.  Bellows-blown bagpipe with keyed or un-keyed 2-octave chanter, 3 drones and 3 regulators. The most common type of bagpipes in Irish traditional music.
Great Irish Warpipes: One of the earliest references to the Irish bagpipes comes from an account of the funeral of Donnchadh mac Ceallach, king of Osraige in AD 927. Bagpipes were a noted instrument in Irish warfare since medieval times, but only became standardized in Irish regiments in the British Army in the last century, when the Great Highland Bagpipe became standard. The Warpipe differed from the latter only in having a single tenor drone. Irish warpipes fell out of use for centuries due to the British outlawing them; whence the Scottish bagpipes took the place of the Irish bagpipes role in the British army.  Warpipes today are rarer specialty instruments in military and civilian pipe bands, or private players.
Brian Boru bagpipes: Carried by the Royal Inniskilling Fusiliers and had three drones, one of which was a baritone, pitched between bass and tenor. Unlike the chanter of the Great Highland Bagpipe, its chanter is keyed, allowing for a greater tonal range.
Pastoral pipes: Although the exact origin of this keyed, or un-keyed chanter and keyed drones (regulators), pipe is uncertain, it developed into the modern uilleann bagpipe.

Scotland
Great Highland Bagpipe: This is perhaps the world's best-known bagpipe. It is native to Scotland. It has acquired widespread recognition through its usage in the British military and in pipe bands throughout the world. The bagpipe is first attested in Scotland around 1400, having previously appeared in European artwork in Spain in the 13th century. The earliest references to bagpipes in Scotland are in a military context, and it is in that context that the Great Highland bagpipe became established in the British military and achieved the widespread prominence it enjoys today. 
Border pipes: also called the "Lowland bagpipe" or "reel pipes", commonly confused with smallpipes, but louder. Played in the Lowlands of Scotland it is conically bored, made mostly from African blackwood like Highland pipes. Some makers have developed fully chromatic chanters.
Scottish smallpipes: a modern re-interpretation of an extinct instrument. 
Pastoral pipes: Although the exact origin of this keyed, or un-keyed chanter and keyed drones (regulators), pipe is uncertain, it developed into the modern uilleann bagpipe.
Zetland pipes: a reconstruction of pipes believed to have been brought to the Shetland Islands by the Vikings, though not clearly historically attested.

England and Wales
English bagpipes: with the exception of the Northumbrian smallpipes, no English bagpipes maintained an unbroken tradition. However, various other English bagpipes have been reconstructed by Jonathan Swayne and Julian Goodacre.

Northumbrian smallpipes: a bellows-blown smallpipe with a closed end chanter played in staccato.
Border pipes: also called the "Half-long pipes" in the North East, commonly confused with smallpipes, but louder. Traditionally played in Northern England as well as the Lowlands of Scotland. English border pipes have been reconstructed by Swayne, and they have in common with the Lowland Scottish pipes above 2-4 drones in a single stock, but the design of the chanter (melody pipe) is closer to the French cornemuse du centre and uses the same "half-closed" fingering system.
Cornish bagpipes: an extinct type of double chanter bagpipe from Cornwall (southwest England); there are now attempts being made to revive it on the basis of literary descriptions and iconographic representations.
Welsh pipes (, pibgod): Of two types, one a descendant of the pibgorn, the other loosely based on the Breton veuze. Both are mouthblown with one bass drone.
Pastoral pipes: Although the exact origin of this keyed, or un-keyed chanter and keyed drones (regulators), pipe is uncertain, it was developed into the modern Uilleann bagpipe.
Yorkshire bagpipes, known in Shakespeare's time, but now extinct
Lincolnshire bagpipes, a one-drone pipe extinct by 1850, with one reproduction made in the modern era
Lancashire bagpipes, widely mentioned in early-Modern literature and travel accounts

Finland
Säkkipilli: The Finnish bagpipes died out but have been revived since the late 20th century by musicians such as Petri Prauda.
Pilai: a Finnish bagpipe, described in 18th century texts as similar to the Ukrainian volynka.

Estonia
Torupill: an Estonian bagpipe with one single-reeded chanter and 1-3 drones.MP3

Latvia
Dūdas: Latvian bagpipe, with single reed chanter and one drone.

Lithuania

Dūdmaišis, or murenka, kūlinė, Labanoro dūda. A bagpipe native to Lithuania, with a single reed chanter and one drone.

Sweden

Säckpipa: Also the Swedish word for "bagpipe" in general, the name is commonly used for the revived Swedish bagpipe, based on surviving säckpipor of the Dalarna region. It has a cylindrical bore and a single reed, and usually a single drone in the same pitch as the bottom note of the chanter. There are around 20 surviving historical instruments in various museums and private collections.
Walpipe, according to some 19th century anglophone sources a type of bagpipe used alongside "the Sakpipe" in Lapland during the 18th and 19th centuries. The only known description, as well as the name, in addition to it not being mentioned in any Swedish sources, suggests it's not a bagpipe but another name for the Swedish cowhorn.

Southern Europe

Italy
Zampogna (also called ciaramella, ciaramedda, or surdullina depending on style and or region): A generic name for an Italian bagpipe, with different scale arrangements for doubled chanters (for different regions of Italy), and from zero to three drones (the drones usually sound a fifth, in relation to the chanter keynote, though in some cases a drone plays the tonic).
Piva: used in northern Italy (Bergamo, Emilia), Veneto and bordering regions of Switzerland such as Ticino. A single chantered, single drone instrument, with double reeds, often played in accompaniment to a shawm, or piffero.
Müsa: played in Pavia, Alessandria, Genova and Piacenza.
Baghèt: similar to the piva, played in the region of Bergamo, Brescia and, probably, Veneto. 
Surdelina: a double-chantered, bellows-blown pipe from Naples, with keys on both chanters and drones
Launeddas: is a typical pipe from Sardinia but it is characterised by the absence of bags: the mouth works as bag.

Malta
Żaqq (with definite article: iż-żaqq): The most common form of Maltese bagpipes.  A double-chantered, single-reed, droneless hornpipe.
Il-Qrajna:  a smaller Maltese bagpipe

Greece
The ancient name of bagpipes in Greece is Askavlos (Askos Ασκός means wine skin, Avlos Αυλός is the pipe)
Askomandoura (): a double-chantered bagpipe used in Crete
Tsampouna (): Greek Islands bagpipe with a double chanter. One chanter with five holes the second with 1,3 or 5 depending on the island. The tsambouna has no drone as the second chanter replaces the drone.
Gaida (): a single-chantered bagpipe with a long separate drone, played in many parts of Mainland Greece. The main center is Thrace, especially around the town of Didymoteicho in the Northern Evros area. In the area of Drama (villages of Kali Vrisi and Volakas) a higher pitched gaida is played. Around Pieria and Olympus mountain (Rizomata and Elatochori) another type of gaida is played. Each of these regions have their distinct sound, tunes and songs.
Dankiyo or Tulum: traditional double-chantered bagpipes played by Pontic Greeks

North Macedonia
 (pronounced guy'-da) also known as  () is the Macedonian name of the bagpipe (). It's a folk musical wind instrument composed of a bag (), with three or four tubes for blowing and playing. The Macedonian bagpipe can be two-voiced or three-voiced, depending on the number of drone elements. The most common are the two-voiced bagpipes.