[Robotics/Automation Textbook — Gutenberg #6268]

But you'll hunger for the hearthstone where, a child, you used to lie-- You'll be comin' back, my darlin'! And when your foot is weary, and when your heart is sore, And you come back to the moor that spreads beyand your father's door, There'll be many an ancient comrade to greet you on the shore-- At your comin' back, my darlin' ! Ah, the hillock cannot cover, and the grass it cannot hide The love that never changeth, whatever wind or tide; And though you'll not be seein', we'll be standin' by your side-- You'll be comin' back, my darlin'! O, there's no home like the old home, there's no pillow like the breast You slumbered on in childhood, like a young bird in the nest: We are livin' still and waitin', and we're hopin' for the best-- Ah, you're comin' back, my darlin'--comin' back! FARCALLADEN RISE Oh, it's down the long side of Farcalladen Rise, With the knees pressing hard to the saddle, my men; With the sparks from the hoofs giving light to the eyes, And our hearts beating hard as we rode to the glen! And it's back with the ring of the chain and the spur, And it's back with the sun on the hill and the moor, And it's back is the thought sets my pulses astir,-- But I'll never go back to Farcalladen more! Oh, it's down the long side of Farcalladen Rise, And it's swift as an arrow and straight as a spear, And it's keen as the frost when the summer-time dies, That we rode to the glen, and with never a fear. And it's hey for the hedge, and it's hey for the wall, And it's over the stream with an echoing cry; And there's three fled for ever from old Donegal, And there's two that have shown how bold Irishmen die! For it's rest when the gallop is over, my men, And it's here's to the lads that have ridden their last; And it's here's to the lasses we leave in the glen, With a smile for the future, a sigh for the past! GIVE ME THE LIGHT HEART Give, me the light heart, Heaven above! Give me the hand of a friend, Give me one high fine spirit to love, I'll abide my fate to the end: I will help where I can, I will cherish my own, Nor walk the steep way of the world alone. WHERE SHALL WE BETAKE US? "Where shall we betake us when the day's work is over? (Ah, red is the rose-bush in the lane.) Happy is the maid that knows the footstep of her lover-- (Sing the song, the Eden song, again.) Who shall listen to us when black sorrow comes a-reaping? (See the young lark falling from the sky.) Happy is the man that has a true heart in his keeping-- True hearts flourish when the roses die." NO MAN'S LAND Oh, we have been a-maying, dear, beyond the city gates, The little city set upon a hill; And we have seen the jocund smile upon the lips of Fate, And we have known the splendours of our will. Oh, we have wandered far, my dear, and we have loved apace; A little hut we built upon the sand, The sun without to lighten it, within, your golden face,-- O happy dream, O happy No Man's Land! The pleasant furniture of spring was set in all the fields, And gay and wholesome were the herbs and flowers; Our simple cloth of love was spread with all that nature yields, And frugal only were the passing hours. Oh, we have been a-maying, dear, we've left the world behind, We've sung and danced and gossiped as we strayed; And when within our little but your fingers draw the blind, We'll loiter by the fire that love has made. AT SEA Through the round window above, the deep palpable blue, The wan bright moon, and the sweet stinging breath of the sea; And below, in the shadows, thine eyes like stars, And Love brooding low, and the warm white glory of thee. Oh, soft was the song in my soul, and soft beyond thought were thy lips, And thou wert mine own, and Eden reconquered was mine And the way that I go is the way of thy feet, and the breath that I breathe, It hath being from thee and life from the life that is thine! ATHENIAN Your voice I knew, its cadences and thrill; It stilled the tumult and the overthrow When Athens trembled to the people's will; I knew it--'twas a thousand years ago. I see the fountains, and the gardens where You sang the fury from the Satrap's brow; I feel the quiver in the raptured air, I heard it in the Athenian grove--I hear you now. EYES LIKE THE SEA Eyes like the sea, look up, the beacons brighten, Home comes the sailor, home across the tide! Back drifts the cloud, behold the heavens whiten, The port of Love is open, he anchors at thy side. UNDER THE CLIFF The sands and the sea, and the white gulls fleeting, The mist on the island, the cloud on the hill; The song in my heart, and the old hope beating Its life 'gainst the bars of thy will. OPEN THY GATE Here in the highway without thy garden wall, Here in the babel and the glare, Sick for thy haven, O Sweet, to thee I call: Open thy gate unto my prayer-- Open thy gate. Cool is thy garden-plot, pleasant thy shade, All things commend thee in thy place; Dwelling on thy perfectness, O Sweet, I am afraid, But, fearing, long to look upon thy face-- Open thy gate. Over the ample globe, searching for thee, Thee and thy garden have I come; Ended my questing: no more, no more for me, O Sweet, the pilgrim's sandals, call me home-- Open thy gate. SUMMER IS COME Summer is come; the corn is in the ear, The haze is swimming where the beeches stand; Summer is come, though winter months be here-- My love is summer passing through the land. Summer is come; I hear the skylarks sing, The honeysuckle flaunts it to the bees; Summer is come, and 'tis not yet the spring-- My love is summer blessing all she sees. Summer is come; I see an open door, A sweet hand beckons, and I know That, winter or summer, I shall go forth no more-- My heart is homing where her summer-roses grow. O FLOWER OF ALL THE WORLD O flower of all the world, O flower of all, The garden where thou dwellest is so fair, Thou art so goodly, and so queenly tall, Thy sweetness scatters sweetness everywhere, O flower of all! O flower of all the years, O flower of all, A day beside thee is a day of days; Thy voice is softer than the throstle's call, There is not song enough to sing thy praise, O flower of all! O flower of all the years, O flower of all, I seek thee in thy garden, and I dare To love thee; and though my deserts be small, Thou art the only flower I would wear, O flower of all! WAS IT SOME GOLDEN STAR? Once in another land, Ages ago, You were a queen, and I, I loved you so: Where was it that we loved-- Ah, do you know? Was it some golden star Hot with romance? Was it in Malabar, Italy, France? Did we know Charlemagne, Dido, perchance? But you were a queen, and I Fought for you then: How did you honour me-- More than all men! Kissed me upon the lips; Kiss me again. Have you forgotten it, All that we said? I still remember though Ages have fled. Whisper the word of life,-- "Love is not dead." I HEARD THE DESERT CALLING I heard the desert calling, and my heart stood still-- There was winter in my world and in my heart; A breath came from the mesa, and a message stirred my will, And my soul and I arose up to depart. I heard the desert calling, and I knew that over there In an olive-sheltered garden where the mesquite grows, Was a woman of the sunrise with the star-shine in her hair And a beauty that the almond-blossom blows. In the night-time when the ghost-trees glimmered in the moon, Where the mesa by the water-course was spanned, Her loveliness enwrapped me like the blessedness of June, And all my life was thrilling in her hand. I hear the desert calling, and my heart stands still-- There is summer in my world, and in my heart; A breath comes from the mesa, and a will beyond my will Binds my footsteps as I rise up to depart. THE FORGOTTEN WORD Once in the twilight of the Austrian hills, A word came to me, wonderful and good;