[Robotics/Automation Textbook — Gutenberg #28054]

“Do you?” he asked sarcastically. “I know you! I know you!” the man repeated idiotically. “So much the better for you. Well, it’s time I was going. Good-by!” “You are at your saucy pranks again?” cried the man. “You are at your saucy pranks again? I know, you are at it again!” “It’s not your business, brother, if I am at my saucy pranks again,” said Kolya, standing still and scanning him. “Not my business?” “No; it’s not your business.” “Whose then? Whose then? Whose then?” “It’s Trifon Nikititch’s business, not yours.” “What Trifon Nikititch?” asked the youth, staring with loutish amazement at Kolya, but still as angry as ever. Kolya scanned him gravely. “Have you been to the Church of the Ascension?” he suddenly asked him, with stern emphasis. “What Church of Ascension? What for? No, I haven’t,” said the young man, somewhat taken aback. “Do you know Sabaneyev?” Kolya went on even more emphatically and even more severely. “What Sabaneyev? No, I don’t know him.” “Well then you can go to the devil,” said Kolya, cutting short the conversation; and turning sharply to the right he strode quickly on his way as though he disdained further conversation with a dolt who did not even know Sabaneyev. “Stop, heigh! What Sabaneyev?” the young man recovered from his momentary stupefaction and was as excited as before. “What did he say?” He turned to the market women with a silly stare. The women laughed. “You can never tell what he’s after,” said one of them. “What Sabaneyev is it he’s talking about?” the young man repeated, still furious and brandishing his right arm. “It must be a Sabaneyev who worked for the Kuzmitchovs, that’s who it must be,” one of the women suggested. The young man stared at her wildly. “For the Kuzmitchovs?” repeated another woman. “But his name wasn’t Trifon. His name’s Kuzma, not Trifon; but the boy said Trifon Nikititch, so it can’t be the same.” “His name is not Trifon and not Sabaneyev, it’s Tchizhov,” put in suddenly a third woman, who had hitherto been silent, listening gravely. “Alexey Ivanitch is his name. Tchizhov, Alexey Ivanitch.” “Not a doubt about it, it’s Tchizhov,” a fourth woman emphatically confirmed the statement. The bewildered youth gazed from one to another. “But what did he ask for, what did he ask for, good people?” he cried almost in desperation. “‘Do you know Sabaneyev?’ says he. And who the devil’s to know who is Sabaneyev?” “You’re a senseless fellow. I tell you it’s not Sabaneyev, but Tchizhov, Alexey Ivanitch Tchizhov, that’s who it is!” one of the women shouted at him impressively. “What Tchizhov? Who is he? Tell me, if you know.” “That tall, sniveling fellow who used to sit in the market in the summer.” “And what’s your Tchizhov to do with me, good people, eh?” “How can I tell what he’s to do with you?” put in another. “You ought to know yourself what you want with him, if you make such a clamor about him. He spoke to you, he did not speak to us, you stupid. Don’t you really know him?” “Know whom?” “Tchizhov.” “The devil take Tchizhov and you with him. I’ll give him a hiding, that I will. He was laughing at me!” “Will give Tchizhov a hiding! More likely he will give you one. You are a fool, that’s what you are!” “Not Tchizhov, not Tchizhov, you spiteful, mischievous woman. I’ll give the boy a hiding. Catch him, catch him, he was laughing at me!” The woman guffawed. But Kolya was by now a long way off, marching along with a triumphant air. Smurov walked beside him, looking round at the shouting group far behind. He too was in high spirits, though he was still afraid of getting into some scrape in Kolya’s company. “What Sabaneyev did you mean?” he asked Kolya, foreseeing what his answer would be. “How do I know? Now there’ll be a hubbub among them all day. I like to stir up fools in every class of society. There’s another blockhead, that peasant there. You know, they say ‘there’s no one stupider than a stupid Frenchman,’ but a stupid Russian shows it in his face just as much. Can’t you see it all over his face that he is a fool, that peasant, eh?” “Let him alone, Kolya. Let’s go on.” “Nothing could stop me, now I am once off. Hey, good morning, peasant!” A sturdy-looking peasant, with a round, simple face and grizzled beard, who was walking by, raised his head and looked at the boy. He seemed not quite sober. “Good morning, if you are not laughing at me,” he said deliberately in reply. “And if I am?” laughed Kolya. “Well, a joke’s a joke. Laugh away. I don’t mind. There’s no harm in a joke.” “I beg your pardon, brother, it was a joke.” “Well, God forgive you!” “Do you forgive me, too?” “I quite forgive you. Go along.” “I say, you seem a clever peasant.” “Cleverer than you,” the peasant answered unexpectedly, with the same gravity. “I doubt it,” said Kolya, somewhat taken aback. “It’s true, though.” “Perhaps it is.” “It is, brother.” “Good-by, peasant!” “Good-by!” “There are all sorts of peasants,” Kolya observed to Smurov after a brief silence. “How could I tell I had hit on a clever one? I am always ready to recognize intelligence in the peasantry.” In the distance the cathedral clock struck half-past eleven. The boys made haste and they walked as far as Captain Snegiryov’s lodging, a considerable distance, quickly and almost in silence. Twenty paces from the house Kolya stopped and told Smurov to go on ahead and ask Karamazov to come out to him. “One must sniff round a bit first,” he observed to Smurov. “Why ask him to come out?” Smurov protested. “You go in; they will be awfully glad to see you. What’s the sense of making friends in the frost out here?” “I know why I want to see him out here in the frost,” Kolya cut him short in the despotic tone he was fond of adopting with “small boys,” and Smurov ran to do his bidding. Chapter IV. The Lost Dog Kolya leaned against the fence with an air of dignity, waiting for Alyosha to appear. Yes, he had long wanted to meet him. He had heard a great deal about him from the boys, but hitherto he had always maintained an appearance of disdainful indifference when he was mentioned, and he had even “criticized” what he heard about Alyosha. But secretly he had a great longing to make his acquaintance; there was something sympathetic and attractive in all he was told about Alyosha. So the present moment was important: to begin with, he had to show himself at his best, to show his independence, “Or he’ll think of me as thirteen and take me for a boy, like the rest of them. And what are these boys to him? I shall ask him when I get to know him. It’s a pity I am so short, though. Tuzikov is younger than I am, yet he is half a head taller. But I have a clever face. I am not good-looking. I know I’m hideous, but I’ve a clever face. I mustn’t talk too freely; if I fall into his arms all at once, he may think—Tfoo! how horrible if he should think—!” Such were the thoughts that excited Kolya while he was doing his utmost to assume the most independent air. What distressed him most was his being so short; he did not mind so much his “hideous” face, as being so short. On the wall in a corner at home he had the year before made a pencil-mark to show his height, and every two months since he anxiously measured himself against it to see how much he had gained. But alas! he grew very slowly, and this sometimes reduced him almost to despair. His face was in reality by no means “hideous”; on the contrary, it was rather attractive, with a fair, pale skin, freckled. His small, lively gray eyes had a fearless look, and often glowed with feeling. He had rather high cheekbones; small, very red, but not very thick, lips; his nose was small and unmistakably turned up. “I’ve a regular pug nose, a regular pug nose,” Kolya used to mutter to himself when he looked in the looking-glass, and he always left it with indignation. “But perhaps I haven’t got a clever face?” he sometimes thought, doubtful even of that. But it must not be supposed that his mind was preoccupied with his face and his height. On the contrary, however bitter the moments before the looking-glass were to him, he quickly forgot them, and forgot them for a long time, “abandoning himself entirely to ideas and to real life,” as he formulated it to himself. Alyosha came out quickly and hastened up to Kolya. Before he