# Spin-polarized scanning tunneling microscopy

Spin-polarized scanning tunneling microscopy (SP-STM) is a type of scanning tunneling microscope (STM) that can provide detailed information of magnetic phenomena on the single-atom scale additional to the atomic topography gained with STM. SP-STM opened a novel approach to static and dynamic magnetic processes as precise investigations of domain walls in ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic systems, as well as thermal and current-induced switching of nanomagnetic particles.

Principle of operation
An extremely sharp tip coated with a thin layer of magnetic material is moved systematically over a sample. A voltage is applied between the tip and the sample allowing electrons to tunnel between the two, resulting in a current. In the absence of magnetic phenomena, the strength of this current is indicative for local electronic properties.

If the tip is magnetized, electrons with spins matching the tip's magnetization will have a higher chance of tunneling. This is essentially the effect of tunnel magnetoresistance and the tip/surface essentially acts as a spin valve.

Since a scan using only a magnetized tip cannot distinguish between current changes due to magnetization or space separation, multi-domain structures and/or topographical information from another source (frequently conventional STM) must be utilized. This makes possible magnetic imaging down to the atomic scale, for example, in antiferromagnetic system. Topographical and magnetic information can be simultaneously obtained if the tip's magnetization is modulated at a high frequency (20–30 kHz) using a small coil wound around the tip. The tip's magnetization thus flips too fast for the STM feedback loop to respond to and topographical information is obtained intact. The high frequency signal is separated using a lock-in amplifier and this signal provides the magnetic information about the surface.

In standard scanning tunneling microscopy (STM), the tunneling  probability of electrons between the probe tip and the sample  strongly depends on the distance between them, as it decays  exponentially as the separation increases. In spin-polarized STM  (SP-STM) the tunneling current also depends on the spin-orientation of the tip and the sample. The local density of states (LDOS) of the magnetic tip and the sample is different for different spin orientations, and tunneling can occur only between the states with parallel spin (ignoring spin flip processes).  When the spin of sample and the tip are parallel there are many  available states to which the electrons can tunnel, thus  resulting in a large tunneling current. On the other hand, if the  spins are antiparallel most of the available states are already  filled and the tunneling current will be significantly smaller. With SP -STM it is then possible to  probe the spin dependent local density of states of magnetic samples by measuring the tunneling conductance , which for  small bias is given bywhere  is the tunneling conductance in nonmagnetic case,   is the tunneling matrix element which describes the transitions  between the spin dependent states of the tip and the sample, , , and ,  are the total  densities of state and polarizations for the tip (t) and the  sample (s), respectively, and  is the angle between the  magnetization directions of the tip and the sample. In the nonmagnetic limit ( or ), this expression reduces  to the Tersoff and Hamann model for standard STM tunneling  conductance.

In the more general case, with finite bias voltage , the expression for the tunneling current at tip location  becomes where  is constant,  the inverse decay length of the electron wavefunction, and,  and  the charge and mass of electron, respectively,  is the energy-integrated LDOS of the tip, and , and  are the corresponding magnetization vectors of the spin-polarized LDOS. The tunneling current is sum of spin-independent , and spin-dependent  parts.

Probe tip preparation 
The most critical component in the SP-STM setup is the probe tip which has to be atomically sharp to offer spatial resolution down to atomic level, have large enough spin polarization to provide sufficient signal to noise ratio, but at the same time have small enough stray magnetic field to enable nondestructive magnetic probing of the sample, and finally the spin orientation at the tip apex has to be controlled in order to determine which spin orientation of the sample is imaged. In order to prevent oxidization the tip preparation usually has to be done in ultra-high vacuum (UHV). There are three main ways to obtain probe tip suitable for SP-STM measurements:

 Bulk magnetic material (e.g. iron) is first electrochemically etched to form a constriction, and as the material is pulled apart it breaks at the constriction forming a sharp tip. Alternatively, the material can be etched until the tip is formed, but then a tip cleaning procedure in UHV is required. Iron has high saturation magnetization which results in a larger stray field around the tip meaning that nondestructive imaging is not possible. Iron tips can be used to measure antiferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic samples. Amorphous alloys such as CoFeNiSiB have lower saturation magnetization but still nonvanishing stray fields. For nondestructive imaging the tips can be made from antiferromagnetic materials such as Cr or MnNi, in this case however, the spin contrast of the imaging is sacrificed due to tunneling currents from to different spin states partially canceling out each other.
 Nonmagnetic tip with ultrathin film of magnetic material.    Nonmagnetic material is first etched and cleaned with electron bombardment and high temperature flash to remove oxides and other contaminations. The tip is then covered with thin (less than diameter of the tip) layer of magnetic material. In such thin films the magnetization direction is determined by surface and interface anisotropies. Choosing a suitable film material and thickness the tip can be prepared to probe either in-plane or out-of-plane magnetic directions. For ferromagnetic thin films, external magnetic field can be used to tip the magnetization enabling the setup to measure both directions with the same tip. To increase spatial resolution, bias voltage between the tip and the sample can be applied which causes thin film atoms to migrate towards the tip apex making it sharper. Even with thin film deposition, the tip will still carry a magnetic stray field that can perturb the sample.
 Nonmagnetic tip with a cluster of magnetic material.   In this method voltage pulses are applied between nonmagnetic tip and magnetic sample which causes magnetic material of the sample to attach to the tip. Magnetization direction can be altered by applying further voltage pulses. Alternatively, the tip can be dipped in the magnetic material and then retracted leaving a cluster attached to the tip assuming that the magnetic material properly wets the tip. The tip size is not controlled as in ultrathin film deposition.

Modes of operation 
SP-STM can be operated in one of three modes: constant current, and spectroscopic mode which are similar to standard STM operation modes but with spin-resolution, or modulated tip magnetization mode which is unique to SP-STM measurements. In constant current mode, the tip-sample separation is kept constant by an electric feedback loop. The measured tunneling current  consists of spin-averaged and spin-dependent components () which can be decomposed from the data. Tunneling current is primarily dominated by the smallest non-zero reciprocal lattice vector, which means that as magnetic superstructures usually have the longest real space periodicities (and thus the shortest reciprocal space periodicities), bring the largest contribution to the spin-dependent tunneling current . Thus SP-STM is an excellent method to observe magnetic structure rather than atomic structure of the sample. The downside is that it is difficult to study larger than atomic scales in