# 2-XL

2-XL (2-XL Robot, 2XL Robot, 2-XL Toy) is an educational toy robot that was marketed from 1978–1981 by the Mego Corporation, and from 1992–1995 by Tiger Electronics. 2-XL was the first "smart-toy" in that it exhibited rudimentary intelligence, memory, gameplay, and responsiveness. 2-XL was infused with a "personality" that kept kids focused and challenged as they interacted with the verbal robot. Learning was enhanced via the use of jokes and funny sayings as verbal reinforcements for performance. 2-XL was heralded as an important step in the development of toys, particularly educational ones. 2-XL won many awards, and Playthings, a toy industry magazine, placed 2-XL on its 75th anniversary cover as one of the industry's top-ten toys of all time. The 2-XL name is a pun of the phrase "to excel".

History and development
The toy was invented and licensed for manufacture by Michael J. Freeman, inventor, Ph.D. and was patented. 2-XL exhibited rudimentary intelligence, memory, gameplay, and responsiveness. Dubbed the "Toy with a Personality," 2-XL could respond verbally to the user depending upon which "input or answer" buttons were chosen. 2-XL during its run was one of the most popular toys in terms of market revenue and was dubbed the Talking Robot with a mind of its own. The toy was voiced by Freeman,
using a synthesizer to make his voice a high-pitched robot-like sound; it was through this process that Freeman developed 2-XL's personality. 2-XL was first introduced in 1978 by the Mego Corporation, a publicly traded US-based toy company in New York City and it subsequently  became a success. The toy was sold in different countries and the tapes were translated into seven foreign languages. Games were also developed for the toy.

Mego, otherwise known for its production of dolls and classic action figures in the 1970s, was seen as an innovator combining toys and education. The toy's name literally meant "To Excel". The toy was voice capable, was able to tell stories, and sing using its special 8-track tapes. The toy's tapes asked multiple-choice questions (MCQs) that were answered by pushing a YES or NO button that changed the tracking of the tape. It was a crude but reportedly innovative use of the technology that was present in that era.

In addition to its general popularity, 2-XL was unprecedented in terms of market revenue. "The 2XL was hot, in demand, and everyone wanted one."  "It was a great way to make learning cool and fun." Playthings magazine, in its cover story of September 1978, considered the 2-XL robot as one of the most important toys ever developed, and included it in a class of "toys with impact" along with the Teddy Bear, Barbie Doll, Raggedy Ann, Mickey Mouse among others. The robot was a popular educational toy whose success anticipated the dominant influence of technology in education today. Dubbed the "Toy with a Personality," 2-XL could respond verbally to the user depending upon which "input or answer" buttons were chosen.  Part of the reason for this is the connection the toy made between education and fun. "2-XL was a glorious display of plastic robotics."

2-XL was interactive playing various tracks from a magnetic audio tape depending on the user's actions. 2-XL's personality was very popular and kids loved the back-and-forth banter. For example, If a child got an answer wrong 2-XL might utter something like: "perhaps your brain went on strike! You are Wrong." Or, "Nice try but (whispering) you are wrong, but go ahead, I will be a nice little toy robot and give you a second chance now." "Even though you needed two chances you finally got the answer right, elephant is the correct answer"'. "But do not get too excited, you have now earned yourself a more difficult question. Hold on to your hat, here it comes" If the child was right, 2-XL might say: "Although I have the looks you have the brains. You must be a genius. Good work." Or, "it is amazing that big brain of yours fits into the head of a child. Nice answer, football is correct."

In 1981, the toy's popularity waned, and it was later discontinued. In 1992, 2-XL was re-introduced by Tiger Electronics, a toy company based in Vernon Hills, Illinois. The toy was changed into a more modern design, and new programmed toy cartridges were also introduced. The voice for this version was done by Freeman as well, and all programs were translated into many different languages.

Versions

Mego Corporation version

The original version, created by Mego Corporation, was made of brown plastic with white plastic found on the anterior face of the robot. It had two red light bulbs for the eyes. These bulbs also flashed at moments while 8-track cartridge tape programs played. It had four red buttons on its stomach with designated options for answers to questions asked by the toy, such as "Question," "A or Yes Or True," "B or More Info," and "C or No or False". (NOTE: Some programs came with overlay cards for the buttons that redefined the choices you could make for that specific program.) A knob is also found on the lower right portion of the toy which controlled its volume and power. The "mouth" was reused detail molding taken from the Micronauts Battle Cruiser. At the bottom was a large slot for 8-track cartridge tapes: this version was essentially a regular 8-track tape player, but by employing mathematical decision tree programming methods over 20 interactive modes of operation were achieved. The result had enough information and interactive questions to entertain and educate a person for up to two hours. Subjects included sports quiz, Guinness Book of World Records, the metric system, general information and jokes.

The mold and look received a minor revision in 1980. The eye lights became red and responded to the voice. The flashing lights were also brighter, and the speaker in the back of the unit was changed from a hexagon shape to a more traditional round. The plastic had a glossier appearance. There was a modified version of 2-XL made just for schools with extra earphone jacks, specialty tapes for school curricula, and a teacher's manual to go with each educational tape.

Tiger Electronics version

Tiger Electronics re-introduced 2-XL in 1992. Instead of using 8-track cartridge tapes, this version used cassette tapes that were twice the length of the tapes in the previous version and had a better sound quality. Freeman again recorded the 2-XL voice for the cassette tapes in a professional sound studio. In addition to eyes that would light up, the toy now sported a circle for a mouth that could light up as the machine talked. The toy could now run on batteries and had a headphone jack. Instead of the buttons simply switching tracks on the 8-track tape as in the old version, the cassette version took advantage of the fact that a cassette has a total of four tracks - one for the left and right channel on each side. The tape head in the player could play any of the four parallel tracks, based on which button was pressed. Playing a 2-XL tape in a standard tape player would result in different audio on the left and right channels, and if the reverse side was played, one would hear the other two tracks played in reverse. 

Using all four tracks simultaneously in one direction was not unique in toys to the 2-XL since the concept had been borrowed from the Talk 'n Play educational system in existence from 1983-1992 and provided the basis for the interactive give and take on both toys. That concept in turn had been borrowed both from early home-portastudio cassette recorders with the built-in mixing board used by garage bands to put their demos together to try and get hired or get a record deal . The earliest instances were the 4.0 surround sound cassette experiments in the mid `70s to again try to supplant with a cassette counterpart the quadraphonic 8-track (which was just as prone to breaking and jamming as the original 2-XL tapes).

As with the previous version, this version could p