[Robotics/Automation Textbook — Gutenberg #21352]

Mr. Tate, Richard Flower, Mr. Carver, Mr. Jameson, Mr. Barfield. These were some of the men who figured in the intellectual tournaments of the time. Let us glance at a few of the questions debated and the result, and we shall get some idea of the subjects which engaged men's attention, and what they thought upon them. The subjects cover a great variety of matters, and frequently were as wide apart as the poles in their nature. Here are the first two questions debated:-- "Whether a General Enclosure will be beneficial or prejudicial to the Nation?" "Whether Hope or Fear be the most powerful incentive to Action?" I venture to transcribe a few more questions at random, with the decision of the forum upon them. "Whether it be right for the Legislature to make Laws to punish prophane swearing?--James Phillips.--Determined." [That is, determined that it was right.] {29} "Whether free Inquiry is not upon the whole beneficial to Society though it may be attended with some ill effects to Individuals?--E. K. Fordham.--Determined unanimously for full inquiry." "Whether a Candidate for Parliament ought to engage to support any particular measures in Parliament previous to his election?--He ought." "Whether it would be better to maintain the Poor of this Kingdom by Charity or Rate?--By Charity." "Whether Publick or Private Punishments are to be preferred in a Free Country?--Publick Punishment preferred, August 27th, 1787." "Whether a Man can or cannot be a real Christian, and at the same time a gentleman in the World's esteem?--Joseph Beldam, senr.--Can 13, Cannot 11." "Whether the Art of expressing our thoughts by written characters is not superior to any other art whatever?--John Walby." To the above question is given the very curious answer--15 for Writing, 9 for Agriculture. Evidently there were some farmers of the old school in the forum! The character of the schools of the period is reflected in the following:-- "Whether a Public or a Private Education for youth is to be preferred?--Unan. for a private one, in favour of virtue." "Whether the use of well-composed forms, or extempore prayer in dissenting congregations be most agreeable to the Dignity of Religious worship, and the general Edification?--2 for Forms, 16 for Extempore." "Which is the greater Evil, to Educate Children _above_ or _beneath_ their probable station or Circumstances?--5 above Circumstances, 9 below." Here we get a hundred years' old opinion that in effect it is better to educate children above their probable station and let them take their chance in the competition of life than to educate them below it. This was evidently a vigorous reforming opinion for those days, considering that Board Schools were yet nearly a hundred years off! Fifty years even before the Reform Bill it was possible to get such an opinion as the following upon the suffrage:-- "If we could get a Reform in Parliament would it be expedient or just to exclude any Order of subjects from giving their vote for a Representative in the House of Commons?--John Fordham (Kelshall).--Yeas 2, Noes 7." That is seven out of nine were in favour of universal suffrage! Here is an instance of the logical and discriminating faculties which these forums called forth in such a high degree:-- "Is good sense or good nature most productive of Happiness--taking both the Individual and Society into the Account?--Good Nature to Individuals 13, Good Sense to ditto 8; Good Sense to Society 19, Good Nature to ditto 1." {30} The foregoing answer is a very nice discrimination and involved a "reasoning out" which is in striking contrast with most modern debates in which the facts can be read up from various almanacks. The meaning of it is of course that good nature between man and man and good sense in general society are most productive of happiness. The following is quoted of a different type:-- "Which of the three learned Professions--Law, Physic, or Divinity--has been most useful to Society?--Law 7, Physic 1, Divinity 9." This was rather hard upon the doctors, it must be confessed, but, then, society had no reason to be very grateful to a class of men who in those days dealt so largely in bleeding, blistering and purging! It would be interesting to know what sort of a vote would be given on such a question now. Probably it would be found that the doctors had pulled up a bit during the last hundred years. Here is another on the State and individual opinion:-- "Has the State a Right to take Cognizance of any Opinions whatever, either civil, political, or religious?--A, 6; N, 12." The following shows the financial insecurity of the times:-- "Ought country Banks to be encouraged in Great Britain"--A majority of more than two to one were of opinion that they ought not! This was in 1791. There were, of course, topics of a more strictly controversial kind, bearing upon tithes, Church Establishment, Test Acts, &c., the discussion of which was natural enough to a body constituted as the Royston Book Club was, chiefly of Dissenting ministers and wealthy adherents in their congregations. I have, however, quoted enough to show that it was not merely a sectarian conventicle, but a forum for intellectual debate in its fullest sense. Upon this point the following three questions may be added:-- "Is there any foundation in fact for the popular Belief of Ghosts and Apparititions [sic]?--J. Phillips.--Y, 15; n, 26." If fifteen men of education voted for the Ghosts can we wonder at the stronghold they had among the common people, and that it has taken the hundred years which have elapsed to get them generally disestablished? "Whether Old Bachelors ought to be most pitied, envied or blamed?"--No verdict, probably the bachelors were in pretty full force and resented the liberty implied by the question! "Whether Good Sense, with a deficiency of Good Temper, or Good Temper with a deficiency of Good Sense, be preferable in domestic life?--W. Nash.--12 in favour of Good sense, 14 Good Temper." That the debates were often characterised by considerable freedom of thought and utterance is evident from other sources, as when the gifted young barrister of Bury St. Edmunds (Henry Crabb Robinson) {31} by his outspoken sentiments in one of the debates, and admitted leanings to Godwin's philosophy, brought down the reproof from the great Robert Hall upon his friend Mr. William Nash, for receiving the young barrister of freedom of opinion on friendly terms into his family at Royston. But the family of the quiet and eminently respectable country lawyer appear to have had no cause to regret the enduring friendship of the brilliant young conversationalist, who afterwards became an intimate friend of Wordsworth, Southey the Laureate, and the Lake School, with Goethe, Madame de Staël, and many other great names in the world of letters and art, and even had the offer of the Chancellorship of the Duchy of Sax Weimar. At such a time, however, these debates did make a good deal of stir, in fact "as the members were credited with holding what at that time were called dangerous principles, their meetings used to cause a great excitement in the place." The peculiarity of these debates was the prevailing discussion of general principles. The region of practical politics for many of the coming questions was as yet almost half-a-century off, and having no effective means of influencing many matters which did, nevertheless, touch their daily lives very closely, they turned their attention inwards to the mental exercise of debating abstract questions of high philosophy and of morals. The Book Club continued its meetings at the Green Man from 1761 until 1789, in which year it was "agreed to go to the Red Lyon," and from that time, during the remainder of the last and the earlier years of the present century, it continued to meet at the Red Lion, in the same room, curiously enough, which had accommodated the old Royston Club, and the two extremes of social and public life I have indicated, were in turn brought under the same roof! To many of the old habitués of the place under the older institution this use of their place of meeting by "traitors, republicans and levellers," as they would have called them, would have been little short of desecration, and that it was possible for two such institutions to have existed for some time at least side by side, can only be explained by the fact that one was an institution reflecting the prevailing belief of the town at that time, while the other brought together many of the county families of the old order. The only person living who ever attended one of the Book Club's debates, I believe, is Mr. Henry Fordham, who can just remember attending one meeting at the Red Lion towards the end of the Club's debating period. Have we degenerated since the period of this stiff and vigorous debating of our great grandfathers? Would it be possible now to bring together forty or fifty