# Challenge of the GoBots

Challenge of the GoBots (or GoBots for short) is an American animated series produced by Hanna-Barbera, based on the GoBots toyline released from Tonka. The show was first broadcast in syndication on September 8, 1984, then the show joined the weekday/weekend programming block The Funtastic World of Hanna-Barbera on September 15, 1985. It was later rerun on the USA Cartoon Express.

Summary 
GoBots dealt with two opposing forces of transforming robots from the planet GoBotron: the heroic Guardians and the evil Renegades. The Guardians were led by Leader-1 while the Renegades were led by Cy-Kill. The characters rarely had guns, instead shooting energy blasts out of their fists. The female robots on the series, such as Crasher, were built like the males, but with some distinguishing female features. The GoBots' origin as GoBeings accounted for the presence of genders among the robots.

The series generally focused on a small number of robots from each faction (Leader-1, Turbo and Scooter vs. Cy-Kill, Cop-Tur and Crasher) who were virtually ever-present with other characters seeming to rotate in "guest-star" roles. GoBots had no clear division between the two factions. The characters had no identifying insignias or markings to indicate their allegiance, although it was indicated on the toy packaging. Likewise, there was no commonality of design within each faction. The only "theme" to a side was that anything that turned into a "monstrous-looking" robot or vehicle was a Renegade.

Plot 
In the series’ backstory, thousands of years ago on the planet GoBotron of the Proxima System, there lived a race of human-like organic beings called GoBeings. Civil war erupted on the planet when the power-hungry terrorist group known as the Renegades arose, led by a madman dubbed "Stron-Domez the Master Renegade", who waged war against the peaceful Guardians.

When a Renegade sabotage operation inadvertently resulted in a gigantic asteroid colliding with GoBotron, the natural disasters that resulted from the asteroid's impact pushed the GoBeings to the verge of extinction. However, the genius referred to as Ex-El the Last Engineer saved his people and took his experiments to replace parts of his own body with mechanical substitutes to the ultimate extent and transferring the essences of the GoBeings into large cyborgs known as GoRobotic Machine Men, or simply GoBotic Machines or GoBots.

The GoBots possessed an additional ability; after being run through the device named the Modifier, the GoBots’ bodies were able to transform into other vehicles. His work done, the Last Engineer intended to retreat to a pre-prepared workshop elsewhere in the galaxy, but the Master Renegade stole his ship and escaped in his stead. The Last Engineer placed himself into suspended animation beneath the surface of GoBotron, while above, the war continued to rage between the Guardians and the Renegades, now all encased in GoBot shells.

In the last quarter of the 20th Century, the planet Earth became involved in the conflict between Leader-1's Guardians and Cy-Kill's Renegades. During one of these battles, one of Leader-1's lieutenants, Turbo, became severely damaged. Unwilling to let his friend and teammate die, Leader-1 began his quest to find the legendary Last Engineer. Leader-1 found the person he believed to be the Last Engineer, but Leader-1 had unwittingly released the Master Renegade (though he did repair Turbo to gain the Guardians’ trust).

The Guardians later found the true Last Engineer, who was instrumental in frustrating the alliance between Cy-Kill's Renegades and the Master Renegade. The Master Renegade later escaped the custody of the Renegades, and plagued both factions, notably attacking the UniCom colony of New Earth.

Characters

Episodes 
 "Battle for GoBotron, Part I: Battle for GoBotron" (written by Alan Burnett, Jeff Segal, and Tom Ruegger)
 "Battle for GoBotron, Part II: Target Earth" (written by Alan Burnett, Jeff Segal, and Tom Ruegger)
 "Battle for GoBotron, Part III: Conquest of Earth" (written by Alan Burnett, Jeff Segal, and Tom Ruegger)
 "Battle for GoBotron, Part IV: Earth Bound" (written by Alan Burnett, Jeff Segal, and Tom Ruegger)
 "Battle for GoBotron, Part V: The Final Conflict" (written by Alan Burnett, Jeff Segal, and Tom Ruegger)
 "Time Wars" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Douglas Booth)
 "It's the Thought that Counts" (written by Mark Zaslove)
 "Trident's Triple Threat" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by David Schwartz)
 "Renegade Alliance" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Don Goodman)
 "Cy-Kill's Cataclysmic Trap" (story by Jeff Segal, Kelly Ward, and Peter Anderegg; teleplay by Peter Anderegg)
 "Speed is of the Essence" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Jina Bacarr)
 "Genius and Son" (written by John Loy and Eric Lewald)
 "Dawn World" (written by Don Glut)
 "Nova Beam" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Daniel Will-Harris)
 "Forced Alliance" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Doug Booth)
 "Invasion from the 21st Level, Part I" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Lane Raichert)
 "Invasion from the 21st Level, Part II" (written by Lane Raichert)
 "Lost on GoBotron" (story by Jeff Segal, Kelly Ward, and Eric Lewald; teleplay by Eric Lewald)
 "Cy-Kill's Shrinking Ray" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Dale Kirby)
 "Doppleganger" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Antoni Zalewski)
 "The Quest for Roguestar" (story by John Loy, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by John Loy)
 "Renegade Rampage, Part I" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Karen Wengrod and Ken Cinnamon)
 "Renegade Rampage, Part II" (story by Karen Wengrod, Ken Cinnamon, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by Karen Wengrod and Ken Cinnamon)
 "Ultra Zod" (written by Jim Bertges)
 "Sentinel" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Don Glut)
 "Cold Spell" (written by Alan Burnett)
 "Crime Wave" (written by Francis Moss)
 "Auto Madic" (written by Mark Zaslove)
 "Scooter Enhanced" (story by Jeff Segal, Kelly Ward, and Mark Young; teleplay by Mark Young)
 "Tarnished Image" (story by Jeff Segal, Kelly Ward, and David Schwartz; teleplay by David Schwartz)
 "In Search of Ancient Gobonauts" (story by Mark Young, Phil Harnage, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by Mark Young)
 "Gameworld" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Michael Charles Hill)
 "Wolf in the Fold" (story by Michael Reaves, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by Michael Reaves)
 "Depth Charge" (written by John Bates)
 "Transfer Point" (story by Patrick Barry, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by Patrick Barry)
 "Steamer's Defection" (story by Jeff Segal, Kelly Ward, and Drew Lawrence; teleplay by Drew Lawrence)
 "The GoBot Who Cried Renegade" (story by Eric Lewald, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by Eric Lewald)
 "The Seer" (written by Eric Lewald and Mark Edens)
 "Whiz Kid" (written by Alfred Pegal)
 "Ring of Fire" (story by Michael Humm, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by Michael Humm)
 "The GoBotron Saga, Part 1: Cy-Kill's Escape" (story by Jeff Segal, Kelly Ward, and Peter Anderegg; teleplay by Peter Anderegg)
 "The GoBotron Saga, Part 2: Quest for the Creator" (story by Peter Anderegg, John Loy, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by John Loy)
 "The GoBotron Saga, Part 3: The Fall of GoBotron" (story by Peter Anderegg, John Loy, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by John Loy)
 "The GoBotron Saga, Part 4: Flight to Earth" (story by Jeff Segal, Kelly Ward, and Peter Anderegg; teleplay by Peter Anderegg)
 "The GoBotron Saga, Part 5: Return to GoBotron" (story by Peter Anderegg, John Loy, Jeff Segal, and Kelly Ward; teleplay by Peter Anderegg and John Loy)
 "Pacific Overtures" (story by Jeff Segal and Kelly Ward, teleplay by Jina Bacarr)
 "Destroy All Guardians" (written by Don Glut)
 "Escape from Elba" (written by Lee Yuro and Linda Yuro)
 "