# St. Baldrick's Foundation

The St. Baldrick’s Foundation is a volunteer and donor-powered charity committed to supporting the most promising research to find cures for childhood cancers and give survivors long and healthy lives. The name of the foundation is associated with the Catholic Church. It is founded on wordplay and appropriation of the title of sainthood. Volunteers sponsored by family, friends, and employers shave their heads or "chop" their ponytails in solidarity with children who typically lose their hair during cancer treatment in order to raise funds. Charity Navigator gave the foundation a 79 out of a possible 100 score rating (May 2023) and a three-star rating out of a possible 4 Star rating. According to Better Business Bureau, the non-profit meets the 20 Standards for Charity Accountability, St. Baldrick's Foundation now has the GuideStar Gold Seal of approval.

History 
Reinsurance executives, Tim Kenny, John Bender, and Enda McDonnell first came up with the idea of the first St. Baldrick's head-shaving event on July 4, 1999, as a challenge to see how they would give back for their "good fortune in business". The inaugural event was hosted on March 17, 2000, at Jim Prady's Pub in Manhattan, where $104,000 was raised by 19 shavees. The foundation officially registered as a 501(c)(3) charitable non-profit in 2004. During their first year as an official foundation, they managed to raise over $5.3 million for the Children's Oncology Group. On January 9 and 10, St. Baldrick's hosted their inaugural Research Priorities Summit in New York City. Foundation board members and executives were in attendance, alongside 16 pediatric oncology researchers. Since 2005, when St. Baldrick’s became an independent foundation,  St. Baldrick’s has granted more than $326 million to fund the best childhood cancer research, no matter where it takes place.

Events 
All events are hosted by volunteers in the community, with the foundation providing planning tools and support. Volunteers can start an event, be a shavee, create their own fundraiser, get their business involved, or advocate.  Events have taken place in all 50 US states and 31 countries. Since 2000, St. Baldricks event organizers and volunteers have hosted nearly 16,200 head-shaving events and shaved over 619,000 heads After so many years of service, volunteers are knighted into the St. Baldrick’s League of Legendary Heroes.

Research 
St. Baldrick’s mission is to fund the most promising childhood cancer research. As of 2023, St. Baldrick’s has committed more than $326 million to lifesaving research, making it the largest charity funder of childhood cancer research grants. Over 1,705 grants have been awarded to further the development of better treatments for kids with cancer in 31 countries. Funding of grants is decided upon a competitive grant application review system by a Scientific Advisory Committee consisting of leading pediatric oncology experts.

Advocacy 
The St. Baldrick’s Foundation assisted with the passage of the Childhood Cancer STAR Act in 2018 and the Childhood Cancer STAR Reauthorization Act in 2022. By funding cooperative research through the Children’s Oncology Group, St. Baldrick’s Foundation gives kids nationwide access to the very latest in research and clinical trials. St. Baldrick’s Foundation helped secure a historical federal funding increase for childhood cancer research for multiple years in 2018, 2019, and 2020. St. Baldrick’s has co-chaired the Alliance for Childhood Cancer for over 9 years. St. Baldrick’s Foundation is a member of the following coalitions: Alliance for Childhood Cancer, One Voice Against Cancer, Patient Quality of Life Coalition, and Charitable Giving Coalition.

Notable Supporters
Danilo Gallinari

References

Charities based in California
Children's charities based in the United States
Cancer charities in the United States
Medical and health organizations based in California
501(c)(3) organizations