# Madison Jeffries

Madison Jeffries is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is depicted as having the ability to reshape plastic, metal, and glass to any desired shape. He also possesses the technopathic ability to mentally communicate with  A.I., such as machines and robots. Additionally, Madison Jeffries is the brother of Scramble. The character first appeared in Alpha Flight #16 (Nov. 1984), and was created by John Byrne. He also appears as an NPC in the video game Marvel Heroes, voiced by Richard Epcar.

Character background
As a young man, Madison Jeffries volunteered to enlist as a soldier in Vietnam alongside his younger brother Lionel. After Madison left the military, he met a man named Roger Bochs at a clinic for physically disabled persons. The two became friends, and Madison used his mutant powers to help Bochs create his Box robot. They were recruited into the new Alpha Flight program under Department H. When the Canadian government cut Department H's funding, Madison left the organization completely and found employment digging ditches.

After Alpha Flight returned to Canada, Roger Bochs recruited Madison to rebuild his damaged Box robot, to seek revenge against Omega Flight.

Madison Jeffries later appears as a member of the Utopians alongside Elixir, Karma, Masque, Random, and Tabitha Smith.

Alternate versions

Age of Apocalypse
In the "Age of Apocalypse" reality, Madison Jeffries joined Apocalypse's cause and was a member of the Brotherhood of Chaos, an elite religious group affiliated to the Church of the Madri.

Age of X-Man
In the "Age of X-Man" reality, Madison Jeffries is the History Instructor of the 10th Year class within the Summers Institute Of Higher Learning, located in Winchester, New York.

House of M
In the "House of M" reality, Madison Jeffries had also been forced by Weapon X to create weapons that would be used on his fellow mutants.

Weapon X: Days of Future Now
In the alternate future depicted in Weapon X: Days of Future Now, Madison's ever-improving Boxbots have gained a sentience of their own, one of them even calling itself Master Mold.

References

External links
 AlphaFlight.Net Alphanex Entry On - Madison Jeffries;
 MarvelDirectory.com - Character Bio - Madison Jeffries aka Box IV;
 Uncannyxmen.net Spotlight on Madison Jeffries;
 .

Characters created by John Byrne (comics)
Comics characters introduced in 1984
Fictional Canadian people
Fictional inventors
Fictional technopaths
Fictional United States Army personnel
Fictional Vietnam War veterans
Marvel Comics male superheroes
Marvel Comics military personnel
Marvel Comics mutants
Marvel Comics superheroes