Nanomechanics/Robotics Research

Title: Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (MEMS): Fabrication Using DEMATEL Method

Abstract:
microelectromechanical systems (mems): fabrication Introduction: Micro-electromechanical systems (mems) are mechanical and small for connecting electrical components and integrated devices or used to create systems a process is a technology. They are integrated circuits (ic). Batch processing techniques fabricated using a few micrometers to millimeters will be up to of the smallest machines energy, the technology that can create them appreciated before existence, for example, Richard Feynman's The famous 1959 lecture there is plenty of room at the bottom. Mems are modified semiconductor device fabrication using technologies once fabricated, the practice came electronics in general used for making, molding, and plating, wet etching (Koh, tmah), and dry etching machine (EDM) and small ability to manufacture devices other technologies with. Research significance: Micro-electro-mechanical systems or mems stands for technology, it's formed using microfabrication techniques in a general form small mechanical and electro mechanical components viz devices and structures can be defined as mems devices important physical dimensions at the lower end of the dimension spectrum many from below one micron varies up to millimeters. Likewise, mems device types, with no moving parts from very simple structures integrated microelectronics multiple moving components under control containing highly complex electro as far as mechanical systems vary. A core of mems the criterion is, at least some elements types of mechanical operations contain, these organs move can it or not? Define mems the term used is that of the world it varies in different regions. In the united states, they are mainly called mems, at the same time some other parts of the world in areas they are “microsystems technology” or “micro machines called devices”. Functional components of mems miniaturized structures, sensors, and actuators, and although microelectronics, very remarkable and very interesting elements are micro-sensors and micro-actuators micro sensors and micro actuators are "transducers". Are properly classified as they are from a form of energy converted to another format and are defined as devices. In micro sensors, the device generally measured mechanical converts signal into an electrical signal. Methodology: the decision-making trial and evaluation laboratory (dematel) is regarded as an efficient technique for locating the causal links in a complex system. It focuses on assessing the interdependencies between elements and identifying the crucial ones using a visual structural model. Alternative: electrical, magnetic, mechanical, thermal, chemical Evaluation preference: electrical, magnetic, mechanical, thermal, chemical Results: from the result, it is seen that electrical got the first rank whereas the thermal is having the lowest rank. Conclusion: as can be seen, electrical has the lowest rating while thermal has the top rank.