Nanomechanics/Robotics Research

Title: Bio-Inspired Soft Proboscis Actuator Driven by Dielectric Elastomer Fluid Transducers

Abstract:
In recent years, dielectric elastomer actuators (DEAs) have attracted lots of attention for providing multiple degree-of-freedom motions, such as axial extensions, torsion, bending, and their combinations. The wide applications include soft robots, artificial muscles, and biomimetic animals. In general, DEAs are composed of stretchable elastomers sandwiched by two compliant electrodes and actuated by applying external electric stimuli. Since most DEAs are limited by the breakdown thresholds and low strain-to-volume ratios, dielectric fluid transducers (DFTs) have been developed by substituting dielectric elastomers with dielectric fluids for high breakdown threshold voltages. In addition, DFTs have large rate of lateral extensions, due to their fluid contents, and are beneficial for soft actuators and pumping applications. In this research, we exploited DFTs to develop a soft spiral proboscis actuator inspired by the proboscises of butterflies for achieving uncoiling and coiling motions under external voltages. The bio-inspired spiral proboscis actuator (BSPA) was composed of a coil-shaped tube, a DFT-based pouch, and a spiral spring for mimicking the tubular part, a mechanism to uncoil the tube, and a mechanism to coil the tube, respectively. When applying external voltages to the pouch, the high dielectric fluid was injected into the empty coiled tube for uncoiling where the tube elongated from a compact volume to a stiff and flexible shape. When removing the exciting voltages, the tube retracted to its original coiled shape via the elastic spring. A prototype was designed, fabricated, and examined with high stimulating voltages. It was demonstrated that the proboscis actuator could achieve uncoiling and coiling motions consistently for several cycles. Compared to convection DEA-based pumps with fixed shapes, the proposed actuator is soft and beneficial for portable applications and coiling/uncoiling motions.