[Materials of Construction — Gutenberg #40780]

be sold outside the nation. Every person with 36 acres of agricultural land, shall sow one quarter acre with flax or hemp-feed. All persons shall kill crows on their land to prevent them from eating so much grain at sowing and ripening time and destroying hay stacks and the thatched roofs of houses and barns. They shall assemble yearly to survey all the land to decide how best to destroy all the young breed of crows for that year. Every village and town with at least ten households shall put up and maintain crow nets for the destruction of crows. No land used for raising crops may be converted to pasture. No woods may be converted to agriculture or pasture. The efforts to enforce these proved these prohibitions were not successful. No one shall cut down or break up dikes holding salt water and fresh water from flooding houses and pastures. No one shall dump tin-mining debris, dung, or rubbish into rivers flowing into ports or take any wood from the walls of the port, so that ships may always enter at low tide. A person may lay out a new highway on his land where the old one has been so damaged by waterways that horses with carriages cannot pass, with the consent of local officials. Only poor, aged, and disabled persons may beg. Begging without a license is punishable by whipping or setting in the stocks 3 days with only bread and water. Alien palm readers shall no longer be allowed into the nation, because they have been committing felonies and robberies. Butchers may not sell beef, pork, mutton, or veal from carcasses for more than 1/2 penny and 1/2 farthing [1/4 penny] per pound. French wines may not sell at retail for more than 8d. per gallon. A barrel maker or cooper may sell a beer barrel for 10d. No longer may aliens bring books into the nation to sell because now there are sufficient printers and bookbinders in the nation. No one may buy fresh fish other than sturgeon, porpoise, or seal from an alien to put to sale in the nation. Every person with an enclosed park where there are deer, shall keep two tall and strong mares in such park and shall not allow them to be mounted by any short horse, because the breeding of good, swift, and strong horses has diminished. A man may have only as many trotting horses for the saddle as are appropriate to his degree. No one may maintain for a living a house for unlawful games such as bowling, tennis, dice, or cards. No artificer, craftsman, husbandman, apprentice, laborer, journeyman, mariner, fisherman may play these games except at Christmas under his master's supervision. Noblemen and others with a yearly income of at least 2,000s. may allow his servants to play these games at his house. Hemp or flax may not be watered in any river or stream where animals are watered. No one shall sell merchandise to another and then buy back the same merchandise within three months at a lower price. No one shall sell merchandise to be paid for in a year above the sum of 200s. per 2000s. worth of merchandise. No one shall sell or mortgage any land upon condition of payment of a sum of money before a certain date above the sum of 200s. per 2000s. per year. No one shall commit forgery by counterfeiting a letter made in another person's name to steal any money, goods, or jewels. No one shall libel by accusing another of treason in writing and leaving it in an open place without subscribing his own name to it. If any servant converts to his own use more than 40s. worth of jewels, money, or goods from caskets entrusted to him for safekeeping by a nobleman or other master or mistress, it shall be a felony. If a person breaks into a dwelling house by night to commit burglary or murder, is killed by anyone in that house, or a person is killed in self-defense, the killer shall not forfeit any lands or goods for the killing. Killing by poisoning shall be deemed murder and is punishable by death. A person who has committed a murder, robbery, or other felony he has committed shall be imprisoned for his natural life and be burned on the hand, because those who have been exiled have disclosed their knowledge of the commodities and secrets of this nation and gathered together to practice archery for the benefit of the foreign realm. If he escapes such imprisonment, he shall forfeit his life. A person convicted or outlawed shall be penalized by loss of life, but not loss of lands or goods, which shall go to his wife as dower and his heirs. Buggery may not be committed on any person or beast. No one shall slander or libel the king by speeches or writing or printing or painting. No one shall steal fish from a pond on another's land by using nets or hooks with bait or by drying up the pond. The mayor of London shall appoint householders to supervise watermen rowing people across the Thames River because many people have been robbed and drowned by these rowers. All such boats must be at least 23 feet long and 5 feet wide. No man shall take away or marry any maiden under 16 years of age with an inheritance against the will of her father. Any marriage solemnized in church and consummated shall be valid regardless of any prior agreement for marriage. Sheriffs shall not lose their office because they have not collected enough money for the Exchequer, but shall have allowances sufficient to perform their duties. Butchers, brewers, and bakers shall not conspire together to sell their victuals only at certain prices. Artificers, workmen and laborers shall not conspire to work only at a certain rate or only at certain hours of the day. No one shall sell any woolen cloth that shrinks when it is wet. No one shall use a rope or device to stretch cloth for sale so to make it appear as more in quantity than it is. No one may sell cloth at retail unless the town where it was dressed, dyed, and pressed has placed its seal on the cloth. Cloth may not be pressed with a hot press, but only with a cold press. Only artificers using the cutting of leather, may buy and sell tanned leather and only for the purpose of converting it into made wares. A beggar's child above five years may be taken into service by anyone that will. Cattle may be bought only in the open fair or market and only by a butcher or for a household, team, or dairy, but not for resale live. Butter and cheese shall not be bought to be sold again except at retail in open shop, fair, or market. No man may enter a craft of cloth-making until he has been an apprentice for seven years or has married a clothiers' wife and practicing the trade for years with her and her servants sorting the wool. No country person shall sell wares such as linen drapery, wool drapery, hats, or groceries by retail in any incorporated town, but only in open fairs. For every 60 sheep there shall be kept one milk cow because of the scarcity of cattle. No clothier may keep more than one wool loom in his house, because many weavers do not have enough work to support their families. No weaver may have more than two wool looms. No clothmaker, fuller, shearman, weaver, tailor, or shoemaker shall retain a journeyman to work by the piece for less than a three month period. Every craftsman who has three apprentices shall have one journeyman. Servants in agriculture and bargemen shall serve by the whole year and not by day wages. There shall be a sales tax of 12d. per pound of wool cloth goods for the Crown. All people shall attend church on Sundays to remember God's benefits and goodness to all and to give thanks for these with prayers and to pray to be given daily necessities. Anyone fighting in church shall be excluded from the fellowship of the parish community. No one going from house to house to repair metal goods or sell small goods he is carrying may do this trade outside the town where he lives. No one may sell ale or beer without a license, because there have been too many disorders in common alehouses. Offenders may be put in the town or county gaol for three days. Only persons with yearly incomes of 1,333s. or owning goods worth 13,333s. may store wine in his house and only for the use of his household. No one may sell forged iron, calling it steel, because the edged tools and weapons made from it are useless. Parish communities shall repair the highways for four days each year using oxen, cart, plough, shovels, and spades. The children of priests are declared legitimate so they may inherit their ancestor's lands. The priests may be tenants by courtesy after the death of their wives of such land and tenements that their wives happened to be seized of in fee simple or in fee tail, during the spousals. As of 1541, it was felony to practice witchcraft, sorcery, enchantment, or conjuration [invocation of spirits] for the purpose 1) of obtaining money, or 2) to consume any person in his body, members, or goods, or 3) to provoke any person to unlawful love or lucre of money, or 4) to declare where stolen goods be, or 5) to despite Christ, or 6) to pull down any cross. The Year Books of case decisions ceased in 1535. Judicial Procedure Since the nation was now peaceful, expediency was no longer needed, so judicial procedures again became lengthy and formal with records. The Privy Council took the authority of the Star Chamber court, which organized itself as a specialty court. A specific group of full-time councilors heard pleas of private suitors. By royal proclamation of 1546, only those admitted by the Chancellor and two chief justices may practice as counsel or in legal pleading in any of the King's courts. Also, such a person must be serjeant-at-law, reader, utter barrister, or an eight-year fellow of one of the four houses of court, except in the Court of Common Pleas. Doctors of the civil law may practice in the church or Chancery courts. The Chancery court enforced the obligations known as trusts, in the name of equity and good conscience. It adopted every analogy that the common law presented. Its procedure was to force the defendant to answer on oath the charges that were