# Jacques Léglise Trophy

The Jacques Léglise Trophy is an annual amateur boys' team golf competition between Great Britain & Ireland and the Continent of Europe. It was first played in 1977, as a one-day match before the Boys Amateur Championship, but since 1996 it has been played as a separate two-day match. The venue generally alternates between Great Britain and Ireland and the continent. From 1958 to 1966 a similar match was played between a combined England and Scotland team and the Continent of Europe.

History
The event can trace its origins back to 1958. An England–Scotland boys match had been played since 1923 before the Boys Amateur Championship. In 1958 the match was played on the Friday and a match between a combined England and Scotland team and Europe was played on the Saturday. The English and Scottish selectors each chose four players to make up the British team. The match, consisting of four foursomes and eight singles matches, was very one-sided with the European team losing 11 of the 12 matches and halving the other. The 1959 match had only three foursomes matches and six singles. The Europeans won one of the foursomes and halved two of the singles. The 1960 match had five foursomes matches and ten singles. The match was close with the continental team winning two of the foursomes matches and five of the singles. In 1961, the continental team lost all five foursomes matches but won four of the singles matches. In 1962, the score was the same with the continent winning one foursomes match and three singles, while in 1963 they won two foursomes matches and one singles. The 1964 and 1965 contests had four foursomes matches and nine singles. The Continental team won just one singles match on each occasion  The 1966 match wes reduced to four foursomes and eight singles, the continental team winning just two singles matches. The combined England and Scotland team had dominated to such an extent that it was discontinued after 1966, and replaced by an annual youth international, played before the British Youths Open Amateur Championship and which was held for the first time in 1967.

The boys match was revived in 1977 when Jean-Louis Dupont donated a trophy in memory of Jacques Léglise, who had been president of the French Golf Federation and of the European Golf Association. There were four foursomes and nine singles matches and the Continental team won for the first time. In 1978 the Continental team won again by the same score, 7–6.  From 1979 the number of singles match was reduced to eight. In 1993 the match was extended, with five foursomes and ten singles matches Up to 1995 it was played over a single day in connection with the Boys Amateur Championship.

Since 1996 it has been played as a separate two-day match with the venue generally alternating between Great Britain and Ireland and the continent. There were 10 players in each team in 1996 reduced to 9 since 1997. From 1996 to 2014 both days had four foursomes in the morning and eight singles matches in the afternoon. From 2015, there have been nine singles matches on the final afternoon.

Format
Currently the teams are nine strong and the tournament is played over two days, with four foursomes in the morning and either eight or nine singles matches in the afternoon. The Great Britain and Ireland team is selected by The R&A and the Continent of Europe side by the European Golf Association. Players must be under 18 on 1 January of the year in which the event takes place.

In recent years the Great Britain and Ireland team have chosen a captain from among the players; in addition to a non-playing manager. The Continent of Europe side has a non-playing captain.

Results
Since the event was revived in 1977, the Great Britain & Ireland team has won the event 29 times, while Continent of Europe has 15 victories. The 2015 match ended in a tie and so Great Britain & Ireland retained the trophy.

Future sites 
2023 - France
2024 - West Lancashire

Teams
There have been 9 players in each team since 1997.

Great Britain & Ireland
2023 Hugh Adams, Donnacha Cleary, Monty Holcombe, Sean Keeling, Kris Kim, Oliver Mukherjee, Jack Murphy, Dylan Shaw-Radford, Niall Sheils Donegan
2022 Josh Berry, Connor Graham, Josh Hill, Frank Kennedy, Oliver Mukherjee, Dylan Shaw-Radford, Niall Shiels Donegal, Harley Smith, Tyler Weaver
2021 Cameron Adam, Jack Bigham, Daniel Bullen, Archie Finnie, Connor Graham, Josh Hill, Joshua Hill, Ruben Lindsay, Harley Smith
2019 Barclay Brown, Archie Davies, Joshua Hill, Aaron Marshall, Tom McKibbin, Connor McKinney, Luke O'Neill, Joe Pagdin, Ben Schmidt
2018 Barclay Brown, Archie Davies, Conor Gough, Max Hopkins, Tom McKibbin, Connor McKinney, Joe Pagdin, Mark Power, Robin Williams
2017 Toby Briggs, Alex Fitzpatrick, Luke Harries, Darren Howie, Ben Jones, Thomas Plumb, Mark Power, Charlie Strickland, Robin Williams
2016 Toby Briggs, Alex Fitzpatrick, Harry Goddard, Kevin LeBlanc, Thomas Mulligan, Marco Penge, Mark Power, Jamie Stewart, Charlie Strickland
2015 Ben Chamberlain, Will Enefer, Calum Fyfe, Tim Harry, Bradley Moore, Thomas Mulligan, Marco Penge, Sandy Scott, Tom Williams
2014 George Burns, Jamie Dick, Ewen Ferguson, Tim Harry, Rowan Lester, Haydn McCullen, Bradley Moore, Marco Penge, Ashton Turner
2013 Ben Amor, Robin Dawson, Ewen Ferguson, Robert MacIntyre, Bradley Moore, Bradley Neil, Marco Penge, Connor Syme, Ashton Turner
2012 Harry Ellis, Matt Fitzpatrick, Alex Gleeson, Patrick Kelly, Gavin Moynihan, Bradley Neil, Max Orrin, Toby Tree, Ashton Turner
2011 David Boote, Harrison Greenberry, Gary Hurley, Nathan Kimsey, Paul Kinnear, Dermot McElroy, Gavin Moynihan, Callum Shinkwin, Toby Tree
2010 James Burnett, Adam Carson, Paul Dunne, Grant Forrest, Scott Gibson, Chris Lloyd, Paul Lockwood, Dermot McElroy, Rhys Pugh
2009 Jonathan Bell, Adam Carson, Sebastian Crookall-Nixon, Paul Dunne, Tom Lewis, Chris Lloyd, Eddie Pepperell, Paul Shields, Max Smith
2008 Alan Dunbar, Ben Enoch, Tommy Fleetwood, Stiggy Hodgson, Gary King, Luke Lennox, Tom Lewis, Eddie Pepperell, Michael Stewart
2007 James Byrne, Paul Cutler, Tommy Fleetwood, Fraser Fotheringham, Matt Haines, Jack Hiluta, Andrew Johnston, Eddie Pepperell, Michael Stewart
2006 James Byrne, Paul Cutler, Rhys Enoch, Luke Goddard, Sam Hutsby, Niall Kearney, Lewis Kirton, Matthew Nixon, Adam Runcie
2005 Matt Evans, Zac Gould, Tom Haylock, Scott Henry, Steven McEwan, Tom Sherreard, Mark Trow, Simon Ward, Danny Willett
2004 Matthew Baldwin, Gary Boyd, Jordan Findlay, Zac Gould, Scott Henry, Cian McNamara, Aaron O'Callaghan, Paul O'Hara, John Parry
2003 Wallace Booth, Rhys Davies, Daniel Denison, Tommy Hunter, Cian McNamara, Aaron O'Callaghan, Lloyd Saltman, Gareth Shaw, Paul Waring
2002 Clancy Bowe, Rhys Davies, Farren Keenan, Jamie Moul, Mark Pilling, Matthew Richardson, Gareth Shaw, Michael Skelton, Paul Waring
2001 Clancy Bowe, Stephen Buckley, Chris Cousins, James Heath, Scott Jackson, Farren Keenan, David Porter, Niall Turner, Daniel Wardrop
2000 Yasin Ali, Stephen Buckley, Jack Doherty, David Inglis, Derek McNamara, David Porter, Zane Scotland, Richard Scott, Joshua Simons
1999 Nick Dougherty, Scott Godfrey, Sandeep Grewal, Barry Hume, David Inglis, Mark O'Sullivan, David Porter, David Price, Zane Scotland
1998 Ian Campbell, Nick Dougherty, Adam Frayne, Justin Kehoe, David Griffiths, David Jones, John MacDougall, Steven O'Hara, Robin Symes
1997 Ian Campbell, Mark Campbell, Graham Gordon, David Jones, Richard Jones, Neil Matthews, Lee Rhind, Justin Rose, Phil Rowe
1996 Martin Brown, Kenneth Ferrie, David Jones, Mark Loftus, Morgan Palmer, Oliver Pughe, Justin Rose, Phil Rowe, Graeme Storm, Daniel Sugrue
1995 Grant Campbell, Luke Donald, Carl Duke, Graham Fox, Craig Lee, Jamie Little, Denny Lucas, Morgan Palmer, Tim Rice, Steven Young
1994 Steven Craig, Carl Duke, Alastair Forsyth, Gary Harris, Jamie Harris, Craig Heap, Jamie Little, Ciaran McMonagle, Stephen Raybould, Steve Webster
1993 James Bunch, R Davies, Gary Harris, James Healey, David Howell, Andrew McCormick, Sean Quinlivan, Stephen Raybould, A Wall, Steven Young
1992 Scott Drummond, Andrew Farmer, Stephen Gallacher, Hugh McKibbin, David Park, Sean Quinlivan, Alan Reid, Iestyn Taylor
1991 Raymond Burns, Stuart Cage, Richie Coughlan, Bradley Dredge, Craig Hislop, Iain Pyman, Murray Urquhart, Lee Westwood
1990 Neil Archibald, Raymond Burns, Richie Coughlan, Matthew Ellis, Garry Jack, Neil Macrae, Michael Welch, Lee Westwood
1989 Raymond Burns, Colin Fraser, Ian Garbutt, Pádraig Harrington, Richard Johnson, Raymond Russell, Murray Urquhart, Carl Watts
1988 Colin Fraser, Pádraig Harrington, Martin Hastie, Richard Johnson, Paul Page, Stuart Paul, Mike Smith, Stuart Syme
1987 Stuart Bannerman, David Bathgate, Andrew Coltart, Steve Docherty, David Errity, Wayne Henry, Gary McNeill, Jim Payne
1986 Jason Bennett, Neil Duncan, Steve Edgley, Paddy Gribben, Wayne Henry, Graham King, James Lee, Alan Tait
1985 Peter Baker, J Cook, Craig Everett, Jason Farrell, Wayne Henry,