# Operation Moduler

Operation Moduler (sometimes incorrectly called "Modular") was a military operation by the South African Defence Force (SADF) during the South African Border War. It formed part of what has come to be called the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale. The Angolan objective was to advance south-east to attack the UNITA (National Union for the Total Independence of Angola) at Mavinga. The SADF objective was to protect UNITA by stopping that advance. The advance was halted with heavy Angolan casualties. The South African forces and its UNITA allies then began offensive operations against the Angolan forces, who had retreated back to a defensive line east of the Cuito River with the objective of destroying them once and for all.

Background
During January 1987, the Angolans began to increase their air defence network in the Cuito Cuanavale region and by April they had begun to assemble a large force of tanks, APCs, trucks and a large number of helicopters and fighter and strike aircraft at the town which indicated the build-up of a new offensive on UNITA. By May UNITA was discussing the situation with the South Africans and by June, SADF military intelligence teams were operating with UNITA teams to monitor the Angolan build up. On 2 June 1987, four brigades of the Soviet-backed People's Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola (FAPLA) (the 47th, 59th, 16th and 21st brigades), departed from the Angolan town of Cuito Cuanavale to capture the UNITA stronghold at Mavinga, which was the gateway to UNITA's capital of Jamba. By 15 June a plan was formulated to deploy units of 32 Battalion and Valkiri MRLs, for a covert operation similar to Operation Wallpaper, and have the remaining units of 32 Battalion and 61 Mechanised Battalion on standby for an attack on the Angolan brigades. On 22 June, Operation Moduler came into operation with Colonel Jock Harris of 32 Battalion in command but the forces would not be directly involved in the combat and by mid-July, more of 32 Battalion units were ordered to Mavinga with his complete force in place by early August.

Order of battle

South African and South West Africa Territorial Forces from August 1987
 32 Battalion - five companies - Colonel Jock Harris
 three reconnaissance teams
 one battery MRL
 one battery  mortars
 two  mobile anti-aircraft units.

South African and South West Africa Territorial Forces from 5 September 1987

20 Brigade - Colonel Deon Ferreira
Battle Group Alpha - Commandant Kobus Smit
 one mechanised company - 61 Mech
 one motorized company - 32 Battalion
 one armoured car squadron - Ratel-90
 one 81mm mortar platoon - 4 Ratels
 one 20mm mobile anti-aircraft unit
Battle Group Bravo - Commandant Robbie Hartslief
 one motorized company - 32 Battalion
 two motorized company - 101 Battalion
 one motorized platoon - 32 Battalion
 one armoured car squadron - Ratel-90
 one 81mm mortar platoon - 4 Ratels
Battle Group Charlie - Major Dawid Lotter
 one mechanised company - 61 Mech 
 one anti-tank platoon
 one 81mm mortar platoon - 4 Ratels

20 Artillery Regiment
 Q Battery - G5 155mm howitzers, 4 Stinger teams UNITA, two SA-7 AA teams, 8 14.5mm AA guns, two platoons 32 Battalion
 P Battery - MRLs plus, one company 32 Battalion, 20mm AA troop, 2 Stinger teams UNITA, two SA-7 AA teams
 S Battery - 120mm mortars plus one platoon 32 Battalion

South African and South West Africa Territorial Forces from 23 October 1987

Brigadier Fido Smit – Overall Commander

Task Force 10 – Colonel Deon Ferreira
Combat Group Alpha – Commandant Mike Muller
 2 x Mechanised Infantry Companies – 61 Mech
 1 x Ratel 90 squadron
 1 x 81mm Mortar platoon
 1 x AA platoon
 1 x Engineer Troop
 1 x Assault Pioneer Platoon
 1 x UNITA Battalion

Combat Group Charlie – Commandant Leon Marias.
 2 x Mechanised Infantry Companies – 4SAI 62 mech
 2 x Motorised Infantry Companies – 32 Battalion
 1 x Ratel 90 squadron
 1 x 81mm Mortar platoon
 1 x 120mm Mortar battery
 1 x Tank Squadron (13 Olifant tanks)
 1 x UNITA Battalion
 1 x 20mm mobile anti-aircraft unit

UNITA Liaison Team – Colonel Fred Oelshig

Mobile Air Operations Team – Major Brian Daniel (SAAF 89 Combat Flying School)

20 Medical Task Team – Commandant Coen van den Berg

20 Artillery Regiment – Colonel Jean Lausberg
 Q Battery - 8 G5s
 S Battery - 8 G5s and 8 120mm mortars
 J Troop - 3 G6s
 P Battery - 8 MRLs
 I troop - 4 MRLs

Combat Group Bravo – Commandant Robbie Hartslief
 2 x Mechanised Infantry Companies – 32 Battalion
 2 x Motorised Infantry Companies – 101 Battalion
 1 x Anti-Tank Squadron
 1 x UNITA Battalion
 1 x Company 701Bn

UNITA
 three Regular Battalions
 four Semi-regular Battalions

FAPLA/Cuban forces
 16 Brigade
 21 Brigade
 47 Brigade
 59 Brigade

Reserve
 two brigades - West of Cuito & guarding Menongue road and convoys
 one brigade - Cuito Cuanavale
 one brigade - East of Cuito at Tumpo

SADF begins its defensive operations
The South Africans began Operation Moduler on 13 August with Sierra Battery unleashing 120mm mortar fire on the 47 and 59 Brigades halting their advance at Catato Woods. On 16 August the South African forces were given permission to release their G5 battery and a Ratel-90 anti-tank squadron for operations on the Lomba River. On the early morning of 20 August, South African Valkiri MRLs opened fire on FAPLA forces at Catato Woods alerting the Angolans for the first time that the South African were assisting UNITA. This rocket firing would continue for the next five days on the FAPLA brigades. During this period the Ratel-90 anti-tank squadron was advancing north to Mavinga while between 26 and 28 August, SAAF C-130s flew in the eight G5 battery and their support equipment for deployment to the Lomba River region.

Between 24–28 August, a special forces team from 4 Reconnaissance Regiment were sent on a mission called Operation Coolidge. Its objective was the destruction of the bridge over the Cuito River that was used to move FAPLA logistics from Cuito Cuanavale to the brigades to the south-west on the Lomba River. The special forces were dropped off by helicopters 40 km north of the bridge and rowed down the Cuito to the bridge in canoes. After partially setting their demolition charges the team was discovered but managed to escape leaving the bridge partially damaged and unable to be used by vehicles. The team were chased back to their rendezvous point by Angolan troops leap-frogging ahead by helicopters. Despite faulty helicopters, bad weather and Angolan troops, the team was eventually picked up and returned to Rundu. For the first time on 26 August, a SADF forward observer was able to see 47 and 59 Brigade's positions and see the effect of the Valkiri MRL fire on them. The artillery fire was slowing but not halting their advance and this meant the South African MRLs and their protection force eventually had to be moved south of the Lomba River to ensure they weren't cut off.

On 28 and 29 August, SADF planners met at Rundu and a decision was made to send 61 Mechanised Battalion to assist 32 Battalion, released two companies from 101 Battalion and allocated the resources of the SAAF to the operation. With UNITA unable or unwilling to slow the advance of the FAPLA brigades, the Angolans began a fast advance to the Lomba on 29 August which saw them move 40 km in two days. Two kilometres east of the Cunzumbia/Lomba confluence lay a bridge which 21 Brigade would need to cross the Lomba River and they came within 9 km north-west of the objective. 59 Brigade crossed eastwards over the Cuzizi River using Russian bridging equipment and stopped 6 km north of the Cunzumbia/Lomba confluence while 47 Brigade had moved westward to the source of the Lomba River. 32 Battalion and it's Valkiri MRLs moved to the southeast of Lomba/Cuzizi confluence to engage 47 Brigade while its Ratel-90 anti-tank squadron and mortars moved to within 5 km of the same area with the G5s positioned 18 km southeast of the Cunzumbia/Lomba confluence to engage 21 Brigade. On 31 August the South African forces engaged the FAPLA brigades with Valkiri MRLs rockets fired at 47 Brigade halting its advance while later that evening the G5s fired on 21 Brigade halting their advance. 61 Mechanised Battalion's commander Commandant Bok Smit met 32 Battalion's Colonel Jock Harris on 2 September and they would plan the arrival and positioning of 61 Mech forces in the coming days.

A 32 Battalion reconnaissance team was sent behind enemy lines with a forward artillery observer to direct the South African G5 artillery fire and were in position by 2 September while another team had located 16 and 47 Brigade exact position by 4 September. Flying an artillery observation officer on the night of 3 September, a SAAF Bosbok light aircraft was intercepted and shot down by a SA-8 south of the Lomba River killing the two occupants. With the South African force now called 20 Brigade, Colonel Deon Ferreira took command on 5 September with the force divided into Battle Groups Alpha, Bravo and Ch