# Death of Martin Anderson

Martin Lee Anderson (c. January 15, 1991 – January 6, 2006) was a 14-year-old  from Florida who died while incarcerated at a boot camp-style youth detention center, the Bay County Boot Camp, located in Panama City, Florida, and operated by the Bay County Sheriff's Office. Upon arriving at the camp he was forced to run track, and within two hours he became fatigued and stopped. The guards coerced him to continue his run. He returned to the track, collapsed and died a short while later. A portion of the surveillance video depicting the coercion was made public. The incident resulted in the Florida legislature voting to close the state's five juvenile boot camps.

Public outcry

The death became a cause célèbre and received national attention.  The local medical examiner, Dr. Charles Siebert, performed an autopsy and ruled that the teen died of "complications from sickle cell trait".  He said, "It was a natural death."  This caused further public outcry because the public did not understand how forensic pathologists determine manner of death.  The public assumed that because the manner was "natural" that no charges could be brought to anyone for his death.  The Governor ordered a second autopsy; the second pathologist, Dr. Vern Adams, ruled Martin Anderson's death was "caused by suffocation due to actions of the guards at the boot camp. The suffocation was caused by manual occlusion of the mouth, in concert with forced inhalation of ammonia fumes that caused spasm of the vocal cords resulting in internal blockage of the upper airway."

Public indignation resulted in the closing of the state's five juvenile boot camps, the firing of Siebert, and charges of manslaughter against the guards. Governor Charlie Crist directed the state of Florida to settle a family lawsuit for $5 million. Eventually, the guards were acquitted at trial. The controversy regarding Siebert's firing resulted in accusations by the National Association of Medical Examiners, independent groups of medical examiners throughout the nation, the State Attorney, and the Bay County Commissioners complaining that the Florida Medical Examiner system had been compromised by racial politics.

Guy Tunnell, the FDLE commissioner, resigned after making inappropriate remarks made about African-American civil rights leaders related to the case.

Circumstances

On January 5, 2006, within the first two hours of Anderson's first day at the camp, where he had been committed for stealing his grandmother's car, curfew violation during probation, and theft of candy, camp officials forced him to continue exercising after he had stopped. Drill instructors grabbed Anderson and applied numerous uses of force, including holding Anderson by the arms, take-downs, and pressure point applications. Anderson became unresponsive during this episode, and the guards administered ammonia salts in an attempt to revive him.  He died the next day in Pensacola, Florida after his parents elected to remove him from life support.

Investigation

An investigation into the teen's death began immediately, as a cooperative effort of the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE), the state Department of Juvenile Justice, and the Bay County Sheriff's Department.

On February 18, 2006, State Attorney Steve Meadows, whose jurisdiction includes Bay County, appealed to Florida Governor Jeb Bush for the case to be reassigned from his office. In his letter, Meadows admitted "close ties" to FDLE chief Guy Tunnell, who had opened the boot camp where Anderson died while serving as Bay County sheriff.

Bush appointed Hillsborough County State Attorney Mark Ober to oversee the case, which remains open and under his supervision.

On November 28, 2006, authorities announced the arrest of eight people in connection with Anderson's death. Seven guards and a nurse were charged with aggravated manslaughter of a child, a felony. They were all later acquitted of the charges.

On April 16, 2010, the U.S. Department of Justice stated that no federal criminal civil rights charges would be filed against the eight people who were originally charged in his death. The press release included the following:

"After a careful and thorough review, a team of experienced federal prosecutors and FBI agents determined that the evidence was insufficient to pursue federal criminal civil rights charges. Accordingly, the investigation into this incident has been closed."

Two autopsies

As early as January 9, FDLE officials announced that Anderson's autopsy ruled out "trauma or injury" as the cause of his death.

The official cause of death was not reported for another five weeks. In mid-February, Bay County Medical Examiner Charles F. Siebert announced that his first autopsy of Anderson determined that the teen died of complications from sickle cell trait, a normally benign and relatively common condition among African Americans.

A Florida statute allows a medical examiner to return a body to the jurisdiction where the incident occurred. Ober cleared Siebert of any wrongdoing in bringing the body back to Bay County.

On March 12, Anderson's body was exhumed and a second autopsy was conducted by the coroner of Hillsborough County, Dr. Vernard Adams.  This time, the autopsy was attended by several other forensic pathologists as consultants to Adams. Dr. Michael Baden, New York State Police coroner, attended at the request of Anderson's parents and the NAACP.

Dr. Adams' findings:

The results of the second autopsy were announced by the State Attorney, Marc Ober, on May 6. Adams said that Anderson's death was caused by suffocation due to actions of the guards.  A lack  of oxygen was caused by holding his mouth closed while forcing him to inhale ammonia fumes.  The video shows guards holding the capsules in Anderson's face repeatedly.

Controversy and criticism
Many of the major figures in the Anderson investigation have been criticized by Anderson's family, youth advocates, civil-rights and anti-detention groups, as well as state and national media outlets.

Immediately after observing Adams' 12-hour autopsy, Baden said, "Preliminary findings indicate the boy did not die from sickle cell trait, nor did he die from natural causes." Baden has said repeatedly that sickle trait by itself does not cause death.  He explained a "sickle cell crisis" is a sickle cell disease—not the same as sickle cell trait.  By itself, the sickle cell trait is not harmful. People with sickle cell trait can lead perfectly healthy lives. But beyond that, he said, hospital records indicate Anderson's blood was not sickled until the moment at which he started to die.

It has been established, however, that people with sickle cell trait have a four thousand percent increased incidence of sudden death when put in a boot camp environment. The risk of sudden death in boot camp environments for people with sickle trait has long been recognized in military services. Some military services, such as Great Britain, chose to limit activities of people with sickle trait. The US military, in contrast, changed its boot camp procedures to lessen the probability of exertional death (Armed Forces Epidemiological Board, Memorandum 2003-004 Screening for Sickle Cell Disease at Accession). Recent studies have shown that laboratory specimens falsely underestimate the degree of sickling in the blood Dr. Jon Thogmartin, the Pinellas-Pasco medical examiner said, "Michael Baden saying it [sickle cell trait] does not harm you—considering the literature, he may as well have walked out and said the world is flat." In June 2007 the National Athletic Trainers' Association released a consensus statement noting that approximately 5 percent of exertional deaths in young healthy athletes were from exertional sickling in those with sickle cell trait.

According to Adams, "Martin Anderson's death was caused by suffocation due to actions of the guards at the boot camp. The suffocation was caused by manual occlusion of the mouth, in concert with forced inhalation of ammonia fumes that caused spasm of the vocal cords resulting in internal blockage of the upper airway." Death due to laryngospasm, however, is not listed in standard lists of adverse effects. Dr. Randy Eichner noted in his testimony that such a death had never been recorded in 150 years of use of ammonia spirits. Dr. Adams did not dispute this: 
Defense attorney Waylon Graham asked him why he thought the use of ammonia could have killed Anderson when nothing like that has ever been recorded "in the history of the world."
"This is the only place in the world to my knowledge where ammonia capsules were used this way," Adams said. "So no other deaths would have occurred."

This has led a number of forensic pathologists to support Siebert's diagnosis. Steve Meadows, the State Attorney who succeeded Ober, concluded that the criticism of Siebert was politically motivated. When the Medical Examiner Commission voted not to retain Siebert following the expira