# KALA (FM)

KALA (88.5 MHz) is a non-commercial public FM radio station in Davenport, Iowa, serving the Quad Cities radio market.  It is owned by St. Ambrose University with studios on West Locust Street.  It airs a mix of news and specialty music shows.  Most of the news programs come from National Public Radio (NPR) and the Public Radio Exchange (PRX).   The station's musical lineup includes mainstream and fusion jazz, blues, Americana music, Southern gospel, urban gospel, Latin contemporary, classic rock, oldies, urban contemporary, world music, classic R&B, indie rock and alternative rock.  KALA carries the syndicated weekly Pink Floyd program "Floydian Slip."

KALA has an effective radiated power of 10,000 watts, using a directional antenna.  Its transmitter is on West 76th Street and West Kimberly Road, near Interstate 280 in Davenport.  KALA broadcasts using HD Radio technology.  Its HD2 digital subchannel feeds 250-watt FM translator K29BP at 106.1 MHz in Bettendorf.

During the week, KALA features public service programming (both syndicated and locally produced).  There are local, state, and national newscasts.  The station also features live radio programs, St. Ambrose University campus news, a local calendar of events, daily weather updates, and student-run music shows. A mainstay of the station's commitment to the university community is its live coverage of St. Ambrose University sports events. This includes SAU's Fighting Bees/Queen Bees basketball, football, and baseball.

KALA also features an online station by students for students. "The Stinger" plays Top 40 hits, country, alternative, and rock music, along with music and talk shows hosted by student DJs.

History
The station signed on the air on .Broadcasting Yearbook 1977 page C-76.  Retrieved Aug. 5, 2023  It was originally powered at 10 watts, only heard on campus.  But it later got a boost to its current power.

References

External links
KALA official website

Radio stations in the Quad Cities
Radio stations established in 1967
St. Ambrose University
ALA
1967 establishments in Iowa