# University Heights Bridge

The University Heights Bridge is a steel-truss revolving swing bridge across the Harlem River in New York City. It connects West 207th Street in the Inwood neighborhood of Manhattan with West Fordham Road in the University Heights neighborhood of the Bronx. The bridge is operated and maintained by the New York City Department of Transportation.

The bridge carries two lanes of traffic in each direction, along with a sidewalk on its southern side. The bridge has three masonry piers supporting the steel approach spans.  The sidewalk features four shelters with cast-iron supports while the bridge deck has decorative iron railings and two stone pavilions.

The bridge structure was originally installed further to the north, carrying Broadway across the Harlem River Ship Canal. It opened in 1895 as the Harlem Ship Canal Bridge and was relocated southward to University Heights in 1908. Over the following decades, the University Heights Bridge carried streetcar and bus service. By the late 20th century it was in disrepair. The New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission designated the University Heights Bridge as a city landmark in 1984, and it was completely rebuilt between 1989 and 1992.

Description 
The University Heights Bridge, a swing bridge over the Harlem River, connects West 207th Street in Inwood, Manhattan, with West Fordham Road in University Heights, Bronx. The movable central span pivots around a small masonry island in the middle of the river. The movable section is designed as a metal truss bridge composed of numerous Howe trusses and Warren trusses. The University Heights Bridge carries the Bx12 local and Select Bus Service bus routes operated by MTA New York City Transit. Between 2000 and 2014, the bridge opened for vessels 114 times.

The bridge was designed by consulting engineer William Hubert Burr, who later became consulting engineer at several other bridge and tunnel projects, mostly in the New York City area. Burr was posthumously described as "one of the engineers who helped to raise the level of American building technology to the status of exact science". Burr also gave credit to Alfred Pancoast Boller, who was responsible for the bridge's aesthetics, and George W. Birdsall, chief engineer of the Department of Public Works. Boller had been involved in the design of several other Harlem River bridges, including the Madison Avenue Bridge and the Macombs Dam Bridge, and was also a consulting engineer or designer for numerous other bridges across the world. He had stated in 1877 that, by including ornamental detail in bridge designs, "the appearance of a roadway-bridge having sidewalks is very much enhanced, and at a very small cost." Birdsall appears to have been given ex officio credit, by virtue of his position as Public Works chief engineer.

Original site 

From 1895 to 1905, the bridge structure was situated on the Harlem River Ship Canal further north, during which time it was known as the Harlem Ship Canal Bridge. It carried Broadway between the Inwood and Marble Hill neighborhoods of Manhattan. Prior to the construction of the Harlem River Ship Canal, Marble Hill was part of Manhattan Island, and the Spuyten Duyvil Creek made a tight curve around the northern shore of Marble Hill, connecting the Hudson River on the west shore of Manhattan Island with Harlem River on the east shore. Marble Hill was separated from Manhattan Island when the canal opened in 1895.

The Harlem Ship Canal Bridge measured  from end to end, or  excluding stone abutments. It was constructed with four sections supported by three masonry piers. The two central sections comprised the swing span, which pivoted around a small masonry island in the middle of the canal. On either side of the masonry island were navigable openings that measured  wide at mean high water. The swing span was approached by two  approach structures, as well as stone abutments. The bridge had a total width of , with a roadway of  and two sidewalks of . The bridge weighed , with the machinery comprising one-sixth of the weight.

Current site 

The University Heights Bridge is composed of five sections. The easternmost section and the two westernmost sections are fixed-deck Warren trusses, while the central sections comprise the swing span above the Harlem River. The westernmost approach span was made for the 207th Street location, while the other spans were carried over from their original Broadway location. According to the New York City Department of Transportation (NYCDOT), which maintains the bridge, its total length is , including its approach spans. The bridge carries four lanes for vehicular traffic and a sidewalk on the southern side for pedestrians. The deck previously had two sidewalks, each  wide. The northern sidewalk was eliminated during the 1989–1992 renovation and the southern sidewalk widened to .

The swing span is variously cited as being  or  long. The swing span's trusswork consists of concave chords running along the top. The chords taper up toward a square section in the center of the span, which is topped by four finials. The swing span can be rotated around a tower below the center of the deck, which in turn is on the small masonry island. The rotating tower is about  in diameter and is anchored into the bedrock beneath the Harlem River. The swing span is supported by three piers, one in the center of the river and one on each bank; these piers are made of concrete and faced with ashlar. At either end of the bridge's approach spans are concrete ramps with walls made of granite ashlar. 

The western end of the bridge is at 207th Street's intersection with Ninth Avenue. At the eastern end of the bridge, an overpass crosses the Metro-North Railroad's Hudson Line, and an entrance to the line's University Heights station leads from the sidewalk. The overpass continues as Fordham Road, which intersects with the on- and off-ramps of Interstate 87 (I-87), the Major Deegan Expressway.

On either bank of the river is an iron, copper, and stone shelter house with a red tile roof. The shelter house on the east bank is north of the roadway, while that on the west bank is south of the roadway. There are drawbridge gates near these end piers, blocking off access to the swing span when it is open for maritime traffic. Many of the original railings have been replaced. The bridge's sidewalk contains four pergolas or shelters, two on each bank of the river. The pergolas each consist of six cast-iron columns with elliptical wrought-iron arches, as well as hip roofs with copper shingles.

History 

As a result of the River and Harbor Act, passed by the United States Congress in 1890, bridges on the Harlem River with low vertical clearance were to be replaced with those with at least  of clearance during mean high water springs. Drawbridges and swing spans were determined to be most suitable for this purpose. In 1891, a wooden pedestrian drawbridge was constructed between 207th Street in Manhattan and Fordham Road in the Bronx.

To the north, the New York City Department of Public Works was commissioned in 1892 to build the Harlem Ship Canal Bridge between Inwood and Marble Hill, carrying Broadway over the new canal. This bridge was designed by Burr, Boller, and Birdsall, and constructed by A. McMullen & Co. The bridge opened on January 1, 1895. At the time, it was one of several swing bridges that had been built on the Harlem River, and it was the second oldest major bridge in New York City behind the Brooklyn Bridge.

Relocation from Broadway 
By the first decade of the 20th century, the city sold the Harlem Ship Canal Bridge to the Interborough Rapid Transit Company (IRT), which was constructing the New York City Subway's first line. A branch of the line was to cross the Harlem Ship Canal above Broadway, which involved modifying or replacing the existing bridge. Ultimately, the IRT determined the existing structure could not support the elevated subway line, choosing instead to build the double-decker Broadway Bridge. The need to replace the bridge was further emphasized when, in 1903, the New York State Legislature passed legislation allowing the realignment of the New York Central Railroad's Spuyten Duyvil Line (now the Metro-North Railroad's Hudson Line) along the Harlem River's eastern bank. The railroad wished to avoid a grade crossing with the Metropolitan Street Railway's streetcar tracks on the replacement Broadway Bridge.

In 1903, bridge engineer Gustav Lindenthal suggested constructing a bridge from University Heights in the Bronx to Inwood in Manhattan. An early proposal called for a ,  bridge from 184th Street (now Fordham Road) in the Bronx to 210th Street in Manhattan. However, that span was reduced to  long and  wide to save money. The city suggested that the Harlem Ship Canal Bridge could be relocated for that purpose. Ultimately, the city made an agreement with the three railroads to relocate the first span down the Harlem River, onl