[Materials of Construction — Gutenberg #40780]

the law and to be qualified to obtain legal rights shall be in frankpledge." In Mercia, a surety has a month and a day to find an escaped person accused of larceny or robbery, or else shall swear with eleven compurgators that he had not known him to be a thief, that he was not accessory to his flight, and that he cannot find him. Then he shall pay for the stolen goods and 20s. in lieu of the head of the accused man and 4d. to the jailor, a farthing for the spade, and 40s. to the king. Every lord shall be personally responsible as surety for his servant so that, it an accusation is brought against him, he shall bring him for trial in the hundred court. And if he escapes while he is under the accusation, the lord shall pay his wergeld. And if the lord is accused of being an accessory to his flight, he shall clear himself with 5 compurgators, and if he cannot, he shall pay compensation to the king; and the man shall be an outlaw. All freemen shall keep themselves supplied with arms and horses or pay the full fine of insubordination. All earls, barons, knights, tenants by serjeanty and all free men shall be ready to perform their service defending me against enemies and aliens, by virtue of their fiefs, which are hereditary. Or pay the fine for insubordination. The heriot of an earl, which falls to the King, is 8 horses - 4 of them bridled and saddled - 4 coats of mail, 4 helmets, 4 shields, 4 lances and 4 swords. Of the other 4 horses, 2 shall be hunters and 2 riding horses with bridlos and halters. The heriot of a baron is 4 horses - 2 bridled and saddled - 2 coats of mail, 2 helmets, 2 shields, 2 swords and 2 lances. And of the other 2 horses, 1 shall be a hunter and 1 a riding horse with bridles and halters. The heriot of a thegn of lower rank to his liege lord shall be discharged by (delivering up) his father's horse, as it was in the day of his death, his helmet, his shield, his coat of mail, and lance and his sword. And if he was without equipment, having neither horse nor arms, it shall be discharged by the payment of 100 s. The heriot of a villain: he shall give to this lord the best animal that he has, either a horse, an ox, or a cow. And further all villeins shall be in frankpledge. For those who hold their land by the payment of rent, the legal heriot shall be the equivalent of a year's rent. No one shall entertain a man for more than 3 days, unless he is committed to this charge by the man with whom he was formerly serving. And no one shall let any of his men leave him after an accusation has All men shall keep the law of Edward relating to the tenure of estates. been brought against him. I prohibit the slaying or hanging of anyone for any offense, but his eyes shall be put out and he shall suffer castration, so the trunk remains alive as a sign of his treachery and wickedness. If a person violates this, he shall pay the insubordination fee. All cities, boroughs, castles, hundreds and wapentakes shall be guarded every night on all sides against malefactors and enemies, as our sheriffs, earldormen, reeves and other officials and servants best provide. The protection of the church is inviolable. Whatever crime a man has committed, if he can make his way to a holy church, he shall have protection for life and limb. And if anyone lays hands on him there, he shall pay for anything he has taken and a fine of 100s. for a bishop's church, abbey or monastery, 20s. for a parish church, and 10s. for a chapel. "If a man wishes to prove against his lord that he has an agreement for his land, he must do so by means of his fellow-tenants whom he summons as witnesses, for he cannot do so by means of strangers." If a man slays another he shall pay manbot to the lord of the slain man in the amount of 10s. for a free man and 20s. for a slave. The wergeld of a thegn is 20 pounds in Mercia and 25 pounds in Wessex. The wergeld of a villain is 100s. (20s. would buy a stallion, 10s. a bull and 5s. a boar.) 10s. of the wergeld shall be paid to the widow and children and the relatives and orphans shall divide what remains among themselves. The archbishop shall have as compensation for breach of his protection 40s. in Mercia, a bishop 20s., an earl 20s., a baron 10s.,and a sokeman 40d. If a man wounds another he shall pay for medical attendance and if he is wounded on the face, or a part which is visible, for every inch 8d., on the head or any hidden place, for every inch 4d., for every piece of bone drawn out of the wound 4d. If a man cuts off the hand or foot of another, he shall pay half his wergeld according to his inherited rank. For the thumb he shall pay half the value of his hand, for the finger next the thumb, 15s. according to the English reckoning (i.e. 4d. to the shilling), for the middle finger 16s., for the ring-finger 17s., for the little finger 5s., for the nail if it is cut away from the flesh, 5 English s., for the nail of the little finger 4d. "If a man poisons another, he shall be slain or sent into permanent exile." There is a 100s. fine for violation of the king's peace or attack on people's houses or for premeditated waylaying. If anyone slays or assaults anyone who is traveling through the country on any of the following four highways, namely, Watling Street, Ermine Street, the Fosse Way, the Icknied Way, he violates the king's peace. (Two of these streets extended the length of the kingdom and two extended across its width.) For the guarding of roads, every 10 hides of the hundred shall supply a man between Michaelmas and Martinmas, or pay compensation for any livestock taken over the road, unless they have raised the hue and cry of been subject to force. A peasant is not to be harassed or ejected except for not performing his legal services. A peasant leaving the estate where he was born must be returned to it. If a father finds his daughter in adultery in his own or in his son-in-laws house, he may slay the adulterer. The same holds for a son and his mother during the father's lifetime. "He who assaults the wife of another man shall forfeit his wergeld to his lord." "If anyone assaults a woman he shall suffer castration as a penalty." "If a woman who is pregnant is sentenced to death or to mutilation, the sentence shall not be carried out until she is delivered." If anyone knocks out a man's eye by any kind of accident, he shall pay 70 English shillings as compensation. And if he destroys the sight without displacing the pupil, he shall pay only half the sum. "If a man dies intestate [without a will], his children shall divide the inheritance equally among themselves." And if anyone comes upon a thief and of his own accord lets him escape, without raising the hue and cry, he shall make compensation by the payment of the thief's value or clear himself. "And if anyone hears the hue and cry and neglects it, he shall pay the fine for neglecting it to the king, or clear himself." If a man captures a thief without the hue and cry being given, the injured man shall pay 10s. as a fine for neglecting to arrest the thief. If theft is discovered on anyone's land and the thief is discovered, the lord of the estate and the thief's wife shall have half of his property and the claimants shall have their goods, if they find them. And with regard to the other half, if the theft is discovered in a district over which the lord has rights of jurisdiction, the wife shall lose her share and it shall pass to the lord. "Further, we forbid the buying or selling of any livestock except within towns and before three trustworthy witnesses, likewise that of any second-hand goods without a surety and warrantor." The penalty is twice the value of the goods and the fine for insubordination. No one shall buy anything of 4d. in value, either livestock or other property, unless he has 4 men as witnesses either from a town or a village. If anyone claims it and he has no witnesses and no warrantor, the goods shall be given up to the claimant and the fine shall be paid to the party who is entitled thereto. And if he has such witnesses, vouching to warranty shall take place three times; and on the fourth occasion he shall prove his ownership of it or deliver it up. If anyone has taken livestock into his care, whether horses or oxen or cows or sheep or pigs, the man who claims them shall pay 8d. and no more in return for the care of them, however many there are up to a hundred head of cattle. As for one pig, 1d, for one sheep, 1d., and so on up to 8d. And he shall give pledge and find surety, that if another man comes forward within a year and a day to claim them, he will bring it for decision to the court of the man who had taken them into his own care. Strayed livestock and found property shall be exhibited in three parts of the neighborhood. Anyone who claims it shall give pledge and surety and if another claims it within a year and a day, he will bring it for decision to the court of the man who found it. The attachment of livestock: If anyone desires to claim it as stolen, and is willing to give pledge and find surety for prosecuting his claim, he who has possession of it must name his warrantor if he has one. If not, he shall name his surety and his witnesses, and produce them at the appointed day and time, if he has them, and the claimant shall give a pledge with 5 compurgators, and the other shall give the livestock into the hands of his warrantor or his surety, whichever of these he has. And if he has neither but has