[Materials of Construction — Gutenberg #40780]

to pay church-scot, a payment in lieu of first fruits of the land, to the pope. The Law There were several kings in this period. The king and witan deliberated on the making of new laws, both secular and spiritual, at the regularly held witanagemot. There was a standard legal requirement of holding every man accountable, though expressed in different ways, such as the following three: Every freeman who does not hold land must find a lord to answer for him. Every lord shall be personally responsible as surety for the men of his household. [This included female lords.] (King Athelstan) "And every man shall see that he has a surety, and this surety shall bring and keep him to [the performance of] every lawful duty. 1. -And if anyone does wrong and escapes, his surety shall incur what the other should have incurred. 2. -If the case be that of a thief and his surety can lay hold of him within twelve months, he shall deliver him up to justice, and what he has paid shall be returned to him." (King Edgar) Every freeman who holds land, except lords with considerable landed property, must be in a local tithing, usually ten to twelve men, in which they serve as personal sureties for each other's peaceful behavior. If one of the ten landholders in a tithing is accused of an offense, the others have to produce him in court or pay a fine plus pay the injured party for the offense, unless they could prove that they had no complicity in it. If the man is found guilty but can not pay, his tithing must pay his fine. The chief officer is the "tithing man" or "capital pledge". There were probably ten tithings in a hundred. (King Edward the Confessor). Canute reigned from 1016 to 1035. The following are substantially all the laws of Canute with an * before ones of special interest. Proclamations of Canute are: All my reeves, under pain of forfeiting my friendship and all that they possess and their own lives, shall govern my people justly everywhere, and to pronounce just judgments with the cognizance of the bishops of the dioceses, and to inflict such mitigated penalties as the bishop may approve and the man himself may be able to bear. I enjoin upon all the sheriffs and reeves throughout my kingdom that, as they desire to retain my friendship and their own sercurity, they employ no unjust force towards any man, either rich or poor, but that all, both nobles and commoners, rich and poor, shall have their right of just possession, which shall not be infringed upon in any way, either for the sake of obtaining the favour of the king or of gratifying any powerful person or of collecting money for me; and I have no need that monoey should be collected for me by any unust exactions. Ecclesiastical laws of Canute are: Above all else, love and honour one God, and uphold one Christian faith, and love King Canute with due fidlity. *Maintain the security and sanctity of the churches of God, and frequently attend them for the salvation of our souls and our own benefit. He who violates the protection given by the church of God within its walls, or the protection granted by a Christian king in person shall lose both land and life, unless the king is willing to pardon him. Homicide within the church's walls shall not be atoned for by any payment of compensation, and everyone shall pursue the miscreant, unless it happen that he escapes from there and reaches so inviolable a sanctuary that the king, because of that, grants him his life, upon condition that he makes full amends both towards God and towards men. The first conditon is that he shall give his own wergeld to Christ and to the king and by that means obtain the legal right to offer compensation. And if the king allows compensation, amends for the violation of the protection of the church shall be made by the payment to the church of the full fine for breach of the king's mund, and the purification of the church shall be carried out as is fiting, and compensation both to the kin and to the lord of the slain man shall be fully psid, and supplication shall earnestly be made to God. If the protection of the church is broken by offenses such as fighting or robbery, without the taking of life, amends shall diligently be made in accordance with the nature of the offense. The penalty for violation of the protection of a principal church is 5 pounds, for a church of medium rank is 120s., for a church with a graveyard 60s., and for a country chapel where there is no graveyard, 30s. Maintain the security and sanctity of holy things and priests according to their rank, for they drive away devils, baptize anyone, hallow the Eucharist, and intercede to Christ for the needs of the people. If an accusation of evil practices is made against a priest and he knows himself to be guiltless, he shall say Mass, if he dares, and thus clear himelf by the Holy Communion in the cases of a simple accusation, and by the Holy Communion with two supporters of the same ecclesiastical rank in the case of a triple accusation. If he has no supporters, he shall go to the ordeal of consecrated bread. No monk who belongs to a monastery may demand or pay compensation incurred by vendetta because he leaves the law of his kindred behind when he accepts monastic rule. If a priest is concerned in false witness or perjury or is the accessory and accomplice of thieves, he shall be cast out from the fellowship of those in holy orders and forfeit every privilege, unless he make amends both towards God and towards men, as the bishop shall prescribe, and find surtey for future behavior. Servants of God shall call upon Christ to intercede for all Christian people and practice celibacy. Those who turn away from marriage and observe celibacy shall enjoy the privileges of a thegn. *No Christian man shall marry among his own kin within six degress of relationship or with the widow of a man as nearly related to him as that, or with a near relative of his first wife's. No man shall marry his god-mother, a nun, or a divorced woman. He shall not commit adultery. He shall have no more wives that one, with whom he shall remain as long as she lives. Ecclesiastical dues shall be paid yearly, namely, plough alms 15 days after Easter, the tithe [tenth] of young animals at Pentecost, and the tithe of the fruits of the earth at All Saints. Otherwise the king's reeve, the bishop's reeve, and the lord's reeve shall take what is due and assign him the next tenth, and the eight remaining parts shall go half to the lord and half to the bishop. Peter's Pence shall be paid by St. Peter's Day or pay the bishop the penny and 30d. in addition and 120s. to the king. Church dues shall be paid at Martinmas, or pay the biship eleven fold and 120s. to the king. Any thegn with a church with attached graveyard on his land shall give a third part of his own tithes to his church. If he has a church without a graveyard, he shall give his priest whatever he desires from the nine remaining parts. Light dues shall be paid a halfpenny worth of wax from every hide three times a year. Payment for the souls of the dead should be rendered before the grave is closed. *All festivals and fasts, such as Lent, shall be observed. The festival of every Sunday shall be observed from noon on Saturday till dawn on Monday. No trading, public gatherings, hunting, or secular occupations shall be done on Sunday. We forbid ordeals and oaths during festivals and fasts. To avoid the torment of hell, let us turn away from sin and confess our misdeeds to out confessors and cease from evil and make amends. Each of us shall treat others as we desire to be treated. Every Christian man shall prepare himself for the sacrament at least three times a year. Every friend shall abide by his oath and pledge. Every injustice shall be cast out from this land. Let us be faithful and true to our lord and promote his honour and carry out his will. And likewise, it is the duty of every lord to treat his men justly. Men of every estate shall readily submit to the duty which befits them. Every Christian man shall learn the Creed and the Pater Noster, the sacred prayer taught by Christ to his disciples which contains all the petitions necessary for this life and the life to come. He who does not learn it may not sponsor another man at baptism or at confirmation. *Guard against grievous sins and devilish deeds and make amends according to one's confessor's advice. Fear God, be in terror of sin, and dread the Day of Judgment. The bishops shall give example of our duty towards God. Secular laws of Canute are: All men, both rich and poor, shall be entitled to the benefit of the law, and just decisions shall be pronounced on their behalf. Those in authority to give judgment shall consider very earnestly "And forgive us our trespasses as we forgive them that trespass against us." Christian people shall not be condemned to death for trivial offenses. We forbid the all too prevalent practice of selling Christian people out of the country, especially into heathen lands. Care shall be taken that the souls which Christ bought with his own life be not destroyed. *Any wizards or sorcerers, those who secretly compass death, prostitutes, thieves, and robbers shall be destroyed unless they cease and make amends. We forbid heathen practices, namely the worship of idols, heathen gods, and the sun or moon, fire or water, springs or stones or any kind of forest trees, or indulgence in witchcraft or the compassing of death in any way, either by sacrifice or by divinations or by the practice of any such delusions. *Murderers and perjurers, injurers of the clergy, and adulterers shall submit and make amends or depart with their sins from their native land. *Hypocrites and liars, robbers and plunderers shall incur the wrath of God, unless they desist and make amends. *There shall be one currency free from all adulteration throughout the land and no one shall refuse it. He who coins false money shall forfeit the hand with which he made it, and he shall not redeem it in any way,