[Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics — Gutenberg #25864]

supply that has been driven from heart above? Have we not found the cause to stop all processes of life below diaphragm? In short, are we not in a condition to soon be in a complete state of stagnation? As soon as the arteries have filled the venous system, which is without sensation to return blood to the heart, then the heart can do nothing but wear out its energies trying to drive blood into a dead being below the diaphragm known as the venous system. It is dead until sensation reaches the vein from the sacral and pudic plexus. LESSON OF CAUSE AND EFFECT. Previous to all discoveries that have been made a demand for the usefulness of such discovery, is felt and talked of for years, centuries and cycles of time. Its discovery is an open question and free to all, because in this fact all are interested. That lack may be felt and spoken of by all agriculturists, and the inquiry directed to a better plow, a better sickle or mowing machine with which to reap standing grain. The thinker reduces his thoughts to practice, and cuts the grain, leaving it in such condition that a raker is needed to bunch it previous to binding. His victory is heralded to the world as king of the harvest, and so accepted. The discoverer says, "I wish I could bunch that grain." He begins to reason from the great principle of cause and effect, and sleeps not until he has added to his already made discovery, an addition so ingeniously constructed that it will drop the grain in bunches ready for the binder. The discoverer stands by and sees in the form of a human being hands, arms and a band; he watches the motion then starts in to rustle with cause and effect again. He thinks and sweats day and night, and by the genius of thought produces a machine to bind the grain. By this time another suggestion arises, how to separate the wheat as the machine journeys in its cutting process. To his convictions nothing will solve this problem but mental action. He thinks and dreams of cause and effect. His mind seems to forget all the words of his mother tongue but cause and effect. He talks and preaches cause and effect in so many places that his associates begin to think he is mentally failing, and will soon be a subject for the asylum. He becomes disgusted with their lack of appreciation, seeks seclusion and formulates the desired addition and threshes the grain ready for the bag. He has solved the question and proved to his neighbors that the asylum was built for them, not for him. With cause and effect which is ever before the philosopher's eye, he ploughs the ocean regardless of the furious waves, he dreads not the storms on the seas, because he has so constructed a vessel with a resistance superior to the force of the lashing waves of the ocean, and the world scores him another victory. He opens his mouth and says by the law of cause and effect I will talk to my mother who is hundreds of miles away. He disturbs her rest by the rattling of a little electric bell in her room. Tremblingly the aged mother approaches the telephone and asks "Who is there?" And is answered, "It is me, Jimmie," and asks, "To whom am I talking?" She says "Mrs. Sarah Murphy." He says, "God bless you, mother; I am at Galveston, Texas, and you are in Boston, Mass." She laughs and cries with joy; he hears every emotion of her trembling voice. She says to him, "You have succeeded at last. I have never doubted your final success, notwithstanding the neighbors have annoyed me almost to death, telling me you would land in the asylum, because no man could talk so as to be heard 1000 miles away; his lungs, were too weak, and his tongue too short." Now, friends, I have given you a long introductory foundation previous to giving you the cause of disease, with the philosophy that I have given upon cause and effect. I think it absolutely clear and the effect so unerring in its results, that with Pythagoras I can say "Eureka." SOMETHING OF MEDICAL ETIQUETTE. To know we have found a general cause for disease, one that will stand the heights and depths of direct and cross examinations, as given by the high courts of cool headed reason, has been the mental effort of all doctors and healers, since time began its record. They have had to treat disease as best they could, by such methods as customs had established as the best known for such diseases; notwithstanding their failures and the great mortality under such a system of treatment. They have not felt justified to go beyond the rules of symptomatology as adopted by their schools, with diagnosis, prognosis and treatment. Should they digress from the rules of the etiquette of their alma maters they would lose the brotherly love and support of the medical association to which they belong, under the belief that, "A bad name is as bad as death to a dog." THE MEDICAL DOCTOR. He says that in union there is safety, and resolves to stick to, live and do as his school has disciplined all its pupils, with this command, "The day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Stick to the brotherhood." AN EXPLORER FOR TRUTH MUST BE INDEPENDENT. The explorer for truth must first declare his independence of all obligations or brotherhoods of any kind whatsoever. He must be free to think and reason. He must establish his observatory upon hills of his own; he must establish them above the imaginary high planes of rulers, kings, professors of schools of all kinds and denominations. He must be the Czar of his own mental empire, unencumbered with anything that will annoy while he makes his observations. I believe the reasons are so plain, so easily comprehended, the facts in its support so brilliant, that I will offer the same, though I be slaughtered on the altar of bigotry and intolerance. This philosophy is not intended for minds not thoroughly well posted by dissection and otherwise of the whole human anatomy. You must know its physiological laboratories and workings with the brain as the battery, the lungs as the source or machine that renovates the blood from all impurities, and the heart as the living engine or quarter-master, whose duty is to supply the commissaries with blood and other fluids to all divisions and sub-divisions of the human body, which is busily engaged producing material suited to the production of bone and muscle, and all other substances necessary to keep the machinery of life in full force and action. Without this knowledge on the part of the reader, the words of this philosophy will fall as blanks before reaching his magazine of reason. Thus this is addressed to the independent man or woman that can, will and does reason. THE DIAPHRAGM INTRODUCED. At this point we will introduce the diaphragm, which separates the heart, lungs and brain from the organs of life that are limited to the abdomen and pelvis. A question arises at this point; what has the diaphragm to do with good or bad health? At this time we will analyze the diaphragm; we will examine its construction, and its uses; we will examine its openings through which blood passes both above and below. We will examine the opening through which food passes to stomach. We will carefully examine the passage or opening for nerve supply to the abdomen below, to run this great system of chemistry, which is producing the various kinds of substances necessary to the hard and soft parts of the body. We must know the nerve supply of the lymphatics, womb, liver, kidneys, pancreas, the generative organs, what they are, what they do, and what are demanded of them, before we are able to feed our own minds from the cup that contains the essence of reason as expressed from the tree of life. A USEFUL STUDY. The diaphragm surely gives much food to the one who would search for the great whys of disease as reported causes seem to be far back in the fogs of mystery. It may help us to arrive at some facts if we take each organ and division and make a full acquaintance of all its parts and uses before we combine it with others. COMBATTING EFFECTS. In all ages, the Doctor has for lack of knowledge of the true cause of diseases, combatted effects with his remedies. He treats pain with remedies to deaden pain; congestion to wash out overplus of blood that has been carried to parts or organs of the body by arteries of blood and channels of secretions and not taken up and passed out and off by the excretories. He sees the abnormal size and leaves the hunting of the cause that has given growth to such proportions and begins to seek rest and ease for his patient. Then he treats to reduce by medicine to carry the waste fluids to bowels, bladder and skin, with tonics to give strength and stimulants to increase the action of the heart in order to force local deposits to the general excretory system. At this time let the Osteopathic Doctor take a close hunt for any fold in muscles of the system that would cause a cut-off of the normal supply of blood or suspend the action of nerves whose office is to give power and action to the excretory system sufficient to keep the dead matter carried off as fast as it accumulates. Let us stop and acquaint ourselves with the true condition of the diaphragm. It must be normal in place, as it is so situated that it will admit of no abnormality. It must be kept stretched, just as Nature arranged that it should, like a drum-head. It is attached all around to the chest, though it crosses five or six ribs on its descent from the seventh rib to the sternum at the lower point and down to fourth lumbar vertebra. It is a continuous slanting floor, above bowels and abdominal organs, and below heart and lungs. It must, by all reason, be kept normal in tightness at all places, without a fold or wrinkle, that could press the aorta, nerves, oesophagus, or anything that contributes to the supply or circulation of any vital substance. Now can there be any move in spine or ribs that would or could change the normal shape of the diaphragm? If so, where and why? IS LEAST UNDERSTOOD. The diaphragm is possibly the least understood