# Second Jassy–Kishinev offensive

The second Jassy–Kishinev offensive, named after the two major cities, Iași ("Jassy") and Chișinău ("Kishinev"), in the staging area, was a Soviet offensive against Axis forces, which took place in Eastern Romania from 20 to 29 August 1944 during World War II. The 2nd and 3rd Ukrainian Fronts of the Red Army engaged Army Group South Ukraine, which consisted of combined German and Romanian formations, in an operation to reoccupy Bessarabia and destroy the Axis forces in the region, opening the way into Romania and the Balkans.

The offensive resulted in the encirclement and destruction of the German forces, allowing the Soviet Army to resume its strategic advance further into Eastern Europe. It also pressured Romania to switch allegiance from the Axis powers to the Allies. For the Germans, this was a massive defeat, which can be compared to the defeat at Stalingrad.

Background

The Red Army had made an unsuccessful attack in the same sector, an operation referred to as the first Jassy–Kishinev offensive, from 8 April to 6 June 1944. In 1944, the Wehrmacht had been pressed back along its entire front line in the East. By May 1944, the South Ukraine Army Group (Heeresgruppe Südukraine) was pushed back towards the prewar Romanian frontier, and managed to establish a line on the lower Dniester River, which was however breached in two places, with the Red Army holding bridgeheads. After June, calm returned to the sector, allowing the rebuilding of the German formations.

Heeresgruppe Südukraine had been, until June 1944, one of the most powerful German formations in terms of armour. However, during the summer most of its armoured units were transferred to the Northern and Central fronts to stem Red Army advances in the Baltic states, Belarus, northern Ukraine, and Poland. On the eve of the offensive, the only armoured formations left were the 1st Romanian Armored Division (with the Tiger I tank), and the German 13th Panzer and 10th Panzergrenadier Divisions.

Failure of German intelligence
Soviet deception operations prior to the attack worked well. The German command staff believed that the movement of Soviet forces along the front line was a result of a troop transfer to the north. Exact positions of Soviet formations were also not known until the final hours before the operation. By contrast, the Romanians were aware of the imminent Soviet offensive and anticipated a rerun of Stalingrad, with major attacks against the 3rd and 4th Armies and an encirclement of the German 6th Army. Such concerns were dismissed by the German command as "alarmist". Marshal Ion Antonescu suggested a withdrawal of Axis forces to the fortified Carpathian–FNB (Focșani–Nămoloasa–Brăila)–Danube line, but Friessner, the commander of Army Group South Ukraine, was unwilling to consider such a move, having already been dismissed by Hitler from Army Group North for requesting permission to retreat.

Order of battle

Soviet
2nd Ukrainian Front – Army General Rodion Malinovsky
6th Guards Tank Army – Major General Andrei Kravchenko
18th Tank Corps – Major General V. I. Polozkov
Cavalry-Mechanized Group Gorshkov – Major General Sergey Gorshkov
5th Guards Cavalry Corps
23rd Tank Corps – Lieutenant General Alexey Akhmanov
4th Guards Army – Lieutenant General Ivan Galanin
27th Army – Lieutenant General Sergei Trofimenko
52nd Army – Colonel General Konstantin Koroteyev
7th Guards Army – Colonel General Mikhail Shumilov
40th Army – Lieutenant General Filipp Zhmachenko
53rd Army – Lieutenant General Ivan Managarov
3rd Ukrainian Front – Army General Fyodor Tolbukhin
5th Shock Army – Lieutenant General Nikolai Berzarin
4th Guards Mechanized Corps – Major General Vladimir Zhdanov
7th Mechanized Corps – Major General Fyodor Katkov
57th Army – Lieutenant General Nikolai Gagen
46th Army – Lieutenant General Ivan Shlemin
37th Army – Major General Mikhail Sharokhin
6th Guards Rifle Corps
66th Rifle Corps
Black Sea Fleet – Sergey Gorshkov

Axis forces
Army Group South Ukraine – Generaloberst Johannes Friessner

 Army Group Dumitrescu (East)
 Romanian 3rd Army – Colonel General Petre Dumitrescu
 XXIX. Army Corps (Generalleutnant Anton von Bechtoldsheim): 9th Infantry, Romanian 4th Mountain and 21st Infantry Divisions,
 Romanian II Corps: 4th Infantry Division and 15th Infantry Division
 Coastal Defence: Romanian II Corps: 9th Infantry Division and 110th Infantry Brigade.
 6th Army – General der Artillerie Maximilian Fretter-Pico
 VII Corps (General der Artillerie Ernst-Eberhard Hell) : 106th, 370th and Romanian 14th Infantry Divisions,
 XXXXIV Corps (Generalleutnant Ludwig Müller) : 62nd, 258th, 282nd and 335th Infantry Divisions,
 LII Corps (General der Infanterie Erich Buschenhagen) : 161st, 294th and 320th Infantry Divisions,
 XXX Corps (Generalleutnant Georg-Wilhelm Postel) : 384th, 302nd, 257th, 15th and 306th Infantry Divisions,
 Reserve
13th Panzer Division – Generalleutnant Hans Tröger
 Romanian 1st Cavalry Division
Army Group Wohler (West)
8th Army – General der Infanterie Otto Wöhler
 XVII Army Corps (General der Gebirgstruppe  Hans Kreysing) : 8th Jäger-Division and 3rd Mountain Division
 Romanian VII Corps : 8th Infantry Division, 103rd and 104th Mountain Brigade
 Romanian I Corps : 6th Infantry Division and 20th Infantry Division
 Romanian V Corps : Guards Division and 4th Infantry Division
 LVII Panzer Corps (General der Panzertruppe Friedrich Kirchner) : 46th, Romanian 1st and 13th Infantry Division and Romanian 1st Armoured Division "Groß-Rumänien" 
Romanian 4th Army – Lieutenant General Ioan Mihail Racoviță, replaced by Ilie Șteflea on 23 August
 Romanian VI Corps : 5th Infantry Division, 102nd Mountain Brigade and German 76th Infantry Division,
 Romanian IV Corps : 3rd Infantry Division, 7th Infantry Division and 102nd Mountain Brigade
 IV Corps (General der Infanterie Friedrich Mieth) : 79th, 376th and Romanian 11th Infantry Divisions. 
 Reserve
10th Panzergrenadier Division – Generalleutnant August Schmidt
 153rd Feldausbildungs-Division - Generalleutnant Friedrich Bayer

1st Romanian Armoured Division
The 1st Romanian Armored Division did not have all of its units immediately available for opposing the Soviet offensive. Some of its units were still in the interior as of 20 August. Therefore, an ad hoc organization of the Division's units which were actually available for opposing the Soviet offensive lists the Division's 80 front line tanks as follows (not including the Division's 12 armored cars):

The Division also had a dedicated anti-tank battalion. Its main weapons were entirely of Romanian origin: 10 TACAM T-60 tank destroyers and 24 75 mm Reșița field/anti-tank guns. The 24 guns were the first ones produced of this model.

The 1st Romanian Armored Division had lost 34 armored fighting vehicles by 23 August, but claimed 60 Soviet tanks on 20 August alone.

Soviet strategy

Stavka's plan for the operation was based on a double envelopment of German and Romanian armies by the 2nd and 3rd Ukrainian Fronts.

The 2nd Ukrainian Front was to break through north of Iași, and then commit mobile formations to seize the Prut River crossings before withdrawing German units of the 6th Army could reach it. It was then to unleash the 6th Tank Army to seize the Siret River crossings and the Focșani Gate, a fortified line between the Siret River and the Danube.

The 3rd Ukrainian Front was to attack out of its bridgehead across the Dniester near Tiraspol, and then release mobile formations to head north and meet the mobile formations of the 2nd Ukrainian Front. This would lead to the encirclement of the German forces near Chișinău.

Following the successful encirclement, the 6th Tank Army and the 4th Guards Mechanised Corps were to advance towards Bucharest and the Ploiești oil fields.

Progress of the offensive

General

Both the 2nd and the 3rd Ukrainian Fronts undertook a major effort, leading to a double envelopment of the German Sixth Army and parts of the Eighth Army. The German–Romanian front line collapsed within two days of the start of the offensive, and 6th Guards Mechanized Corps was inserted as the main mobile group of the offensive. The initial breakthrough in the 6th Army's sector was  deep, and destroyed rear-area supply installations by the evening of 21 August. By 23 August, the 13th Panzer Division was no longer a coherent fighting force, and the German 6th Army had been encircled to a depth of . The Red Army mobile group managed to cut off the retreat of the German formations into Hungary. Isolated pockets of German units tried to fight their way through, but only small remnants managed to escape the encirclement.

Detailed study of the Soviet breakthrough

The main effort of the front was in the sector of the 37th Army, commanded by Lieutenant General Sharokhin, by the 66th and 6th Guards Rifle Corps. The 37th Army had a -wide breakthrough frontage assigned to it. It was divided in two groupings, two corps in the first echelon, and one in reserve. Acc