# David J. Darling

David Darling (born 29 July 1953 in Glossop, Derbyshire) is an English astronomer, freelance science writer, and musician. Darling has published numerous popular science works, including Life Everywhere: The Maverick Science of Astrobiology in 2001 and The Universal Book of Mathematics in 2004. He maintains the online Internet Encyclopedia of Science.

A review of Darling's book Soul Search, stated that "he develops a sort of scientific pantheism positing that, with death, we move from the narrow consciousness of our highly selective, reality-filtering brain to the wider, timeless consciousness of the unbound universe."

Bibliography
 We Are Not Alone: Why We Have Already Found Extraterrestrial Life (2010).  (paperback)
 Gravity's Arc: The Story of Gravity from Aristotle to Einstein and Beyond (2006).  (hardcover)
 Teleportation: The Impossible Leap (2005).  (hardcover)
 The Universal Book of Mathematics: From Abracadabra to Zeno's Paradoxes (2004).  (hardcover)
 The Universal Book of Astronomy: From the Andromeda Galaxy to the Zone of Avoidance (2003).  (hardcover)
 The Complete Book of Spaceflight: From Apollo 1 to Zero Gravity (2002).  (hardcover)
 Life Everywhere: The Maverick Science of Astrobiology (2001).  (hardcover)
 The Extraterrestrial Encyclopedia: An Alphabetical Reference to All Life in the Universe (2000)  (paperback)
 Zen Physics: The Science of Death, the Logic of Reincarnation (1996).  (hardcover)
 Soul Search : A Scientist Explores the Afterlife (1995).  (hardcover)
 Equations of Eternity: Speculations on Consciousness, Meaning, and the Mathematical Rules That Orchestrate the Cosmos (1993).  (hardcover)
 Deep Time: The Journey of a Single Subatomic Particle From the Moment of Creation To the Death of the Universe and Beyond (1989).  (hardcover)

Juvenile books
 Beyond 2000 series (1995–96)
 Micromachines and Nanotechnology: The Amazing New World of the Ultrasmall 
 Genetic Engineering: Redrawing the Blueprint of Life 
 The Health Revolution: Surgery and Medicine in the Twenty-first Century 
 Computers of the Future: Intelligent Machines and Virtual Reality 
 Experiment! series (1991–92)
 Spiderwebs to Skyscrapers: The Science of Structure 
 From Glasses to Gases: The Science of Matter 
 Between Fire and Ice: The Science of Heat 
 Sounds Interesting: The Science of Acoustics 
 Up, Up and Away: The Science of Flight 
 Making Light Work: The Science of Optics 
 Could You Ever? series (1990–91)
 Could You Ever Live Forever? 
 Could You Ever Build a Time Machine? 
 Could You Ever Travel To the Stars? 
 Could You Ever Meet an Alien? 
 Could You Ever Speak Chimpanzee? 
 Could You Ever Dig a Hole To China? 
 The World of Computers series (1986)
 Inside Computers: Hardware and Software 
 The Microchip Revolution 
 Computers At Home: Today and Tomorrow 
 Robots and the Intelligent Computer 
 Fast, Faster, Fastest: The Story of Supercomputers 
 Discovering Our Universe series (1984–85)
 The Sun: Our Neighborhood Star 
 The Moon: A Spaceflight Away 
 Comets, Meteors, and Asteroids: Rocks in Space 
 The Planets: The Next Frontier 
 Where Are We Going in Space 
 Stars: From Birth to Black Hole 
 Galaxies: Cities of Stars 
 The Universe: Past, Present, and Future 
 The New Astronomy: An Ever-Changing Universe 
 Other Worlds: Is There Life Out There?

References

External links
 cosmosportal.org, biography
 The Worlds of David Darling, official site

1953 births
Living people
People from Glossop
20th-century British astronomers
English science writers
Pantheists
Writers about religion and science