[Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics — Gutenberg #25864]

to their fitness for the work of practically demonstrating the principles of Osteopathy and occupying positions as teachers and lecturers in the American School of Osteopathy. All are regular graduates of this school. The students in the school are not permitted to even assist in treating the Infirmary patients. All the work is done by regular operators. The examination previous to treatment is conducted by Dr. Still's three sons assisted by the operators. After examination the patient is assigned to the room in which he or she will receive treatment, and placed under the care of an Osteopath best suited to the case. The fees for treatment at the Infirmary are $25 per month. Where patients are unable to come to the Infirmary for treatment, an extra charge of $1 to $2 per visit is added. The Infirmary maintains a complete bathing department in charge of competent attendants. As good baths are therefore obtainable in Kirksville as in any city. The charges are very moderate--twenty-five cents for a single bath, or $2.00 for a commutation ticket for ten baths. When bath tickets are procured no other fees to attendants are necessary. A representative of the Infirmary meets all trains, day and night, to help all patients who may need assistance and see that they are properly cared for. OPERATIVE SURGERY. To correct a misapprehension on the part of many, it should be understood that the A. T. STILL INFIRMARY is fully prepared to receive and handle the most difficult cases requiring the highest order of skilled surgery, and it is not necessary to send such cases to the great city hospitals in the east for even the most difficult and delicate operations. Dr. J. B. Littlejohn, of the faculty, is a graduate in surgery from the University of Glasgow, Scotland, and held for three years the position of Surgeon under the Government Board of England, besides other important and responsible positions in Europe and America. Dr. Wm. Smith holds evidences of qualifications as follows: Licentiate of the Royal College of Surgery, Edinburg; Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow; Licentiate in Midwifery, Edinburg and Glasgow; etc. Cases requiring careful and delicate Surgery, the removal of fibroid tumors, and in fact any operation of whatever nature will receive the best and most scientific treatment and care in this institution. The management has now secured a powerful and perfect Roentgen or X-Ray apparatus which will be used in connection with this department, in the examination of difficult cases. Patients coming to the A. T. Still Infirmary may rely upon the fact that they will in no case be subjected to unnecessary surgical operations, as the knife is never used unless absolutely necessary. Address all letters of inquiry to A. T. STILL INFIRMARY, KIRKSVILLE, MO +---------------------------------------------------------------------+ |Transcriber's note: | | | |Corrections have been made to everyday words printed incorrectly, but| |all technical terms are as in the original. | +---------------------------------------------------------------------+