[Materials of Construction — Gutenberg #40780]

wergeld, because the man was his to render service, not to be killed." "A person who breaks the king's peace which he confers on anyone with his own hand shall, if he is seized, suffer the loss of his limbs." "If anyone has the king's peace given by the sheriff or other official and a breach of it is committed against him, then this is a case of grithbreche and compensation of one hundred shillings shall be paid, if settlement can be effected by payment of compensation." "On whosoever's land a slaying takes place, the lord who has his rights of soke and sake shall, if the slayer, when caught on the spot, is released on providing security or is detained after being charged, receive the fihtwite." If anyone is slain in an attack by a band of marauders, the slayer shall pay the wergeld to the relatives, and manbot to the lord, and all who were present shall pay hlothbot, that is to say, they shall pay compensation of 30s. for a 200 man, 60s. for a 600 man, and 120s. for a 1200 man. In the case of every payment of wergeld for a slaying, two parts are the responsibility of the paternal kindred, and one third part is the responsibility of the maternal kin. If the kindred of a man who slays another abandons him and will not pay compensation for him, then all the kindred shall be free from the feud except the wrongdoer alone, if they thereafter provide him with neither food nor protection. "If a woman commits homicide, vengeance shall be taken against her or her descendants or her blood relatives (or she shall pay compensation for it), not against her husband or his innocent household." Amends shall nonetheless be made whether these things are done intentionally or unintentionally. However, the possibility of a friendly settlement or of clemency is to be treated as the more likely or the more remote depending on the degree of blame attaching to the person who has been slain, and according to the circumstances. If a woman is slain, compensation is to be paid according to her wergeld, which is decided by her paternal relationship. The manbot shall be determined by the standing of the lord. "Any person may aid his lord without incurring a wite if anyone attacks him, and may obey him in all lawful matters except in the case of breach of feudal loyalty, theft, murder, and similar offences, the commission of which has in absolutely no way been permitted, and which are branded as crimes by the laws." In the same way a lord must in the appropriate circumstances keep his man with advice as well as support, and may do so in all ways without penalty. "Anyone who fights in the king's dwelling shall forfeit his life." "If anyone commits the offence of blodwite [an amercement for bloodshed], fihtwite [a fine for making a quarrel to the disturbance of the peace], legerwite [fine for unlawful cohabitation], or anything of that nature, and he escapes from the scene without being obliged to provide security for future appearance in court or without a charge being laid there, the jurisdiction at law belongs to his own lord." Infiht or insocna is the offense committed by those who are living in community in a house; this is compensated for by a payment of the wite to the head of the household, if he has jurisdiction over accuser and accused. If anyone leaps to arms and disturbs the peace of a house, but does not strike anyone, his liability is half the penalty. Compensation for wounds are as follows: on the head if both bones have been pierced 30s.; on the head if only the outer bone has been pierced 15s.; a wound under the hair one inch long 5d., that is, 1s.; a wound in front of the hair 10d, that is 2s.; injury to the throat 12s.; injury on the neck causing a curvature or stiffness or a lasting disability 100s. plus whatever has been paid out for medical treatment.; external injury to the hand 20s.; if half the hand flies off 60s.; rib broken but the skin remains whole 10s.; rib broken and the skin is broken and the bone is drawn out 15s.; loss of any eye or hand or foot or tongue 66s.6d. and a third part of a penny; loss of sight but with the eye remaining in the head 22s.2d.; wound on the shoulder if the person lives 80s.; shoulder wound so that the fluid from the joints runs out 30s.; shoulder maimed 20s.; an injury within a shoulder so that a bone is drawn out 15s.; arm broken above the elbow 15s.; both bones in the arm broken 30s.; arm cut off below the elbow 80s.; wound in the belly 30s.; pierced through the belly 20s. for each opening; a thigh pierced or broken 30s.; shin struck off below the knee 80s.; the shin broken 30s.; shin pierced below the knee 12s.; broken shinbone 12s.; wound in the genitals so that there is loss of the capacity to procreate 80s.; loins maimed 60s.; loins pierced through 30s.; loins punctured 15s.; injury to the great sinews of another's lower leg if they recover through response to medical treatment 12s.; injury to the sinews which cauces lameness 30s.; injury to the small sinews 6s.; striking a blow without causing blood to flow 5d. for each blow up to a total of three blows, no matter how many blows are actually struck, for a total of 15d.; knocking out first teeth or incisors 8s.; canines or `cheek' teeth 4s.; molars 15s.; broken cheeks 15s.; a thumb cut off 30s.; a thumbnail cut off 5s.; an index finger 15s; an index fingernail 3s.; a middle or `unchaste' finger 121s; a middle fingernail 2s.; a ring finger or `medical' finger 17s.; a ring fingernail 4s.; an `ear' finger 9s.; an `ear' fingernail 1s., that is 5d.; the big toe cut off 20s.; the second toe 15s.; the third toe 9s.; the fourth toe 6s., the fifth toe 5s.; "If anyone suffers a wound, not involving the cutting off or maiming or breaking of a limb, on an uncovered and visible place (for example, in front of the hair or below the sleeve or beneath the knees), the compensation to be paid shall be double what would be due in the case of a wound inflicted on the head under the hair or on the limbs beneath the clothes, that is, on a concealed place." "Anyone who commits a theft, who betrays his lord, who deserts him in a hostile encounter or military engagement, who is defeated in trial by battle or who commits a breach of the feudal bond shall forfeit his land." In the case of stolen property worth more than 30d., the accused shall choose which of the two he wishes, either the simple ordeal or an oath of the value of one pound with oath helpers taken from three hundreds. "If anyone dares to dig up or despoil, in scandalous and criminal fashion, a body buried in the ground or in a coffin or a rock or a pyramid or any structure, he shall be regarded as an outlaw." "If a person condemned to death wishes to confess, it shall never be refused him." "If anyone who is a father dies and leaves as son or daughter to inherit, they shall not maintain an action or submit to a court judgment before reaching fifteen years of age; but they shall remain seised, under guardians and trustees in the lawful custody of their relatives, just as their father was on the day when he was alive and dead." "If anyone dies without children, his father or mother shall succeed to the inheritance, or his brother or sister, if neither father nor mother is living." If he does not possess these relatives, then his father's or mother's sister, and thereafter relatives up to the fifth `joint', whoever are the nearest in relationship, shall succeed by the law of inheritance. While the male line subsists, and the inheritance descends from that side, a woman shall not succeed. "The first born son shall have the father's ancestral fee' the latter shall give any purchases or subsequent acquisitions of his to whomever he pleases." If a person has bocland which his kinsmen have left him, he shall not dispose of it outside his kindred. "If a wife survives her husband she shall have in permanent ownership her dowry and her maritagium which had been settled on her by written documents or in the presence of witnesses and her morning-gift and a third part of all their jointly acquired property in addition to her clothing and her bed." "If a woman dies without children, her blood relatives shall divide up her share with her husband." A man may fight against as person whom he finds with his wedded wife, after the second or third prohibition, behind closed doors or under the one covering, or with his daughter whom he begot on his wife, or with his sister who was legitimately born, or with his mother who was lawfully wedded to his father. There is pecuniary compensation if a married woman commits fornication and she is of the rank of ceorl or belongs to the 600s. class or the 1200s. class, and physical mutilation has been prescribed for those persisting in the offence. "Women who commit fornication and destroy their embryos, and those who are accessories with them, so that they abort the foetus from the womb, are by an ancient ordinance excommunicated from the church until death." A milder provision has now been introduced: they shall do penance for ten years. "If anyone kills or while sleeping crushes another person's child who has been entrusted to him for rearing or instruction, he shall pay compensation for him just as if he had killed an adult person." The county meetings shall be attended by the bishops, earls, sheriffs, deputies, hundredmen, aldermen, stewards, reeves, barons, vavassors [those who hold of a baron], village reeves, and the other lords of lands who shall with diligence see to it that failure to punish evildoers or the viciousness of officials or the corruption of judges shall not destroy those suffering under their accustomed afflictions. Every cause shall be determined in the hundred court or county court or the hallmoot of those who have soke or in the courts of feudal lords or in the boundary courts of feudal equals or as it pertains to established places for court proceedings. "In the case of soke of pleas, some of these profits belong peculiarly and exclusively to the royal treasury, some are shared by it