[Principles of Scientific Management — Taylor — Gutenberg #21352]

old order. This was the Royston Dissenting Book Club, which played an important part as a centre of mental activity during the last quarter of the 18th and the first quarter of the 19th centuries. The Club was an institution, the influence and usefulness of which were felt and recognised far beyond the place of its birth, and brought some notable men within the pale of its activity. It was founded on the 14th December, 1761, the first meetings being held at the Green Man, then and for many years afterwards one of the foremost {27} inns in the town. Among the earliest members of the Club occur the names of the Rev. Robert Wells, Joseph Porter, John Fordham, Edward Fordham, George Fordham, Valentine Beldam, James Beldam, John Wylde, Thomas Bailey, John Butler, Wm. Coxall, and Edward Rutt. While the circulation of books amongst its members was one of the primary objects of the Club--for which purpose its existence has continued down to the present time--it was chiefly as an intellectual forum or debating club that it is of interest here to notice. From this point of view it fairly reflects the influential position of the dissenting body in Royston towards the end of the last century, and that growing tendency to the discussion of abstract principles in national affairs which prevailed more or less from the French Revolution to the Reform Bill, but especially during the last few years of the last century. In Henry Crabb Robinson's Diary, for the year 1796, there occurs this reference to the great debates at the Club's half-yearly meetings:-- "There had been established at Royston a Book Club, and twice a year the members of it were invited to a tea party at the largest room the little town supplied, and a regular debate was held. In former times this debate had been honoured by no less a man than Robert Hall. * * To one of these meetings my brother was invited, and I as a sort of satellite to him. There was a company of forty-four gentlemen and forty-two ladies. The question discussed was--'Is private affection inconsistent with universal benevolence?'" This question, it seemed, was meant to involve the merits of Godwin's Political Justice, which was making a stir just then, and among those who took part besides the writer of this diary were Benjamin Flower, editor and proprietor of the _Cambridge Intelligencer_, and also four or five ministers of the best reputation in the place. "Yet," adds the writer, then a young man but fluent speaker, "I obtained credit, and the solid benefit of the good opinion of Mr. Nash." Among other names was that of George Dyer, author of a History of Cambridge, and a biography of Mr. Robinson, successor to Robert Hall, at Cambridge, a biography which Wordsworth pronounced to be the best in the language. At least on two occasions the celebrated Robert Hall, then a Baptist minister at Cambridge, attended the Club and took a leading part in the debates. From one of the old minute books of the Club [for a perusual of this book I am indebted to Miss Pickering, whose father's shop in John Street was the depôt of the Club till recent years] for the years 1786-90, I find that on two occasions the question for debate stands in the name of Mr. Hall, and the subjects were, on the first occasion--"Does extensive knowledge of the world tend to increase or diminish our virtue?" and on the second occasion the subject was--"Whether mankind are at present in a state of moral improvement." {28} At the monthly debates it was the practice of the Club, having debated some stated subject, to vote upon it, and enter the result in the margin of the minute book, and many of these entries are curious and instructive. Against the second question standing in the name of the famous preacher, there is no such entry, but against the first, the opinion of the forum seems to have been that an extensive knowledge of the world tends to diminish our virtue, but it was only by a "majority of 1" that this opinion was arrived at. This old minute book throws some interesting light upon the intellectual attitude of a large number of thoughtful men upon various public questions and social problems. The majority of the entries in the book are in the handwriting of the venerable Edward King Fordham, the Royston banker, whose long life covered more than the whole period selected for these sketches. The following resolution shows the _modus operandi_ of the institution known as the forum, which was a very general institution both in the Metropolis and in many centres in the country--"It was unanimously agreed that a question or subject shall be proposed for discussion or debate, every club night, as soon after eight o'clock, as the book business is finished. The question to be proposed on a preceding meeting, and balloted for (if required by any member) before admitted in the list for discussion." Then follow, through page after page of the old book, questions put down for discussion, and in most cases the opinion arrived at. Among the names in which questions stand are E. K. Fordham, Joseph Beldam, senr., Wm. Nash, Elias Fordham, James Phillips, Samuel Bull, Valentine Beldam, John Fordham (Kelshall), John Walbey, Wm. Wedd, Robert Hall, Mr. Crabb, Mr. Tate, Richard Flower, Mr. Carver, Mr. Jameson, Mr. Barfield. These were some of the men who figured in the intellectual tournaments of the time. Let us glance at a few of the questions debated and the result, and we shall get some idea of the subjects which engaged men's attention, and what they thought upon them. The subjects cover a great variety of matters, and frequently were as wide apart as the poles in their nature. Here are the first two questions debated:-- "Whether a General Enclosure will be beneficial or prejudicial to the Nation?" "Whether Hope or Fear be the most powerful incentive to Action?" I venture to transcribe a few more questions at random, with the decision of the forum upon them. "Whether it be right for the Legislature to make Laws to punish prophane swearing?--James Phillips.--Determined." [That is, determined that it was right.] {29} "Whether free Inquiry is not upon the whole beneficial to Society though it may be attended with some ill effects to Individuals?--E. K. Fordham.--Determined unanimously for full inquiry." "Whether a Candidate for Parliament ought to engage to support any particular measures in Parliament previous to his election?--He ought." "Whether it would be better to maintain the Poor of this Kingdom by Charity or Rate?--By Charity." "Whether Publick or Private Punishments are to be preferred in a Free Country?--Publick Punishment preferred, August 27th, 1787." "Whether a Man can or cannot be a real Christian, and at the same time a gentleman in the World's esteem?--Joseph Beldam, senr.--Can 13, Cannot 11." "Whether the Art of expressing our thoughts by written characters is not superior to any other art whatever?--John Walby." To the above question is given the very curious answer--15 for Writing, 9 for Agriculture. Evidently there were some farmers of the old school in the forum! The character of the schools of the period is reflected in the following:-- "Whether a Public or a Private Education for youth is to be preferred?--Unan. for a private one, in favour of virtue." "Whether the use of well-composed forms, or extempore prayer in dissenting congregations be most agreeable to the Dignity of Religious worship, and the general Edification?--2 for Forms, 16 for Extempore." "Which is the greater Evil, to Educate Children _above_ or _beneath_ their probable station or Circumstances?--5 above Circumstances, 9 below." Here we get a hundred years' old opinion that in effect it is better to educate children above their probable station and let them take their chance in the competition of life than to educate them below it. This was evidently a vigorous reforming opinion for those days, considering that Board Schools were yet nearly a hundred years off! Fifty years even before the Reform Bill it was possible to get such an opinion as the following upon the suffrage:-- "If we could get a Reform in Parliament would it be expedient or just to exclude any Order of subjects from giving their vote for a Representative in the House of Commons?--John Fordham (Kelshall).--Yeas 2, Noes 7." That is seven out of nine were in favour of universal suffrage! Here is an instance of the logical and discriminating faculties which these forums called forth in such a high degree:-- "Is good sense or good nature most productive of Happiness--taking both the Individual and Society into the Account?--Good Nature to Individuals 13, Good Sense to ditto 8; Good Sense to Society 19, Good Nature to ditto 1." {30} The foregoing answer is a very nice discrimination and involved a "reasoning out" which is in striking contrast with most modern debates in which the facts can be read up from various almanacks. The meaning of it is of course that good nature between man and man and good sense in general society are most productive of happiness. The following is quoted of a different type:-- "Which of the three learned Professions--Law, Physic, or Divinity--has been most useful to Society?--Law 7, Physic 1, Divinity 9." This was rather hard upon the doctors, it must be confessed, but, then, society had no reason to be very grateful to a class of men who in those days dealt so largely in bleeding, blistering and purging! It would be interesting to know what sort of a vote would be given on such a question now. Probably it would be found that the doctors had pulled up a bit during the last hundred years. Here is another on the State and individual opinion:-- "Has the State a Right to take Cognizance of any Opinions whatever, either civil, political, or religious?--A, 6; N, 12." The following shows the financial insecurity of the times:-- "Ought country Banks to be encouraged in Great Britain"--A majority of more than two to one were of opinion that they ought not! This was in 1791. There were, of course, topics of a more strictly controversial kind, bearing upon tithes, Church Establishment, Test Acts, &c., the discussion of which was natural enough to a body constituted as the Royston Book Club was, chiefly of Dissenting ministers and wealthy adherents in their congregations. I have, however, quoted enough to show that it was not merely a sectarian conventicle, but a forum for intellectual debate in its fullest sense. Upon this point the following three questions may be added:-- "Is there any foundation in fact for the popular Belief of Ghosts and Apparititions [sic]?--J. Phillips.--Y, 15; n, 26." If