# Semi-Charmed Life

"Semi-Charmed Life" is a song by American rock band Third Eye Blind from their eponymous debut studio album (1997). It was released to modern rock radio as the lead single from the album on February 18, 1997, by Elektra Records. Frontman Stephan Jenkins is credited as the sole writer of the song, although guitarist Kevin Cadogan has disputed the song's authorship through litigation. The song was produced by Jenkins and Eric Valentine. An alternative rock and power pop song with a rap-influenced singing style, the lyrics of "Semi-Charmed Life" concern a crystal meth addiction and transition periods in one's life.

"Semi-Charmed Life" was one of the first demos recorded for Third Eye Blind, in which it went through five iterations before the band settled on its final mix. Valentine recorded and mixed the song in and around San Francisco at Toast Studios, Skywalker Ranch, H.O.S., and The Site. The instrumentation used in the song includes guitars, brushes, and a drum machine. According to Jenkins, the refrain of "Semi-Charmed Life" was inspired by Lou Reed's "Walk on the Wild Side", and the band intended for it to serve as an answer song. The song was conceived after Jenkins witnessed his friends using crystal meth at a Primus concert.

The music video for "Semi-Charmed Life" was directed by Jamie Morgan and it depicted an idealistic visual of San Francisco. The song received positive reviews from music critics, who praised its instrumentation and radio-friendly nature. In retrospective reviews, some critics have cited "Semi-Charmed Life" as one of the best songs of the 1990s. In the United States, the song peaked at number four on the Billboard Hot 100. The song was certified 4x Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Internationally, "Semi-Charmed Life" was a top 40 hit in six countries.

Writing and inspiration

Frontman Stephan Jenkins is credited as the sole songwriter of "Semi-Charmed Life". Jenkins intended to write a song that acted as a San Francisco response to Lou Reed's "Walk on the Wild Side", with the "doo, doo, doot" chants present throughout the song being directly inspired by Reed's song. In regards to the song's style, Jenkins explained that it was meant to reflect changes that occurred in the San Francisco music scene at the time, particularly a growing interest in hip hop. In an interview with Rolling Stone, Jenkins said that the concept of the song was developed through his observations of friends using crystal meth at a Primus concert. The juxtaposition of the music and lyrical content was intentional, as Jenkins intended to illustrate the "bright, shiny feeling" one gets when using crystal meth. Jenkins, however, maintains that the meaning of the song more broadly relates to changing periods in one's life. He further explained the meaning of the song:
It's about living in the Lower Haight [in San Francisco] and all the machinations that were going on at a time where my friend group was finally out of the [educational] institutions that we'd been in our whole lives – because we’d all been in school since kindergarten and everybody now was in their early 20s and out of college. And then probably underneath that, also the weight of coming to terms with the kind of agony that your life is always about to change and never be reliable.
The song was written well before Third Eye Blind was formed. During his time as a struggling musician in San Francisco, Jenkins recalled sitting in a room with future 4 Non Blondes singer and songwriter Linda Perry, who worked as a waitress down the street, performing their original compositions to one another. The two played each other early versions of "Semi-Charmed Life" and "What's Up?", both of which would later become massive hits for their respective bands. It would be decades later that Jenkins realized the songs performed in that private session would sell a combined 17 million records.

Jenkins was initially against the decision to release "Semi-Charmed Life" as the lead single from Third Eye Blind, as he did not believe that it was representative of the work as a whole. Guitarist Kevin Cadogan was concerned with the explicit lyrical content of the song, as he feared that radio stations would refuse to play the song. Elektra Records suggested that the band release "Semi-Charmed Life" as their debut single as opposed to "Losing a Whole Year", prompting the release of several radio edits of the song. Upon the song's success, Jenkins claimed that he believed most listeners misinterpreted the song to simply be a "happy summertime jam."

Songwriting claims
Prior to the formation of Third Eye Blind, Jenkins was part of the rap duo Puck and Zen, alongside Detroit rapper Herman Anthony Chunn. With the assistance of manager Eric Godtland, Jenkins and Chunn made a $10,000 deal for Jenkins to acquire the rights to guitar riffs that Chunn wrote, which would later be incorporated into "Semi-Charmed Life". This deal gave Jenkins sole authorship of the song, with Jenkins commenting: "I kept going until it was my song. I had no idea where that song was going, but I bought [Chunn] out." In 2000, rumors circulated that guitarist Tony Fredianelli, who had previously auditioned for Third Eye Blind in 1993, had written the song's hook. When reached for comment by the San Francisco Chronicle, producer Eric Valentine claimed that "Semi-Charmed Life" had "been around for many years. There are a lot of people who contributed to that tune and didn't get credit."

On October 16, 2018, approximately a year after the 2017 reissue of Third Eye Blind, Cadogan filed a lawsuit for infringement of copyright against Third Eye Blind and Jenkins. Despite being uncredited, Cadogan alleged that he was responsible for co-writing four songs on the album, including "Semi-Charmed Life", and thus was entitled to 25 percent of their profits, for which he had not been compensated. Cadogan also sought to establish authorship over the four songs in dispute. On August 21, 2019, the lawsuit was terminated through voluntary dismissal with prejudice.

Recording and mixing

The recording sessions for "Semi-Charmed Life" took place in and around San Francisco, California, at Toast Studios, Skywalker Ranch, and H.O.S. Production on the song was helmed by Jenkins and Eric Valentine, with Valentine also serving as the song's recording engineer. Valentine intentionally recorded the song without assistance from computers, opting to directly record the material onto tape machines. When speaking to Billboard, Valentine described the recording sessions, stating that he would cut and edit the tapes, with "no fixing or changing anything." The song was recorded on a Neve 8038 mixing console, using Studer A800 MKIII and Ampex MM1200 tape recorders. Valentine was also responsible for the mixing of the track, which was made at The Site, H.O.S., and Toast Studios. Valentine mixed the song on a Neve 8078 mixing console, using a Studer A800 tape recorder. Ted Jensen mastered the track at Sterling Sound Studios in New York City, in which he used a 3M 996 as the master tape. WEA was responsible for the manufacturing of the single on both compact disc and cassette tape.

"Semi-Charmed Life" was one of six demos first recorded for Third Eye Blind. Jenkins recorded five iterations of the song before settling on the final version, as he faced difficulty in getting the "groove" right. Bassist Arion Salazar described one of the earlier iterations as a "one-dimensional, acoustic guitar troubadour-y first position thing with basic guitar chords and some bohemian rapping," crediting Cadogan's contributions as having sonically balanced out the song. The song features multi-layered guitar textures using an Epiphone Casino, Hamer electric, Gibson J-200 acoustic, and a Gretsch Country Gentleman, all of which were centrally provided by Cadogan. An assortment of amps were also used in the recording process, including a Matchless 30 into a Mesa/Boogie 4x12 cabinet, a Mesa/Boogie Heartbreaker head, a Vox AC30 and a 69 Marshall plexi Super Lead head into a Marshall 4x12 loaded with 25-watt Greenback speakers. Brad Hargreaves used a Pearl Export snare drum in the composition of the track. Jenkins later claimed that the drum loops present in the final recording are the same ones used in the initial iteration of the song. A demo version of "Semi-Charmed Life" was later released on the 2017 reissue of Third Eye Blind.

Composition
"Semi-Charmed Life" is an alternative rock and power pop song, composed with a rap-influenced singing style. However, when writing the composition, Jenkins contends that he was more broadly influenced by hip hop music. The song incorporates "shoegazer and big guitar-chord soundscape musicality," as described by bassist Arion Salazar. Other musical instruments used are brushes and a drum machine. Reverb, wah-wah, tremolo and flange are also employed throughout the song in order to add "extra texture and sonic divers