[Materials of Construction — Gutenberg #40780]

either with gold or silver. If the reeve is accused of having granted his permission to the man who coined the false money, he shall clear himself by the triple oath of exculpation and, if it fails, he shall have the same sentence as the man who coined the false money. *Measures and weights shall be diligently corrected and an end put to all unjust practices. The repair of fortifications and bridges, and the preparation of ships and the equipment of military forces shall be diligently undertaken for the common need, whenever the occasion arises. *In Wessex and Mercia, the king is entitled to payments for violation of his mund, attacks on people's houses, assault, and neglecting military service. In the Danelaw, he is entitled to payments for fighting, breach of the peace and attacks on people's houses, and neglect of military service. *If anyone does the deed of an outlaw, the king alone shall have power to grant him security. He shall forfeit all his land to the king without regard to whose vassal he is. Whoever feeds or harbours the fugitive shall pay 5 pounds to the king, unless he clears himself by a declaration that he did not know that he was a fugitive. *He who promotes injustice or pronounces unjust judgments, as a result of malice or bribery, shall forfeit 120s. to the king, in districts under English law, unless he declares on oath that he did not know how to give a more just verdict, and he shall lose forever his rank as a thegn, unless he redeem it from the king, provided the latter is willing to allow him to do so. In the Danelaw he shall forfeit his lahslit. *He who refuses to observe just laws and judgments shall forfeit, in districts under English law, a fine to the party entitled thereto - either 120s. to the king, 60s. to the earl, or 30s. to the hundred, or to all of them if they were all concerned. *If a man seeks to accuse another man falsely in such a way as to injure him in property or in reputation, and if the latter can refute the accusation brought against him, the first shall forfeit his tongue, unless he redeems himself with his wergeld. No one shall appeal to the king, unless he fails to obtain justice within his hundred. Everyone shall attend the hundred court, under pain of fine, whenever he is required by law to attend it. The borough court shall be held at least three times and the shire court at least twice, under pain of fine. The bishop of the diocese and the earldorman shall attend and they shall direct the administration of both ecclesiastical and secular law. *No one shall make distraint [seizure of personal property out of the possession of an alleged wrongdoer into the custody of the party injured, to procure a satisfaction for a wrong committed] of property either within the shire or outside it, until he has appealed for justice three times in the hundred court. If on the third occasion he does not obtain justice, he shall go on the fourth occasion to the shire court, and the shire court shall appoint a day when he shall issue his summons for the fourth time. And if this summons fails, he shall get leave from the one court or the other, to take his own measures for the recovery of his property. *Every freeman over age 12 must be in a tithing if he desires to have the right of exculpation and of being atoned for by the payment of his wergeld, if he is slain, and to be entitled to the rights of a freeman, whether he has an establishment of his own or is in the service of another. Everyone shall be brought within a hundred and under surety, and his surety shall hold and bring him to the performance of every legal duty. *Everyone over age 12 shall take an oath that he will not be a thief or a thief's accomplice. Every trustworthy man, who has never earned a bad reputation and who has never failed either in oath or in ordeal, shall be entitled to clear himself within the hundred by the simple oath of exculpation. For an untrustworthy man compurgators for the simple oath shall be selected within three hundreds, and for the triple oath, throughout the district under the jurisdiction of the borough court; otherwise he shall go to the ordeal. When a simple oath of exculpation is involved, the case shall be begun with a simple oath of accusation; but where a triple oath of exculpation is involved, it shall be begun with a triple oath of accusation. A thegn may have a trustworthy man give his oath of accusation for him. No man may vouch to warranty unless he has three trustworthy witnesses to declare whence he acquired the stock which is attached in his possession. The witnesses shall declare that, in bearing testimony on his behalf to the effect that he acquired it legally, they are speaking the truth, in accordance with what they saw with their eyes and heard with their ears. *No one shall buy anything over 4d. in value, either livestock or other property, unless he has four men as trustworthy witnesses, whether the purchase be made within a town or in the open country. If, however, any property is attached, and he who is in possession of it has no such witnesses, no vouching to warranty shall be allowed, but the property shall be given up to its rightful owner and also the supplementary payment, and the fine to the party who is entitled thereto. And if he has witnesses in accordance with what we have declared above, vouching to warranty shall take place three times. On the fourth occasion he shall prove his claim to it or give it back to its rightful owner. No one shall claim ownership where fraud is involved. *If anyone who is of bad reputation and unworthy of public confidence fails to attend the court meetings three times, men shall be chosen from the fourth meeting who shall ride to him, and he may then still find a surety, if he can. If he cannot, they shall seize him either alive or dead, and they shall take all that he has. And they shall pay to the accuser the value of his goods, and the lord shall take half of what remains and the hundred half. And if anyone, either kinsman or stranger, refuses to ride against him, he shall pay the king 120s. *The proved thief and he who has been discovered in treason against his lord, whatever sanctuary he seeks, shall never be able to save his life. He who in court tries to protect himself or one of his men by bringing a countercharge shall have wasted his words, and shall meet the charge brought by his opponent in such a way as the hundred court shall determine. No one shall entertain any man for more than three days, unless he is committed to this charge by the man whom he has been serving. And no one shall dismiss one of his men from his service until he is quit of every accusation which has been brought against him. *If anyone comes upon a thief and of his own accord lets him escape without raising the hue and cry, he shall make compensation by the payment of the thief's wergeld, or clear himself with the full oath, asserting that he did not know him to be guilty of any crime. And if anyone hears the hue and cry and neglects it, he shall pay the full fine for insubordination [120s] to the king, or clear himself by the full oath. *Regarding thoroughly untrustworthy men, if anyone has forfeited the confidence of the hundred, and he has charges brought against him to such an extent that he is accused by three men at once, no other course shall be open to him but to go to the triple ordeal. If, however, his lord asserts that he has failed neither in oath nor in ordeal since the assembly was held at Winchester, the lord shall choose two trustworthy men within the hundred - unless he has a reeve who is qualified to discharge this duty - and they shall swear that he has never failed in oath or ordeal or been convicted of stealing. If the oath is forthcoming, the man who is accused there shall choose whichever he will - either the simple ordeal or an oath equivalent to a pound in value, supported by compurgators found within the three hundreds, in the case of an object over 30d. in value. If they dare not give the oath, the accused shall go to the triple ordeal, which shall be opened by five compurgators selected by the accuser and he himself shall make a sixth. If the accused is proved guilty, on the first occasion he shall pay double value to the accuser and his wergeld to the lord who is entitled to receive his fine, and he shall appoint trustworthy sureties, that hence forth he will desist from all wrong-doing. And on the second occasion, if he is proved guilty, there shall be no compensation but to have his hands or his feet cut off or both, according to the nature of the offense. And if has wrought still greater crime, he shall have his eyes put out and his nose and ears and upper lip cut off or his scalp removed, whichever of these penalties is determined by those with whom rests the decision of the case; and thus punishment shall be inflicted, while, at the same time, the soul is preserved from injury. If, however, he escapes and avoids the ordeal, his surety shall pay the value of his goods to the plaintiff and the wergeld of the accused to the king or to the man who is entitled to receive his wergeld. And if the lord is accused of advising the man who had done wrong to escape, he shall choose five trustworthy men, and shall himself make a sixth, and shall clear himself of the accusation. If he succeeds in clearing himself, he shall be entitled to the wergeld. And if he fails, the king shall take the wergeld, and the thief shall be treated as an outlaw by the whole nation. Every lord shall be personally responsible as surety for the men of his own household. And if any accusation is brought against one of them, he shall answer if within the hundred in which he is accused. And if he is accused and escapes, the lord shall