# Sex and Candy

"Sex and Candy" is a song by American alternative rock group Marcy Playground, a single from their 1997 self-titled debut album. It is a post-grunge song with psychedelic elements. Lead singer John Wozniak was inspired to write the song after a woman told him that a room smelled like "sex and candy." The song's abstract lyrics refer to the disco era and include hippie lingo. In 1997, Wozniak said that "Sex and Candy" is an unorthodox love song; later, he said he does not know what the song means. It was released to radio on the week of September 15, 1997. It was physically released on November 4.

Music critics mostly praised the song. Some found it sensual; many compared it to the music of Nirvana. Some critics interpreted the track as a love song, and others thought its lyrics were nonsensical. Commercially, "Sex and Candy" peaked at number 2 on the Canadian RPM Top Singles chart, number 8 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and number 1 on the Billboard Modern Rock Songs chart, staying there for a record-setting 15 weeks. Worldwide, the single reached the top 20 in Australia, Iceland and Norway; it is the band's only hit song. A music video was directed and conceptualized by Jamie Caliri, depicting Wozniak's head protruding from a hole inside of a mountain and a crawling spider; it has been interpreted in Freudian terms and compared to the work of Salvador Dalí. "Sex and Candy" remains popular on rock radio and has been covered by Maroon 5 and Slothrust.

Background
"Sex and Candy" stemmed from a moment in the late 1980s when John Wozniak, who had not yet started Marcy Playground, was in his girlfriend's dormitory at Bryn Mawr College, where his father taught. While he and his girlfriend were having sex in her dorm room, another young woman walked in following coitus interruptus. She said the room smelled like "sex and candy," a phrase that struck Wozniak as "weird and cool." Several years later, either in 1992 or 1993, Wozniak wrote the song in less than an hour in his bedroom at 4 a.m. In the song, he decided to combine the phrase "sex and candy" with "all these weird disco-era references that I was making up, 'platform double suede' and all that business". He also cited early grunge as an influence. According to MTV News, writing "Sex and Candy" was Wozniak's "first stab at coolness" following a childhood where he was isolated and often bullied. Wozniak also said that "If you listen to that song, it's pretty clear it wasn't written to be a hit. It's just a quirky little weird song."

Wozniak's explanations of the song's meaning have changed. In a 1997 interview in Billboard, he said it was a love song. While he enjoyed "classic" love songs by Cole Porter and The Beatles, he found most love songs that were on the radio during the 1980s formulaic and boring. Wozniak described "Sex and Candy" as his attempt to compose a love song which "didn't follow the typical formula, especially with the lyrics." When asked about the song's meaning in 2015, he said "It means so many different things, and so many different parts of it came from so many different places" before saying:

Composition

"Sex and Candy" is a post-grunge song with elements of psychedelic music that lasts for two minutes and fifty-two seconds. It has a slow tempo and down-tempo chords. Abstract lyrics reference "double cherry pie," "disco superfly," "disco lemonade" and "platform double-suede". While this studio recorded track merits notable mention of producer and musician Jared Kotler on drums, and Glenn Braver on bass, "Sex and Candy" features "drawling" vocals from John Wozniak. Band members include Dylan Keefe (bass guitar) and Dan Reiser (drums). The track's refrain is "I smell sex and candy." Jon Vena of MTV News described the track as "radio-friendly". Nathan Smith of the Houston Press stated "Sex and Candy" was perfect crossover music, as its edgy, sexual lyrics were suitable for rock radio, while it was still "pussy enough for adult contemporary."

Several media outlets compared "Sex and Candy" to the work of Nirvana with Jonah Bayer of The A.V. Club specifically likening it to the sound of that band's 1994 album MTV Unplugged in New York. Dan Weiss of LA Weekly wrote "Sex and Candy" is the only song on Marcy Playground besides "Saint Joe on the School Bus" that resembles Nirvana's music. According to Gladstone of Cracked.com, many people mistakenly believe that "Sex and Candy" is a Nirvana song despite the fact that it was released after the suicide of Kurt Cobain; Gladstone opined "Only in the most superficial way is this song Nirvana-esque. It's moody and hooky." Other bands and sounds that critics heard in the song were the sort of music played at coffeehouses, Pearl Jam's session on MTV Unplugged, jam bands, The Beatles, and Beck.

Critics offered different interpretations of the song. Billboard Bradley Bambarger and MTV News Colin Devenish understood it as a love song while Rolling Stone Chuck Eddy said that was about "a sad sack strung out on hippie lingo ('Dig it,' 'Yeah, mama') and caffeine." In his book Rock Song Index: The 7500 Most Important Songs for the Rock and Roll Era, Bruce Pollock said the song takes "the 'Good Morning, Little Schoolgirl' ethos a bit too far." John Barrett of Paste deemed it "a simple, dreamlike tale of first laying eyes on a beautiful woman." Bayer wrote that listeners tried hard to find meaning in the track's seemingly meaningless lyrics. He added that "nobody, including the songwriter, really knows what it's about." For Stereogum, Peter Helman called the song "nonsensical".

Critical reception
According to Zachary Houle of PopMatters, "Sex and Candy" has a reputation for being the only good song in Marcy Playground's catalogue; Houle disputed the notion while praising the song. Bayer of The A. V. Club said that "There is something powerful in the simplicity and straight-forwardness of the song" and that its "chorus still sounds as captivating and strangely sensual as it did years ago." Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic commented that "songs like 'Sex and Candy' capture the band at their best, turning out hard-edged, melodic pop songs with strong hooks and backbeats." For MTV News, Jon Vena opined that the track "draws you in with sultry lyrics and a chillingly slow...tempo."

Barrett of Paste ranked it fifteenth on Paste list of "25 Awesome One-Hit Wonders of the 1990s" while Consequence of Sound ranked it thirty-fourth on its list of "The 100 Best One-Hit Wonder Songs." Bruce Pollock included it as one of the entries in his book Rock Song Index: The 7500 Most Important Songs for the Rock and Roll Era. In Bustle, Rachel Semigran called the song "well-loved". Mike Wass of Idolator called the song "a post-grunge classic that is still played with alarming frequency on adult rock radio stations today." Mike Joyce of The Washington Post wrote "Some rock bands don't attract radio airplay so much as provoke it. Marcy Playground pulled off the trick...with 'Sex and Candy,' a titillating hit single that contained the sure-fire refrain, 'I smell sex and candy.'"

Chuck Eddy of Rolling Stone gave the song a less enthusiastic review, calling it "an unappetizing artificial-sweetener marriage of down-tempo Nirvana chords and greasy Dave Matthews frat-minstrel sensitivity". Nathan Smith of the Houston Press put it on a list of the publication's least favorite one-hit wonders, calling it "one of the most despicable hits of the '90s" because it "refuses to rock and it refuses to go away. I hated it the first time I heard it, and I hate it now. I will die hating it." Joe Robinson of Diffuser.fm found the song's references to sex and mothers Freudian and disturbing.

Commercial performance
"Sex and Candy" was released to radio on the week of September 15, 1997. The Marcy Playground album drew little notice until a radio station in San Diego began playing "Sex and Candy". As the song became more popular, Wozniak was offered money for the publishing rights, offers that increased from $100,000 to $750,000. Wozniak decided that he would sell the rights to "Sex and Candy" if a buyer was willing to give him $1 million for the rights to the track and $750,000 for his next album. A week after the song reached the top position on Billboard Modern Rock Tracks, he got three offers for those amounts and sold the rights. "Sex and Candy" spent a then-record 15 weeks at number one on Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart, a record bested four years later by Nickelback's "How You Remind Me". The track peaked at number 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 2 on the Canadian Top Singles chart. In the US, only 175,000 copies of the single were sent to retail outlets, selling 37,500 units during its first week on sale.

"Sex and Candy" was the band's only hit. The song became so successful that it had its own accountant. The head of radio promotion at Capitol Records, Marcy Playground's label, felt that "Sex and Candy"'s ubiquity hurt the band's career; Gil Kaufma