[The Steam Engine — Rankine — Gutenberg #33272]

certainly aware of the new developments and new philosophy which were growing out of the search for the principles of scientific farming, and they accepted and used some of those that applied to their situation.[37] GREEN SPRING FARM AND THE TURNPIKE ROAD. The successful operation of Green Spring Farm, like the success of numerous other farms in Northern Virginia and the Shenandoah Valley, was closely linked to the transportation system of these areas. Tidewater Virginia in the seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries relied mainly on coastal waterways and rivers as avenues of commerce and travel. When roads appeared on maps of Virginia in this period, they followed trails laid down by Indians who, in turn, had taken over the game trails along the ridges of the land. Therefore, by 1750 there was only a basic network of roadways running east-west to the passes in the Blue Ridge and north-south to the colonial capital of Williamsburg along the Tidewater and to the Carolinas through the Piedmont. The eighteenth century development of roads in Northern Virginia emphasized east-west travel for the obvious reason that residents of this area saw their future prosperity more closely linked to the rich resources and fertile lands of the Shenandoah Valley (and through it, perhaps, to the Ohio River) than through connection with the political capitals of the state or the great plantations of the James and York Rivers.[38] [Illustration: Figure 2. Survey Map, John Halley, 1840. Fairfax County Deed Book H-3, p. 227.] [Illustration: Figure 3. R. R. Farr Survey, Fairfax County Deed Book C-8, p. 448.] As Colchester and Dumfries yielded leadership in commerce to Alexandria and as Loudoun and Fauquier Counties developed centers of commerce and seats of government at Leesburg and Warrenton, the desire for better overland connections with Alexandria gained strength. Public roadbuilding in this period was treated with indifference by both public officials and the public at large. Theoretically carried out by levying a certain amount of labor or materials from the freeholders of the community, the system never produced good roads in Northern Virginia; and, in the early nineteenth century, overland travel generally had permitted them to deteriorate to the point where both foreign and domestic travelers commented unfavorably on them in their travel memoirs.[39] Moreover, in the 1800's, the new state governments were in no position to provide financial support for local public works and could offer nothing more than their moral support through legislative approval of private roadbuilding by private turnpike companies which raised their capital through the sale of stock and obtained their income by charging tolls for use of the road. The earliest private turnpike company charter issued by the Virginia Legislature was in 1795 for the "Fairfax and Loudoun Road" from Alexandria to the ford of Little River. This company was never organized, but, in 1802, a somewhat more liberal charter was given to the Little River Turnpike Company. This company's road was completed in 1806 and immediately led to enactment in 1808 of further legislation authorizing extensions to Fauquier Courthouse.[40] The Little River Turnpike was located so that Fairfax Courthouse stood approximately half way between Alexandria and the western terminus at Aldie. The courthouse thus served as a logical landmark dividing the upper and lower segments of the road. The turnpike traversed Green Spring Farm at a point about midway in its lower section. Throughout the history of the road, the Moss family appears to have been deeply involved. In 1809, William Moss was appointed and served as one of three commissioners to advertise and receive subscriptions for stock in the company constructing the road from the Little River Turnpike to Fauquier Courthouse.[41] Thomas Moss served as a director of the Little River Turnpike Company and also acted as superintendent of the lower district of the road. Financial statements of the company, which were given in the annual reports of the State Board of Public Works, regularly carried accounts for both the salary paid to Thomas Moss and the funds spent by him for repair of the lower section of the road.[42] THE MIDCENTURY YEARS. 1840-1880. The Moss family's ownership of Green Spring Farm ended in 1843 with the sale of the farm and division of the proceeds among the eight heirs of Thomas Moss.[43] Under the supervision of the County Court, the farm was sold to one Thomas Sheriff, lately of Barbados. On his death, it descended to his son, James Sheriff, who kept it until 1855 when he transferred it as part of a settlement for a debt. Its next owner was James Benton, who held it in trust for one Hannah O'Brien of Baltimore. In the first half of this period the times were generally good. Virginia agriculture grew to new levels of prosperity, aided by the introduction of new labor-saving machinery through inventions and the opening up of new markets for farm produce through improvements in transportation. In such circumstances, James Sheriff's loss of Green Spring Farm for debts in 1855 seems likely to have been due to exceptional misfortunes or else exceptional neglect and waste on the part of the owner. Although records of the County Court during this period suggest that Thomas Sheriff and his son, James, were before the Bar of Justice on numerous occasions, these references do not suffice to explain all that occurred. During the second half of this period, when title to the farm was in James Benton for the use of Hannah O'Brien, the fortunes of its owners were dictated mainly by the fortunes of war. During the four years of hostilities, Green Spring Farm stood in the disputed ground outside the perimeter of permanent defenses of the capital where patrols from both sides ranged regularly by day and night. While the records of the war do not report any major engagements at the farm, they indicate that military activity in the neighborhood frequently placed its safety in jeopardy and obviously prevented any regular farming operations. The ultimate loss of the farm in 1878--again to be sold for debt--appears to have been the result of imprudence in business dealings (according to local tradition, Hannah's husband, Matthew O'Brien, was a gambler), and inability to bring the farm back from the low state to which it was reduced during the war years. Hannah O'Brien's interest in the farm enjoyed the special protection of a deed which specified that the land should be free from debts, liabilities, and control of her husband, Matthew O'Brien, and that she had power to dispose of the property by deed in her own right.[44] Subsequently, however, through ignorance or bad advice, she signed as guarantor of a note issued by her husband; and, when default on the note occurred, she lost the farm through court proceedings which ordered it sold for the debt.[45] Thus, in 1878 the farm was bought by Fountain Beattie. I. GENTLEMEN FREEHOLDERS: THE MOSS FAMILY (1770-1835) [1] Mrs. Don Ritchie, Arlington, Virginia, Moss family genealogist; Vernon Lynch, Annandale, Virginia, a lifelong resident of Fairfax County, now in his eighties; interviews. Walter Macomber, interview on July 16, 1968, at Green Spring Farm. In the opinion of Mr. Macomber of Washington, D.C., who planned and supervised the 1942 renovation of the mansion house, the original part of the house was built between 1750 and 1775. [2] _The Journal of John Littlejohn_, MS., Louisville, Kentucky, April 29, 1778. [3] Elmer T. Clark, J. Manning Potts, and Jacob S. Payton (eds.), _The Journal and Letters of Francis Asbury_ (Nashville: Abington Press, 1958), I, p. 531. [4] Fairfax County Deed Book R-1, p. 413, contains a deed in 1789 from William and Mary Bushby to John Moss, William Adams, William Waters, Samuel Adams, James Morrison, William Rhodes, and William Hickman, and their survivors, in trust, conveying a lot in the town of Alexandria, northward from the Presbyterian meeting house, westward parallel with Duke Street, southward parallel with Fairfax Street, and eastward parallel with Duke Street to Chapple Alley "to build and forever keep in good repair a house for the worship of God for the use of the Reverend Thomas Cooke and the Reverend Francis Asbury for the time being of the Methodist Episcopal Church...." [5] Fairfax County Will Book I, p. 150. [6] Fairfax County Deed Book AA-2, p. 29, a lease for three lives to John Moss, dated May 29, 1798. [7] Fairfax County Deed Book R-1, p. 397. [8] Mrs. Don C. Ritchie, letter dated October 17, 1969. [9] _Ibid._ [10] William W. Hening (ed.), [Virginia] _Statutes at Large_, 1823, reprint edition (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1969), VII, p. 32. [11] Albert Porter, _County Government in Virginia_ (New York: Columbia University Press, 1947), p. 186. [12] Fairfax County Court Minute Book, March 23, 1786, p. 191. Subsequently John Moss was reappointed Commissioner of the Land Tax in 1787, 1792, and 1793. [13] Hening, _Statutes_, XII, p. 243. [14] Fairfax County Court Order Book, 1787 (February 20 and October 15, 1787): "John Moss, Gent., Commissioner for Fairfax district produced on oath an account against the Commonwealth for his service in that capacity amounting to Twenty-five pounds thirteen shillings and six pence, which being examined by the court is allowed and ordered to be certified." [15] Shepherd, _Code_, I, p. 114. [16] Porter, _County Government_, p. 211. [17] Shepherd, _Code_, III, p. 262. [18] Fairfax County Deed Book Y-1, p. 69. [19] Shepherd, _Code_, I, p. 11. [20] F. Johnston, _Memorials of Old Virginia Clerks_ (Lynchburg: J. P. Bell, 1880), p. 172. _Alexandria Gazette_, October 4, 1839. The obituary notice for Thomas Moss states that he died on October 2 after a long illness, having been a Justice of the Peace for many years, and also having served as a member of the State Legislature and as county court clerk. The Archives of the Virginia House of Delegates show that Thomas Moss was a Delegate from Fairfax County for the 1828-1829 biennium. (Honorable George Rich, January 2, 1970; personal communication.) [21] K. M. Willis, "Old Fairfax Homes Give Up A Secret," _American Motorist_, May 1932, p. 16; Johnston, _Clerks_, p. 174. [22] M. Herndon, _Tobacco in Colonial Virginia_ (Williamsburg: Virginia 350th Celebration Corp., 1957), pp. 7-8, indicates that tobacco was introduced into Northern Virginia by the settlers who moved into the Rappahannock and Potomac areas around 1650. By the end of the seventeenth century, Herndon states, tobacco farming dominated the lowlands all along the Rappahannock and Potomac Rivers below the fall line. F. Harrison, _Landmarks of Old Prince William_ (Berryville: Chesapeake Book Co., 1964), pp. 148-150. Also to be noted is the fact that settlement above the fall line was not permitted prior to 1722 because of treaty provisions with the Iroquois. By the Treaty of Albany in 1722, the Iroquois withdrew west of the Blue Ridge. [23] Herndon,