[Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics — Gutenberg #25864]

the abdomen which is a dividing septum between the abdomen and chest. In this examination we must know the reasons why any organs, vessel or any other substance is located at a given place. We must run with all the rivers of blood that travel through the system. AN EXPLORATION. We must start our exploring boat with the aorta, and float with this vital current; see the captain as he unloads supplies for the diaphragm and all that is under it. We must follow him and see what branch of this river will lead to a little or great toe, or to the terminals of the whole foot. We must pass through the waters of the dead sea by the way of the vena cava, and observe the boats loaded with exhausted and worn out blood, as it is poured in and channeled back to the heart, with all below the diaphragm. Carefully watch the emptying of the vena azygos major and minor, with the veins of the arms and head all being poured in from little or great rivers to the vena innominate on their way to the great hospital of life and nourishment; whose quarter-master is the heart; whose finishing mechanic is the lung. Having acquainted ourselves with the forms and locations of this great personality we are ready at this time after examination, and found worthy and well qualified to enter into a higher class in which we can obtain an acquaintance with the physiological workings separately and conjoined of the whole being. At this place we become acquainted with the hows and whys of the production of blood, bone and all elements found in them, necessary to sustain sensation, motion, nutrition, voluntary and involuntary action of the nerve system. The hows and whys of the lymphatics, the life sustaining powers of the brain, heart, lungs, and all the abdominal system, with their various actions and uses, from the lowest cellular membrane to the highest organ of the body. RESULT OF REMOVAL OF DIAPHRAGM. When we consult the form of the cross-bar that divides the body in two conjoined divisions and reason on its use, we arrive at the fact that the heart and lungs must have ample space or room to suit their actions while performing their functions. At this time a question comes up: What effect would follow the removal of the fence between heart, lungs and brain, above that dividing muscle, and the machinery that is situated below said cross-bar? We see at a glance that we would meet failure to the extent of the infringement on demanded room for normal work of heart to deliver below lungs to prepare blood, and the brain to pass nerve power to either engine above, and all organs below the diaphragm. SUSTAINING LIFE PRINCIPLES. The life of the living tree is with the bark and superficial fascia which lies between the bark of the body of the tree, its periostium. The remainder of the tree takes the position or place of secreting. Its excretory system is first upwards from the surface of the ground, and washes out frozen impurities in the spring, after which it secretes and conveys to the ground through the trunk of the tree to the roots which is like unto the placenta attached to mother earth, qualifying all substances of constructing fiber and leaf, of that part of the tree above the ground. Each year produces a new tree which is seen and known by circular rings called annular growths. That growth which was completed last year is now a stale being of the past and has no vital action of itself. But like all stale beings its process is a life of another order, and dependent upon the fascia for its life and cellular action which lies under the bark, for its own existence as a living tree. It can only act as a chemical laboratory and furnish crude material which is taken up by the superficial fascia and conveyed up to the lungs, and exchanges dead for living matter, to receive and return to all parts of the tree, keeping up vital formation. With frost its vital process ceases through the winter season until mother earth stimulates the placenta, and starts the growth of a new being, which is developed and placed in form on the old trunk. Thus you see everything of animal growth as we would call them, is a new being, and becomes a part of the next being or growth formed. STALE LIFE. Should this form of vitality cease with the tree another principle which we call stale life takes possession and constructs another tree which is just the reverse of the living tree, and builds a tree after its own power of formulation from the dead matter, to which it imparts a principle of stale life, which life produces mushrooms, frogstools and other peculiar forms of stale beings, from this form of growth. Thus we are prepared to reason that blood when ligated and retained in that condition of dead corpuscles, and no longer able to support animal life, can form a zoophyte and all the forms peculiar to the great law of association, as tumefactions of the lymphatics, pancreas, liver, kidneys, uterus, with all the glandular system, be they lymphatics, cellular, ganglia or any other parts of the body susceptible of such growths, below the diaphragm. Thus we can account for tubercles of the abdomen and all organs therein found. LAW APPLICABLE TO OTHER ORGANS. This same law is equally applicable to the heart, lungs, the brain, tissues, glands, fascia and all substances capable of receiving without the ability to excrete stale substances. As oedema marks the first tardiness of fluids we have the beginning step which will lead from miliary tuberculosis to the largest known forms of tubercles, which is the effect of the active principles of stale life or the life of dead matter. POWER OF DIAPHRAGM. At this point we will draw the attention of the reader to the fact that the diaphragm can contract and suspend the passage of blood and produce all the stagnant changes from start to completed deadly tubercle. Also the cancer, the wen, glandular thickening of neck, face, scalp, fascia and all substances found above the diaphragm. In this stale life we have a compass that will lead us as explorers from the North star, to the South pole, the rising sun of reason, and the evening dews of eternity. This diaphragm says: "By me you live and by me you die. I hold in my hand the powers of life and death, acquaint now thyself with me and be at ease." OMENTUM. The truth of the presentation of facts should be the principle object of every person who takes his pen with a view to give the reasons why certain witnesses' testimony are indispensable to establish supposable or known truths. This being the case I have summoned before this court of inquiry an important witness. He has now taken the oath to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, of the case before this court. His name is the Great Omentum. Mr. Omentum, state if you know of any reason why or how by irritation from a misplacement of your body or any of its attachments to or about the diaphragm, the spine, stomach or other places that could cause irritation and thickening by congestion of your own body to such degree as to impede the flow of arterial or venous blood, over whose position you occupy much space from the diaphragm downward? State what effect a falling down of the eleventh and twelfth ribs on both sides of the spine with their cartilaginous points turned inward and down; if they should draw the diaphragm down and across your body? What would be the effect on circulation of the blood, and other fluids on the kidneys and other organs of the abdomen and pelvis? Would it not be the foundation for destructive congestion, and abnormal growth? State if you know if any such ligation would cause swelling by retention of blood in the spleen, liver, kidneys or other organs of the abdomen and pelvis? Would it be reasonable to suppose that you could perform your functions in office with any irritating condition caused by prolapses of diaphragm? Would not an irritation of your attachment to the diaphragm, spine or stomach be great enough to impede the blood on its passage through the aorta to the abdomen, or impede the flow of blood back and through the diaphragm? If so state how and why? CHAPTER VIII. LIVER, BOWELS AND KIDNEYS. Gender of the Liver--Productions of the Liver--A Hope for the Afflicted--Evidences of Truth--Loaded With Ignorance--Lack of Knowledge of the Kidney--How a Purgative Acts--Flux--Bloody Dysentery--Flux More Fully Described--Osteopathic Remedies--Medical Remedies--More of the Osteopathic Remedy. GENDER OF THE LIVER. Let us abruptly assume that the liver is the abiding placenta of all animated beings. If this position be true we are warranted and justified in the conclusion that the germs necessary to form blood vessels and other parts of the body must look to the liver for the fluids in which they would expect to construct in form and size. It seems to be nature's chemical laboratory, in which are prepared by receiving chemical qualities and quantities to suit the formation of hard and soft substances, which are to become the parts and the whole of any organ, gland, muscle, nerve, cell, veins and arteries. In evidence of the probability of the truth of this position, we will draw your attention, first to its central location between the sacral and cerebral nerve centers. There it lies between the "stomach" the vessel which receives all material previous to being manipulated for all nutrient purposes, and the heart, the great receiving and distributing quarter-master of all animal life. It supplies squads, sections, companies, regiments, battalions, brigades and divisions--to the whole army, and all parts that are dependent upon the nutrient system. PRODUCTIONS OF THE LIVER. The liver seems to be able to qualify by calling to itself all substances necessary to produce gall. Its communications with all parts of the body is direct, circuitous, universal and absolute. If pure it produces healthy gall and other substances, and in fact when healthy itself all other fluids are considered to be pure, at which time we are supposed to enjoy good health and universal bodily comfort. With a diseased liver we have perverted action which possibly accounts for impure and unhealthy deposits in the nasal passage and other parts of the body in their own peculiar form. Polypus of the nose, tumefaction of lungs, lymphatics, liver, kidneys, uterus, and even the brain itself. Suppose such deposits, composed of albumen