[Materials of Construction — Gutenberg #40780]

of punishment should vary with the level of moral guilt in a killing. He thought the deodand to be unreasonable. Bracton defines the requirements of a valid and effective gift, still applicable in 2000, as: "It must be complete and absolute, free and uncoerced, extorted neither by fear nor through force. Let money or service play no part, lest it fall into the category of purchase and sale, for if money is involved there will then be a sale, and if service, the remuneration for it. If a gift is to be valid the donor must be of full age, for if a minor makes a gift it will be ineffective since (if he so wishes) it shall be returned to him in its entirety when he reaches full age. Also let the donor hold in his own name and not another's, otherwise his gift may be revoked. And let him, at the least, be of sound mind and good memory, though an invalid, ill and on his death bed, for a gift make under such conditions will be good if all the other [requirements] of a valid gift are met. For no one, provided he is of good memory, ought to be kept from the administration or disposition of his own property when affected by infirmity, since it is only then that he must make provision for his family, his household and relations, given stipends and settle his bequests; otherwise such persons might suffer damage without fault. But since charters are sometimes fraudulently drawn and gifts falsely taken to be made when they are not, recourse must therefore be had to the country and the neighborhood so that the truth may be declared." In Bracton's view, a villein could buy his own freedom and the child of a mixed marriage was free unless he was born in the tenement of his villein parent. Judicial Procedure The Royal Court spawned several courts with different specialties and became more like departments of state than offices of the King's household. The justices were career civil servants knowledgeable in the civil and canon law. The Court of the King's Bench (a marble slab in Westminster upon which the throne was placed) traveled with the king and primarily heard criminal cases and pleas of the Crown. Any use of force, however trivial, was interpreted as breach of the royal peace and could be brought before the King's Bench. Its records were the coram rege rolls. The Court of Common Pleas primarily heard civil cases brought by one subject against another. Pursuant to the Magna Carta, it sat only at one place, the Great Hall in Westminster. It had concurrent jurisdiction with the King's Bench over trespass cases. Its records were the de banco rolls. The Court of the Exchequer with its subsidiary department of the Treasury was in almost permanent session at Westminster, primarily collecting the Crown's revenue and enforcing the Crown's rights. A department of the Exchequer watched over the affairs of the Jews. There was no sharp line demarking the jurisdictions of these courts. No pleas could be brought against the king; rather a petition was addressed to him, which he would answer by an executive writ. Appeals from these courts could be made to the king and/or his small council. In 1234, the justiciar as the principal royal executive officer and chief presiding officer over the Royal Court ended. In 1268, a chief justiciar was appointed to hold pleas before the king. About the same time the presiding justice of the Court of Common Pleas also came to be styled chief justice. Henceforth, a justiciar was a royal officer who dealt only with judicial work. The justiciars were no longer statesmen or politicians, but rather men learned in the law. Membership in or attendance at the great council or parliament no longer rested upon feudal tenure, but upon a writ of summons which was, to a degree, dependent on the royal will. Crown pleas included issues of the King's property, fines due to him, murder (a body found with no witnesses to a killing), homicide (a killing for which there were witnesses), rape, wounding, mayhem, consorting, larceny, robbery, burglary, arson, poaching, unjust imprisonment, selling cloth by nonstandard widths, selling wine by nonstandard weights. Crown causes were pled by the king's serjeants or servants at law, who were not clerics. Apprentices at law learned pleading from them. Between the proprietary action and the possessory assizes there is growing use in the king's courts of writs of entry, by which a tenant may be ordered to give up land, e.g. by a recent flaw in a tenant's title, for a term which has expired, by a widow for her late husband's land, or by an heir who has become of full age from his guardian. For instance: " ...Command Tertius that ... he render to Claimant, who is of full age, as it is said, ten acres ...which he claims to be his right and inheritance and into which the said Tertius has no entry save by Secundus, to whom Primus demised [gaged] them, who had only the wardship thereof while the aforesaid Claimant was under age, as he says...". But most litigation about land is still through the writ of right for proprietary issues and the assizes of novel disseisin and mort d'ancestor for possessory issues. Actions for debt; covenant; and account, e.g by a lord to his bailiff and receiver of his money, were actions in the king's court. Royal itinerant justices, who were members of the royal courts, traveled on eyre on regular circuits to the counties every seven years. They had an administrative function as well as a judicial function. They gave interrogatories to local assizes of twelve men to determine what had happened there since the last eyre. Information was aquired on royal proprietary rights, escheats, wardships, treasury matters, and official misdoings of royal officers, sheriffs, coroners, and bailiffs, which could be dealt with in an administrative way. (These administrative duties ceased in the first half of the 1300s.) All boroughs had to send twelve burgesses who were to indict any burgesses suspected of breaking the royal law. Every crime, every invasion of royal rights, and every neglect of police duties was to be presented and tried. Suspects were held in gaol until their cases could be heard and gaol breaks were common. Punishment after trial was prison for serious crimes, expulsion from the realm for less serious crimes, and pledges for good behavior for lesser crimes. Fines and amercements both for individual criminal offenses and local communities' faults brought revenue into the Exchequer as profits of justice. The king could increase fines and amercements or pardon a person found guilty. The visitation of these justices was anticipated with trepidation. In 1237, the residents of Cornwall hid in the woods rather than face the itinerant justices. (The court of the justices in eyre lasted until 1971.) Royal coroners held inquests on all sudden deaths to determine whether they were accidental or not. If not, royal justices held trial. They also had duties in treasure trove and shipwreck cases. Justices of assize, Justices of the Peace, and itinerant justices operated at the county level. The traditional county courts had lost much jurisdiction to the royal courts and were now limited to personal actions in causes involving usually no more than 40s. The great majority of cases had to do with 1) writ of right for recovery of land, 2) the possessory assizes for the protection of possession, 3) debt for recovery of money owed, such as rent 4) detinue for detention of a chattel, such as beasts and 5) convenant for breach of a contract, later to be limited to contracts under seal. There were also pleas of trespass and claims of fugitive villeins and their goods, nuisances, and encroachments. The action of trespass had broken free of the criminal law, which had been divided into the two categories of felony and trespass. But then the field of tort began to separate itself from that of crime and the more serious trespasses remained criminal while the less serious attached themselves to the civil sphere. The sheriff still constitutes and conducts the court, assisted by elected coroners. The earl of the county had little to do with its court except to take one-third of its profits of justice.The county court met every three or four weeks, usually in the sheriff's castle located in the chief borough of the county, but some met in the open air. It is attended by suitors, certain freeholders of the county who are bound to attend it, that is, to do suit to it. They are the judges of the court. The hundred court decided cases of theft, viewing of boundaries of land, claims for tenurial services, claims for homage, relief, and for wardship; enfeoffments made, battery and brawls not amounting to felony, wounding and maiming of beasts, collection of debts, trespass, detinue, and covenant, which now requires a sealed writing; defamation, and inquiries and presentments arising from the assizes of bread and ale and measures. The action of debt was used for five main purposes: 1) money lent, 2) the price of goods sold, 3) arrears of rent due upon a lease for years, 4) money due from a surety, and 5) a debt confessed by a sealed document. A paid bailiff had responsibility for the hundred court, which met every three weeks. Freeholders of these hundreds owe suit to it; these suitors are the judges. Twice a year the sheriff visited each hundred in the county to hold a turn, a court for small offenses, such as encroachment of public land, brewing and baking contrary to government regulations, and use of dishonest weights and measures. Everyone who held freehold land in the hundred except the greater magnates had to attend or be fined for absence. The sheriff annually viewed frankpledge, in which every layman without land that could be forfeited for felony, including villeins, were checked for being in a tithing, a group of neighbors responsible for each other's good conduct. This applied to every boy who had reached the age of twelve. He had to swear on the Bible "I will be a lawful man and bear loyalty to our lord the King and his heirs, and I will be justiciable to my chief tithing man, so help me God and the saints." Each tithing man paid a penny to the sheriff. The sheriff was the judge in his turn. Coordinate with the sheriff's turn was a leet court, which had private jurisdiction over the same small offences. If a county or a hundred court gave a false judgment, it had to pay a fine. Manorial courts were those in which a