# Wolverine (Ultimate Marvel character)

Wolverine (James Howlett) is a fictional character appearing in books published by Marvel Comics. He is an alternative version of Wolverine that appears in the Ultimate Marvel imprint, in stories separate from the original character. Created by writer Mark Millar and artist Adam Kubert (based on the original character created by Roy Thomas, Len Wein and John Romita Sr.), Ultimate Wolverine first appeared in Ultimate X-Men #1 (February 2001).

Fictional character biography

Early years
Wolverine suffered from amnesia. As a result, what little was known about his early life was both suspect and unverifiable. It is believed that, at one point, Wolverine had a wife or girlfriend, but she was supposedly murdered by Sabretooth. As both Wolverine's and Sabretooth's memories had been tampered with in the past (most commonly by the Weapon X), this claim was highly suspect; however, Wolverine did own a wedding ring that served as his only link to his past. He also owned dogtags. One side read 'Logan' and the other side 'Wolverine'.

Captain America recognized Wolverine as James Howlett, a paratrooper he had made several jumps with during World War II. He was called "Lucky Jim" because he always survived, no matter how gravely he was injured. Dum-Dum Dugan also recognized him as Jim although how he knew him has not yet been specified.

Ultimate Origins depicts Nick Fury and Kingpin's unnamed grandfather as looting a house for its goods only to be caught and taken hostage. Tests were conducted on Fury to see if he was a candidate to become a super soldier, and a little over a year later Howlett was also tested but escaped. Howlett's newly activated mutant abilities kicked in. This was considered the dawn of the mutant race, and Howlett was named "Mutant Zero." At some point in later years he was captured by Erik Lensherr's parents in a plan to 'cure' the mutant gene. When Lensherr discovered the plot he helped to free Wolverine, but not before killing his mother and father. Years later he was experimented on by Weapon X who gave him his adamantium claws by Malcolm Colcord.

Weapon X
Wolverine was kidnapped by John Wraith, a mutant-hating commando, and head of the Weapon X Project. His memory was erased and was given the fake name "Logan". He was often tortured and tormented by Wraith and his guards. It was during this time his skeletal structure was bonded with Adamantium. While being deployed in the desert during the Gulf War, the vehicle he was in was ambushed, and Wolverine was set loose from his cage. He slaughtered the enemies and came across Nick Fury, the only other survivor, who was injured. Logan carried him back to base, though he was then shot and caged once again. Wraith was surprised that his "living weapon" still retained his humanity.

A couple years later, Logan broke out of Weapon X with the help of Fury, who never forgot about the man who saved his life.

Logan later traveled to the Balkan Mountains. After being overwhelmed by a snow storm, he was taken in by a woman named Magda aka "The Witch of Wundagore". While recovering, Logan had intercourse with Magda, but was interrupted by her current boyfriend Eric Lensherr. Using his powers, Lensherr quickly dispatched Logan- hurling him from the mountain forcing him to wander in the wild alone.

Years later, Wolverine joined Magneto's Brotherhood of Mutant Supremacy, and eventually became Magneto's elite assassin.

Joining the X-Men
Eighteen months later, Logan was assigned to infiltrate the X-Men and assassinate Professor X. He was accepted into their ranks, and quickly seduced Jean Grey in order to further entrench himself within the team. However, Wolverine accidentally fell in love with Jean, and was devastated when she left him upon discovering his connection to the Brotherhood. Wolverine eventually betrayed Magneto, abandoning his initial mission and truly joined the X-Men after coming to understand and believe in Xavier's cause.

Seeking answers to Wolverine's past (and to liberate imprisoned mutant test subjects), the team traveled to the site of the Weapon X Project. There they encountered Wraith - and Sabretooth. Sabretooth burned the files on Wolverine - and thus destroyed the only record of his past - in front of his eyes, leading up to the first match-up between the two. At first, Sabretooth appeared to be winning, until Wolverine scored a dirty hit (slashing Sabretooth in the groin). The battle culminated with Sabretooth's plunge off of a cliff and the complete dismantlement of the Weapon X Project.

Unfortunately, by this time, Jean had begun a relationship with Cyclops, leading to a deep rift growing between the two men. Their rivalry came to a head when Xavier sent the two of them on a mission to the Savage Land, hoping to end their enmity. However, the reverse occurred: Wolverine allowed Cyclops to fall to his death, believing he would then be able to continue his relationship with Jean.

Miraculously, Cyclops survived, and returned, revealing Wolverine's hand in his disappearance. Cyclops blasted Wolverine to the ground, and then shocked everyone by offering to let him remain on the team (his only chance of redemption).

This experience had a profound effect upon Logan. He realized how badly he had betrayed his friends and ceased his antisocial, ruthless ways, and even developed a deep and abiding sense of responsibility. He also displayed a protective side for the younger X-Men, namely Rogue, and even eventually formed a bond of friendship - or at least mutual respect - with Cyclops.

Wolverine's nemesis was far from destroyed as Sabretooth returned as a member of the Brotherhood of Mutant Supremacy, replacing Wolverine at Magneto's side. After a fierce battle, Sabretooth began to taunt Wolverine, saying that he could never be killed, could recover from any injury, and would always return to haunt Wolverine - to which Wolverine responded by decapitating him on the spot.

Wolverine later began a half-hearted relationship with Storm, which he quickly ended. However, they both still harbored feelings for one another, and on a future "date", the couple were attacked by a revived Sabretooth (sporting a scar around his neck).

Sabretooth began to explain how he managed to survive thanks to a few little threads Wolverine neglected to cut, but was rendered comatose for several months. He engaged Wolverine in a brief encounter, until Storm separated the two, inadvertently allowing Sabretooth to take her hostage. Sabretooth said he hadn't come to fight, and revealed that, since his resurrection, his original memories had begun to return. He had become able to determine which memories were fake, as well. He also claimed that Wolverine was his biological father. This claim is unverified.

Ultimate Wolverine Vs. Hulk

Wolverine was contacted by Nick Fury, who was concerned that the Hulk may have survived S.H.I.E.L.D.'s attempt to execute him. Fury assigned Wolverine to find the Hulk, who S.H.I.E.L.D. believed to be in Tibet, and eliminate him. Wolverine tracked down the Hulk in Tibet, where he greeted him. To Wolverine's surprise Banner is in complete control of himself as the Hulk. Hulk and Wolverine exchange words, with Hulk belittling Wolverine's intelligence, and also revealed that Fury ordered the Ultimates to kill Logan if he ever abandons the X-Men. Logan then informed Hulk that Betty Ross wants him dead, angering Hulk. Wolverine is about to leave but then asked if he could ask Betty out which infuriated Hulk to attack Wolverine.

After a vicious exchange, the Hulk gained the upper hand and proceeded to rip Wolverine in half. Wolverine survived, and began the long climb up a mountainside to retrieve his legs. Unfortunately for Logan the Hulk is already there when Wolverine arrives. Hulk says that he will eat one of his legs in order to force Wolverine to leave Hulk alone, but Wolverine says that he will never stop chasing Bruce until he kills him. Then She-Hulk arrives and confronts an angry Hulk, Wolverine reattaches his legs as Hulk attacks an atomic bomb sent by Fury. Fury then decapitated Wolverine, demanding information, which Logan did not completely give. Locked in the Triskelion, Wolverine met Forge (a former Brotherhood member), and the two escaped. Wolverine reunited with Betty Ross in a hotel room. Ross transformed into She-Hulk and attacked Wolverine, but Wolverine quickly stabbed She-Hulk, which left her in critical condition. Ross begged Wolverine to spare Bruce, but he refused

Later, Logan went to the airport where Bruce was, got on the same plane, and sat next to him. Logan put a collar made by Forge on Bruce, telling him that if he turns into Hulk while the collar is on him, he will choke to death. Bruce asks why Logan simply won't just kill him and get it over with, and Logan says that he didn't want to kill Bruce, he wanted to kill the Hulk. Bruce said that he did not deserve the treatment and that he was a good person, but Logan replied that h