[Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics — Gutenberg #25864]

or dead lymph, albumen, or any substance to load down the powers of nature and keep the blood from being washed to normal purity? If so, let us go deeper into the study of the life-saving powers of the lymphatics. Do we not find in death that the lymphatics are dark, and in life they are healthy and red? LYMPH CONTINUED. What we meet with in all diseases is dead blood, stagnant lymph, and albumen in a semi-vital or dead and decomposing condition all through the lymphatics and other parts of the body, brain, lungs, kidneys, liver and fascia. The whole system is loaded with a confused mass of blood, that is mixed with much or little unhealthy substances, that should have been kept washed out by lymph. Stop and view the frog's superficial lymphatic glands; you see all parts move just as regular as the heart does; they are all in motion during life. For what purpose do they move? if not to carry the fluids to sustain by building up, while the excretory channels receive and pass out all that is of no further use to the body. Now we see this great system of supply is the source of construction and purity. If this be true we must keep them normal all the time or see confused nature in the form of disease, the list through. Thus we strike at the source of life and death when we go to the lymphatics. With this fountain of life-saving water, provided by nature to wash away impurities as they accumulate in our bodies, would it not be great stupidity in us to see a human being burn to death by the fires of fever, or die from asphyxia, by allowing bad or dead lymph, albumen or any substance to load down the powers of nature to keep the blood washed to normal purity? If so let us go deeper in the study of the life-sustaining powers of the lymphatics. NATURE'S SOLVENTS. The brain flushes the nerves of the lymphatics first, and more than any other system of the body. No part is so small or remote that it is not in direct connection with some part or chain of the lymphatics. The doctor of Osteopathy has much to think about when he consults natural remedies, and how they are supplied and administered, and as disease is the effect of tardy deposits in some or all parts of the body, reason would bring us to hunt a solvent of such deposits, which hinder the natural motion of blood and other fluids in functional works, which are to keep the body pure from any substance that would check vital action. When we have searched and found that the lymphatics are almost the sole requisite of the body we then must admit that their use is equal to the abundant and universal supply of such glands. If we think and use a homely word and say that disease is only too much dirt in the wheels of life, then we will see that nature takes this method to wash out the dirt. As an application, pneumonia is too much dirt in the wheels of the lungs, if so we must wash out; no where can we go to a better place for water than to the lymphatics. Are they not like a fire company with nozzles in all windows ready to flush the burning house? WHERE ARE THE LYMPHATICS SITUATED? A student of life must take in all parts, and study their uses and relations to other parts and systems. We lay much stress on the uses of blood and the powers of the nerves, but have we any evidence that they are of more vital importance than the lymphatics? If not let us halt at this universal system of irrigation and study its great uses in sustaining animal life. Where are they situated in the body? Answer by, where are they not? No space is so small as to be out of connection with the lymphatics, with their nerves, secretory and excretory ducts. Thus the system of lymphatics is complete and universal in the whole body. After beholding the lymphatics distributed along all nerves, blood channels, muscles, glands and all organs of the body, from the brain to the soles of the feet, all loaded to fullness with watery liquids, we certainly can make but one conclusion as to their use, which would be to mingle with and carry out all impurities of the body, by first mixing with such substances and reducing them to that degree of fluids in fineness, that could pass through the smallest tubes of the excretory system, and by that method free the body from all deposits of either solids or fluids, and leave nourishment. THE FAT AND LEAN. A question: Why is he too fat and she only skin and bone, while a third is just right? If one is just right, why not all? If we get fat by a natural process why not reverse the process and stop at any desirable point in flesh size? I believe the law of life is simple and natural in both respects if wisely understood. Have we nerves of motion to carry food to all parts, organs, glands and muscles? Have we channels to convey to all? Have we fluids to suit all demands? Have we brain power equal to all force needed? Is blood formed sufficiently to fill all demands? Does that blood contain fat, water, muscle, skin, hair and all kinds to suit each division, organ, and nerve? If so and blood has builded too much flesh, can it not take that bulk away by returning blood to gas and other fluids? Can that which has been done be done again? If yes be the correct answer, then we should hope to return blood, fat, flesh and bone to gas and pass them away while in gaseous condition, and do away with all unnatural size or lack of size. I believe that it is natural to build and destroy all material form from the lowest animated being to the greatest rolling world. I believe no world could be constructed without strict obedience to a governing law, which gives size by addition and reduces that size by subtraction. Thus a fat man is builded by great addition, and if desired can be reduced by much subtraction, which is simply a rule of numbers. We multiply to enlarge, also subtract when we wish a reduction. Turn your eye for a time to the supply trains of nature. When the crop is abundant, the lading would be great, and when the seasons do not suit, the crops are short or shorter to no lading at all. Thus we have the fat man and the lean man. Is it not reasonable as a conclusion of the most exacting philosophy that the train of cars that can bring loads of stone, brick and mortar until a great bulk is formed, can also carry away until this bulk disappears in part or all? This being my conclusion I will say by many years of careful observation of the work of creating bodies and destroying the same, that to add to is the law of giving size, and to subtract from is the law of reduction. Both are natural, and both can be made practical in the reduction or addition of flesh, when found too great in quantity, or we can add to and give size to the starving muscle through the action of the motor and nutrient system conveyed to, and appropriated from the laboratory in which all bodily substances are formed. Thus the philosophy is absolute, and the sky is clear to proceed with addition and subtraction of flesh. I believe I am prepared to say at this time that I understand the nervous system well enough to direct the laboratory of nature and cause it through its skilled arts to unload, or reduce, he who is over-burdened with a super-abundance of flesh, and add to the scanty muscle a sufficiency to give power of comfortable locomotion and other forces, by opening the gate of the supply trains of nutrition. CHAPTER VII. THE DIAPHRAGM. Investigation--A Struggle With Nature--Lesson of Cause and Effect--Something of Medical Etiquette--The Medical Doctor--An Explorer for Truth Must Be Independent--The Diaphragm Introduced--A Useful Study--Combatting Effect--Is Least Understood--A Case of Bilious Fever--A Demand on the Nerves--Danger of Compression--A Cause for Disease--Was a Mistake Made in the Creation--An Exploration--Result of Removal of Diaphragm--Sustaining Life in Principles--Law Applicable to Other Organs--Power of Diaphragm--Omentum. INVESTIGATION. Let us halt at the origin of the splanchnic and take a look. At this point we see the lower branches; sensation, motion, and nutrition, all slant above the diaphragm pointing to the solar plexus which sends off branches to pudic and sacral plexus of sensory system of nerves; just at the place to join the life giving ganglion of sacrum with orders from the brain to keep the process of blood forming in full motion all the time. A question arises, how is this motion supplied and from where? The answer is by the brain as nerve supply, heart as blood supply, all of which comes from above the diaphragm, to keep machinery in form and supplied with motion, that it may be able to generate chyle to send back to heart, to be formed into blood and thrown into arteries to build all parts as needed, and keep brain fed up to its normal supply of power generating needs. We see above the diaphragm, the lungs, heart and brain, the three sources of blood and nerve supply. All three are guarded by strong walls, that they may do their part in keeping up the life supply as far as blood and nerve force is required. But as they generate no blood nor nerve material, they must take the place of manufactories and purchase material from a foreign land, to be able to have an abundance all the time. We see nature has placed its manufacturies above a given line in the breast, and grows the crude material below said line. Now as growth means motion and supply, we must combine in a friendly way, and conduct the force from above to the region below the septum or diaphragm, that we may use the powers as needed. This wall must and does have openings to let blood and nerves penetrate with supply and force to do the work of manufacturing. A STRUGGLE WITH NATURE. After all this has been done and a twist, pressure or obstructing fold should appear from any cause, would we not have a cut off of motion to return chyle, sensation to supply vitality, and venous motion to carry off arterial