# Curtis Woodhouse

Curtis Woodhouse BEM (born 17 April 1980) is an English former professional footballer turned professional boxer and football manager, most recently in charge of Marske United. Woodhouse played football as a central midfielder, and competed as a light-welterweight boxer. He is the former British light-welterweight champion. His career in the Football League spanned across nine seasons, earning four caps for the England under-21 football team. Woodhouse's professional boxing record stands at 29 fights 22 wins, 13 of which are by knock-out, and 7 defeats.

He started his footballing career with York City's centre of excellence before joining Sheffield United. In November 2001, he was transferred to Birmingham City for a fee of £1 million, before joining Rotherham United in January 2003, on loan for five months. He then joined Peterborough United on a free transfer in October 2003. In May 2005, he joined Hull City for £25,000, before joining Grimsby Town just eight months later in January 2006. He retired at the end of the 2006–07 season.

Woodhouse stated that he had "fallen out of love" with football and decided to turn to professional boxing, despite no previous experience. In September 2006, he won his first professional boxing match, defeating Dean Marcantonio, on points, knocking him down twice in the final round.

He was convicted of assaulting a police officer and of using threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour in April 2006. As a result, he had his boxing licence suspended for five months by the British Boxing Board of Control, despite the incident happening before he was under the BBBofC's jurisdiction. Woodhouse returned to football in November 2006, joining Rushden & Diamonds in the Conference National before moving to Mansfield Town in January 2009. After leaving them, he moved to Harrogate Town. At the end of February 2010, he joined Sheffield in the Northern Premier League. Before the start of the 2011–12 football season, he moved up two divisions in the football league system when he joined Conference North outfit Eastwood Town.

Career

York City and Sheffield United
Woodhouse began his football career at York City's centre of excellence in 1994, before being transferred to Sheffield United for an initial compensation fee of £2,200. Sheffield United and York City later agreed on an additional £15,000 fee plus a five-percentage sell-on clause. He made his debut for Sheffield United at the age of 17, coming on as a 79th-minute substitute in a 1–0 home win against Crewe Alexandra in the First Division on 29 November 1997. He made a total of nine First Division appearances in the 1997–98 season. He holds the record for being the club's youngest ever captain, aged 19.

Woodhouse earned a call-up to the England under-21 team, and made his debut in a 2–2 away draw against Hungary on 27 April 1999. He went on to earn another three caps against Sweden, Bulgaria and Poland in England's 2000 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualifying group. He made a total of 104 appearances in the Football League, scoring six goals, before being sold to Birmingham City for £1 million in February 2001.

Birmingham City
He made his debut for Birmingham City on 3 February 2001, in a 2–1 home victory against Norwich City. He made 17 appearances for Birmingham during the 2000–01 season, scoring twice. Both goals came in the final league match of the season, a 2–1 away win against Huddersfield Town, sealing their relegation fate. Birmingham reached the League Cup final, however, Woodhouse was unable to play as he was cup-tied, having previously played in three League Cup games for Sheffield United that season. He was arrested after the final of the League Cup, on 25 February 2001, having been charged with affray along with two others after they "trashed" an Indian restaurant and he wielded a chair in a brawl with university students. In July 2002, he was sentenced to 120 hours of community service and ordered to pay £250 costs. Birmingham finished fifth in the First Division, and reached the play-offs, losing in a penalty shoot-out in the semi-final, after the game was drawn 2–2 on aggregate. Woodhouse played in both semi-final matches.

During the following season, 2001–02, Woodhouse made 28 appearances in the First Division. Birmingham reached the play-offs again for the fourth consecutive season, this time gaining promotion after beating Millwall in the semi-final and Norwich City in the final. This time, Woodhouse did not play in any of the play-off matches. He made just three appearances for Birmingham City in the Premier League, before being loaned out to Rotherham United in January 2003. Grimsby Town and Brighton & Hove Albion were also reportedly interested in signing the midfielder. During his loan spell at Rotherham, he turned out 11 times in the First Division.

Peterborough United
Woodhouse signed for Peterborough United on 14 October 2003, the same day that he made his debut against Torquay United in a 3–2 victory in the Football League Trophy. However, he had been training with Peterborough a month prior to signing for them, whilst he "sorted out some problems at Birmingham City". He went on to captain the side, and was later described as "Captain Marvel" by manager, Barry Fry. In 2003–04, he made 27 appearances in the Second Division, scoring seven goals. Peterborough finished 18th in the Second Division, two points from relegation, with Woodhouse being named as Peterborough's player of the season. In May 2004, Hull City manager, Peter Taylor, made a failed £100,000 bid to try and sign the midfielder. The following season, 2004–05, he made 34 appearances in the newly named League One and scored four goals. Peterborough suffered relegation, after finishing 23rd in the league.

Hull City
He joined Hull City in May 2005, the club he supported as a child, on a two-year contract for a fee of £25,000, with the potential to rise to £150,000 depending on appearances. His debut for Hull was as a late substitute in a 2–0 victory against Brighton & Hove Albion on 20 August 2005. Though he lacked fitness at the start of the season, injuries to Keith Andrews and Ian Ashbee gave him the chance of a regular starting place, and manager Taylor also handed him the team captaincy.
Despite consistent performances, by December 2005 he had lost his place and there was speculation that he had fallen out with Taylor and wanted to leave; this was strongly denied by the player: "I'm shocked that people are saying I want to go. I'm very happy here. ... It's taken me long enough to get to Hull so I'm not going to walk out after a few months, or whatever." In the following six weeks he made only two brief substitute appearances – in five months with the club he played 18 games in the Championship without scoring – and the strength of Hull's squad was such that he could not be guaranteed regular first-team football.

Grimsby Town
In the January 2006 transfer window, he joined Grimsby Town on a two-year deal, three years after they first expressed an interest in signing him. He made his debut against former club Peterborough United in League Two, on 28 January 2006 in a 2–1 home defeat, and scored his first and what turned out to be only goal for the club against Mansfield on 14 February 2006. On 26 April 2006, Woodhouse said he planned to retire from football at the end of the 2005–06 season and embark on a career as a professional boxer. He made 16 appearances in League Two, helping them to finish fourth place, reaching the play-offs. Woodhouse played in both of Grimsby's play-off semi-final victories over Lincoln City, setting up the only goal of the game in the first leg. He played his last Football League game in the play-off final at the Millennium Stadium on 28 May 2006. Grimsby were defeated 1–0 in the final by Cheltenham Town. Woodhouse gave away a penalty in the 70th minute that was saved by goalkeeper Steve Mildenhall.

Switch to boxing
Woodhouse had a history of theft, robbery and affray, and said that he had "fallen out of love" with football. He admitted to have been involved in around 100 street fights. He said; "Boxing has always been my first love, even as a kid", and "I love fighting...Rather than get locked up for it, I might as well get paid for it." He also stated that he used to spar in the boxing gym after football training without his manager's knowledge, saying "A few times at Sheffield United, Neil Warnock would drag me in and say 'I hear you've been boxing'. I'd be standing there with a big black eye and a fat lip and deny it." He trained under former British featherweight champion, Gary De Roux, and made his boxing debut on 8 September 2006 at Grosvenor House Hotel, London, in a welterweight contest against Dean Marcantonio, despite not having any previous amateur experience. The former footballer had lost two stone in weight since his playing days with Grimsby Town. The fight was scheduled for four rounds of two minu