# Jona Viray

Jonalyn Roxas Viray (born November 15, 1989), known mononymously as Jona, is a Filipino singer and actress. She was catapulted to mainstream prominence after she emerged as the first grand champion of Pinoy Pop Superstar.

She was the lead singer of trio girl-group La Diva, alongside Maricris Garcia and Aicelle Santos following her career as a solo artist. They were chosen to sing the Philippine National Anthem at the Manny Pacquiao vs. Miguel Cotto boxing match in Las Vegas as well as the theme song of Philippine remake of the Mexican telenovela, Rosalinda. Following the group's disbandment and her return as a solo artist, she released her single "Help Me Get Over" which was awarded the Song of the Year Award at the 6th PMPC Star Awards for Music. Jona ended her decade-long exclusivity with GMA in February 2016 and transferred to ABS-CBN, changing her screen name to Jona. On her first project in the Kapamilya Network, Jona sang "I Will Survive", the theme song of primetime drama series, We Will Survive. She also sang the second version of "I'll Never Love This Way Again" from the OST soundtrack of 2016 romantic-drama film Barcelona: A Love Untold and was chosen to sing the 65th Miss Universe theme titled "Confidently Beautiful".

Throughout her career as a member of La Diva and as a solo artist, Jona has won 9 Awit Awards, Aliw Awards, PMPC Star Awards for Music and World Championship of Performing Arts. In 2018, Jona made Awit Award history as the first Filipino artist sweeping all digital categories – Most Downloaded Song for "You", Most Downloaded Artist, Most Streamed Song for "Pusong Ligaw", and Most Streamed Artist – while her self-titled album won Best-Selling Album of the Year. She is known for her belting technique, melismatic singing style, and her ability to sing operatic arias.

Early life and career

Early life
Jonalyn Roxas Viray was born on November 15, 1989, in Marikina, Philippines. She is the only girl and the eldest of four children from Pio Duran, Albay. She started joining singing contests at an early age. She won first runner-up in Birit Bulilit of IBC 13 as a child and one of the finalists in MTB Teen Pop Star where her winning piece was Mariah Carey's "Never Too Far".
Jona was 15 years old when she competed at the singing competition Pinoy Pop Superstar held by the local television station GMA 7 and hosted by Regine Velasquez. Jona emerged as the weekly champion after singing the Whitney Houston hit song "Run to You". She also sang "Reflection", "I Have Nothing" and "Never Too Far" on the weeks that follow, and after four consecutive weeks of being weekly champion, she qualified to the grand finals.

For winning the title of, Jona won 1 million pesos in cash and became the owner of a Futura Classic house and lot developed by Filinvest and a brand-new Toyota Innova. She also won an exclusive one-year contract with GMA Records, the recording arm of GMA Network, and received 100,000 pesos worth of Belo Medical services, plus gift certificates worth 50,000 pesos from Gandang Ricky Reyes.

Transfer to ABS-CBN
In February 2016, Jona ended her decade of exclusivity with GMA and transferred to rival network ABS-CBN. Part of her reintroduction was the changing of her screen name to Jona. Her earliest project in the Kapamilya Network saw her competing in the 2016 edition of Himig Handog, a songwriting and music video competition and also singing "I Will Survive", the theme song of primetime drama series, We Will Survive.

From then on she has sung several theme songs for ABS-CBN films and drama series, became a mainstay of the longest noontime musical variety show ASAP, released her first album under Star Music which achieved Gold and Platinum certifications, held two major concerts, and competed and won second place in Himig Handog 2017. On the 31st Awit Award, Jona won 6 awards, Most Downloaded Artist, Most Streamed Artist, Most Downloaded Song for "You", Most Streamed Song for "Pusong Ligaw", People's Voice for Favorite Collaboration for "Till the End of Time" with BoybandPH and Best Selling Album of the Year for self-titled album "Jona". Her collaboration with Regine Velasquez, "Matibay", also won Best Musical Arrangement award for composer Marvin Querido.

ASAP Birit Queens
On May 15, 2016, ASAP launched a group called the ASAP Birit Queens. The group is composed of Jona, Morissette, Angeline Quinto and Klarisse de Guzman. The group held a concert on March 31, 2017, at the Mall of Asia Arena.

The group temporarily disbanded in late 2017, but has since reunited occasionally.

Billboard Philippines 
On the launch of the Billboard Philippines, three of Jona's songs charted in Billboard Philippines Top 20: "Pusong Ligaw" and "Maghihintay Ako" charted at number 3 and number 4 respectively, and "You" charted at number 9.

24th ASIAN Television Awards 
Jona was called to perform for 2 Nights at the 27th Asian Television Awards when it happened for the first time in the Philippines. On the gala night, she performed a cover of "Somewhere Over The Rainbow" and "The Magic Flute "Queen of the Night aria" ("Der Hölle Rache kocht in meinem Herzen") On the artist's night, she performed "Love Don't Cost A Thing", "Into the Unknown", "Fifth Element Aria" and her own song "Till the End of Time".

YouTube Music Night 
Jona was chosen by YouTube Philippines to be the first Filipina to headline the YouTube Music Night for the whole of Southeast Asia. Jona has been called "one of the industry's top female performers and recording artists".

Artistry

Influences 

Jona has said that from childhood she has been influenced by Regine Velasquez-Alcasid, Céline Dion, and Mariah Carey for her musical style, and sound. She also admires to Aretha Franklin, Barbra Streisand, Beyoncé, Christina Aguilera, Stevie Wonder, Michael Jackson, Whitney Houston, and Sam Smith.

Voice and timbre

Jona has been noted for her "melismatic singing style" or use of melodic variations. Her voice has been described "soulful" and "powerful". She is a classically trained artist from the UST Conservatory of Music with a major in classical voice. Critics often lists her among the Top Filipino singers in the world alongside music icons like Lea Salonga for "her powerful vocals and her ability to convey raw emotion through her performances" and has been referred to as the Philippines' "Soul Princess" for her vocal talent.

Musical Style
Love is the subject for the vast majority of Jona's music. She is also known for her power ballads which deals with themes of heartbreak, hope, and perseverance.

Discography

Studio albums
 On My Own (2005)
 Jona (2017)
Extended plays
 Jonalyn Viray (2013)

Concerts

Filmography

Television

Awards and nominations

References

External links
 Jonalyn Viray at iGMA.tv
 

1989 births
Filipino child actresses
Filipino child singers
Filipino women pop singers
Participants in Philippine reality television series
Living people
People from San Mateo, Rizal
Singers from Rizal
Actresses from Rizal
Singing talent show winners
GMA Network personalities
GMA Music artists
Star Music artists
Star Magic
ABS-CBN personalities
21st-century Filipino singers
21st-century Filipino women singers
Actors from Marikina