# Walter Travis

Walter J. Travis (January 10, 1862 – July 31, 1927) was an American amateur golfer during the early 1900s.  He was also a noted golf journalist and publisher, an innovator in all aspects of golf, a teacher, and golf course architect.

Golfing career
Travis was born in Maldon, Australia. He arrived in New York City in 1886 as a 23-year-old representative of the Australian-based McLean Brothers and Rigg exporters of hardware and construction products. Travis married Anne Bent of Middleton, Connecticut, on January 9, 1890, and later that year, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States.  Shortly after their wedding, Travis and his wife  moved into their new home in Flushing, New York, where they would live until their move to Garden City, on Long Island, in 1900.

In 1896, while traveling in England, Travis learned that his Niantic Club friends of Flushing, New York, were intent on creating a new golf club.  He was scornful of the idea but, wishing to keep up with his friends, he purchased a set of golf clubs to take with him on his return to the United States.  As he said, "I first knelt at the shrine of the Goddess of Golf" in October 1896 on the Oakland links, just three months before his 35th birthday.  Within a month of hitting his first golf shot, Travis earned his first trophy by winning the Oakland Golf Club handicap competition.  Travis became, in his words, "an infatuated devotee" of the game.  He dedicated himself to the study of instructional books written by Horace Hutchinson, Willie Park, Jr., and others.  He practiced relentlessly.  Within a year, Travis won the Oakland Golf Club championship with a score of 82.

In 1898, Travis entered his first U.S. Amateur and lost to Findlay S. Douglas in the semi-final match.  By this time, he had caught the attention and respect of fellow competitors and, because of his late start in the game, Travis was respectfully referred to as "The Old Man" or "The Grand Old Man".  Driven by his intense and compulsive dedication to the game, Travis was soon the country's top amateur golfer, winning the U.S. Amateur in 1900, 1901, and 1903.  In 1904, he became the first player from America to win the British Amateur, a feat that would not be duplicated for another 22 years even with "wholesale assaults and single attempts to duplicate" his feat by great amateur golfers such as Jerome Travers, Francis Ouimet, and Bobby Jones. The news of Travis's British victory sparked a surge of interest in the game of golf throughout the United States.

In 1904, champion British golfer Harold Hilton described Travis: "In style, the American champion is essentially what may be termed a made golfer, for his is a style which by the wildest stretch of imagination could not be called ornate. Still, it boasts useful attributes; it is business-like and determined, and is one in which no energy is wasted. Like all golfers who really scored a success at the game, he keeps the right elbow well in to the right side, holding the hands very low, like Messrs. Hutchings, Fry and G. F. Smith—three of the best examples of golfers who have risen to eminence while lacking the advantage of playing the game in their youth. The swing of the club is not long—in fact, it might be termed a three-quarter swing—but it is sufficient to get a free action with the wrist, and although Mr. Travis does not obtain an abnormal carry, he nevertheless gets a long roll on the ball, and against the wind in particular he is beyond the average as a driver, especially as he appears to have mastered the art of the scientific hooking."

Among his other major victories as an amateur golfer were the following:  Three North and South Amateurs at Pinehurst, and four Metropolitan Golf Association Championships. When Travis won his fourth MGA Championship, in 1915, at the age of 53, he beat 28-year-old Jerome Travers in the final match.  Just the year before, Travers had eliminated Travis in the semi-finals of the U.S. Amateur.  With declining health diminishing his skills, Travis announced his retirement from competitive golf in 1916.

Overall, "Travis competed in 17 consecutive U.S. Amateurs from 1898 to 1914, compiling a 45-14 record, earning medalist honors three consecutive years (1900-02), and losing to the eventual champion on five occasions.  He competed in six U.S. Opens between 1902 and 1912 and was low amateur five times and tied for third low amateur the other." Travis placed second in the 1902 U.S. Open Championship.

In the January 28, 1922 issue of The American Golfer, the following response was given to a query about "How many tournaments Mr. Travis has won, counting in every variety?":

"Our opinion is that Mr. Travis has won more low gross, low net and open tourneys than any other living golfer.  He was practically unbeatable for a stretch of six years from 1898 to 1904 during which time he played in double or triple the number of events entered by either John Ball or Chick Evans.  A guess at the number of his trophies would place it over five hundred and perhaps nearer to a thousand.  In 1901, Travis was national champion and in 1915 he was again the Metropolitan champion.  His southern victories were numerous."

In a 1927 Golf Illustrated article, titled "The Figures Prove It", author John Kofoed offered the following match-play records of noted amateur players in major events:

(Source):

  
 "% Won" figures added to the Kofoed data.

Tournament wins
"This list does not include Travis's countless victories in noted club invitationals or championships, such as his 9 wins in the Garden City Golf Club's Spring Invitational that is now known as the Travis Memorial, nor his countless victories at Lakewood CC's Spring and Fall tourneys that attracted a large field of golfers from the metropolitan area. 
1900 U.S. Amateur, Metropolitan Amateur
1901 U.S. Amateur
1902 Metropolitan Amateur
1903 U.S. Amateur
1904 The Amateur Championship, North and South Amateur
1906 South Florida Open
1909 Metropolitan Amateur
1910 North and South Amateur
1911  North and South Amateur
1912 North and South Amateur
1913  North and South Amateur
1913 Cuban Amateur
1913  South Florida Open  Low Amateur
1914 Cuban Amateur
1914 South Florida Open  Low Amateur
1914   Metropolitan Amateur
1915 Southern Florida Low Amateur
1916 Southern Florida Low Amateur

Major championships

Amateur wins (4)

Results timeline
Travis did not play in the Masters Tournament (not founded until 1934) or the PGA Championship (professionals only).

M = Medalist
LA = Low amateur
DNP = Did not play
WD = Withdrew
"T" indicates a tie for a place
R32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in match play
Green background for wins. Yellow background for top-10

Sources: U.S. Open and U.S. Amateur, 1904 Open Championship, 1904 Amateur Championship

Contributions to golf

Travis was a prolific writer who wrote extensively on a variety of golf topics, and was published in the leading sports magazines of the time.  His first book, Practical Golf, published in 1901, received rave reviews from The New York Times (6/14/1901) for its depth, thoroughness, and clarity as a reference book. Practical Golf dealt with a variety of topics, including golfing techniques, golf equipment, construction of golf courses, the design and placement of hazards, rules of golf, and conduct of golf competitions.  His chapter on "Handicapping" was first published in the July 1901 issue of Golf, and described as "the authoritative treatise on handicapping" of its era. A second book, The Art of Putting, was released in 1904.

In 1908, Travis founded and published The American Golfer magazine.  The American Golfer was widely regarded as the most influential golf magazine of its time.  Travis, and other authors, used it as an effective voice for their views.  Travis stayed at the helm of "The American Golfer" as editor until he turned it over to Grantland Rice in the spring of 1920, and severed his connection with the magazine by the end of 1920.

Travis was not hesitant about trying new equipment in his efforts to improve his game.  He was the first to win a major event using the Haskell rubber-cored golf ball—the 1901 U.S. Amateur.  As reported in the Travis biography, "The Old Man", Travis had "dabbled with predecessors of the Haskell ball, but kept his involvement under wraps until shortly before the tournament" and he "had developed a feel for this type of ball with practice and was not afraid to debut it at the championship".  As Labbance reports, "Travis's bold move had not only prompted a change in golf balls but a change in golf as well".  It sounded the death knell for the gutta-percha ball, created the need for inserts in the face of wooden clubs to prevent splitting, and soon led to calls for the lengthening of golf courses due to the longer shots made possible by the Haskell.

Travis was innovative in his approach to golf course design. In a Practical Golf chapter on hazards, Travis was critical of the ub