# 1924 in baseball

Champions
World Series: Washington Senators over New York Giants (4-3)
First Negro World Series: Kansas City Monarchs over Hilldale (5-4-1)

Awards and honors

League Award
 Walter Johnson, Washington Senators, P
 Dazzy Vance, Brooklyn Dodgers, P

MLB statistical leaders

Major league baseball final standings

American League final standings

National League final standings

Negro leagues final standings

Negro National League final standings

† Indianapolis dropped out of the league in June and was replaced by Memphis.

Eastern Colored League final standings

Events
February 16 - Tony Boeckel, a third baseman for the Boston Braves, dies from injuries suffered in a car accident the previous day in San Diego. Yankees outfielder Bob Meusel was also in the car, which was driven by Bob Albright, who was a theater man from Los Angeles. Meusel and Albright escaped the crash with suffering serious injuries. Boeckel becomes the first major league player to die due to a car accident.
April 15
On opening day, two future Hall of Famers make their major league debuts, as Al Simmons makes his major league debut in the Philadelphia Athletics' season opener with the Washington Senators, and Freddie Lindstrom appears in the New York Giants opener with the Brooklyn Robins.
The contest between the Boston Braves and Philadelphia Phillies at the Baker Bowl ends in a 6-6 tie.
April 16 – Earle Combs makes his major league debut pinch hitting for Sad Sam Jones in the New York Yankees' 9-6 loss to the Boston Red Sox.
May 1 - Bill Barrett of the Chicago White Sox steals home in both the first and ninth inning of a game. In that game Chicago beat the Cleveland Indians 13-7.
May 23 - Walter Johnson strikes out six straight hitters en route to a fourteen strike out performance and a 4-0 over the Chicago White Sox.
May 31 – Red Ruffing gives up five hits and three earned runs in his major league debut.
June 26 – Jesse Barnes opposed Virgil Barnes in the first pitching matchup of brothers in major league history. Virgil did not have a decision while Jesse was credited with the loss as the New York Giants won the Boston Braves‚ 8-1. The Barnes brothers will match up four more times during their careers‚ the first, including three days from its date.
July 11 - Chicago Cubs first baseman Lee Cotter ties a major league record 21 put outs and one assist. However, the Cubs fall to the Dodgers 9-1.
July 14 – Rogers Hornsby goes three-for-four in the St. Louis Cardinals' 12-0 victory over the Brooklyn Robins to raise his season average to .402. His average remains above .400 for the remainder of the season.
July 17 – Jesse Haines of the St. Louis Cardinals pitches a no-hitter against the Boston Braves in a 5-0 win.
July 18 - The St. Louis Cardinals release pitcher Jeff Pfeffer. Pfeffer had flirted with what would have been his third 20 game win season just two years prior. He would sign on later with the Pittsburgh Pirates, and retire after the season. 
July 30 - The Philadelphia Athletics purchase the contract of sixteen year old Jimmie Foxx from Eastern of the eastern Shore league for $2,000. Fox would make his MLB debut the next season at the age of 17, en route to a hall of fame career.
August 27 – The New York Yankees are shut out for only the second time all season, 1-0 by Stan Coveleski and the Cleveland Indians.
August 28
The New York Yankees and Washington Senators open a crucial four game series at Yankee Stadium for first place in the American League. The Senators win 11-6 and take three of the four games of the series to leave New York with a 1.5 game lead.
Despite future Hall of Famer Chick Hafey making his major league debut in both games of their double header, the St. Louis Cardinals lose to the Chicago Cubs, 5-2 and 8-3. Hafey collects his first major league hit in the second game.
September 6 – The Boston Braves beat the Brooklyn Robins in the second game of a double header, 5-4, ending Brooklyn's fifteen-game winning streak.
September 7 – In a crucial battle for first place in the National League, the New York Giants defeat the Brooklyn Robins, 8-7, to increase their lead in the NL to 1.5 games.
September 16 – St. Louis Cardinals first baseman Jim Bottomley drives in twelve runs in the Cardinals' 17-3 victory over the Brooklyn Robins.
September 20 – Grover Cleveland Alexander of the Chicago Cubs records his 300th career win.
September 22 – With his Detroit Tigers holding a commanding lead over the Boston Red Sox, manager Ty Cobb brings in young prospect Charlie Gehringer as a defensive replacement at short. He does not log an at-bat in his major league debut.
September 28 – The Brooklyn Robins' Dazzy Vance pitches a gem to earn his league leading 28th win of the season over the Boston Braves. Vance also leads the league with a 2.16 earned run average and 262 strikeouts to earn the National League's first ever MVP award.
October 1 - Sen Kaney makes history calling the first live radio broadcast of a major league baseball game. Kaney is seated in the grandstand behind home plate, calling the game as the Cubs defeated the White Sox 10-7. 
October 4 – With the New York Giants up 2-1, the Washington Senators' Roger Peckinpaugh doubles in Ossie Bluege to send game one of the World Series goes into extra innings tied at two. The New York Giants score two in the twelfth, and win it, 4-3. The Giants became the first team to play in four consecutive World Series, winning in  &  and losing in . Their long-time manager, John McGraw, made his ninth and final World Series appearance.
October 5 – Goose Goslin hits a two-run home run in the first inning to put the Washington Senators up 2-0 in game two of the World Series. The Giants tie it in the top of the Ninth, only to lose it in the bottom of the ninth on an RBI double by Roger Peckinpaugh.
October 6 – At the Polo Grounds, the New York Giants win game three of the World Series, 6-4.
October 7 – A three-run home run by Goose Goslin powers the Washington Senators past the New York Giants in game four of the World Series.
October 8 – American League MVP Walter Johnson takes his second loss of the 1924 World Series, as the New York Giants beat him and the Washington Senators, 6–2.
October 9 – With two outs in the fifth inning, Bucky Harris drives in two runs with a single to right, and the Senators win game six of the World Series, 2–1.
October 10 – The Washington Senators defeat the New York Giants, 4-3, in twelve innings, in Game seven of the World Series to win their first World Championship. This was the second extra-inning World Series–deciding game () and the last before . The 1991 World Series is won by the very same franchise, by then known as the Minnesota Twins.

Births

January
January 1 – Charlie Bishop
January 1 – Arleene Johnson
January 1 – Earl Torgeson
January 5 – Fred Marsh
January 7 – Jim Pendleton
January 9 – John Hall
January 16 – Junior Wooten
January 18 – José Luis García

February
February 4 – Dorothy Harrell
February 6 – Dorothy Montgomery
February 7 – Paul Owens
February 8 – Joe Black
February 11 – Hal Rice
February 19 – Margie Lang
February 20 – Sal Yvars
February 21 – Lloyd Hittle
February 23 – Phil Haugstad
February 25 – Jack Lohrke
February 29 – Al Rosen

March
March 1 – Wilmer Harris
March 1 – Tim Thompson
March 2 – Cal Abrams
March 4 – Jack Brittin
March 5 – Ramón García
March 6 – Ed Mierkowicz
March 6 – Bud Podbielan
March 8 – Toby Atwell
March 10 – John Perkovich
March 18 – Garvin Hamner
March 27 – Walt Linden

April
April 2 – Bobby Ávila
April 4 – Gil Hodges
April 6 – Tokuji Iida
April 18 – Jim Zapp
April 20 – Jim Bilbrey
April 23 – Chuck Harmon
April 25 – Art Schallock
April 27 – Bill Higdon
April 27 – Frank Wurm
April 29 – Freddy Rodríguez

May
May 5 – Mildred Meacham
May 7 – Al Cihocki
May 11 – Frank Campos
May 11 – Helen Filarski
May 13 – Cliff Fannin
May 21 – Ed Fitz Gerald
May 23 – Clyde King
May 24 – Hubert Simmons
May 27 – Tom Hurd
May 29 – Pepper Paire
May 30 – Turk Lown

June
June 3 – George Armstrong
June 4 – June Emerson
June 5 – Lou Brissie
June 16 – Jane Jacobs
June 16 – Ernie Johnson
June 18 – Erma Bergmann
June 18 – Marie Kruckel
June 19 – Jim Blackburn
June 23 – Harry Schaeffer

July
July 1 – Jack Bruner
July 1 – Ken Wood
July 6 – Frank Kellert
July 7 – John Simmons
July 11 – Al Federoff
July 15 – Bob Barthelson
July 20 – Claude Crocker
July 24 – Tod Davis
July 26 – Milt Welch
July 28 – Marie Menheer

August
August 2 – Lloyd Merriman
August 5 – Rube Novotney
August 5 – Eddie Yuhas
August 6 – Van Fletcher
August 15 – Mary Lawson
August 15 – Frank Whitman
August 17 – Larry Ciaffone
August 20 – George Zuverink
August 21 – Jack Buck
August 21 – Vern Fear
August 23 – Sherm Lollar
August 26 – Alex Kellner
August 29 – Wayne McLeland
August 30 – Frank Sacka
August 31 – Adeline Kerrar

September
September 1 – Ed Samcoff
September 3 – Bill Greason
September 4 – León Kellman
September 6 – Jim Fridley
September 6 – Hal Jeffcoat
September 6 – George Schmees
September 10 – Te