# 1936 in baseball

Champions

Major League Baseball
World Series: New York Yankees over New York Giants (4–2)
All-Star Game, July 7 at Braves Field: National League, 4–3

Other champions
Negro League Baseball All-Star Game: East, 10–2

Awards and honors
Baseball Hall of Fame
Ty Cobb
Babe Ruth
Honus Wagner
Christy Mathewson
Walter Johnson
Most Valuable Player
American League: Lou Gehrig, New York Yankees, 1B
National League: Carl Hubbell, New York Giants, P
The Sporting News Player of the Year Award
Carl Hubbell, New York Giants, P
The Sporting News Manager of the Year Award
Joe McCarthy, New York Yankees

MLB statistical leaders

Major league baseball final standings

American League final standings

National League final standings

Negro leagues final standings

Negro National League final standings

Events

January – April
January 4 – The Philadelphia Athletics trade Doc Cramer and Eric McNair to the Boston Red Sox for Hank Johnson, Al Niemiec and $75,000.
January 6 – New York Giants President Charles A. Stoneham dies of Bright's disease. He was the last surviving member of the trio that purchased the team in 1919. His son, Horace Stoneham, is elected the team's new president. Stoneham‚ 32‚ will remain president for the next 40 years before selling the team in 1976.
January 15 – The Chunichi Dragons of Nagoya‚ Japan‚ are officially formed. Eight days later the Hankyu Braves of Nishinomiya joined them.
January 16 - Days after being released by the Chicago Cubs, Freddie Lindstrom is signed by the Brooklyn Dodgers, the last stop n a career that would eventually lead to the hall of fame. 
February 2 – The baseball writers vote for the first players to be named to the new Baseball Hall of Fame. Ty Cobb‚ Babe Ruth‚ Honus Wagner‚ Christy Mathewson and Walter Johnson each receive the requisite 75 percent of ballots cast. Active players also are eligible in this first election‚ with Rogers Hornsby finishing 9th‚ Mickey Cochrane 10th‚ Lou Gehrig 15th‚ and Jimmie Foxx 19th. Hal Chase receives 11 votes for 25th place‚ and Shoeless Joe Jackson has two votes to tie for 36th place.
February 5 – Japanese Baseball League, the first professional baseball league in Asia, is founded (as predecessor of Nippon Professional Baseball).
March 17 – Rookie Joe DiMaggio makes his spring debut with the New York Yankees, collecting four hits‚ including a triple, in an 8–7 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals.
March 21 – The Cincinnati Reds trade Jim Bottomley to the St. Louis Browns for Johnny Burnett.
April 14 – Opening day, the New York Yankees are shut out, 1–0, by Bobo Newsom and the Washington Senators.
In St. Louis, the Cardinals' Eddie Morgan becomes the first to hit a pinch-hit home run in his first major league at bat. Morgan connects on the very first pitch he sees in the 7th inning. The Cubs win, 12-7.
April 16 – Johnny Mize makes his major league debut. He strikes out pinch hitting for Daffy Dean in the Cards' 5–3 loss to the Chicago Cubs.
April 26 – In the Brooklyn Dodgers' 10–7 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies, Dodgers shortstop Ben Geraghty reaches base twice on two separate interference calls on Phillies catcher Earl Grace.

April 29
Nagoya defeated Daitokyo 8–5 in the first professional baseball game in Japan.
Hank Greenberg breaks his wrist ending his season.
In St. Louis‚ Roy Parmelee‚ former New York Giants pitcher‚ beats Carl Hubbell, 2–1, in a seventeen inning duel. The game is scoreless until the 12th when the Giants score a run‚ but the Cardinals match it in the bottom of the 12th. Parmelee allows just six hits in 17 innings‚ while Hubbell gives up 11.

May – July
May 3 – Joe DiMaggio makes his major league debut in left field in the New York Yankees' 14–5 victory over the St. Louis Browns. DiMaggio goes three-for-six- with a triple, an RBI and three runs scored.
May 10 – The New York Yankees defeat the Philadelphia Athletics, 7–2. With a loss by the Boston Red Sox to the Washington Senators, the Yankees take over first place in the American League. They remain in first place for the rest of the season, winning the pennant by 19.5 games over the Detroit Tigers.
May 11 – At Baker Bowl in Philadelphia, the Giants' Mel Ott drives in 8 runs in a 13-12 victory over the Phillies.
May 12 – The St. Louis Browns' Pat Malone pitches a six hit shut out against the New York Yankees to end St. Louis' thirteen-game losing streak.
May 21 – Chuck Klein goes home. The outfielder is traded back to philadelphia where he enjoyed his best years, along with pitcher Fabian Kowalik and $50,000. In return, the Cubs get outfielder Ethan Allen and pitcher Curt Davis.
May 24 – The New York Yankees defeat the Philadelphia Athletics 25–2. Second baseman Tony Lazzeri has eleven RBIs in the game via two grand slams and a third home run and a triple. With his last blast, Lazzeri amassed seven home runs in four successive games to set a Major League record.
June 6 – St. Louis Cardinals second baseman Stu Martin ties a major league record with eleven assists in the first game of a doubleheader with the New York Giants.
June 14 – The Washington Senators trade Jake Powell to the New York Yankees for Ben Chapman.
June 24 – In the New York Yankees' 18–11 victory over the Chicago White Sox, Joe DiMaggio has five RBIs with two home runs and two doubles.
July 1 – The Detroit Tigers defeat the Chicago White Sox 21–6. Right fielder Gee Walker has a home run and seven RBIs.
July 5 – The Boston Red Sox sweep a double header from the Philadelphia Athletics, bringing the A's losing streak to twelve games.
July 7 – The National League records its first All-Star Game victory over the American League, 4–3, at Braves Field, home of the Boston Bees.
July 10 – Philadelphia Phillies right-fielder Chuck Klein becomes the fourth player in Major League history to hit four home runs in a game. His final home run came in the top of the tenth inning, leading Philadelphia to a 9–6 win over the Pittsburgh Pirates  The feat comes nearly 40 years to the day since it was last accomplished in the National League.
July 18 – The Chicago White Sox and Philadelphia Athletics set an American League record for the most combined runs scored by two teams in Chicago's 21–14 victory. ChiSox outfielder Rip Radcliff ties an AL record with six hits in seven at-bats.
July 19 – Bob Feller makes his major league debut on the mound for the Cleveland Indians.
July 30 – In International League action, Buffalo pitcher Bill Harris tosses his second no-hitter of the season‚ stopping Newark.

August – December
August 16 – The Philadelphia Phillies defeat the Boston Bees 7–0 behind a three hitter by Claude Passeau. The win ends the team's fourteen-game losing streak.
August 23 – Bob Feller makes his first career start, defeating the St. Louis Browns 4–1.
August 28 – The New York Giants defeat the Pittsburgh Pirates 7–2 to bring their winning streak to fifteen games.
September 9 - After sweeping the Cleveland Indians in a double header, the New York Yankees clinch the AL Pennant. 
September 16 – Birdie Tebbetts makes his major league debut behind the plate for the Detroit Tigers in a 6–2 victory over the Philadelphia A's.
September 23
Carl Hubbell logs his sixteenth victory in a row to improve his record to 26–6.
The New York Yankees defeat the Philadelphia A's 12–5 for their 100th win of the season.
September 30 – A solo home run by George Selkirk is all the offense the Yankees can muster up against Carl Hubbell in game one of the 1936 World Series, as the New York Giants take game one of the Subway Series, 6–1.
October 2 – A seven run third inning, highlighted by Tony Lazzeri's grand slam, carries the Yankees to an 18–4 victory in game two of the World Series.
October 3 – Frankie Crosetti's eighth inning RBI single carries the Yankees to a 2–1 victory over the Giants in game three of the World Series.
October 4 – The Yankees jump to an early 4–0 lead against Carl Hubbell, and win game four of the World Series, 5–2.
October 5 – Jo-Jo Moore leads off the tenth with a double, and comes around to score, as the New York Giants take game five of the World Series, 5–4.
October 6 – The New York Yankees defeat the New York Giants, 13–5, in Game 6 of the World Series to win their fifth World Championship title, four games to two. During the six games, the Yankees score 43 runs and collect 65 hits.
November 29 – Judge Landis declares Lee Handley and Johnny Peacock of the Cincinnati Reds free agents. They had been covered up on minor league teams by the Reds.
December 4 – The Pittsburgh Pirates trade Ralph Birkofer and Cookie Lavagetto to the Brooklyn Dodgers for Ed Brandt, and sell Johnny Welch's contract to the Chicago White Sox.
December 9 – The Philadelphia A's trade Pinky Higgins to the Boston Red Sox for Billy Werber.
December 10 – In a three team trade, the Washington Senators send Earl Whitehill to the Cleveland Indians,  Indians sent Thornton Lee to the Chicago White Sox, and the White Sox send Jack Salveson to the Senators.

Births

Ja