# Abdullah Shah Ghazi

Abdullah Shah Ghazi () (c. 720 - c. 768) was a Muslim mystic and Sufi whose shrine is located in Clifton in Karachi, in Sindh province of Pakistan. His real name was Abdullah al-Ashtar. His father, Muhammad al-Nafs al-Zakiyya, was a descendant of the Islamic prophet Muhammad through his daughter Fatimah.

Life in Sindh
Around 761, Muhammad Nafs al-Zakiyah sailed from Aden to Sindh where he consulted with the governor, Umar ibn Hafs  Hazarmard before returning to Kufah and Medina. His son, Abdullah al-Ashtar, also known as Abdullah Shah Ghazi, married a woman from Sindh and had children by her. According to Tabari, Sindh was selected since its governor, Umar ibn Hafs, supported Muhammad's claim to the Imamate. Ibn Khaldun and Ibn al-Athir say that the governor had Shi'ite inclinations. 

Once they decided enough support had been amassed to revolt successfully (762), Muhammad went to Medina, and Abdullah al-Ashtar stayed in Sind. Abdullah al-Ashtar was accompanied by a number of troops belonging to the Shi'ite sect of Zaydiyah, who at the time were  active supporters of Ahlulbayt, willing to take a militant stance in pursuit of the Imamate. Shortly thereafter, however, Umar received word from his wife in Basrah that Muhammad Nafs Al-Zakiyah had been killed in Medina (14 Ramadan 145/6 December 762). As a consequence, Umar felt that their presence in the capital compromised his position as governor. Unwilling to take any definite action either for or against them, he summoned Abdullah al-Ashtar and suggested:

"I have an idea: one of the princes of Sindh has a mighty kingdom with numerous supporters. Despite his polytheism, he greatly honours [the family of] the Prophet. He is a reliable man. I will write to him and conclude an agreement between the two of you. You can then go to him, stay there, and you will not desire anything better."

Abdullah al-Ashtar went to that area and spent some years there, probably from 762 to 769. Eventually hearing of their presence in Sindh, the caliph al-Mansur replaced Umar ibn Hafs with Hisham ibn Amr al-Taghlibi on the understanding that he seize Abdullah al-Ashtar, kill or otherwise disperse the Zaydiyah, and annex the non-Muslim region. When Hisham, after reaching Sind, also proved reluctant to undertake the task, his brother Sufayh (later a governor of Sindh) did it for him, killing Abdullah along with many of his companions.

Martyrdom

Sohail Lari suggested in his book, A History of Sindh that Shah Ghazi was an Arab merchant who had come to Sindh with the first wave of Arab conquerors. However, another historian, M. Daudpota, suggested that Ghazi arrived in the area from Iraq as a commander, who along with Muhammad ibn al-Qasim, fought Sindh's Hindu ruler, Raja Dahir, in the eighth century. Abdullah Shah Ghazi was said to have been killed in a forest in the Sindh by his enemies. His devotees buried his body on top of a hill in a coastal area, where he had earlier arrived on an Arab ship. This area now lies in the vicinity of Clifton and Sea View in Karachi.

Shrine 
The tomb is constructed on an elevated platform, while the body is laid to rest in a subterranean crypt. The shrine comprises a tall, square chamber adorned with Sindhi tile work, flags, and buntings, crowned by a striking green-and-white striped dome. Devotees tenderly touch the silver railing surrounding the burial site, adorning it with floral garlands. The shrine commands deep admiration and reverence from people belonging to diverse ethnicities and religious backgrounds..

Until the early twentieth century, the shrine stood as a humble hut atop a sandy hill in Clifton. It was Syed Nadir Ali Shah, a revered Sufi saint belonging to the Qalandariyya Sufi Order of Lal Shahbaz Qalandar, who became the custodian of the shrine and played a pivotal role in its construction and development. Under his supervision, the iconic dome of the shrine, the windowed ambulatory, the Mosque, the free kitchens or Langar Khana, the Qawwali court, and the pilgrim lodge within its premises were constructed. Additionally, a long stairway leading to the shrine was built. His efforts transformed the shrine into a center of spirituality and community service. Over the years, the shrine has become a magnet for people from various sects, ethnicities, and sections of society, who are drawn to its spiritual aura and devotion. The shrine's distinct features, such as the provision of free meals and soul-stirring Qawwali performances, have long been maintained in connection with Syed Nadir Ali Shah's dervish lodge, known as Kafi Sakhi Sarwar, in Sehwan Sharif.  In 1962, the administrative control of the shrine was transferred to the Auqaf department. Subsequently, in 2011, the shrine underwent a renovation of its exterior under the ownership of the Pakistani construction giant, Bahria Town. This renovation elicited mixed responses from the residents of Karachi.

The Abdullah Shah Ghazi shrine was attacked in 2010 by militants who detonated two suicide bombs at the shrine, killing 10 and injuring 50.

Langar 
The "langar," or free kitchen, provides meals three times a day, seven days a week, serving individuals in need. This initiative began in the 1930s by Syed Nadir Ali Shah, the shrine's custodian at the time. Following his passing in 1974, the tradition was continued by his successor, Syed Arif Ali Shah. This charitable service has been consistently upheld by his disciples ever since.

See also
 List of mausoleums and shrines in Pakistan
 Muhammad al-Nafs al-Zakiyya, descendant of Imam Hasan ibn Ali
 Gazi Pir
 Syed Nadir Ali Shah
 Islam in South Asia

References

Sufis of Sindh
720 births
History of Sindh
People from Medina
8th-century Arab people
Hasanids
Sufi saints
Sufi shrines in Pakistan
Shrines in Pakistan
768 deaths
People from Karachi