# Rocky road (dessert)

Rocky road is a type of no-bake slice made up of milk chocolate and marshmallows along with other ingredients, which tend to vary by country. In British influenced areas, Rocky Road is a type of tiffin or traybake (other non-Rocky Road tiffins/traybakes exist but these are not called Rocky Road) but the Australian/American name is becoming more common. It is usually served in individual portions such as a brownie, or in American cuisine, as an ice cream flavor.

It is made by mixing melted chocolate with other ingredients, before refrigerating to set. It can then be cut into bars or square pieces.

History
The origin of the dessert is debated; many American companies claim to have invented rocky road in the 19th century.

Australia

The main ingredients in traditional Australian rocky road are:
 glace cherries or raspberries
 milk chocolate (sometimes dark or white chocolate is used)
 desiccated or shredded coconut
 nuts, particularly peanuts
 marshmallow

The most famous commercial brand of rocky road in Australia, is the Darrell Lea "original recipe" version, sold as "Rocklea Road". This version does not have cherries or raspberries, instead having bigger marshmallow chunks and more coconut. A raspberry version is also available.

United Kingdom
The main ingredients in traditional British Rocky Road are:
 dried fruit
 biscuit (usually digestives)
 milk chocolate (sometimes dark or white chocolate is used)
 a light dusting of icing sugar on the top (optional)

United States 

The main ingredients in traditional American Rocky Road are:
 milk chocolate
 marshmallow
 walnuts or almonds

The most popular version of rocky road in the U.S. is in ice cream form, which consists of chocolate ice cream, marshmallows (or sometimes a "marshmallow swirl"), and nuts.
Although not as popular, slabs of rocky road can also be found at confectioner's shops. The Annabelle Candy Company manufactures a candy bar called "Rocky Road" that has marshmallow, a thin covering of chocolate, and cashews. Betty Crocker has its own recipe for "Rocky Road".

See also
Tiffin
Hedgehog slice
Rocky road (ice cream)
Rocky Road (candy bar)

References

Australian desserts
Confectionery
Chocolate desserts