[Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics — Gutenberg #25864]

at the crura. Farther away from the spine near the center of the diaphragm we find the return opening through this wall, provided to accommodate the vena cava. To the left a few inches below the vena cava we find another opening provided for the oesophagus and its nerves; like the aorta, it has two muscles of the diaphragm crossing directly between oesophagus and the aorta, in such shape as to be able to produce powerful prohibitory constriction to normal swallowing. A LIST OF UNEXPLAINED DISEASES. At this point I will draw your attention to what I consider is the cause of a whole list of hitherto unexplained diseases, which I think are only effects, caused by the blood and other fluids being prohibited from doing normal service by constrictions at the various openings of the diaphragm. Thus prohibition of free action of the thoracic duct would produce congestion of receptaculum chyli, because of not being able to discharge its contents as fast as received. Is it not reasonable to suppose a ligation of the thoracic duct at the diaphragm would retain this chyle until it would be diseased by age and fermentation, and be thrown off into the substances of other organs of the abdomen and set up new growths, such as enlargement of the uterus, ovaries, kidneys, liver, spleen, pancreas, omentum, lymphatics, cellular membranes, and all that is known as flesh and blood below the diaphragm? Have you not reason to explore and demand a deeper and more thorough anatomical knowledge of the diaphragm and its power to produce disease while in an abnormal condition, which can be caused by irritations, wounds or hurts, from the base of the brain to the coccyx? Remember this is an anatomical and philosophical question that will demand your attention to the mechanical formation, physiological action and the unobstructed privileges of fluids when prepared in the laboratory of nature, to be sent at once to their ordained destination, before such substances are diseased or dead with age. You must remember that you have been well drilled, or talked out of patience in the room of symptomatology and all you have learned is, something ails the kidneys, and are told their contents when analyzed are not normally pure urine. In urinalisis you are told "here is sugar," "here is fat," "here is iron," "here is pus," "here is albumen," and this is diabetis, this is Bright's disease, but no suggestion is handed to the student's mind to make him know that these numerous variations from normal urine are simply effects, and the diaphragm has caused all the trouble, by first being irritated from hurts, by ribs falling, spinal strains, wounds and on from the coccyx to the base of the brain. Symptomatology is very wide and wise in putting this and that together and giving it names, but fails to give the cause of all these abdominal lesions. Never for once has it said or intimated that the diaphragm is prolapsed by misplaced ribs to which it is attached, or that it is diseased by hurts of spine and nerves above its own location. Allow yourself to think of the universality of the distribution of the superior cervical ganglion and other nerves which are of such great importance that I will by permission insert in the last chapter of this book a description of that great system of the sympathetic nerves by Dr. Wm. Smith, whose superior knowledge of anatomy makes him eminently qualified to describe the location and uses of this great sympathetic system of the nerves of life. CONCLUDING REMARKS. As you read his able essay remember there are four other sets of nerves equal to, and just as important in their divisions of life, which are the motor, nutrient, voluntary and involuntary. All of which you as an engineer must know, and by proper adjustment of the body give them unlimited power to perform their separate and united parts in sustaining life and health. Now as I have tried to place into your hands a compass, flag and chain that will lead you from effect to cause of disease in any part or organ of the whole abdomen I hope that many mysteries which have hung over your mental horizon will pass away, and give you abiding truths, placed upon the everlasting rock of cause and effect. You have as little use for old symptomatology as an Irishman has for a cork when the bottle is empty. Osteopathy is knowledge, or it is nothing. CHAPTER XVII. OBSTETRICS. Overloading--Similarity of Stomach and Womb--Births--Preparation for Delivery--Caution--Lasceration Need Not Occur--Care of Cord--Severing Cord--Putting on Belly Band--Delivery of Afterbirth--Preparing for Mother's Comfort--Post-Delivery Hemorrhage--Treatment for--Food for Mother--Treatment for Sore Breast. OVERLOADING. When in the course of human events and actions of life, a woman disregards the laws of nature to such an extent as to overload the stomach beyond its powers and limits; or another way to present the thought, we will say, if you fill the stomach so full as to occupy all space, or so much of the space as to cripple the laws of digestion and retain the food, the decomposition sets up an irritation of the nerves of mucous membrane to such a degree as to cause sickness and vomiting, or any other method of disgorging the stomach, which is the natural process to unload an overloaded vessel. When the nerves cannot take up nutrition, they will then take up destruction and other elements which are detrimental to the process of nutrition, and there is no other process for relief but to unload. The loading that has been deposited in the stomach was for the purpose of sustaining a being. The stomach itself is a sack. When filled to its greatest capacity, it irritates all the surroundings, and in return they irritate the stomach. Thus it unloads naturally for relief. Now we wish to treat of another vessel similar in size, similar in all its actions, which receives nourishment for a being, which nourishment is contained in the blood, and conveyed from the channels commonly known as uterine arteries. To all intents and purposes this nourishment is taken there to sustain animal life, after having constructed the machinery then it appropriates the blood to the growth and existence of a human being. One is the womb, the other the stomach. The placenta in the womb is provided with all the machinery necessary to the preparation of blood, such as is used for all purposes in forming and developing a child. Which is the stomach? Which is the womb? and what is the difference? Both receive and distribute nourishment to sustain animal life. Both get sick, both vomit when irritated and discharge their loading by the natural law of "throw up" and "throw down." Now note the difference and govern yourselves accordingly. One is mid-wifery, or treatment of the lower stomach during gestation and delivery. The other is the upper stomach that takes coarser material and refines the unrefined substances, keeps the outer man in form and being; the other contains the inner man or child, and by the law of ejection, when it becomes an irritant, it is thrown out by the nerves that govern the muscles of ejection. BIRTHS. To illustrate: I will say, just as long as digestion and assimilation keep in harmony and the mother generates good blood in abundance, the child grows, and by nature the womb is willing to let the work of building the body of the child go on indefinitely; but nature has placed all the functions of animal life under laws that are absolute and must be obeyed. We by reason are asked to note the similarity of the stomach and the womb, as both receive and pass nutriment to a body for assimilation and growth. When a stomach gets overloaded, sickness begins, as digestion and assimilation has stopped, then the decaying matter is taken up by the terminal nerves, and conveyed to the solar plexus, and causes the nerves of ejection, to throw the dying matter out of the stomach which is above. Try your reason and see the stomach below sicken and unload its burden. Is this sickness natural and wisely caused? If this is not the philosophy of mid-wifery what is? As soon as a being takes possession of its room, the commissary of supplies begins to furnish rations for that being, who has to build for itself a dwelling place. The house must be built strictly to the letter of the specifiction. Much bone and flesh must be put into the house of life, and some of all elements known to the chemist, must be used and wisely blended to give strength; also all material to be used in the house must be exact in form and given strength equal to all forces, that may be necessary to execute the hard and continued labors of the machinery that may be used in all transactions and motions of mind and body. Now we must go to the manufacturing chief, and have him through the quartermaster deliver and keep a full supply of all kinds of material for the work, and when the engine is done, put it on an inclined plane and cut the stay-chains and let it run out of the shop. Be careful and not let the engine deface nor tear the door as it comes out. A question is asked: On what road does the quarter-master send the supplies? As there is but one system over which an engine can bring supplies, we will call that road the uterine system of arteries. The mechanic reports that he will open the door of this great shop of manufacturing, and let it roll out the engine by the power and methods prepared to run out finished work. First you see a door open because the lock is taken off by a key that opens all mysteries; and the great ropes that have been far inferior to the force of resistance, that has held the door shut, are all sufficient in power. By getting sick, muscles become convulsed to rigidity of great strength with force enough to push the new engine of life out into open space easily, by nature's team that never fails to obey orders to deliver all goods intrusted to its care. PREPARATION FOR DELIVERY. A student of mid-wifery can only learn a few general principles, before he gets into the field of experience. Actual contact with labor teaches him that much that he has read and had told to him by professors of mid-wifery in the lectures, is of but little use to him at the bedside. What he needs to know is, what he will have to do after he gets there. He must know