[Hydraulics and Fluid Mechanics — Gutenberg #25864]

the womb may be pulled to an inverted position, which would be like a hat if you press the top down with the hand. Then there is a chance for leakage because of this unnatural fold made in the womb. TREATMENT FOR. My method of relief is to insert the hand, and with back of fingers smooth out all folds. Before you draw the right hand from the womb place left hand on abdomen, catch the womb between the thumb and finger and withdraw hand. With the left hand pull the hair above symphesis or scratch the flesh just above across the region of the symphesis, just enough to make an irritation. After the hand is out of vagina pass a small bundle of cloths as far under the symphesis as would be necessary to hold everything up, then fasten chemise; beginning at symphesis draw it tight for about two inches above symphesis and with strong pins fasten it. Be sure you keep garment tight by pulling down between limbs. The coarser the chemise the better, as you want to make a strong bandage at that point so as not to push the womb down into the pelvis. If the patient's general health is fairly good let her tell you what she wants to eat, and go and get it. Let her diet be after her usual custom. You must remember she has just left the condition of a full abdomen. Lace her up, fill her up and make her comfortable for six hours; then change her bedding. FOOD FOR MOTHER. Remember this, if you stop digestion on her for some hours with teas, soups and shadows to eat, you carry her to the condition where it would be dangerous to give her a hearty meal. My experience and custom for forty years has been crowned with good success. I never lost a case in confinement. I have universally told the cook to give her plenty to eat. TREATMENT FOR SORE BREAST. If she begins to have fever followed by chilly sensations, with swelling of one or both breasts, I relieve that by laying her arm ranging with her body. Let some one hold the arm down to the bed, then I place both of my hands under the arm, pull it up with considerable force till I get it as high or higher than normal position of the shoulder. Then pull her shoulder straight out from the body a fairly good pull, then pull the arm up on a straight line with the face, and be sure that you have let loose the axillary and mammary veins, nerve and artery, which have been cramped by pulling the arm down during delivery. No breast should become caked in the hands of an Osteopath. Do not bother about the bowels for two or three days. It may be necessary to use the catheter if the water should fail to pass off after inhibiting the pubic system. This is straight mid-wifery and will guide you through at least in ninety per cent of the cases you will meet in normally formed women. Right here I wish to say one word: I think it is very wrong to teach, talk and spend so much time with pictures, cuts, talks and lectures, and hold up constantly to the view of the student, births coming from the worst imaginable deformities and call that a knowledge of mid-wifery. It is normal mid-wifery you want to know and be well-skilled in. The abnormal formations are few and far between, and when a case of that kind does appear, it is your knowledge of the normal that guides you through the variations. You will very likely never find two abnormals presenting the same form of bone. As this is intended to only present to the student natural delivery I will let the subject drop with one word about the sore tongue of the mother. Adjust her neck, relieve constrictor and all other muscles that would impede any blood vessel that should drain the mouth and tongue. Remember this, that a horse that is always hunting bugars never finds a smooth road. CHAPTER XVIII. CONVULSIONS. Old Phrases--Results of Stoppage of Fluids--Old Theory of Fits--What the Real Cause may be--Listen for the Cause--What is a Fit--Sensory System Demanding Nourishment--The Causes--The Remedy--Dislocation of Atlas and of Four Upper Ribs. OLD PHRASES. As old phrases that have long been in use as names for the various diseases have almost grown to the degree of disgust, I laid them aside and have been trying and have succeeded in unfolding natural laws to a better understanding, which do and should be our guide and action in treating all diseases that mar the peace and happiness of the human race by misery and death. By such old systems with their foolish and unreliable suggestions, of how to guide the doctor in treating diseases which have proven unworthy of respect, if merit is to be our rule of the weights and measures of intelligence. I have become so disgusted with such verbiage with the sense that follows the pens that have written treatise on disease, that I have concluded to do like Adam of old, give names that may appear novel to the reader when I wish to draw the attention of the student who is trying to obtain a knowledge of the mysteries hitherto unsolved and unexplained. We have panned and washed by their suggestions and have obtained no gold. There are two very large and powerful rivers passing their fluids in opposite directions over a territory that I will call the Klondike of life. This territory is bounded on the east by a great wall, which according to the old books has been called the diaphragm, through which comes forth a great river of life that spreads all over the plains of the anterior lumbar region. On that plain we find a great system of perfect irrigation of cities, villages, and fertile soils of life. RESULT OF STOPPAGE OF FLUIDS. This region of country covers one of the greatest and most fertile fields of life producing elements, and places them on the thoroughfares, and sends them back over the great central railroad, the thoracic duct, from lymphatics of the whole abdomen, to the heart and lungs to be converted into a higher order of living matter. When finished it is called blood, to sustain its own machinery, and all other machines of the body, giving rise to the mental question: "What would be the effect produced to life and health, if we should cut off, dam up or suspend the flowing of the aorta as it descends close by the vena cava and thoracic duct as they return with contents through the diaphragm on their journey to the heart and lungs for manufacture and finish. And after having supplied the plain, what would be the effect if the vena cava and its system of drainage, and the thoracic duct should be dammed up so that chyle and blood could not be carried to the heart and lungs for renewal, purification, and finish. How much thought would be required to see that by stopping the arterial flow or that of the vena cava an irritating and famishing condition would ensue, with congested veins, lymphatics and all organs of the abdomen, to that condition called fermentation, congestion and inflammation, which in time is thrown off by sloughing away the substances of the lymphatics of the whole abdominal system of glands that belong to a liver, a kidney, the uterus and the bowels, to the condition that has long since been a mystery, and called typhoid fever, dysentery, bilious fever, periodical spasms, and on through the whole list of general and special diseases of winter and summer. I would advise the practicing Osteopath to do some very careful panning up and down the rivers of this Klondike, for if you fail to find gold, and much of it, you had better spend the remainder of your life where reason dwelleth not. Ever remembering that ignorance of the geography and customs of this country is the wet powder of success." OLD THEORY OF FITS. We often see a woman or man afflicted with fits or falling sickness which the doctor has failed to cure. What is a fit? For want of a better knowledge we have an established theory that "hysteria" is purely her imagination and as we must respect old theories, we will call it a fit of meanness. This is what we have had for breakfast, dinner and supper and we are asked to respect such trash because of the "established theories." We are instructed by the universal "all" of the graduates of various medical schools to call her a criminal and proceed to punish her with a wet towel, well twisted, and administered freely--more comprehensively expressed by the term "spanker" and "spank her" very much--late from Scotland with all Europe, and schools in America, except the American School of Osteopathy, which recommends to "wallop" and "wallop" very freely the empty headed schools and theories that have no more sense than to torture a sick person and do so to disguise their ignorance of the cause of her disease, which is shown by the spasmodic effect that has been named by a little book of guess work, generally called and universally known as symptomatology. WHAT THE REAL CAUSE MAY BE. Not a single author has hinted or in any way intimated that the cause of her disease is a failure of the passing of the blood, chyle and other substances to and from the abdomen to nourish and renovate the abdominal viscera caused by a prolapsed diaphragm, which would cause resistance to the passing of the aorta, through which passes the arterial blood through the crura, and the vena cava that returns the venous blood, and through which crura the chyle is conducted from the receptaculum chyli before decomposition by fermentation sets up. LISTEN FOR THE CAUSE. The afflicted is intoxicated. Here is where she gets a poisonous alcohol and will never be relieved permanently until the "wet towel" of reason has slapped on both sides of the attending physician's head, so he can hear the squeezing and rattling of regurgitation, and straining and creaking of the fluids in their effort to pass through that great and strong towel called the diaphragm. Until he learns this I would apply the wet towel of reason to the doctor, for fear he becomes lukewarm in his studies and gives his patient a hypodermic injection of morphine, which is the advice as given at the last council of medical men who practice "old established" theories rather than be honest enough to say: "The woman is sick and I know