# ZEBRA battery

The ZEBRA battery is a type of rechargeable molten salt battery based on commonly available materials – primarily nickel metal and the sodium and chloride from conventional table salt. It is technically known as the sodium–nickel–chloride battery, and sometimes as a sodium–metal–halide battery. The common name comes from its development under the Zeolite Battery Research Africa Project, started in South Africa in 1985.

ZEBRA batteries need to be kept hot, and, for thermal management reasons, are only practical when built in large formats. They have been examined primarily for grid energy storage and to a lesser degree for electric vehicles. The ZEBRA is a simpler, safer and less expensive alternative to the otherwise similar sodium–sulfur battery, although it offers less energy density, about 90 to 120 Wh/kg compared to as much as 150 Wh/kg for sodium–sulfur. ZEBRA and sodium–sulfur both compete with better-known systems, like lithium–iron–phosphate and lithium–sulfur in these same roles.

The ZEBRA design saw on-and-off development since the 1980s, with major research being carried out in the AERE Harwell and AEG during the 1990s. After Daimler purchased AEG and then merged with Chrysler, the ZEBRA division was sold off. AERE's development was spun off as Beta R&D and purchased by General Electric in 2011. GE tried to launch commercial production of molten sodium–nickel–chloride battery under the name Durathon, but it scrapped this project in 2015, citing market rather than technical difficulties. The only producer of SMC batteries is now FZSoNick.

Description

Background
Chemical reactions involve the exchange of electrons. The materials involved in the reactions are referred to as reagents. Batteries use some form of mechanical or chemical barrier to prevent these electron exchanges taking place spontaneously, only allowing them to occur when an external pathway is available for the electrons to move through. This pathway is then attached to a load, and used to do work. In most batteries the reaction is controlled through the use of an electrolyte between two reagents. If the resulting reactants are released from the system they are more typically (but not always) classified as fuel cells.

In the common disposable zinc–carbon battery ("dry cell"), the two primary chemicals involved are zinc and manganese oxide, separated by an electrolyte of zinc chloride and ammonium chloride dissolved in water to form a thick paste. The movement of oxygen from the electrolyte to the zinc in the outer case of the battery drives one half of the reaction. This reaction can only continue if additional oxygen is freed from the electrolyte. The second half of the reaction is provided by the manganese oxide electrode, which gives up oxygen into the electrolyte when presented with electrons. So, attaching a conductor between the zinc to the manganese will cause current to flow.

In the zinc–carbon battery, the chemical reaction can only occur easily in one direction - attempting to "recharge" the battery will not cause the zinc to cleanly reform into its original solid state. There are other reactions where the materials do not change form in the same way, or to the same degree, and can be recharged. Batteries are generally divided into two types; "primary" batteries which cannot be recharged, and "secondary" batteries which can. Improved types of secondary batteries are a major area of research.

Molten salt designs
Many ionically bonded compounds are potentially useful materials for a battery. The voltage of the reaction, and thus the total available energy per molecule, is increased by selecting reactants that are located as far apart as possible on the periodic table. Most advanced battery technologies are based on elements from the light metal category, specifically lithium and sodium, and the reactive elements at the other side of the graph, like oxygen and sulphur.

This makes common table salt an almost ideal battery material, producing 2.58 volts when it combines, compared to about 1.5 for common zinc-based batteries. However, this combination normally takes place in the molten state. With conventional liquid electrolytes, the molten salt materials would be free to mix, completing the reaction without requiring an external circuit or thereby extracting power. In this case a battery has to use a solid electrolyte separating the liquid reagents.

The first molten salt batteries were developed in the 1940s and first widely used in missile guidance systems in the WWII era and after. These designs used magnesium oxide as a sponge to store the reagents that were formed separately in the liquid state. After being soaked in the reagents, the magnesium oxide was then cooled into a solid, pressed into pellets, and stacked. When the pellets are heated, the reagents melted and flowed out of the sponge to start generating power. This allows them to be stored for extended periods with no losses, but are "one shot" use only.

Sodium–sulphur
A key development in the rechargeable molten salt battery market was the development of solid ceramic electrolyte known as beta-alumina solid electrolyte, or BASE. BASE, a zeolite, allows sodium ions to move through it, while blocking non-ionized sodium and other molecules as well. Combining BASE with ionic salts led to the sodium–sulphur battery, the first rechargeable molten salt battery. In typical designs, a cylinder of BASE separates sodium on the inside from sulphur on the outside, mediating the exchange of charge between them. When the sodium gives up an electron, it can move through the BASE to combine with the sulphur in a carbon sponge wrapped around the BASE.

For operation, the entire battery must be heated to, or above, the melting point of sulphur at 119 C. Sodium has a lower melting point, around 98 C, so a battery that holds molten sulphur holds molten sodium by default. This presents a serious safety concern; sodium can be spontaneously inflammable in air, and sulphur is highly flammable. Several examples of the Ford Ecostar, equipped with such a battery, burst into flame during recharging, leading Ford to give up on the concept. A major grid-storage development using the system also caused a serious fire in the September 2011 Tsukuba Plant fire incident.  See more at Sodium–sulfur battery.

ZEBRA

A molten salt battery using safer reagents would have an obvious advantage over the sodium–sulphur design. However, most promising materials did not work well with BASE in its current form. This led to the ZEBRA effort, to try to modify BASE to allow operation with common table salt. The basic idea was developed by Johan Coetzer at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in South Africa, with the first patent granted in 1978.

Further development began in the UK at AERE Harwell and was then spun-off as BETA Research and Development. BETA was in turn merged into a joint venture formed by AEG (later Daimler) and Anglo American in 1988. The merged company, AEG Anglo Batteries, began pilot construction of ZEBRA batteries in 1994, but with the 1998 merger of Daimler with Chrysler the project was terminated. MES-DEA, formed in 1999 in Switzerland, took over development. Small-scale production was undertaken, a few thousands packs per year. Innovenergy in Meiringen, Switzerland has further optimised this technology with the use of domestically sourced raw materials, except for the nickel component. Despite the reduced capacity compared with lithium-ion batteries, the ZEBRA technology is applicable for stationary energy storage from solar power. The company operates a 540 kwh storage facility for solar cells on the roof of a shopping center, and produces over a million battery units per year from sustainable, non-toxic materials.

The key to the ZEBRA design was the development of a mixture of nickel and BASE-like sodium aluminum chloride to produce a new solid electrolyte. Like the sodium–sulfur design, ZEBRA is normally constructed in a cylindrical annual assembly, or "canular". The outer case, nickel-coated stainless steel, acts as the negative terminal and the primary container of the assembly. Directly inside the casing is the sodium metal. Suspended within the sodium is the ceramic BASE electrode, and within it, a mixture of NiCl2 and NaAlCl4. Suspended in the middle of that is an electrode that acts as the positive terminal.

BASE ceramic is relatively brittle, which makes it subject to fracture due to mechanical shocks. When these open, the NaAlCl4 comes into contact with the sodium to form a salt and precipitate aluminum metal:

NaAlCl4 + 3Na ⟹ 4NaCl+ Al

This is a rigid compound that seals small cracks. If larger cracks form the cell with short-circuit to some degree, and has to be removed from the battery circuit.

The charge curve of the ZEBRA design has a rather abrupt voltage drop just before the cell is fully discharged. This makes it difficult to know the state of charge (SOC) and whet