# Hôtel-Dieu, Paris

The Hôtel-Dieu (; "God Shelter") is a public hospital located on the Île de la Cité in the 4th arrondissement of Paris, on the parvis of Notre-Dame. Tradition has it that the hospital was founded by Saint Landry in 651 AD, but the first official records date it to 829, making it the oldest in France and possibly the oldest continuously operating hospital in the world. The Hôtel-Dieu was the only hospital in the city until the beginning of the 17th century. 

The original Hôtel-Dieu stood on the banks of the Seine on the southern side of the Île de la Cité. It was ravaged by fire several times and was rebuilt for the last time at its present location on the north side of the parvis of Notre Dame between 1867 and 1878, as part of Haussmann's renovation of Paris.

Nowadays operated by Assistance publique – Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), the Hôtel-Dieu is a teaching hospital associated with the Faculté de Médecine Paris-Descartes.

History

Overview 
Originally, the Hôtel-Dieu admitted a wide range of people: not only the sick and injured, but also needy travellers and pilgrims, and indigents. Run by the Catholic Church for many centuries, the hospital's original mission was to provide "Christian charity dedicated to the shelter, spiritual comfort and treatment of the ailing poor.":44 An 18th century essayist, Louis Rondonneau de la Motte, wrote in his Essai Historique sur l'Hôtel-Dieu (1787): "the citizen and the foreigner, the Christian and the Turk, the Jew and the Idolater are all equally welcome." 

This broad, charitable mission was to dominate until the end of the Ancien Régime. By 1789, the Age of Enlightenment -- with its focus on the pursuit of knowledge via reason and evidence and on ideals such as progress, fraternity, and government dedicated to the well-being of the people -- had left its mark on the agenda for hospital reform. This ushered in a more scientific approach to hospital design that was to influence medical practice and management for more than a century. During this process, the role of the Catholic Church was diminished and then eliminated and the Hôtel-Dieu became a publicly run institution.

Middle Ages 
Although tradition dates the founding of the Hôtel-Dieu back to Saint Landry, 28th bishop of Paris around 650, the first official records of an institution whose mission was to care for the destitute, infirm and sick date to 829. In 1157, letters patent mention a "Hôtel-Dieu-Saint-Christophe", referring to a chapel dedicated to this saint. Shortly thereafter, in 1165, Maurice de Sully, bishop of Paris, undertook the reconstruction of this hospital: the old buildings were destroyed in 1195 and the new constructions were completed in 1255. At that time, the buildings of the Hotel Dieu occupied the south side of the Ile de la Cité near Notre Dame.

In its first several hundred years, the Hôtel-Dieu functioned as a general purpose charitable institution operated by religious orders — it offered food and shelter in addition to medical care to needy people. This mixed social mission characterised its services for many centuries and was imitated by many other cities (for example, the Hôtel-Dieu de Beaune, founded in 1443).. However, by the 16th century, admission to the hospital was available only to the sick and injured and to pregnant women.  

From the time of Louis IX onwards, the Hôtel-Dieu often housed more patients than it was designed to hold, leading to serious problems of overcrowding that would hamper the effectiveness of the hospital for centuries. From the 15th to the 16th centuries, it went from 303 beds to about 500, but the number of patients would regularly hover around 700 and would often exceed 1500 during times of  conflict, food shortages or epidemics. It is estimated that the number of admissions was 25,000 per year during the 16th century.

Conditions in the hospital were in many cases deplorable, especially toward the end of the Middle Ages when the growth of Paris’ poor population outstripped the hospital's capacity.  Its vast halls held 80 to 100 beds apiece. Although the halls for the most part had fireplaces or stoves, they were almost impossible to light. At one point, beds which had a width of 1.3 metres, were meant to hold 2 or 3 patients each; arranged heel to head. Later, beds meant for one or two patients were installed, but these often had to accommodate more patients than intended. For much of the Middle Ages, there was no surgical ward and surgical operations were performed in the patient’s bed, with fellow patients and bedmates as onlookers. An incomplete but emerging understanding of contagion gave rise to rules for isolating patients with contagious diseases, but it was often impossible to apply these rules in practice. The question of how much patients were given to eat was also an issue due to lack of funds, though people of the time understood that an appropriate diet would improve health outcomes. 

By the end of the Middle Ages, only people who could not afford other sources of care would go to the Hôtel-Dieu. But because of the masses of destitute people in the Paris area at the time, there was no shortage of patients. As a result of high demand and finite resources, the Hôtel-Dieu eventually faced a financial crisis. This brought about the first step in the laicization of the hospital, the creation in 1505 of a council of lay governors: the Presidents of Parliament, the Chambre des Comptes, the Cour des Aides and the Prévôt des Marchands.

17th century 
Poverty continued to be widespread during the17th century, and the Hôtel-Dieu offered an opportunity for many of the bourgeois and nobility to come to the aid of the poor. Nevertheless, conditions in the hospital remained horrendous and overcrowding continued to be a problem, with daily patient numbers ranging from 2000 to 4000. Hundreds of hospital staff were also lodged there.   

Although the Hôtel-Dieu was a large hospital, poverty, conflict and disease engendered high demand for its services. During the Fronde, patient admissions were so high that the canopies of the beds were used for the most valid patients, allowing as many as 14 patients to be placed in a single bed. Numerous episodes of the plague carried away thousands of patients and hospital workers, including 17 Sisters of Saint Augustine, the  order of nuns charged with patient care at the Hôtel-Dieu. Later in the century, hospital-derived scurvy, which was thought to be a communicable disease at the time, killed as many as 97% of the patients suffering from it. In 1670 alone, 250 patients suffered from scurvy.

The serious problems of overcrowding were recognised at the time and steps were taken to address them.  In 1602, Marie de' Medici, second wife of Henry IV, brought five brothers of the Congregation of Saint-Jean-de-Dieu to found the Hôpital de la Charité. Shortly thereafter, Henry IV founded the Hôpital Saint-Louis to unclog the Hôtel-Dieu during the plague epidemic in 1605-1606.

The Hôtel-Dieu enjoyed some tax privileges. On August 5, 1626, it was authorized to build, at its own expense, a stone bridge over the southern arm of the Seine, upstream from the Petit-Pont. Hospital wards were built on top of the bridge. A decree of the Council of State of April 24, 1634 created a toll of a double denier for each man on foot, with revenues going to the hospital. This toll gave the bridge its name — the Pont au Double — and it survived until 1789. The hospital wards surmounting the bridge were a major source of pollution in the Seine.

Hospitals took the name of "Hôpital Général" (General hospital) or "Hôpital d'enfermement" (Asylum), of which the Hôtel-Dieu was one. The centralized approach to extreme poverty in France was based on the premise that medical care was a right for those without family or income, and formalized the admission process to attempt to mitigate overcrowding and unsanitary conditions. The Lieutenant Général de Police became a member of the Bureau de l’Hôtel-Dieu de Paris (Bureau for the Hôtel-Dieu in Paris) in 1690.

18th century 

The problem of overcrowding continued into the 18th century.  Although almost 50  hospitals and similar institutions were operating in Paris by the second half of the century, demand outpaced the supply of medical services, largely because of very rapid growth of both population and poverty. According to a census of 1791, Paris had a population of 118,884 indigents out of a total population of 650,000.

The Hôtel-Dieu's bad reputation 
As always, overcrowding was accompanied by poor outcomes — including hospital-derived infections and high mortality rates. The hospital statistics developed later suggest that the Hôtel-Dieu's record was worse than that of other Parisian institutions. In his Encyclopédie of 1765, Denis Diderot stated that the Hôtel-Dieu was "the largest, the most numerous, the richest and the most dreadful of any of our hospitals." Similarly, Jacques Tenon, a influential anatomist and sur