# Timeline of association football

This page indexes the individual year in association football pages. Each year is annotated with one or more significant events as a reference point.

Pre-1860s 
1820s in football 
Order imposed on folk football.
Public schools start devising versions of football.
The Foot Ball Club of Edinburgh was founded as the first club to play any type of organized football.
1830s in football 
1840s in football 
The Cambridge Rules are created in 1848. 
Official referees appear for the first time in a football match at a match held in Cheltenham in 1849.
1850s in football  
Sheffield F.C., the oldest surviving independent football club in the world, is founded in 1857. In 1858 it created its first set of rules, which would become known as the Sheffield Rules.
1860s in football 
British railway builders introduce football to Argentina. The Football Association is founded in 1863 (the first football association in the world), and it ratifies the original 14 rules of the game. In 1860, the first non-British team in Europe, Lausanne Football and Cricket Club of Switzerland, is formed. In 1862, Notts County F.C. is founded. In 1865 Buenos Aires FC was formed by British residents. In 1866, the Football Association introduces a 'cross tape' between goalposts as a precedent to the 'crossbar'. The first ever football tournament, the Youdan Cup, is played by twelve Sheffield clubs in 1867; the Cromwell Cup, the second oldest football tournament in the world, takes place in 1868 with Sheffield Rules. Goal kicks are introduced in 1869 and Scottish club Kilmarnock F.C founded.

1870s 
1870 in football 
First "goalkeepers", and the transition from "dribbling game" to "passing game" is seen in club matches in Sheffield and London. The first international match arranged by the Football Association between England and Scotland on 5 March 1870 finishes in a 0–0 draw at the Kennington Oval in London. Combination Game developed by Royal Engineers AFC.
1871 in football 
Charles William Alcock creates the Football Association Challenge Cup, the oldest cup tournament still extant.
1872 in football
Scotland and England draw 0–0 in the first FIFA-recognized international football match, played at the West of Scotland Cricket Club. Wanderers beat Royal Engineers in the first FA Cup final. Kick corner and ball fixture is introduced by The Football Association. The first Welsh football club, Wrexham A.F.C., is founded. Football introduced in France by English sailors, and Le Havre is founded. Rangers F.C. is founded in Scotland.
1873 in football

The Scottish Football Association is founded. The offside law is changed so that an offside position is determined when the ball is played by a teammate, rather than when it is received. The corner kick is defined. 1874 in football

The FA authorizes referees to send players off for certain offences and makes a rule requiring teams to change ends at halftime. The first shin pads are introduced. Aston Villa F.C. and Bolton Wanderers F.C are founded.1875 in football 
The crossbar is introduced, replacing tape as the means of marking the top of the goal. Oxford University tour Germany and a number of German universities take up the game (one of first countries to play under FA rules outside of Britain). Blackburn Rovers F.C. is founded.1876 in football 
Carlton Cricket Club (Canada) form football section and subsequently tours Britain. Middlesbrough F.C. were founded.1877 in football 
The length of a match is set at 90 minutes. Wolverhampton Wanderers were founded.1878 in football 
Referees begin to use whistles. West Bromwich Albion, Manchester United (as Newton Heath L&YR F.C.) and Everton (as St. Domingo's FC) are founded. The first football match to be staged under electric floodlighting takes place at Bramall Lane, Sheffield, between two local representative teams.1879 in footballKjøbenhavns Boldklub introduces itself as the first sports club in continental Europe. Sunderland A.F.C. and Doncaster Rovers F.C. are founded.

 1880s 1880 in football 
Irish Football Association founded. Clubs charge for admission. Players paid lost wages and expenses (players still part-time). Manchester City are founded as St. Marks.1882 in football 
Queens Park Rangers FC, Tottenham Hotspur F.C., and Burnley F.C. are founded. The first club in Uruguay formed by an English professor at Montevideo University; another club later formed by British railway engineers. Two-handed throw-in introduced.1883 in football 
Coventry City FC is founded.1884 in football 
Played for the first time the British Home Championship, the oldest tournament for national teams: the Scotland national team emerges as winner. Derby County are founded along with Leicester City, who are founded as Leicester Fosse. 1885 in football 
The Football Association legalises professionalism. The first non-European international was contested on 28 November 1885, at Newark, New Jersey, between the United States and Canada, the Canadians winning 1–0. Arbroath beat Bon Accord 36–0 in the Scottish Cup, a record which stands to this day.1886 in football 
The FAs of England, Scotland, Wales and Ireland form the International Football Association Board. The referee and the captain player for each team are introduced. Arsenal F.C. is founded.1887 in football 
The first football team in South America is founded, Gimnasia y Esgrima de La Plata, Argentina. British introduce football to Russia. Hamburger SV is founded. Hibernian F.C. wins the Football World Championship against Preston North End, 2–1 in Edinburgh.1888 in football 
The Football League, the world's first national football league competition, is founded in England by Aston Villa director William McGregor. Celtic F.C. is founded. Renton F.C. wins the Football World Championship against West Bromwich Albion, 4–1 in Glasgow.1889 in football 
The Royal Dutch Football Association and the Danish Football Association are founded. The Danish association is the first non-British European football association. 
The Football Alliance is formed as a rival to The Football League. 
The first football association not admitted to FIFA is formed: the Cornwall County Football Association.
Rosario Central, and
Mohun Bagan A.C., the oldest football club in India, is founded. RC Recreativo de Huelva, the first club in Spain, is founded.

 1890s 1890 in footballThe IFA Premiership (Irish League) is formed (NIFL Premiership). 
The Scottish Football League is formed.
Goal nets used for the first time.1891 in football 
The penalty kick is introduced. Liverpool engineer John Alexander Brodie invents the football net. 
Assistant referees are first introduced as linesmen. 
The first Oceanian football association is formed: the New Zealand Soccer Association. 
The first ever championship outside of Britain takes place in Argentina: AAF Championship.
C.A. Peñarol is founded.1892 in football 
The Football League introduces a second division. Liverpool F.C. and Newcastle United F.C. are founded. The first Asian football association is formed: the Football Association of Singapore. Argentina is the first country outside of Britain to have a national championship.1893 in football 
Argentine Football Association is founded, the first South American football association. Genoa Cricket and Football Club, the first Italian club football team, and F.C. Porto are founded.1894 in football 
Referee in complete control of game. 1894 in football 
Floriana FC of Malta is founded. 1895 in football 
The Federación de Fútbol de Chile, the Belgian Football Association and the Gibraltar Football Association are founded. Clube de Regatas do Flamengo is founded. Sunderland A.F.C. wins the Football World Championship against Hearts of Midlothian F.C., 5–3 in Edinburgh.1896 in football 
Italy's first national championship is organised by the Italian Federation of Gymnastics. Football played at the first Summer Olympics in Athens as demonstration sport. The match length is set to 90 minutes. 1897 in football 
The Football League introduces automatic promotion and relegation between its two divisions. Juventus F.C. is founded as Sport Club Juventus.1898 in football 
The Italian Football Federation is formed. CR Vasco da Gama, Standard Liège and Portsmouth FC are founded. CS Constantine of Algeria is founded. 1899 in football 
FC Barcelona, Club Nacional de Football and A.C. Milan are founded. The number of a football team is defined to be 11 players.

 1900s 1900 in football 
Asociación Uruguaya de Fútbol and German Football Association were founded. FC Bayern Munich, AFC Ajax, RCD Espanyol, Borussia Mönchengladbach and S.S. Lazio (as Società Podistica Lazio) are founded. The first clubs dedicated to football still active in Brazil, Sport Club Rio Grande and Associação Atlética Ponte Preta are founded.  The Malta Football Association is founded.1901 in football 
Czechoslovak Football Association and Hungarian Football Federation are founded.  The match between Tottenham Hotspur F.C. a