[Materials of Construction — Gutenberg #40780]

pay the man's wergeld to the king. And if the lord is accused of advising him to escape, he shall clear himself with the help of five thegns, himself making a sixth. And if he fails to clear himself, he shall pay his own wergeld to the king, and the man shall be an outlaw towards the king. If a slave is found guilty at the ordeal, he shall be branded on the first occasion. And on the second occasion, he shall not be able to make any amends except by his head. *Concerning untrustworthy men, if there is anyone who is regarded with suspicion by the general public, the king's reeve shall go and place him under surety so that he a may be brought to do justice to those who have made charges against him. If he has no surety, he shall be slain and buried in unconsecrated ground. And if anyone interposes in his defense, they shall both incur the same punishment. And he who ignores this and will not further what we have all determined upon shall pay 120s. to the king. The various boroughs shall have one common law with regard to exculpation. If a friendless man or one come from afar is so utterly destitute of friends as not to be able to produce a surety, on the first occasion that he is accused he shall go to prison, and wait there until he goes to God's ordeal where he shall experience whatever he can. Verily, he who pronounces a more severe judgment upon whom is friendless or come from afar than upon one of his own acquaintances injures himself. *Concerning perjury, if anyone swears a false oath on the relics and is convicted, he shall lose his hand or half his wergeld which shall be divided between the lord and the bishop. And henceforth he shall not be entitled to swear an oath, unless he makes amends to the best of his ability before God, and finds surety that ever afterwards he will desist from such perjury. *Concerning false witness, if anyone has given testimony which is manifestly false, and is convicted thereof, his testimony henceforth shall be valueless, and he shall pay to the king or to the lord of the manor a sum equivalent to his healsfang [payment due only to those very closely related to a killed man]. Special care must be taken to prevent lawlessness at sacred seasons and in sacred places. The greater a man is and the higher his rank, the more stringent shall be the amends which he shall be required to make to God and to men for lawless behavior. And ecclesiastical amends shall be diligently exacted in accordance with the directions contained in the canon law, and secular amends in accordance with secular law. If anyone slays a priest of the altar, he shall be both excommunicated and outlawed, unless he make amends to the best of his ability by pilgrimage, and likewise by the payment of compensation to the kin of the slain man, or else he shall clear himself by an oath equal in value to his wergeld. He shall begin to make amends to God and men within 30 days, under pain of forfeiting all that he possesses. If an attempt is made to deprive a man in orders or a stranger of his goods or his life, the king shall act as his kinsman and protector unless he has some other. And such compensation as is fitting shall be paid to the king, or he shall avenge the deed to the uttermost. If a minister of the altar commits homicide or any other great crime, he shall be deprived of his ecclesiastical office and banished, and shall travel as a pilgrim as far as the Pope appoints for him and zealously make amends. If he seeks to clear himself, he shall do so by the triple mode of proof. If he does not begin to make amends both to God and men within 30 days, he shall be outlawed. If anyone binds or beats or deeply insults a man in holy orders, he shall make amends towards him and shall pay the fine due to the bishop for sacrilege, in accordance with the rank of the injured man, and to his lord or to the king the full fine for breach of his mund, or he shall clear himself by the full process of exculpation. If a man in holy orders commits a capital crime, he shall be arrested, and his cases shall be reserved for the bishop's decision. If a condemned man desires confession, he shall never be refused him or pay the king 120s. or he shall clear himself by selecting five men and be himself the sixth. *No condemned man shall be put to death during the Sunday festival, unless he flees or fights, but he shall be arrested and kept in custody until the festival is over. If a freeman works during a church festival, he shall make amends by payment of his healsfang and make amends to God according to the directions given him. If as slave works, he shall undergo the lash or pay the fine, according to the nature of the offense. If a lord compels his slave to work during a church festival, he shall lose the slave, who shall then obtain the rights of a freeman and the lord shall pay a fine or clear himself. If a freeman breaks an ordained fast, he shall pay a fine. If a slave does so, he shall undergo the lash or pay the fine in accordance with the nature of the deed. If anyone openly causes a breach of the fast of Lent by fighting or by intercourse with women or by robbery or by any great misdeed, he shall pay double compensation just as he must do during a high festival. If he denies the charge, he shall clear himself by the triple process of exculpation. *If anyone refuses by force the payment of ecclesiastical dues, he shall pay the full fine or he shall clear himself: he shall select 11 men and himself make a twelfth. If he wounds anyone, he shall make amends and pay the full fine to the lord and redeem his hands from the bishop or lose them. If he kills a man, he shall be outlawed and pursued with hostility. If he so acts as to bring about his own death by setting himself against the law, no compensation shall be paid for him. If anyone injures one of the clergy, he shall make amends according to the rank of the person injured, either by the payment of his wergeld or a fine or by the forfeiture of all his property. *If anyone commits adultery, he shall make amends according to the nature of the offense. It is wicked adultery for a pious man to commit fornication with an unmarried woman, and much worse with the wife of another man or with any woman who has taken religious vows. *If anyone commits incest, he shall make amends according to the degree of relationship between them, either by the payment of wergeld or of a fine, or by the forfeiture of all his possessions. *If anyone does violence to a widow or maiden, he shall pay his wergeld. *If a woman commits adultery, her husband shall have all she possesses and she shall lose her nose and her ears. If a married man commits adultery with his own slave, he shall lose her and make amends to God and to men. *If anyone has a lawful wife and also a concubine, no priest shall perform for him any of the offices which must be performed for a Christian man, until he desists and makes amends as the bishop shall direct. Foreigners, if they will not regularize their unions, shall be driven from the land with their possessions, and shall depart in sin. *Any murderer shall be given up to the kinsmen of the slain man. The bishop shall pronounce judgment. *If anyone plots against the king or his own lord, he shall forfeit his life and all that he possesses, unless he proves himself innocent by the triple ordeal. *If anyone violates the protection or a king, archbishop or bishop, he shall pay 5, 3, or 2 pounds respectively as compensation. *Anyone who fights at the king's court shall lose his life, unless pardoned by the king. *If a man unjustly disarms another, he shall compensate him by the payment of his healsfang. If he binds him, he shall compensate by the payment of half his wergeld. If anyone is guilty of a capital deed of violence while serving in the army, he shall lose his life or his wergeld. *If a man makes forcible entry into another man's house, he shall pay 5 pounds to the king. If he is slain in such a case, no compensation shall be paid for his death. *Anyone guilty of robbery shall restore the stolen goods and pay the injured man as much again and forfeit his wergeld to the king. *According to secular law, assaults upon houses, arson, theft which cannot be disproved, murder which cannot be denied, and treachery towards a man's lord are crimes for which no compensation can be paid. If anyone neglects the repair of fortifications or bridges or military service, he shall pay 120s. to the king or he shall clear himself with the support of 11 compurgators out of 14 nominated by the court. The whole nation shall assist in the repair of churches. If anyone unlawfully maintains an excommunicated person, he shall deliver him up in accordance with the law, and pay compensation to him to whom it belongs, and to the king his wergeld. Anyone keeping and maintaining as excommunicated man or an outlaw shall risk losing his life and all his property. Greater leniency shall be shown in passing judgment and in imposing penance on the weak than on the strong because they cannot bear an equally heavy burden. So we distinguish between age and youth, wealth and poverty, freemen and slaves, the sound and the weak. *When a man is an involuntary agent in evil-doing or does something unintentionally, he is more entitled to clemency. All my reeves shall provide for me from my own property and no man need give them anything as purveyance. If any of my reeves demands a fine, he shall forfeit his wergeld to me. The public has been so far too greatly oppressed by this. *If a man dies intestate [without a will], whether through negligence or sudden death, his lord shall take no more than his legal heriot. The property shall be