Title: Bühlmann decompression algorithm

The Bühlmann decompression set of parameters is an Haldanian mathematical model (algorithm) of the way in which inert gases enter and leave the human body as the ambient pressure changes. Versions are used to create Bühlmann decompression tables and in personal dive computers to compute no-decompression limits and decompression schedules for dives in real-time. These decompression tables allow divers to plan the depth and duration for dives and the required decompression stops.

The sets of parameters have been developed by Swiss physician Dr. Albert A. Bühlmann, who did research into decompression theory at the Laboratory of Hyperbaric Physiology at the University Hospital in Zürich, Switzerland.
The results of Bühlmann's research that began in 1959 were published in a 1983 German book whose English translation was entitled Decompression-Decompression Sickness. The book was regarded as the most complete public reference on decompression calculations and was used soon after in dive computer algorithms.

The model (Haldane, 1908) assumes perfusion limited gas exchange and multiple parallel tissue compartments and uses an inverse exponential model for in-gassing and out-gassing, both of which are assumed to occur in the dissolved phase.

Principles
Building on the previous work of John Scott Haldane (The Haldane model, Royal Navy, 1908) and Robert Workman (M-Values, US-Navy, 1965) and working off funding from Shell Oil Company, Bühlmann designed studies to establish the longest half-times of nitrogen and helium in human tissues. These studies were confirmed by the Capshell experiments in the Mediterranean Sea in 1966.

The basic idea (Haldane, 1908) is to represent the human body by multiple tissues (compartments) of different saturation half-times and to calculate the partial pressure  of the inert gases in each of the  compartments (Haldane's equation):

with the initial partial pressure , the partial pressure in the breathing gas  (minus the vapour pressure of water in the lung of about 60 mbar), the time of exposure  and the compartment-specific saturation half-time .

When the gas pressure drops, the compartments start to off-gas.

Nitrogen (air, nitrox) set of parameters
To calculate the minimum tolerable pressure , the constants  and , which are derived from the saturation half-time as follows (ZH-L 16 A):

are used to calculate M-Value ():

The  values calculated do not correspond to those used by Bühlmann for tissue compartments 4 (0.7825 instead of 0.7725) and 5 (0.8126 instead of 0.8125).

Versions B and C have manually modified the coefficient .

The modified values of  and  are shown in bold in the table below.

Helium (heliox) set of parameters
According to Graham's Law, the speed of diffusion (or effusion) of two gases under the same conditions of temperature and pressure is inversely proportional to the square root of their molar mass (28.0184 g/mol for  and 4.0026 g/mol for , i.e. ), which means that  molecules diffuse 2.645 times faster than  molecules.

Bühlmann took this into account and divided all the tissue compartment half-time for air (nitrogen) by 2.645 to obtain a helium-specific set of parameters with the longest compartment set at 

The parameters of the M-Values (coefficients a and b) were determined specifically.

Trimix (nitrogen + helium) set of parameters
No model can manage the desaturation of two inert gases.

Some approaches only take into account the main inert gas (and ignore the other inert gas).

With Bühlmann, a weighted average of the half-times and coefficients  and  is calculated as a function of the percentage of each inert gas to calculate a specific set of parameters.

Example :

Using a 18/50 trimix (18% , 50% , 32% ), the half-time (or the  and  coefficients) of compartment #1 is calculated by taking 50% of the  half-time and 32% of the  half-time divided by 50% + 32% = 82%.

Example, compartment #1:

 (instead of  with  and  with )

 ( with  and  with )

 ( with  and  with )

The same calculations can be made using partial pressures rather than percentages.

This approach is controversial with some authors who feel that this calculation does not reflect what should be achieved. Generally speaking, the fact that desaturation with two neutral gases is not modelled encourages caution. Each trimix dive is specific, with no guarantee.

Constant partial pressure of oxygen (closed-circuit rebreathers - CCR) 
There are no specific model for constant  dives. The difference lies in the fact that, at all times, the proportion of inert gas is calculated in relation to the chosen  (e.g. 0.75 or 1.3 ata (bar)).

Versions
Several versions of the Bühlmann set of parameters have been developed, both by Bühlmann and by later workers. The naming convention used to identify the set of parameters is a code starting ZH-L, from Zürich (ZH), Linear (L) followed by the number of different (a,b) couples (ZH-L 12 and ZH-L 16)) or the number of tissue compartments (ZH-L 6, ZH-L 8), and other unique identifiers.
For example:

ZH-L 12 (1983)
 ZH-L 12: The set of parameters published in 1983 with "Twelve Pairs of Coefficients for Sixteen Half-Value Times"

ZH-L 16 (1986)
 ZH-L 16 or ZH-L 16 A (air, nitrox): The experimental set of parameters published in 1986.
 ZH-L 16 B (air, nitrox): The set of parameters modified for printed dive table production, using slightly more conservative “a” values for tissue compartments #6, 7, 8 and 13.
 ZH-L 16 C (air, nitrox): The set of parameters with more conservative “a” values for tissue compartments #5 to 15. For use in dive computers.
 ZH-L 16 (helium): The set of parameters for use with helium.
 ZH-L 16 ADT MB: set of parameters and specific algorithm used by Uwatec for their trimix-enabled computers. Modified in the middle compartments from the original ZHL-C, is adaptive to diver workload and includes Profile-Determined Intermediate Stops. Profile modification is by means of "MB Levels", personal option conservatism settings, which are not defined in the manual.

ZH-L 6 (1988)
 ZH-L 6 is an adaptation (Albert Bühlmann, Ernst B.Völlm and Markus Mock) of the ZH-L16 set of parameters, implemented in Aladin Pro computers (Uwatec, Beuchat), with 6 tissue compartments (half-time : 6 mn / 14 mn / 34 mn / 64 mn / 124 mn / 320 mn).

ZH-L 8 ADT (1992)
 ZH-L 8 ADT: A new approach with variable half-times and supersaturation tolerance depending on risk factors. The set of parameters and the algorithm are not public (Uwatec property, implemented in Aladin Air-X in 1992 and presented at BOOT in 1994). This algorithm may reduce the no-stop limit or require the diver to complete a compensatory decompression stop after an ascent rate violation, high work level during the dive, or low water temperature. This algorithm may also take into account the specific nature of repetitive dives.

 ZH-L 8 ADT MB: A version of the ZHL-8 ADT claimed to suppress MicroBubble formation.
 ZH-L 8 ADT MB PDIS: Profile-Determined Intermediate Stops.
 ZH-L 8 ADT MB PMG: Predictive Multi-Gas.

Ascent rates
Ascent rate is intrinsically a variable, and may be selected by the programmer or user for table generation or simulations, and measured as real-time input in dive computer applications.

The rate of ascent  to the first stop is limited to 3 bar per minute for compartments 1 to 5, 2 bar per minute for compartments 6 and 7, and 1 bar per minute for compartments 8 to 16. Chamber decompression may be continuous, or if stops are preferred they may be done at intervals of 1 or 3 m.

Gradient factors (GF)

Gradient factors are a calculation trick (Erik C. Baker) that consists of taking a percentage of each M-Value (e.g. 90%) in order to increase conservatism (shorter duration without mandatory stops, longer and/or deeper stops) by reducing the maximum amount of neutral (inert) gas (e.g. nitrogen) accepted when approaching the surface (Maximum Value of each tissue compartment at... 9 m, 6 m, 3 m, surface)..

It is generally possible to define two GFs: GFlow and GFhigh. GFlow applies to the first (deepest) stop, GFhigh to the last stop (closest to the surface). Any intermediate GFs (between GFlow and GFhigh) are calculated by linear interpolation.

For dives without mandatory stops, only GFhigh is used, even if a GFlow is defined.

Twin GFs (e.g. 80/80) have the same effect as artificially increasing dive time (the time taken into account is greater than the actual time). When using printed dive tables, it is like an "impromptu addition of extra increments of depth and time beyond those actually required by the dive, universally known as Jesus-factoring".

Asymmetric GFs (e.g. 30/70) can be used to force deep stops. Deep stops can be defined as follows: “one or more voluntary or empirically derived decompression stops that are deeper than any prescribed by the algorithm utilized”.

GFs can be implemented in dive computers in three ways:

 with a preset mode (e.g. L0, L1, L2 ... or P0, P1, P2 ...) corresponding to a decreasing pair of GFs: 90/90; 85/85; 80/80... ;

 leaving GFlow and GFhigh free for input;

 by including in the algorithm a modification of the GFs according to the diver's behaviour (profile, ascent speed, etc.).

In all cases, the choice of GF values is arbitrary.

The term "ZH-L 16 with GF" is misleading. It may give the impression that there is a specific set of parameters for use with GFs. There isn't. Any set of parameters with M-Values (ZH-L, US-Navy, Hahn, RGBM, Comex...) can be used with GF.

References

Further reading

External links
Many articles on the Bühlmann tables are available on the web.
 – Detailed background and worked examples
 Decompression Theory: Robert Workman and Prof A Bühlmann. An overview of the history of Bühlmann tables
 Stuart Morrison: DIY Decompression (2000). Works through the steps involved in using Bühlmann's ZH-L16 algorithm to write a decompression program.

Decompression algorithms