Title: Chan's algorithm

In computational geometry, Chan's algorithm, named after Timothy M. Chan, is an optimal output-sensitive algorithm to compute the convex hull of a set  of  points, in 2- or 3-dimensional space. 
The algorithm takes  time, where  is the number of vertices of the output (the convex hull). In the planar case, the algorithm combines an  algorithm (Graham scan, for example) with Jarvis march (), in order to obtain an optimal  time. Chan's algorithm is notable because it is much simpler than the Kirkpatrick–Seidel algorithm, and it naturally extends to 3-dimensional space. This paradigm has been independently developed by Frank Nielsen in his Ph.D. thesis.

Algorithm

Overview
A single pass of the algorithm requires a parameter  which is between 0 and  (number of points of our set ). Ideally,  but , the number of vertices in the output convex hull, is not known at the start. Multiple passes with increasing values of  are done which then terminates when (see below on choosing parameter ).

The algorithm starts by arbitrarily partitioning the set of points  into  subsets  with at most  points each; notice that .

For each subset , it computes the convex hull, , using an  algorithm (for example, Graham scan), where  is the number of points in the subset. As there are  subsets of  points each, this phase takes  time.

During the second phase, Jarvis's march is executed, making use of the precomputed (mini) convex hulls, . At each step in this Jarvis's march algorithm, we have a point  in the convex hull (at the beginning,  may be the point in  with the lowest y coordinate, which is guaranteed to be in the convex hull of ), and need to find a point  such that all other points of  are to the right of the line , where the notation  simply means that the next point, that is , is determined as a function of  and . The convex hull of the set , , is known and contains at most  points (listed in a clockwise or counter-clockwise order), which allows to compute  in  time by binary search. Hence, the computation of  for all the  subsets can be done in  time. Then, we can determine  using the same technique as normally used in Jarvis's march, but only considering the points  (i.e. the points in the mini convex hulls) instead of the whole set . For those points, one iteration of Jarvis's march is  which is negligible compared to the computation for all subsets. Jarvis's march completes when the process has been repeated  times (because, in the way Jarvis march works, after at most  iterations of its outermost loop, where  is the number of points in the convex hull of , we must have found the convex hull), hence the second phase takes  time, equivalent to  time if  is close to  (see below the description of a strategy to choose  such that this is the case).

By running the two phases described above, the convex hull of  points is computed in  time.

Choosing the parameter 
If an arbitrary value is chosen for , it may happen that . In that case, after  steps in the second phase, we interrupt the Jarvis's march as running it to the end would take too much time.
At that moment, a  time will have been spent, and the convex hull will not have been calculated.

The idea is to make multiple passes of the algorithm with increasing values of ; each pass terminates (successfully or unsuccessfully) in  time. If  increases too slowly between passes, the number of iterations may be large; on the other hand, if it rises too quickly, the first  for which the algorithm terminates successfully may be much larger than , and produce a complexity .

Squaring Strategy 

One possible strategy is to square the value of  at each iteration, up to a maximum value of  (corresponding to a partition in singleton sets). Starting from a value of 2, at iteration ,  is chosen. In that case,  iterations are made, given that the algorithm terminates once we have

with the logarithm taken in base , and the total running time of the algorithm is

In three dimensions
To generalize this construction for the 3-dimensional case, an  algorithm to compute the 3-dimensional convex hull by Preparata and Hong should be used instead of Graham scan, and a 3-dimensional version of Jarvis's march needs to be used. The time complexity remains .

Pseudocode

In the following pseudocode, text between parentheses and in italic are comments. To fully understand the following pseudocode, it is recommended that the reader is already familiar with Graham scan and Jarvis march algorithms to compute the convex hull, , of a set of points,
.

Input: Set  with  points .
Output: Set  with  points, the convex hull of .

 (Pick a point of  which is guaranteed to be in : for instance, the point with the lowest y coordinate.)
 (This operation takes  time: e.g., we can simply iterate through .)

( is used in the Jarvis march part of this Chan's algorithm,
 so that to compute the second point, , in the convex hull of .)
 (Note:  is not a point of .)
(For more info, see the comments close to the corresponding part of the Chan's algorithm.)

 (Note: , the number of points in the final convex hull of , is not known.)
 (These are the iterations needed to discover the value of , which is an estimate of .)
 ( is required for this Chan's algorithm to find the convex hull of .)
 (More specifically, we want , so that not to perform too many unnecessary iterations
 and so that the time complexity of this Chan's algorithm is .)
 (As explained above in this article, a strategy is used where at most  iterations are required to find .)
 (Note: the final  may not be equal to , but it is never smaller than  and greater than .)
 (Nevertheless, this Chan's algorithm stops once  iterations of the outermost loop are performed,
 that is, even if , it doesn't perform  iterations of the outermost loop.)
 (For more info, see the Jarvis march part of this algorithm below, where  is returned if .)
for  do
 (Set parameter  for the current iteration. A "squaring scheme" is used as described above in this article.
 There are other schemes: for example, the "doubling scheme", where , for .
 If the "doubling scheme" is used, though, the resulting time complexity of this Chan's algorithm is .)
 

 (Initialize an empty list (or array) to store the points of the convex hull of , as they are found.)
 
 

 (Arbitrarily split set of points  into  subsets of roughly  elements each.)

 (Compute the convex hull of all  subsets of points, .)
 (It takes  time.)
 If , then the time complexity is .)
for  do
 (Compute the convex hull of subset , , using Graham scan, which takes  time.)
 ( is the convex hull of the subset of points .)
 

 (At this point, the convex hulls  of respectively the subsets of points  have been computed.)
 (Now, use a modified version of the Jarvis march algorithm to compute the convex hull of .)
 (Jarvis march performs in  time, where  is the number of input points and  is the number of points in the convex hull.)
 (Given that Jarvis march is an output-sensitive algorithm, its running time depends on the size of the convex hull, .)
 (In practice, it means that Jarvis march performs  iterations of its outermost loop.
 At each of these iterations, it performs at most  iterations of its innermost loop.)
 (We want , so we do not want to perform more than  iterations in the following outer loop.)
 (If the current  is smaller than , i.e. , the convex hull of  cannot be found.)
 (In this modified version of Jarvis march, we perform an operation inside the innermost loop which takes  time.
 Hence, the total time complexity of this modified version is
 
 If , then the time complexity is .)
for  do

 (Note: here, a point in the convex hull of  is already known, that is .)

 (In this inner for loop,  possible next points to be on the convex hull of , , are computed.)
 (Each of these  possible next points is from a different :
 that is,  is a possible next point on the convex hull of  which is part of the convex hull of .)
 (Note:  depend on : that is, for each iteration , there are  possible next points to be on the convex hull of .)
 (Note: at each iteration , only one of the points among  is added to the convex hull of .)
 for  do
 ( finds the point  such that the angle  is maximized ,
 where  is the angle between the vectors  and . Such  is stored in .)
 (Angles do not need to be calculated directly: the orientation test can be used .)
 ( can be performed in  time.)
 (Note: at the iteration ,  and  is known and is a point in the convex hull of : 
 in this case, it is the point of  with the lowest y coordinate.)
 

 (Choose the point  which maximizes the angle   to be the next point on the convex hull of .)
 

 (Jarvis march terminates when the next selected point on the convext hull, , is the initial point, .)
if 
 (Return the convex hull of  which contains  points.)
 (Note: of course, no need to return  which is equal to .)
 return 
else

 (If after  iterations a point  has not been found so that , then .) 
 (We need to start over with a higher value for .)

Implementation

Chan's paper contains several suggestions that may improve the practical performance of the algorithm, for example:

 When computing the convex hulls of the subsets, eliminate the points that are not in the convex hull from consideration in subsequent executions.
 The convex hulls of larger point sets can be obtained by merging previously calculated convex hulls, instead of recomputing from scratch.
 With the above idea, the dominant cost of algorithm lies in the pre-processing, i.e., the computation of the convex hulls of the groups. To reduce this cost, we may consider reusing hulls computed from the previous iteration and merging them as the group size is increased.

Extensions
Chan's paper contains some other problems whose known algorithms can be made optimal output sensitive using his technique, for example:

 Computing the lower envelope  of a set  of  line segments, which is defined as the lower boundary  of the unbounded trapezoid of formed by the intersections.
 Hershberger gave an  algorithm which can be sped up to , where h is the number of edges in the envelope
 
  Constructing output sensitive algorithms for higher dimensional convex hulls. With the use of grouping points and using efficient data structures,  complexity can be achieved provided h is of polynomial order in .

See also
 Convex hull algorithms

References

 

Convex hull algorithms