Title: Skagit Transit

Skagit Transit is a public transit system in Skagit County, Washington, US. It operates 19 fixed-route bus routes, as well as paratransit and vanpool services across the entire county. The agency was founded in 1993 and is funded by a 0.4 percent local sales tax.

History

The Skagit County public transportation benefit area, funded by a 0.2 percent sales tax, was approved by voters in Mount Vernon and Burlington in November 1992. Bus service began on November 3, 1993, with a network of four routes serving the two cities and no fares. The cities of Anacortes, La Conner, and Sedro-Woolley were annexed into the Skagit Transit service area in 1994, followed by Bayview and Concrete in 1995.

Service was cut after the passage of Initiative 695 in 2000, and voters rejected a sales tax increase to support restored service. Skagit Transit began operating inter-county routes to Island and Whatcom counties in 2005, and expanded with a Mount Vernon–Everett commuter route in 2006 part-funded by Island Transit and the state government. The agency also took ownership of Skagit Station in Mount Vernon, which is served by Amtrak Cascades and Island Transit. A 0.2 percent sales tax increase was approved by voters in the November 2008 election, allowing for expanded service.

Facilities

The primary maintenance and administration facility for Skagit Transit is located in Burlington.

Skagit Station

A multimodal station serviced by Greyhound, Amtrak Cascades, Bellingham Connector (Whatcom Transportation Authority), Island Connector (Island Transit) and Everett Express which connects with Sounder commuter rail in Everett.

Fares

Regular fares for adults are $1 each way on local routes and $2 on County Connector routes; reduced fares for senior citizens, veterans, and people with disabilities are half the regular fare. Since 2022, youth fares on Skagit Transit have been free as part of a statewide program. The agency also offers day passes and monthly passes for both regular and reduced fares. Fares can be paid with cash or the Umo fare card and smartphone app, which is shared with the Whatcom Transportation Authority.

Bus routes

Local routes
As of the May 1, 2023 service.

Route 101 - Burlington, Washington Circular
Route 202 - Skagit Station/South MV Park & Ride
Route 204 - Skagit Station to Skagit Highlands via Skagit Valley College
Route 205 - Skagit Valley College to Skagit Station
Route 206 - Skagit Station to Skagit Valley Hospital via Mount Baker Middle School
Route 207 - Skagit Station to Walmart to Skagit Valley College
Route 208 - Skagit Station to Chuckanut Park & Ride Burlington
Route 300 - Sedro Woolley Circular from Sedro Woolley Park and Ride
Route 301 - Burlington to Sedro Woolley Park & Ride from Chuckanut Park & Ride
Route 305 - Skagit Valley College to Sedro-Woolley via Clear Lake
Route 409 - 10th & Q Street to Island Hospital
Route 410 - March Point Park & Ride to Anacortes ferry terminal
Route 513 - Burlington, Washington to Anacortes, via Skagit Regional Airport from Chuckanut Park & Ride
Route 615 - March Point Park & Ride to La Conner to Mount Vernon
Route 717 - Concrete Park and Ride to Cape Horn to Cedar Grove
Route 40X - Skagit Station to March's Point Park and Ride
Route 70X - Skagit Station to Concrete Park and Ride

County Connector Routes
Bellingham Connector (Route 80X) - Mount Vernon to Bellingham
Everett Connector (Route 90X)- Burlington to Everett Station, via Mount Vernon

References

External links

 

Bus transportation in Washington (state)
Transportation in Skagit County, Washington
Transit agencies in Washington (state)