Title: Korora (operating system)

Korora (previously Kororaa) was a remix of the Fedora Linux distribution. Originally Kororaa was a binary installation method for Gentoo Linux which aimed for easy installation of a Gentoo system by using install scripts instead of manual configuration. The name derives from the Māori word  – the little penguin.

History 
Korora was started by Christopher Smart as a method to quickly reproduce a Gentoo Linux installation on multiple desktop machines. Smart also intended that Korora be used to quickly demonstrate the power of Gentoo Linux to users critical of 'compile times'. On November 7, 2007, Smart announced that he was discontinuing his work on the project, and that there would be no new versions of Korora.

The introduction of the Korora XGL Live CD was intended to demonstrate the capabilities of Novell's Xgl and Compiz.

On December 23, 2010, Smart announced rebirth of Korora as a Fedora remix.

On , Korora 18 was released, featuring a revised name spelled with only one A and a new logo.

On May 16, 2018, Korora stopped its development.

Kororaa XGL Live CD 

In March 2006, a Kororaa based Live CD was released, preconfigured with Xgl capabilities. The live CD supports NVIDIA, ATI and Intel graphics cards, and the latest version (0.3) comes with both K Desktop Environment 3 and GNOME.

Development hiatus and restart 
On November 7, 2007, Smart announced that development on Korora would be ended, and no further versions would be released; the reasons given were that:
 Sabayon Linux already serves a purpose as a binary Gentoo distribution
 Gentoo already comes with a GUI installer
 Compiz is already installed  by default in the MATE-edition.
 Korora could not compete with other distributions which include non-free drivers by default.
 the weight of the project was too much for a single developer.

On December 23, 2010, Smart announced the restart of Korora with a release of the Fedora-based version of the distro:
I know that you'll be looking for something Linux related to do over your Christmas holidays and New Year, so I've just released the first installable live DVD beta for testing. The final release will be Korora 14 (derived from Fedora 14), code-named 'Nemo'. As with the original Korora, it's based on KDE. Essentially, Korora has been reborn as a Fedora remix, inspired by Rahul Sundaram's Omega GNOME remix. It aims to provide all general computing uses out of the box and it aims to include software packages that most users will want.

Version history

References

External links 
 

RPM-based Linux distributions
X86-64 Linux distributions
Linux distributions