Title: National Defense Authorization Act

The National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) is the name for each of a series of United States federal laws specifying the annual budget and expenditures of the U.S. Department of Defense. The first NDAA was passed in 1961. The U.S. Congress oversees the defense budget primarily through two yearly bills: the National Defense Authorization Act and defense appropriations bills. The authorization bill is the jurisdiction of the Senate Armed Services Committee and House Armed Services Committee and determines the agencies responsible for defense, establishes recommended funding levels, and sets the policies under which money will be spent. The appropriations bill provides funds.

The passage of a Defense Authorization Act is often used by Congress to honour a senior congress member or other individual. For example, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 is known as the "Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001" in honor of Representative Floyd D. Spence of South Carolina.

Legislation from 2001 to present

See also

 Clinger–Cohen Act, part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1996
 McCarran Internal Security Act

References

Further reading
 Christophe Paulussen, The US NDAA and its Controversial Counter-Terrorism Provisions (International Centre for Counter-Terrorism – The Hague, 2012)

External links
 National Defense Authorization Acts for 1996 to 2016
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989, from GovTrack.us
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005, from the Congressional Budget Office
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, from GovTrack.us
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, from GovTrack.us
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009, from GovTrack.us
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010:  and 
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011, from GovTrack.us
 National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, from GovTracks.us
 S. 1867 : AN ACT To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2012 for military activities of the Department of Defense
  from Reuters.com
  pdf of the 112-page ruling from UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

U.S. National Defense Authorization Acts