Kevin Friend has gone to the top of my prick list.
Massive flags at Everton today...worked for them.
I think Brett Warburton was a Director of the club at one point but not certain.
Claret Toni????? You are pushing your luck a bit.
Am really surprised that the Warburton family have not got involved in some way.Probably (certainly) have more business sense I suppose.
Big problem now we had flags and free scarves and we won,they were a good omen.
Now if it was a Twix on every seat.
Good Fortune in Nelson always spot on.Portions are excellent.
Food good before match and if you are lucky you may spot Kevin McDonald.
You should NEVER make assumptions where BFC is concerned.
A perfect fit...sign him on ...omg am only joking.
April fools was last week.
Players and fans should grow up.
clarethrough wrote: is'nt swimming in vinegar good for your health including gout?
The answer has to be to keep identifying the spectators who are being rascist and ban them for life...CCTV technology is availabe to do this.Yes fine the club or country by all means if they are not seen to be taking action against the perpetrators.
Well i had a lean one at Donald's this morning,really tasty with salt ,vinegar and a squirt of English mustard.Large bottle of Tabasco available as well if you want it.
Tricky Trevor wrote: Similar film of Tommy Caldwell, in Yosemite. Dawn Wall. On netflix.
Caldwell is a close friend of Honnold and they have climbed a lot together.
Hendrickxz wrote: Was that in Nelson or did the Barmy Micks empire stretch as far as Burnley!
.It was on Burnley open market his stall was on the Standish Street side of the market..
He probably did both markets if the same guy.
I guess he is not picked to play on Friday then ?
Good to see Burnley CC are at last putting up a decent fence on Belvedere Road.
The money they make for parking on match days at 8 quid a car it should be gold plated.
Be more lucrative tarmacing the lot and creating a massive car park.
Topic: Claret or Blue season ticket card?
Re: Claret or Blue season ticket card?
Best was the best of his era, but he wouldn't be able to compete with the best of todays superfit footballers.
Out of town I know but the Crooked Billet is a cracking pub and some real Clarets are customers.
How does Tom Heaton manage to get even 3 votes today.Am a massive fan of Heaton but today he was dreadful.
Man of the match by a country mile.
Had half a leg amputated a few years ago because of an infection.
He has been sent to see a second consultant who specialises in calf injuries....this on the recommendation of his previous consutant that the club normally use.
Topic: Body shop car repair recommendations please.
Re: Body shop car repair recommendations please.
Best around here in my opinion are Base Autobodies down Lomeshaye Industrial Estate.
If Liverpool won the league their fans would be inotolerable for years to come.
... . .And England manager sat in the stand.. .Mcneil and Heaton impressed as well.
Heard a rumour Kane is not even on the bench...but only a rumour.