Alexa O'Brien filed this request with the Executive Office for United States Attorneys of the United States of America.
Requests to the Counterintelligence Section (CES) by the US Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Virginia or any other USAO for a search of Intelligence Community files for preexisting intelligence information relevant to the WikiLeaks criminal investigation or indictment against any persons related to that investigation.
According to the Department of Justice US Attorney Manual these documents must be in writing and must have been approved by the United States Attorney (USA) or a senior designee, e.g., the First Assistant, or the National/International Security Coordinator.
If you regard these documents as potentially exempt from disclosure requirements, I request that you nonetheless exercise your discretion to disclose them.
Please release all reasonably segregable nonexempt portions of documents.
If you deny all or any part of this request, please cite each specific exemption you think justifies your refusal to release the information and notify me of appeal procedures available under the law.
I also request that, if appropriate, fees be waived as I believe this request is in the public interest.
The requested documents will be made available to the general public free of charge as part of the public information service, processed by a representative of the news media/press and is made in the process of news gathering and not for commercial usage.
My work has been published in the Guardian, Salon, and featured by PBS Frontline, On The Media and Public Radio International. My work was also shortlisted for the 2013 Martha Gellhorn Prize for Journalism.
Please see the attached response to your FOIA request. Please note, your request has been assigned tracking number EMRUFOIA050614-9.
Please confirm that the FOIA request below has been forwarded to EOUSA for response.
I wanted to follow up on the following Freedom of Information request, copied below, and originally submitted on May 17, 2014. Please let me know when I can expect to receive a response, or if further clarification is needed. You had assigned it reference number #FOIA-2014-02275.