Schools are closing for the end of the year but plenty more are keeping their doors open for parents who want to take a look. Whether you’re planning on checking out eco-friendly facilities or comprehensive curriculums, we’re bringing you a round-up of what’s on in Singapore’s international schools this December.
Looking for a well-rounded school with a great athletics program, an appreciation for the arts and plenty of opportunities to learn outside the classroom? Stamford American International School (SAIS) ensures no students are left behind in any aspect of education. Find out for yourself just how how fantastic the teaching staff, academic programs and facilities really are at SAIS at the Early Years Open House on 7 December or 14 December for Elementary and Secondary levels. Or have a chat with the admissions team to book your campus tour for a time that suits you.
Start the year with plenty of messy fun!
With a network of more than 30 preschools in Singapore and China, ELFA Chinese Preschool caters to children between two months and six years old. Come find out more about its Bilingual Curriculum approach and how it encourages Chinese language acquisition at its open house happening at four centres islandwide. Children can take part in calligraphy and story-telling or get active (literally!) while learning Chinese. Parents with infants can head to ELFA Preschool @Serangoon for a special Infant Massage program and let bub unwind. Psst: there is a special promotion available for new enrollments so speak to each centre to find out more!
Repton Schoolhouse is flinging open its doors for you to explore its state-of-the-art facilities and purpose-built learning environment. Bringing a Repton education from the UK to Singapore, find out more about Repton’s unique curriculum and enrichment programmes at the upcoming open house events. RSVP and attend the open house to save up to $2,500 on fees plus gain free admission to the current Roald Dahl Adventure School Holiday Programme.
ISS International School (ISS) is passionate and committed to helping each and every student realise their potential. Head over and experience ISS learning environment at an open house for the Early Years and Elementary and Middle School Campus or the High School Campus this December.
Offering a quality education at an affordable price, go along and view OWIS in action on a Saturday school tour. Tours for Early Childhood and Primary School start at 10am, while tours for Secondary School start at 1pm.
GIIS is bringing education into the 21st century with its tech-savvy GIIS SMART campus. Take a tour of its facilities to find out how students can get the best academic and extracurricular benefit. From virtual classrooms to robotics labs and even security features like facial recognition, these tools are sure to enhance the students’ learning journey.
We recently sat down with Early and Primary Years Deputy Principal Mike Gilmour to get the lowdown on how GEMS World Academy (Singapore) builds confident learners. GEMS (Singapore) believes in developing students holistically including academics, personal values and real life skills. Learn about what GEMS (Singapore) can offer your child at its upcoming open house. Places are limited so sign up quick!
Still looking for a good camp to occupy the kids? GEMS Holiday Academy runs from December to January with a truckload of fun activities for kids aged four to 17 years. Let them pick their favourite activity from backpack filmmaking to candy coloured science experiments, all while making friends.
It’s Xmas at Little Tykes and you’re invited to join in all the festive fun! Bring kiddos aged eight months to three and a half years for sensory activities including Xmas craft-decorating, slime making, sandpit play, face painting and more. You’ll get a personalised tour of the school, learn about its Reggio-Emilia inspired learning environment and discover its one-of-kind Ocean Snoezelen room filled with endless bubbles. Enroll and receive $250 off the registration fee!
Bring your kids aged 18 months to six years and meet the leadership team of the brand new White Lodge River Valley. Get a firsthand look into a classroom at White Lodge and get to grips with the curriculum and culture.
CIS is all about making learning fun and creative. Its awesome primary school arts program offers opportunities to students of all abilities as well as extracurricular arts activities for kids who want to specialise. We got CIS’s primary school visual arts teacher, Ms. Hernie, to share with us two Christmas crafts – Santa Bowl and Photo Wreath – to keep kids busy for the holiday season. Read on for an easy peasy, step-by-step guide!