It’s hard to put into words the way I felt about Nocturnal Animals. On one hand, this is one of the creepiest, most disturbing films I have ever seen. On the other hand, it was so different that I actually liked it. Maybe I’m just a little oversensitive, but the suspense of every scene made me want to rip my skin off. The only conclusion I can draw is that writer/director Tom Ford knows how to make an emotionally confusing movie.
Since I don’t know where else to start with this one, I’ll just start from the top. From the opening scene, I knew Nocturnal Animals was going to be extremely weird. I think the opening title sequence is the most awkward and unnecessary thing that I have ever seen. Due to the extreme lack of censorship, I will not describe in detail the art exhibit that Susan Morrow (Amy Adams) was displaying. There are no words to describe how utterly unnecessary this scene was, and it didn’t have anything to do with the rest of the film.
After the opening scene, the film gets into its wacky groove when Susan’s ex-husband, Edward Sheffield (Jake Gyllenhaal), leaves a copy of his newest novel’s manuscript on her front porch. The novel serves as a twisted ode to their two decade departed relationship and the cruel way that it ended. The film starts to depict three separate timelines: Susan and Edward’s past relationship, Susan’s present, and a manifestation of the novel as Susan reads it. The film inside the film is actually very good. The novel’s apparent revenge plot is thick, juicy, and extremely suspenseful.
The novel itself is a very creepy story based on a version of Edward and Susan, Tony and Laura (who is now played by Isla Fisher to help differentiate between the stories). The story is a lens for how Edward felt following his falling out with Susan, but it’s much more twisted in this personification. Tony is faced with teaming up with cop Bobby Andes (Michael Shannon) to hunt down the perps that raped and murdered his wife and daughter. The novel forces Susan to contemplate her past with Edward and her present situation with cheating husband Hutton (Armie Hammer).
Nocturnal Animals shines in the great acting performances of Gyllenhaal, Shannon, and Aaron Taylor-Johnson, who plays perp Ray. They all do a fantastic job of portraying nutty characters and I was happy to see that Taylor-Johnson received a Golden Globe nomination for this role. I also liked that for an incredibly suspenseful film, I was still able to worry about what would happen next without the suspense ever getting old. It’s a very, very weird film, yet it somehow is still enjoyable and keeps you interested in the action of the novel.
Even after trying to put my thoughts into a review, I’m still not sure how to fully sort out my true feelings on this film. It’s one of those movies that you can dislike and love at the same time, if that makes any sense. Nocturnal Animals is not a standard film by any means. It’s a crazy revenge story that made my skin crawl with anticipation and made me feel conflicted about what the film was trying to say.
I enjoy you because of each of your effort on this website. My aunt really loves working on research and it’s really easy to understand why. I learn all concerning the powerful tactic you present helpful techniques via your web blog and strongly encourage response from people on that topic then my girl is now discovering so much. Take advantage of the remaining portion of the new year. You are performing a terrific job.
My wife and i were absolutely relieved Louis managed to carry out his basic research because of the ideas he acquired through the weblog. It’s not at all simplistic to just be handing out helpful tips which people today could have been selling. And we all see we now have the website owner to appreciate because of that. All the explanations you have made, the easy blog navigation, the friendships you aid to instill – it’s got everything awesome, and it is leading our son in addition to the family recognize that that article is fun, which is wonderfully serious. Thanks for everything!
Thanks so much for giving everyone a very brilliant chance to read critical reviews from this blog. It is always very enjoyable and also full of a great time for me and my office mates to search your website a minimum of three times in one week to read the new issues you have. And indeed, I am just always astounded with your perfect hints you give. Certain two tips on this page are truly the most suitable I have had.
I simply desired to say thanks once again. I do not know what I would have done in the absence of the type of secrets shown by you about such a industry. This has been an absolute scary condition for me personally, but looking at this skilled style you solved the issue took me to weep over gladness. I will be grateful for the assistance and as well , sincerely hope you really know what a great job you’re accomplishing instructing the rest thru your web page. I am sure you haven’t come across any of us.
I wanted to compose you this very small note so as to say thanks a lot yet again with the pleasing opinions you’ve shown on this site. It’s certainly open-handed with people like you to grant freely just what many people would’ve made available as an e-book to help with making some money for their own end, most importantly now that you might have tried it in case you desired. These points as well served like the great way to realize that other individuals have similar eagerness like my own to realize somewhat more pertaining to this matter. I believe there are numerous more pleasant sessions in the future for individuals that check out your website.
I want to convey my affection for your kindness in support of individuals who really need guidance on this important field. Your very own dedication to getting the solution all through has been unbelievably beneficial and have continually permitted professionals like me to arrive at their dreams. Your helpful key points entails a whole lot a person like me and substantially more to my peers. Thanks a lot; from everyone of us.
I happen to be writing to make you understand what a remarkable experience my daughter went through studying your web page. She came to understand too many details, which included what it is like to have an ideal teaching mood to make others quite simply comprehend a variety of extremely tough subject matter. You undoubtedly exceeded visitors’ expected results. I appreciate you for coming up with these valuable, trustworthy, informative and also easy guidance on that topic to Jane.
Thank you so much for giving everyone an exceptionally terrific opportunity to read articles and blog posts from this website. It really is very excellent and stuffed with a great time for me personally and my office mates to visit your site on the least 3 times weekly to learn the fresh guidance you will have. And definitely, I am just actually happy concerning the unbelievable tips and hints served by you. Some 4 tips in this post are easily the simplest I have had.