A lot of people living in North America don’t know much about the history of the mattress in the USA, but its invention was something that helped to dramatically prolong the lifespan of early humans. The reality is that once you start sleeping on a raised surface, you reduce your exposure to drafts, pests, and damp. Some of the earliest ones we know about constituted nothing more than a bed of leaves or straw overlayed with animal skin. There are many resources you can avail of online that can teach you more about the history of the bed. One of the main reasons you need to know about its history is so you can fully appreciate the plethora of choices the average US consumer now has to contend with when it comes to buying a new mattress for their bed.
Memory foam mattresses, for example, have started to become increasingly popular in recent decades. These types of bed toppers mold to the shape of the person sleeping on them and help to support all joints in the body. Perhaps one of the main disadvantages of earlier memory foam mattresses, however, was that they were made from synthetic materials, which promoted sweating. Nobody wants to sweat while they’re sleeping. Not only does sweat seeping into a mattress lead to an unhygienic sleeping surface, waking up in soaked PJs can be somewhat alarming and unpleasant. Fortunately, memory foam mattresses manufactures have started using more inventive materials to increase the breathability of their products and thus reduce moisture buildup.
Pillowtop hypoallergenic mattresses are also now very popular. These ones can be very expensive, so more people are opting to buy protectors to prolong the lifespan of their investments. While everyone wants a luxurious sleeping surface every night, people aren’t generally ATMs, so they have to operate within certain budget constraints. I always recommend to look at this website and save a few bucks on your purchase. Remember, coupon website are awesome resource.
In addition to the improvements in bed engineering, manufacturers have also been coming up with entirely new bed designs. Did you know that it is now possible to buy waterbeds? What’s more, if you have enough money, you can turn your waterbed into a fish tank for tropical fish. Having such a feature in your bedroom really can bring your home into the space age. Of course, it’s important to research the disadvantages of water beds. For starters, you need to think about how a puncture could compromise your home insurance. If you have any pets with sharp claws, the prospect of a waterbed is obviously unrealistic.
At the beginning of this article, we talked briefly about why the history of the bed in the USA is important, but it’s also equally important to be concerned about its future. Despite previously unimaginable advances in mattress engineering, there are still many people who suffer from back pain and disrupted sleep due to their beds. This means we all also need to focus on the future of bed technology.