YOKOHAMA, Japan – Nissan Motor Co. announced it has licensed its Around View Monitor and Moving Object Detection technology, jointly developed with Clarion Co for use by Hitachi Construction Machinery Co.
These two systems are the building blocks of autonomous driving technology that will operate commercially viable Nissan Autonomous Drive vehicles by 2020.
The Around View Monitor is a parking support system that offers the driver a bird's eye view of the vehicle's surroundings in real time using four exterior cameras.
MOD is a driving assistance technology that analyzes the images from the AVM cameras to detect moving objects around the vehicle and warn the driver with visual and audio alerts.
Since the market launch of AVM in 2007 and MOD in 2010, both firsts for any automaker, Nissan has steadily expanded its safety technology offerings, which have become a cornerstone of autonomous drive technology development.
The licensing agreement enables Hitachi Construction Machinery to provide AVM and MOD technology to its massive haul trucks and hydraulic excavators working at large open-pit mines.
When drivers start operating the vehicle, drop cargo, back up to load cargo, or when a hydraulic shovel is used in close proximity to the vehicle, the AVM-MOD technology detects any movement or workers in the area around it in real time, enabling the driver to work with greater situational awareness which enhances safety.
Nissan will contribute to the growth of technology through the application of its unique technologies and know-how for its own use as well as in a variety of fields.
Profit generated through the effective use of these intangible assets will be invested in new technology development, further contributing to Nissan's technological competence.
Autonomous Drive is being developed to help lower the element of human error during driving and contribute to a reduction in the number of accidents and injuries related to automobiles.
The licensing of this technology is an example of Nissan's intention to offer the AVM and MOD technology to other industries beyond the automotive sector.
Through the wider application of its safety technologies Nissan aims to do its part in contributing to the development of society.
March 6, 2019, 4:14 p.m.
Feb. 28, 2019, 8:34 a.m.