Euro Hostel Edinburgh Halls, Edinburgh, Scotland: Book Now!
Euro Hostel Edinburgh Halls is open from June 5th until August 30th 2015.
A £20 refundable key deposit will be charged at check-in for each set of keys issued.
Check in time is from 3pm onwards. Early check-in for 11.30am is available at a cost of £5 per room. Prior notification required.
If cancelled up to 3 days (by 3pm) before date of arrival, 12 percent of the total price of the reservation will be charged.
If cancelled later, 100 percent of the first night will be charged. In the case of no-show 100% of the total booking will be charged to a maximum of 7 days.
Please note, reservations of over 6 people must be paid in full 28 days prior to arrival or your booking will be cancelled. You will be contacted when payment is due.
Self-service laundry facilities are available and washing powder can be bought at reception. In fact, we sell all sorts of necessities at reception. From an extensive range of tours, activities and souvenirs to breakfast items and toothpaste, we’ve got it covered.
Breakfast is not included in the room fee.
We also have limited parking spaces available with an overnight charge of just 15.00 for guests. Parking must be booked with the hostel directly prior to arrival.
For 2016 we are open from June 3rd until August 29th.
If you’re bringing a car with you on your trip to Edinburgh we have limited spaces onsite priced at £15 per car, per day. These need to be booked in advance so please contact us if you would like one. Alternatively we’ve negotiated a special rate for you at the NCP at Castle Terrace. Contact us for further details.
•	Reservations for over 6 people must be paid in full 28 days prior to arrival. You will be contacted when payment is due.
•	Our apartments are spread across 4 individual apartment blocks, not all blocks have an elevator. If you require access to an elevator or a lower floor please contact the hostel directly prior to your arrival as it may not be possible to meet this request on arrival.
•	All bathroom facilities are shared, none of our rooms have en-suite facilities.
If you're looking for private accommodation why not book one of our private apartments and you'll have exclusive use of the kitchen, lounge area and bathrooms. Our largest apartments sleep 12 guests and many of our groups book more than one allowing them all to stay together in one central location. If you're travelling with a smaller group we have apartments for 3, 4 or 5 guests and if booked privately you'll only share your kitchen and bathroom with members of your own group.
Each of our apartments is made up of both single and twin private bedrooms offering you privacy if you're travelling alone but allowing you to be part of our hostel atmosphere as you can meet lots of new people in the shared lounge and kitchen - it's the best of both worlds. If you book a single or twin private bedroom you'll have the room all to yourself and share bathroom and kitchen facilities with the other guests staying in your apartment. You will also be provided with fresh linen and towels are available from reception for a small fee.
Of course, if you’re booking a single or twin bedrooms you will have the company of flat mates in the communal areas but there’s plenty of space. All bedrooms are, of course, private and fully secure.
Rates start from just £19 per person, per night.