I hope everyone enjoyed the Christmas season and is underway to a fresh start on 2016. It is my great joy and relief to board the plane soon and spend some quality time in Uganda at Kirabo Seeds. My new year’s resolutions always include leadership wisdom and discernment for the children at Kirabo Seeds. It is such an honor to be entrusted by God to raise, protect, educate and nourish in every way these precious children. I still get a knot in my throat when I imagine the life of a child who grows up without parents. We’re just trying to do what we can to lessen that pain for them.
I anticipate learning about all the fun tales and adventures the children will share about their time home for Christmas with relatives. I am always encouraged to learn about ways they stay in touch with one another during this time apart. They really love one another. Our dream of making a loving, safe home for orphaned children is realized as they spontaneously embrace one another as true siblings.
Naturally some of them returned with a “chickenpox like” rash. Yuck. One was in an advanced stage of malaria and another was just beginning to suffer the dreaded effects of that parasite. In our home we are quick to rush our children to the doctor for treatments, but with relatives they are not quite so vigilant. Thankfully everyone is recovering well and again in our excellent care.
The Camerons returned to Uganda this week, arriving safely and happily to reunite with the children. Their time in the states was not only refreshing but also provided them a refueling of desire to do God’s good work for these children and this cause. It is an honor and a pleasure to walk side by side sharing ministry with them.
This week I’ve received countless, random, unexpected bible verses from friends. When this happens I know God is preparing me for something big to do. I’m just a little woman, not much might, and very little fight left after all our struggles, but I know I serve a great and mighty God who do anything through me if I remain open to him. That’s what I plan to do.
I’ll give it my best effort to blog daily sharing life with the children and Camerons in sunny, warm Uganda. I’m hopeful that I won’t have neighbors stealing the water from my apartment tank, and that the storms at night won’t knock out power. And we hope for safety during the season of presidential elections. I trust God in all things and walk peacefully knowing his will shall be accomplished for these children through me. That’s a good feeling to rest upon any day.
Thank you Laura we have arrived safely and are preparing to greet the kids soon. This psalm is so relevant to what I will be doing here this trip thank you for sharing as I receive it from the Holy Spirit. My strength is gods alone.
Next Next post: Uganda welcomes me home.