Ohio lawmakers have passed "zero tolerance" laws related to underage drinking and driving. With Ohio being one of the strictest states in regards to this offense, it will be an uproad battle if you have been charged with an underage DUI. Because of this, knowing your options for fighting these allegations is vital.
The most efficient method of doing this is to work closely with a qualified criminal defense attorney who has the experience and legal understanding necessary to effectively represent you throughout the entire criminal process. Having adequate legal counsel has the potential to turn the tables on the prosecution and give you a much better opportunity at fighting these serous charges.
Considering the extremely punitive stance that the state of Ohio has with underage drinking and driving, not taking all the precautions available to remedy the situation will negatively affect the outcome. With this in mind, finding capable representation can make all the difference in the judgment of your case.
Brian Joslyn, of the Joslyn Law Firm, is committed to providing excellent client service while making certain that your constitutional rights are fully protected during this difficult time.
To schedule a free and confidential consultation to go over the specifics of your case, call (614) 444-1900 or send an online message today. Brian proudly represents individuals accuse of criminal acts in the central Ohio counties of Franklin, Delaware, Licking, Madison, Fairfield and Pickaway.
The person has a concentration of at least two-hundredths of one per cent but less than eight-hundredths of one per cent by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
The person has a concentration of at least three-hundredths of one per cent but less than ninety-six-thousandths of one per cent by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
The person has a concentration of at least two-hundredths of one gram but less than eight-hundredths of one gram by weight of alcohol per two hundred ten liters of the person’s breath.
The person has a concentration of at least twenty-eight one-thousandths of one gram but less than eleven-hundredths of one gram by weight of alcohol per one hundred milliliters of the person’s urine.
In simple terms, if the underage individual is pulled over and has .02 or more BAC, they will be charged with an underage DUI.
As for the penalties, an underage OVI in Ohio is classified as a misdemeanor of the first degree. If convicted, a misdemeanor of the first degree comes with a presumptive sentence of up to six months in prison and / or fines of up to $1,075. In addition, if convicted, the court may require intervention and / or alcohol treatment and education programs.
Along with these sanctions, the individual will also be issued a class five license suspension, which comes with a presumptive term of six months to three years.
If you, a loved one or a child of yours has been arrested for an underage DUI or OVI allegations in central Ohio, take the steps necessary to remedy the situation by working closely with a qualified and experienced criminal defense attorney.
The Joslyn Law Firm proudly represents those accuse of DUI-related crimes and will use its broad legal knowledge and knowledge to develop an aggressive and effective defense strategy that increases your chances of a charge reduction or complete dismissal.
Call (614) 444-1900 to schedule a free and confidential consultation to discuss the details of your case with Brian Joslyn today.