The Walt Disney Company Announces its Intention to Launch a Tender Offer for all Remaining Euro Disney Shares and a mandatory buy-out if the 95% threshold is reached.
The Walt Disney Company released a Press Statement this morning advising of Disney’s intention to purchase all the remaining shares in Euro Disney S.C.A. and support a recapitalization of up to €1.5 billion for the Euro Disney group of companies to enable the Group to continue implementation of improvements to Disneyland® Paris, reduce debt and increase liquidity.
– The Walt Disney Company (“Disney“) announces the acquisition of 90% of Kingdom Holding Company’s (“Kingdom”) interest in Euro Disney S.C.A. (“Euro Disney”), representing 9% of Euro Disney’s outstanding shares.
– The proposed transaction will increase Disney’s interest in Euro Disney to 85.7% from 76.7%.
– The price for the transaction is €2.00 per share and will be paid in shares of Disney common stock.
– Disney also announces its intention to make a cash tender offer for all remaining outstanding shares of Euro Disney at a price of €2.00 per share, representing a 67% premium to Euro Disney’s trading price at its close on February 9, 2017.
– Subsequent to the completion of the tender offer, Disney is committed to support a recapitalization of up to €1.5 billion for the Euro Disney group of companies (“Group”) to address the Group’s financial needs.
PARIS, Feb. 10, 2017 – Today The Walt Disney Company (“Disney“) announced that it will acquire through one of its subsidiaries 90% of Kingdom Holding Company’s (“Kingdom”) shares in Euro Disney S.C.A. (“Euro Disney”) at a price of €2.00 per share, increasing its interest in Euro Disney to 85.7%. Disney also announced that this subsidiary intends to make a cash tender offer for all remaining outstanding shares of Euro Disney at a price of €2.00 per share, representing a 67% premium to the trading price at the close on February 9, 2017. Moreover, Disney has informed Euro Disney that it is committed to support a recapitalization of up to €1.5 billion for the Euro Disney group of companies (“Group”) to enable the Group to continue implementation of improvements to Disneyland® Paris, reduce debt and increase liquidity.
– If Euro Disney remains a listed company, Disney would expect the recapitalization to take the form of a subscription by the applicable Disney subsidiaries of their pro-rata share of a €1.23 billion rights offering by Euro Disney together with a backstop of (and at the same price as) the rights offering by one or more of such subsidiaries, ensuring that Euro Disney will be able to raise the full amount contemplated by the rights offering, combined with a direct €270 million cash investment in equity at the level of Euro Disney Associés S.C.A., the main operating subsidiary of Euro Disney, and contribution of the proceeds of the rights offering by Euro Disney to Euro Disney Associés S.C.A. to maintain the ownership level of Euro Disney Associés S.C.A. by Euro Disney at its current 82%. Proceeds would be used to enable the Group to continue implementation of improvements to Disneyland Paris, repay most or all of the Group’s indebtedness and increase liquidity. The rights offering described above would be subject to the prior approval of Euro Disney’s shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting.
– If Euro Disney is delisted, Disney would expect the recapitalization to be in the same amount and to also consist entirely of equity contributions to the Group, but the allocation of such contributions between Euro Disney and its subsidiaries could vary compared to what is described above. The proceeds would be used for the same purposes as described above.
The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, is a leading diversified international entertainment and media enterprise with the following business segments: media networks, parks and resorts, studio entertainment, and consumer products and interactive media. Disney is a Dow 30 company and had annual revenues of $55.6 billion in its Fiscal Year 2016.
Founded in 1980, Kingdom Holding Company is a publicly traded company, which was listed on Tadawul (the Saudi Stock Exchange) in 2007. Kingdom Holding Company is one of the world’s most successful and diversified business organizations, highly respected in the field of investments and recognized as an elite player regionally and internationally.
Euro Disney S.C.A. is the holding company for Euro Disney Associés S.C.A., the primary operating company of Disneyland® Paris. Disneyland Paris is comprised of the Disneyland® Park, the Walt Disney Studios® Park, seven themed hotels with approximately 5,800 rooms (excluding approximately 2,700 additional third-party rooms located on the site), two convention centers, the Disney Village®, a dining, shopping and entertainment center, and golf courses. Euro Disney S.C.A. is also responsible for the development of the 2,230-hectare property including and surrounding Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A.’s shares are listed and traded on Euronext Paris.
This press release includes forward-looking statements, including forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the proposed tender offer, all statements regarding The Walt Disney Company’s or EDL Holding Company, LLC’s expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, dividends, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, plans and objectives of management, and statements containing the words such as “anticipate,” “approximate,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “will,” “intend,” “may,” “potential,” “upside,” and other similar expressions. Statements in this press release concerning the business outlook or future economic performance, anticipated profitability, revenues, expenses, dividends or other financial items, and product or services line growth of The Walt Disney Company or EDL Holding Company, LLC, together with other statements that are not historical facts, are forward-looking statements that are estimates reflecting the best judgment of The Walt Disney Company or EDL Holding Company, LLC based upon currently available information.
Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and stockholders and other potential investors must recognize that actual results may differ materially from The Walt Disney Company’s or EDL Holding Company, LLC’s expectations as a result of a variety of factors. Such forward-looking statements are based upon management’s current expectations and are subject to a significant business, economic and competitive risks, uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are unknown and many of which The Walt Disney Company or EDL Holding Company, LLC is unable to predict or control. Such factors may cause The Walt Disney Company’s or EDL Holding Company, LLC’s actual results, performance or plans to differ materially from any future results, performance or plans expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk factors discussed or identified in public filings that have been, or will be, made by The Walt Disney Company (or EDL Holding Company, LLC as the case may be) with the French Autorité des marchés financiers (the “AMF”) and/or the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) from time to time. The Walt Disney Company and EDL Holding Company, LLC caution investors that any forward-looking statements made by The Walt Disney Company or EDL Holding Company, LLC are not guarantees of future performance. The Walt Disney Company and EDL Holding Company, LLC disclaim any obligation to update any such factors or to announce publicly the results of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.
The documentation relating to the proposed tender offer – if filed – will include the terms and conditions of the tender offer, which will be submitted to the Autorité des marchés financiers. It is strongly recommended that investors and shareholders located in France read, when available, the documentation relating to the tender offer, as well as any amendments to those documents, as they will contain important information about The Walt Disney Company, EDL Holding Company, LLC, Euro Disney S.C.A. and the proposed transaction.
The release, publication or distribution of this press release in certain countries may be subject to legal or regulatory restrictions. Therefore, persons located in countries where this press release is released, published or distributed must inform themselves about such restrictions and comply with them. The Walt Disney Company, EDL Holding Company, LLC and Euro Disney S.C.A. disclaim any responsibility for any violation of such restrictions.
Press release announcing the intention of EDL Holding Company, LLC (the “Bidder”) to make a tender offer at €2.00 per Euro Disney share.
Filing with the AMF of the Bidder’s draft offer document.
Public posting of the Bidder’s draft offer document on the AMF’s website (http://www.amf-france.org) and on the website of Euro Disney (the “Company”) (http://corporate.disneylandparis.com).
Publication by the Company of a press release containing the main terms of the draft Offer on its website.
Filing with the AMF of the Company’s draft Response Document.
Public posting of the Company’s draft Response Document on the AMF’s website (http://www.amf-france.org) and on the Company’s website (http://corporate.disneylandparis.com).
Publication by the Company of a press release containing the main terms of its draft Response Document.
AMF’s clearance decision of the Offer, which will indicate the visa number of (i) the Offer Document and (ii)