Remember when the left went crazy over candidate Trump’s body movements while talking about a disabled liberal reporter who was unjustly trashing him?
Even though multiple videos proved then-presidential candidate Trump frequently used similar or the same body movements on many occasions while mocking people who were not disabled, the media and the Democrat Party milked the lie for months.
The media completely ignored Democrat strategist Adam Parkhomenko’s sick tweet today, where he asked his 253K+ followers to make sure a video of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY), falling onto the stage (after tripping on his partially paralyzed leg from a bout with polio at the age of 12), went viral.
According to Wikipedia, Adam Parkhomenko is a Democratic political strategist and organizer who served as National Field Director for the Democratic National Committee in 2016. He was the co-founder and executive director of Ready for Hillary, a super PAC established to persuade Hillary Clinton to run for the presidency of the United States in 2016. In the 2017 party election, Parkhomenko was a candidate for Vice Chair of the Democratic National Committee.
Earlier today, Adam Parkhomenko tweeted this video, saying that Mitch McConnell does not want to let this video get up to 1 million views. Did the GOP Senate Majority Leader tell Parkhomenko that, or is this just another case of a demented Democrat making fun of someone with a disability and hoping fellow Democrats will help him to humiliate McConnell over his disability even more?
The former DNC field director was immediately slammed for mocking a disabled person simply because he doesn’t agree with his politics.
So you enjoy picking on handicapped/disabled people?
The Senator suffered from Polio as a child, resulting in a paralyzed left leg.
You exemplify the Democrat Party. Contemptible, vindictive losers.
EducatëdHillbilly™‏ tweeted a part of Senator Mitch McConnell’s bio, explaining how his upper left leg was paralyzed after he was afflicted with polio at the age of 12.
Mindy Robertson reminded the Democrat hack about McConnell’s disability: McConnell had polio as a kid and his leg is partially paralyzed because of it, you POS. But great way to demonstrate that “moral superiority” you Dems keep thinking you have over us…..
What do you think? Should the media be calling our Parkhomenko for his disgusting behavior? Tell us what you think in the comment section below?