The eagerly anticipated Out NYC Urban Resort opened its doors to guests on March 1, 2012.
This straight-friendly urban resort is poised to become a travel and entertainment destination for New Yorkers and visitors alike. The complex, situated on 42nd Street between 10th and 11th Avenues, encompasses a 105-room boutique hotel, the 14,000 square foot XL Nightclub, Cabaret & Lounge by John Blair, Beto Sutter, and FV Events, a late-night restaurant called Kitchin, three courtyards, a business/conference center, function space, and a wellness center.
The first phase of the project was completed on January 26, 2012 with the opening of XL Nightclub, Cabaret & Lounge. XL Nightclub, Cabaret & Lounge is the newest project by noted gay nightlife impresarios John Blair and Beto Sutter, and the wunderkind party promoters Brandon Voss and Tony Fornabaio of FV Events. Blair and Sutter, famous for the legendary Saturday night party at The Roxy, helped create this new venue from the ground up. Open seven nights a week, XL Nightclub, Cabaret & Lounge is the first nightly gay dance club to open in New York City in 15 years. The space features an LED wall, two dance floors, and a full stage.
The boutique hotel features 105 rooms with an upscale, chic décor and a starting rate of approximately $250. The hotel’s restaurant, Kitchin is operated by the team behind the already-successful Hell’s Kitchen favorite, Eatery Restaurant. It offers the same style of upscale comfort food for which Eatery Restaurant is known. THE OUT NYC will host various types of function space to accommodate everything from intimate private dinners to large events and weddings. The building is centered on three courtyards and a 5,000 square foot wellness center, creating an oasis from the city just outside its doors.
Pink Choice would like to congratulate the Out NYC on its recent opening, and looks forward to receiving reviews from its guests.
Villa Venice Men’s Resort in Fort Lauderdale wishes all its friends a very Happy New Year! It looks as though everyone enjoyed the party! The resort is one of several in Fort Lauderdale that is highly rated on Pink Choice. Its guest reviews tell the whole story.
You are currently browsing the archives for the Gay Lifestyle category.