This hop starts at 9 am Pacific on December 21 and ends on December 31.
Please check the blogs that have ~ mark in front of their name first since those have been verified.
Giveaway Ends 12.31.17 and open to all who can legally enter.
Open to anyone who can accept and use an Amazon or Paypal code.
Please add BookHounds @Gmail to your address book. You can also email to verify if you have won.
I don’t know yet. I’ve got to get Christmas over with first.
I’ll probably stay at home and watch the ball drop!
I’m going to throw a small NYE get together at home. Safer that way.
We will stay home and watch movies.
I will stay home and go to bed around ten or eleven as usual.
Not sure yet what we are doing but the plan is to go to the cities and stay the night.
New Years Eve I’m reading, then going to bed early so I can run in the morning.
We usually have family over and play cards and watch the count down on TV.
I’ll be sleeping like I am every year. I get up at 12:30 every day ;).
Relaxing, watching movies, reading, and eating!! Have a great holiday and thanks for this amazing giveaway!
I’m spending a quiet New Year’s Eve at home with my family and our animals and a nice bottle of wine.
Nothing special. A quiet night in with family. Probably be asleep before ball drops.
We’re going to see a Beatles tribute band. Looking forward to it.
Staying home and watching TV.
I don’t know yet what we are doing.
Not much! Might stay up and watch the ball drop, might not.
Watch the ball drop and go to bed. Too cold to go out side.
I usually stay home with my family.
Besides reading more books, no real plans!!!
No plans, most of the time I am in bed before it happens…lol.
I don’t do much on NYE — I’ll be cozy at home.
I have a 3 year old so we do not have any plans lol! I really hope we are all sleeping at midnight!
No plans at all this year unfortunately!
No plans yet, but probably have friends over and stay home.
Partying with a few close friends.
I’m staying at home, trying to go on like it’s any other day (can’t escape the Happy New Year wishes and stuff with the family, but they keep it to a minumum at least), bc I’m not much for celebrations, they make me very uncomfortable.
My new years eve plans include staying at home!
I plan to stay in with hubby, and have a quiet evening alone.
I’ll be staying home just like any other night on NYE.
The plan is to go to the Cities and enjoy a night out.
We are spending it with our daughter and family of three little ones.
I’m staying at home and spending time with my family!
I will be staying at home with family.
Sitting at home with my husband and kids.
No plans for New Year’s Eve! We might invite my niece to spend the night.
I will be staying home this New Year with my husband and daughter. We will have a lobster dinner, then play games and watch a movie.
I usually stay home New Year’s Eve these days–I’ll probably be babysitting my grandkids.
I don’t have any plans. Part of me is wondering if we should throw a party.
We stay in and watch the ball drop in Time’s Square.
Relax, read, watch tv and eat! Have a great holiday and thanks for this giveaway!
We will be staying at home with a few close friends and family and enjoy the New Year as it comes in!!!
We usually stay in because we go out on the 29th for our wedding anniversary. This year it will be our 44th ! Love is grand!
I have no plans for New Year’s Eve, but will probably stay at home.
I am planning to stay home and celebrate with my family.
We just stay home and safe and play games..Scrabble, Yatzee and drink lots of champagne and beer!! Merry Christmas and Happy New year!
I don’t have any plans for New Year’s Eve yet.
I plan to stay home with my husband and I have to work that day.
My plans are to stay at home, read, and cuddle my puppies!
I’ll be at home with the cats, as usual and will be going to bed at my normal hour but will probably be woken up at midnight by fireworks!
We’ll be staying in and watching movies.
For New Year’s Eve I will probably be staying home and having a movie marathon!
I’m going to see George Clinton and Parliament-Funkadelic at the Moon Pie Drop!
No plans other than staying home with my family.
We’ll be hanging out with family and cousins, playing games and chatting!
WE will be home and counting down together as a family. Thank you for the wonderful giveaway!
We are just going to hang out at home.
It’s going to be really cold here so I’ll just be home with my family.
We may go out for an early dinner but will spend the night at home.
Hard to pick just one seeing I read over 200, but one that definitely caught me off guard was The Wild by K Webster. Thank you for this fabulous chance!
I’m going to a work Christmas party and then will be visiting my sister.
We are planning on staying home and enjoying some family time!
I plan to stay home with my daughter and watch the ball drop.
Staying in with movies, tv and Rum Chata in my coffee!
We will be staying home and celebrating by watching TV and entering Giveaways.
We are staying in and watching movies!
Thanks for the chance to win & HAPPY NEW YEAR!
We stay home every year. People are crazy on the roads on a normal day. There’s no way I’m going out after everyone’s been partying.
I plan on staying home and spending time with my family.
I plan on staying home.
I’ll be at home and will watch the ball drop if I can stay up.
We’ll be celebrating at home.
We will be staying home and watching the festivities on TV. We will toast the New Year, then go to bed!
We are going to a small house party.
Staying home and staying warm. We might make it till midnight!
I have to work. I am completely fine with that.
We’ll be staying in for New Year’s Eve. We’re both not feeling well, so some TV, and will be sleeping before 12:00. Happy New Year!!
My plans are to watch the ball drop with my family.
I will be going to a party at a friends house.
I will be staying home snuggled up with the family watching tv!
I am spending it with family!
Playing cards and watching movies with friends.