Pursuing a career in biology can be immensely rewarding and exciting. Studying biology teaches us to ask questions, make observations, evaluate evidence, and solve problems. Biologists learn how living things work, how they interact with one another, and how they evolve. Their work increases our understanding about the natural world in which we live and helps us address issues of personal well being and worldwide concern, such as environmental depletion, threats to human health, and maintaining viable and abundant food supplies.
Carleton University Biology graduates are continuously successful at gaining employment in industry, government, and academic sectors.
The degree program is designed to be a qualification in itself and many Carleton graduates take positions in government and industry directly upon graduation. The degree is also an entry point for various graduate (Master’s and Doctorate) programs.
Health care: Biologists in health care may develop public health campaigns to defeat illnesses such as tuberculosis, AIDS, cancer, and heart disease. Others work to prevent the spread of rare, deadly diseases, such as the now infamous Ebola virus. Veterinarians tend to sick and injured animals, and doctors, dentists, nurses, and other health care professionals maintain the general health and well being of their patients.
Primary and secondary schools: Teaching younger students requires a general knowledge of science and skill at working with different kinds of learners. High school teachers often specialize in biology and teach other courses of personal interest.
How can I prepare for a career in biology?
If you are interested in becoming a biologist, there are some things you can do along the way to prepare yourself.
Explore your university options. Deciding where to go to university and what to study can be a daunting task. Research schools of interest. Talk to your guidance counselor, as well as to admissions counselors, faculty, and current students at these schools. There are excellent programs at a wide range of institutions, from large research universities to small liberal arts universities.
Have fun! While studies are important, remember to get out and enjoy yourself as well. Participate in any extracurricular activities of interest: a school club, a science fair, a sports team, or volunteer work. You’ll learn teamwork while developing leadership and social skills, making you stand out not only as a future biologist but also as an individual.
Consider how long you want to be in school. Most life science careers require at least a bachelor’s degree and often an advanced degree, such as a master’s degree. Research jobs typically require a doctorate, which may take five or six years of intense and demanding training.
Ask your professors about part-time jobs. Many professors hire student assistants to help with library, field, and laboratory research. Not only will you earn some money and experience, but you’ll also develop a professional relationship with someone who can give you career advice and write letters of recommendation.
Find summer internships. Internships are a good way to learn about a career, make contacts, and gain experience in biology. Some internships may provide opportunities to do an original research project—a very rewarding experience that will show you how science works and get you thinking about graduate school.
Where are the best university biology programs?
Most faculty members hold PhD degrees and have active, productive research programs. The faculty is an accurate representation of the diversity of biological disciplines: botanists, evolutionary biologists, zoologists, biochemists, cell biologists, ecologists, physiologists, taxonomists, and so on. Either the biology program contains faculty members in diverse fields, or the university has several individual departments that complement each other.
Courses are taught by faculty members, not graduate students.
The institution has an active faculty advisor program and an active career advising/career development program.
The curriculum includes a variety of courses that provide a strong background in the natural and social sciences, humanities, and writing, while still allowing students to pursue their individual interests.
Well-equipped libraries with Internet access to biology journals, and easily accessible computer labs for student use.
Faculty welcome students into their research groups as part-time workers, interns, and research assistants.
Opportunities are available for undergraduates to pursue independent research projects.
There are programs and centers that suit a student’s particular interest, for example, a field station to study ecology, proximity to the coast or a marine station to study marine biology.
Read about the Carleton Advantage.
What is the job outlook for the future?
Job growth is expected in a number of areas, biotechnology and molecular biology in particular. In addition, the number of openings in federal government agencies charged with managing natural resources, such as Environment Canada and Agriculture Canada, is expected to grow. These openings will become available as many senior-level biologists and life scientists retire in the coming years.
A 2003 survey in conjunction with the Abbot and Langer Company found that biologists with less than one year experience have a starting salary of around $35,000 per year. Data from a 2003 US Bureau of Labor Statistics report show that the field of life sciences as a whole has a mean annual salary close to $55,000. As biologists gain more experience and education in their field, those in private industry may earn salaries of over $80,000, while those working in government, academia, and the nonprofit sector earn around $60,000 to $70,000. Those with over 30 years of experience have a median salary of around $103,000. Keep in mind that salaries may vary greatly depending on geographic location, job type, and experience and education.
As you can see, higher salaries are found in private research companies and government agencies, where you may have more job security, advancement opportunities, and independence in your work. While jobs in nonprofit groups or academic institutions may in general have lower salaries, many biologists find great personal reward in working for an organization that is affecting change and has an emphasis on teamwork and collaboration.
Carleton Career Services is a valuable resource to all Carleton students and alumni and will provide career exploration information, resume writing tips, interview tips, job search tools, and many other resources.