Using limited tools and materials to complete projects for my home. Also, trying to share as much as I can through Social Media such as Facebook, Google+, Instagram, Twitter and Youtube.
I made my own Table saw fence for my craftsman contractor saw. I made entirely it entirely out of wood. It locks down and stays where I put it. I first started by finding the dimensions of a biesemeyer fence and went from there. I made a video showing an overview of it on my YouTube channel, Luther ToolWorks. Here is the link to the video. I've been using it for a couple of years now. I used a vertical bed post as the main fence and other scrap wood I had in the shop to make the rest. People who have watched my video have asked for plans and a build video. I have been working on a sketch up drawing of it but since I don't see myself making another one in the near future, a build video isn't going to happen. I would point you to John Heisz. He has a website, www.ibuildit.ca as well as a YouTube channel. He built one very similar to mine and has plans with step by step instructions on how to make it. There's absolutely nothing wrong with using a good quality plywood for constructing it.
I'm not planning on doing an inlay nor round ears which is why I made a template of a Mickey coaster that I already have. I agree it would look silly with round ears. I will make a template then use a pattern bit or flush trim bit on the actual piece.
The west system is too pricy for me.
So the epoxy doesn't separate from the wood?
Where would I get an automotive pearl?
I agree with both these thoughts. Much quicker and it would be reversible where you could use both sides. Also would look cool with a black dye. A dyed epoxy would probably hide any air bubbles too. Any suggestions for a brand and type of epoxy? One that I could pick up in a store and not have to wait for it to be shipped to me?
I've also been thinking of using epoxy for the Mickey head.
I'm planning on making a set of Mickey coasters for a good friend of mine who lost his wife unexpectedly last month. She was a huge Disney and Mickey Mouse fan. The idea will be to take this design and make them out of wood. Minus the myriad number of circles on these. I have a set of these exact coasters to go off of. Last night I took a piece of paper and did a crayon rubbing of the top of it so I can transfer it to wood. My idea is to use forstner bits for the Mickey head and glue a contrasting color of wood there. The Mickey will either be a complete insert or an inlay. Probably will be easier to make a complete Mickey insert. I also plan to enlarge the Mickey head a little bit as well. I'll be looking through my wood collection/pallet wood, to see if I have something that will work to keep grain continuity throughout all six coasters. I'll either make my own shop sawn veneer or buy some. It will all depend on what I have in the shop. I'll definitely be making a template first. I might also be investing in a pattern bit for my router. I am going to try and get them done for a Christmas gift but it won't be the end of the world if I don't. I'd love to hear any kind of feedback, tips or suggestions. What kind of finish should I apply to these? He's mostly a coffee drinker and I suppose they will see some use from cold drinks that will sweat and get them wet, so will I need to put something that will hold up to any water that will get on them?