These terms and conditions, together with any additional terms, conditions, notices and disclaimers displayed elsewhere on the Equipment Coordination Professionals (ECP) Network (“Conditions”) govern your use of and access to the ECP Network.
We may change all or part of the Conditions at any time. If we do, the new Conditions will be posted on the ECP Network. Your subsequent or continued use of the ECP Network will constitute your acceptance of any changes. If you object to any changes to the Conditions, your only remedy is to immediately discontinue your use of the ECP Network.
These terms and conditions of use were last updated on 10 August 2010.
While we use reasonable endeavors to ensure that the ECP Network is available continuously, we do not make any representations or warranties that your access will be uninterrupted, timely, secure or error free. Your access to the ECP Network may be suspended without notice in the case of system failure, maintenance or repair or any reason beyond our control.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in the Conditions, we reserve the right to change or discontinue any website, feature or service (or part thereof) on the ECP Network at any time.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in the Conditions, we reserve the right to change the pricing for any chargeable service or feature on the ECP Network at any time without providing notice to you.
To access or use certain parts of the ECP Network, you may need to register as a member of the ECP Network and/or a particular website that forms part of the ECP Network. Generally, registration is free.
You must ensure the security and confidentiality of your membership details, including any username and/or password assigned to you. You are wholly responsible for all activities which occur under your membership details (including unauthorized use of your credit card). You must notify us immediately if you become aware of any unauthorized use of your membership details. You must not permit your membership details to be used by or transferred to any other person.
We reserve the right to, in our sole discretion, suspend or terminate your membership or access to all or any part of the ECP Network, including if we believe you are abusing the services in any way, have breached the Conditions or are no longer an active member.
(j) delete any attributions or legal or proprietary notices on the ECP Network.
monitor use of the ECP Network, and store or disclose any information that we collect, including in order to investigate compliance with the Conditions or for the purposes of any police investigation or governmental request.
We are not responsible for, and accept no liability with respect to, any Material uploaded, posted, transmitted or otherwise made available on the ECP Network by any person other than us. For the avoidance of doubt, we will not be taken to have uploaded, posted, transmitted or otherwise made Material available on the ECP Network simply by facilitating others to post, transmit or other make Material available. Furthermore, we do not endorse any opinion, advice or statement made by any person other than us.
If you think that the ECP Network has been accessed or used by another user in breach of the Conditions, please email us at sales@ecpsales.com. We’ll consider whether there are grounds for taking any action, but you won’t necessarily be contacted as to our decision.
In particular, if you wish to send us a copyright infringement notification, you will need to identify the Material(s) that you believe infringe(s) your copyright, identify each copyright protected work in which you own the rights and which you believe has been infringed, identify how each copyright protected work has been or is being infringed and include your contact information. You will need to sign the notice and send it to sales@ecpsales.com.
Except where expressly provided otherwise in the Conditions, you do not have any right, title or interest in or to any proprietary rights relating to the ECP Network.
The ECP Network contains Material that is protected by copyright, trade mark and other laws. Except where expressly provided otherwise in the Conditions, you may reproduce and display the Material on the ECP Network for your own personal, non-commercial use only. Except for the temporary copy held in your computer’s cache and a single permanent copy for your personal reference, the material may not otherwise be used, stored, reproduced, published, altered or transmitted in any form or by any means in whole or part without our prior written approval or the written approval of our licensor.
In particular, you may not use any Material on the ECP Network to establish, maintain or provide, or assist in establishing, maintaining or providing your own publications, Internet site or other means of distribution.
Nothing displayed on the ECP Network should be construed as granting any right of use in relation to any logo, masthead or trade mark displayed on the ECP Network without the express written consent of the relevant owner.
We may feature or display links and pointers to websites operated by third parties on the ECP Network. Such websites do not form part of the ECP Network and are not under our control. We do not accept any responsibility in connection with any such website. If you link to any such websites, you leave the ECP Network entirely at your own risk.
You must not link to the ECP Network from any other website (or otherwise authorize any other person to link from a third party website to the ECP Network) without our prior written consent.
The ECP Network may feature or display third party advertising. By featuring or displaying such advertising, we do not in any way represent that we recommend or endorse the relevant advertiser, its products or services.
If you contact a third party using functionality provided on the ECP Network, including via e-mail, we do not accept any responsibility for any communications or transactions between you and the relevant third party.
You use the ECP Network at your sole risk.
Except where expressly stated otherwise, Material on the ECP Network is provided as general information only. It is not intended as advice and must not be relied upon as such. You should make your own inquiries and take independent advice tailored to your specific circumstances prior to making any decisions.
We do not make any representation or warranty that any Material on the ECP Network will be reliable, accurate or complete, nor do we accept any responsibility arising in any way from errors or omissions.
We will not be liable for loss resulting from any action or decision by you in reliance on the Material on the ECP Network, nor any interruption, delay in operation or transmission, virus, communications failure, Internet access difficulties, or malfunction in equipment or software.
You acknowledge that we are not responsible for, and accept no liability in relation to, any other users’ use of, access to or conduct in connection with the ECP Network in any circumstance.
To the extent permitted by law, we exclude all conditions and warranties relating to your use of the ECP Network that are not expressly set out in the Conditions.
In relation to any express warranty or condition set out in the Conditions in connection with goods or services supplied or offered by us via the ECP Network, our liability to you will be limited to the amount(s) paid by you (if any) in respect of those goods or services.
In no circumstances will we be liable to you for any indirect, incidental, special and/or consequential losses or damages (including loss of profits, revenue, production, goodwill, data or opportunity) of whatever nature howsoever arising in connection with the ECP Network.
You agree to fully indemnify and hold us harmless against any expenses, costs, loss (including consequential loss) or damage that we may suffer or incur as a result of or in connection with your use of, access to or conduct in connection with the ECP Network, including any breach by you of the Conditions.
By using the ECP Network, you affirm that you are 18 years or over or otherwise possess legal parental or guardian consent.
“Conditions” means any terms, conditions, notices and disclaimers displayed elsewhere on the ECP Network.
“ECP Network” means all of the websites that we own and/or operate from time to time, regardless of how those websites are accessed by users (including via the Internet, mobile phone or any other device). “Material” means text, illustrations, photos, audio, video, any combination of these or other material.
“Us”, “we” or “our” means ECP and/or its related bodies corporate.