Bali with Kids is now distributed in various outlets of Kinokuniya and Times in Singapore, Changgi airport and Kinokuniya in Kuala Lumpur.
Sit back, press play and watch kids in action, discovering, learning, exploring and having fun in beautiful Bali.
Watch a new exciting family activity offered by Bali by Quad in Piling.
Bali with Kids is now a partner with Little Steps Asia, a fantastic website from Hong Kong. Read what activities and places they recommend if you plan to visit HK with your kids.
The Royal Bali Yacht Club is holding its annual Regatta on September 10th and 11th. Optimist, Lasers and Catamarans will be competing for 2 days in the Serangan waters. Go and support this great family friendly club.
Gusto Caffe and Gelato: probably the best ice creams in Bali! This new gelateria in Umalas will delight kids and parents alike. Try the Nutella, Croccante, Passion fruit, Fior di latte, stracciatella, kiwi, and more flavours almost every day with proper expressos for the mums. An excellent place to relax, recharge batteries and indulge yourself.
Kokoya Japanese Restaurant is hosting another Kids Party on Sunday 18th of February from 1 to 3pm. Don't miss it! Let your kids play while you have great and very affordable authentic Japanese food. Activities will include Balloon Fishing, traditional Japanese games, hula hoop competition and more. Free popcorn and gift for each child and vanilla ice creams @ only 10 000 Rps.
The Children and Youth program is offering 25 excellent and varied activities for kids of all ages from 5th – 9th October. What better way to motivate kids to read and give them an opportunity to meet journalists, writers and educationalists from all over the world ?
Activities revolve around story telling, folklore, culture, dance, theatre, painting, poetry, comics and films while teenagers can find out more about television, journalism and publishing. Embark on a journey of discovery with acclaimed children authors like Ann Bowler, Jan Reynolds, Edel Rodriguez, Debi Evans and many more.
These 2 hrs sessions are free and open to individuals or school students but booking early is essential. Many sessions are bilingual while some are conducted only in Bahasa Indonesia or English.
Contact Pak Gustra 081916556582 or email gustra@ubudwritersfestival.com to receive the program and make reservations.
Our friend and specialist writer from the popular blog « Travels with a Gourmet » reveals her favourite brunch spots for families on the island. Check them out and book your table quickly !
Vote for Bali's disadvantaged children!
Step One: Log into your Facebook, Twitter, Linkedin or Hyves.
Step Four: A Pop Up appears, Click on the Facebook, Twitter, Linkedin or Hyves logo to vote. You can vote once a day until 16 September! Thanks from Bali Kids.