Click Here: https://www.ampmpodcast.com/mastermind and Register Your Spot in the Webinar!
In this podcast, Manny Coats talks with Kevin King and discusses Amazon Private label ninja stuff.
When did and for how long Kevin King been selling in Amazon?
Kevin King shares his experience being a private label seller.
Kevin King shares some strategies when selling in Amazon.
Kevin King shares some tips in launching new products.
How does PPC affect my organic ranking?
Manny and Kevin talks about PPC strategies.
Kevin King shares his strategies when it comes to keywords.
How do I benefit from translating my product titles?
Kevin and Manny talks about “brands”.
How many units should I start with my product?
Kevin shares on how to deal with Chinese suppliers.
Kevin and Manny talks about product packaging.
How does packaging affect product sales?
What images should I put for my product?
Manny and Kevin talks about product pricing.
How should I set my product price?
00:39 MANNY: I’m here with Kevin King and he’s always doing ninja stuff. We will be discussing how to generate recurring revenue 24 hours per day during the AM and the PM. I was watching a Quentin Tarantino film of about three hours long, I was making money, how cool is that?! I did the amazing interview with Kevin King and although the quality of the audio isn’t of the best, it is worth listening to every minute.
You’re pretty successful with Amazon FBA. If you don’t mind me asking, how much are you doing in sales per month at the moment?
01:55 KEVIN: Right now we’re doing low six figures per month, and growing.
01:57 MANNY: Wow. How did you get into Amazon FBA?
02:08 KEVIN: I’ve been dealing with Amazon for years. I’m one of those guys who has an old school account – I can get the daily withdrawals; I don’t have to wait. I buy tens of dollars of stuff for myself and my business through Amazon, I’m a big customer. If I see something in the house which I want to sell, I put it up on Amazon. I’ve been dealing with Amazon for 15 years in another business of mine called Amazon Advantage which is a principle for media, books, DVD’s etc. where they actually issue purchase orders and you send your stuff in on consignment and they pay you. I’ve had a business account for 20 years so we wholesale to them on that side – It’s a little bit different to the FBA. Two or three years ago I stumbled into something online where people were doing this FBA thing – didn’t get right into it at that moment as I was busy with other business (I can kick myself today!). I started with FBA about a year ago. I had a buddy – we did a little bit of retail arbitrage just to get my feet wet a get to know the system, how Amazon ships things and how they work. I quickly realized that the work was too much in relation to the return. My buddy was a bit more enthusiastic and started with it right away. I was in the developing business for years – I saw the FBA business last year May and read up on it, listened to podcasts – I was all in. I got my first product launched at the end of July. I have 7 products right now on Amazon. I don’t count the first to as they were a test run.
06:02 MANNY: It seems like there’s a common theme with the successful people, the ones who are doing really well and that is that the first products initially just fail, they don’t do very well. It happened to me too, I just didn’t do my research well. The one product is not there anymore and the other is just not doing well.
06:28 KEVIN: I have two in the beauty category that are just like that. I followed the formula that most of the podcasters teach – many people go with this formula so when I chose the product in May last year so unfortunately there were about seven guys that had the same product. By the time I got it launched, there were about 100 of them. The product was a serum and there’s no differentiation – I tried to make the packaging different but a serum is a serum. I quickly learned to not play whatever everyone else is playing. I then chose a product that is whole different then the first two – a category newbies wouldn’t choose and I’ve been doing good ever since. They’re still a standard sixe product on Amazon but in an area where not a lot of people want to mess with.
08:13 MANNY: Are you saying that they don’t want to mess with it as the price point per unit are just higher?
08:18 KEVIN: You are still paying a buck or two to get your product and selling it for $15 and to bring it over – instead of paying a small amount for DHL or whatever service you’re using, I’m paying airfreight so it is costing me more and taking longer to come in. They’re still the standard size so you don’t pay extra to get the products in.
09:18 MANNY: I always say like a basketball player’s shoe box. I’ve been doing the same for a while and some people will come back and say that I’ve said something else in a podcast but times change, things change and you’ve got to change your strategies. Lately I’ve also been telling people to stay away from the cheap stuff. It’s hard to get the right margins for Pay Per Click. If you have something that you can sell for $30 or $40, that would be great. You’ve then got a bigger chance at success.
10:09 KEVIN: The best cost product I’ve bought was $20. I’ve sold it for $79. If I sell anything, I try to triple the cost to cover shipping cost etc. if I don’t come close to triple my cost, then I’m not interested in selling the product. A lot of people do not have the finances to start something like this up – those who are asking what they need to start it up are most probably looking to just get rich, something like a lottery ticket. Most of those people have given up and started something else.
11:11 MANNY: If you start up with just $200/500, you can’t get into the products that were mentioned. You can’t buy a $10 or $15 product with $200.
11:31 KEVIN: A lot of people only want to do this as an alternative to their regular job – to pay credit card debt, to go on vacation and that is all good. If you want to make a living out of this only, you’ve got to put some money in. I’ve invested quite a lot because one of my strategies is not to just go out and find something out of the global sources, bring it in and sell it on Amazon – half of my private label products, I develop from scratch. I’ve hired people on Upwork who made sketches for me and did all the CAD designs and another guy who alternate the sketches to see from different angles so it looks like a real product. I then do 3D printing so I can test the product out and make sure it is correct/give it to someone to test it out. I only then put the product out there. I go look at all the negative reviews and where there is a gap in the market – if someone sells the product for $10, I sell it for $40 to cover the high end of the market. My sales may be less and my BSR lower, but I’m making more money. All my products right now are between 3000 and 7000 BSR. I’ve got products making me $500 profit a day which is 7000 BSR which is after expenses, advertising costs, sponsored ads, everything. That is one of my strategies, to create these custom products and the major advantage to this is you can have higher margins and zero competition. If you search for one of my products, there are 1000 hits but 800 of those are all the same product with no differentiation. One of my products in the Sports category is not custom but I differentiated it by adding 3 other components and it’s the most expensive in its category. I also do custom packaging on all my products. There’s two reasons for that: I’ve shown my packaging in one of my listings which I’ve never had a problem with, with hi-jackers – another reason is that I look at these products for long-term retail. Amazon is a great platform to launch in, to prove you have a good product and to get feedback from customers, improve the product and then take it to retail in the big stores not only to make money but to lavage yourself to if something ever changes on Amazon, if you lose your account for some reason, you’re not just out there flapping in the wind.
16:07 MANNY: This is a lot of good information. You’re on pace to do seven figures this year. You’ve made over a million backs.
16:31 KEVIN: With the holiday season, based on last season and what I could’ve done if I was prepared during December and January, I expected this year to do $2,5M to $3M this year. I’m launching a few new products now and if I get a single or double, at least ten a day, with a $15 margin on each product, that’d be good. If I launch a new product, I’m willing to spend some money to get it going. I’m going to get reviews. Reach for the top 10 000 reviewers and find the ones that list things they love in their bio – get 10 of 15 of them and give them the product – offer the amount to them, give it to them for free and have them order it through Amazon so it go through the system. That’s a good way to get started and then use services like review check to get your reviews up to around 15 or 20. Some people say you need to wait to do Pay Per Click until you get a certain number of reviews, you don’t need to. Five reviews will be sufficient. You need to turn on pay Per Clicks and start making money instantly. The best investment is through Pay Per Click as you can buy your way to the top. I you buy a product for $20 and you sell it for $79, after all the commissions and fees, you can still afford to pay $10 per click/sale average. The way I look at my sales is: I take the product and say I’m going to spend $10 on marketing. If I sell 10 per day, it’s going to cost me $100 per day to sell those products on Amazon. If four of them were sold through sponsored ads, I’m acquiring them in my personal figures – I still calculate them as ‘losing the money’, I’m willing to break even now in a competitive space. I launched a product in December and I was spending about $600 a day to get that product launched. I was still making money and it s