BIS OS is committed to protecting your privacy and developing technology that gives you the most powerful and safe online experience. This Statement of Privacy applies to the BIS OS Web site and governs data collection and usage. By using the BIS OS website, you consent to the data practices described in this statement.
BIS OS collects personally identifiable information, such as your e-mail address, name, home or work address or telephone number. BIS OS also collects anonymous demographic information, which is not unique to you, such as your ZIP code, age, gender, preferences, interests and favorites.
There is also information about your computer hardware and software that is automatically collected by BIS OS. This information can include: your IP address, browser type, domain names, access times and referring Web site addresses. This information is used by BIS OS for the operation of the service, to maintain quality of the service, and to provide general statistics regarding use of the BIS OS Web site.
Please keep in mind that if you directly disclose personally identifiable information or personally sensitive data through BIS OS public message boards, this information may be collected and used by others. Note: BIS OS does not read any of your private online communications.
BIS OS encourages you to review the privacy statements of Web sites you choose to link to from BIS OS so that you can understand how those Web sites collect, use and share your information. BIS OS is not responsible for the privacy statements or other content on Web sites outside of the BIS OS and BIS OS family of Web sites.
BIS OS collects and uses your personal information to operate the BIS OS Web site and deliver the services you have requested. BIS OS also uses your personally identifiable information to inform you of other products or services available from BIS OS and its affiliates. BIS OS may also contact you via surveys to conduct research about your opinion of current services or of potential new services that may be offered.
BIS OS does not sell, rent or lease its customer lists to third parties. BIS OS may, from time to time, contact you on behalf of external business partners about a particular offering that may be of interest to you. In those cases, your unique personally identifiable information (e-mail, name, address, telephone number) is not transferred to the third party. In addition, BIS OS may share data with trusted partners to help us perform statistical analysis, send you email or postal mail, provide customer support, or arrange for deliveries. All such third parties are prohibited from using your personal information except to provide these services to BIS OS, and they are required to maintain the confidentiality of your information.
BIS OS does not use or disclose sensitive personal information, such as race, religion, or political affiliations, without your explicit consent.
BIS OS keeps track of the Web sites and pages our customers visit within BIS OS, in order to determine what BIS OS services are the most popular. This data is used to deliver customized content and advertising within BIS OS to customers whose behavior indicates that they are interested in a particular subject area.
BIS OS Web sites will disclose your personal information, without notice, only if required to do so by law or in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: (a) conform to the edicts of the law or comply with legal process served on BIS OS or the site; (b) protect and defend the rights or property of BIS OS; and, (c) act under exigent circumstances to protect the personal safety of users of BIS OS, or the public.
The BIS OS Web site use "cookies" to help you personalize your online experience. A cookie is a text file that is placed on your hard disk by a Web page server. Cookies cannot be used to run programs or deliver viruses to your computer. Cookies are uniquely assigned to you, and can only be read by a web server in the domain that issued the cookie to you.
One of the primary purposes of cookies is to provide a convenience feature to save you time. The purpose of a cookie is to tell the Web server that you have returned to a specific page. For example, if you personalize BIS OS pages, or register with BIS OS site or services, a cookie helps BIS OS to recall your specific information on subsequent visits. This simplifies the process of recording your personal information, such as billing addresses, shipping addresses, and so on. When you return to the same BIS OS Web site, the information you previously provided can be retrieved, so you can easily use the BIS OS features that you customized.
You have the ability to accept or decline cookies. Most Web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer. If you choose to decline cookies, you may not be able to fully experience the interactive features of the BIS OS services or Web sites you visit.
BIS OS secures your personal information from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. BIS OS secures the personally identifiable information you provide on computer servers in a controlled, secure environment, protected from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. When personal information (such as a credit card number) is transmitted to other Web sites, it is protected through the use of encryption, such as the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol.
BIS OS will occasionally update this Statement of Privacy to reflect company and customer feedback. BIS OS encourages you to periodically review this Statement to be informed of how BIS OS is protecting your information.
BIS OS welcomes your comments regarding this Statement of Privacy. If you believe that BIS OS has not adhered to this Statement, please contact BIS OS at webmaster@askbis.com. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly determine and remedy the problem.