You should not receive this vaccine if you have ever had a life-threatening allergic reaction to any vaccine containing Japanese encephalitis virus.
What is Japanese encephalitis virus vaccine (SA14-14-2)?
Japanese encephalitis is a serious disease caused by a virus. It is the leading cause of viral encephalitis (inflammation of the brain) in Asia. Encephalitis is an infection of the membrane around the brain and spinal cord. This infection often causes only mild symptoms, but prolonged swelling of the brain can cause permanent brain damage or death.
Japanese encephalitis virus is carried and spread by mosquitoes.
The Japanese encephalitis SA14-14-2 vaccine is used to help prevent this disease in adults and adolescents who are at least 17 years old.
This vaccine is recommended for people who live in or travel to areas where Japanese encephalitis is known to exist, or where an epidemic has recently occurred.
You should receive the vaccine and booster dose at least 1 week prior to your arrival in an area where you may be exposed to the virus.
Not everyone who travels to Asia needs to receive a Japanese encephalitis vaccine. Follow your doctor instructions or the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
This vaccine is also recommended for people who work in a research laboratory and may be exposed to Japanese encephalitis virus through needle-stick accidents or inhalation of viral droplets in the air.
Like any vaccine, the Japanese encephalitis SA14-14-2 vaccine may not provide protection from disease in every person.
a weak immune system caused by disease or by taking certain medicines or receiving cancer treatments.
Vaccines may be harmful to an unborn baby and generally should not be given to a pregnant woman. However, not vaccinating the mother could be more harmful to the baby if the mother becomes infected with a disease that this vaccine could prevent. Your doctor will decide whether you should receive this vaccine, especially if you have a high risk of infection with Japanese encephalitis virus.
Do not receive this vaccine without telling your doctor if you are breast-feeding a baby.
The Japanese encephalitis SA14-14-2 vaccine is given in a series of 2 shots. The shots are usually 28 days apart. Your individual booster schedule may be different from these guidelines. Follow your doctor's instructions or the schedule recommended by the health department of the state you live in.
In addition to receiving the Japanese encephalitis vaccine, use protective clothing, insect repellents, and mosquito netting around your bed to further prevent mosquito bites that could infect you with the Japanese encephalitis virus.
Becoming infected with Japanese encephalitis is much more dangerous to your health than receiving this vaccine. However, like any medicine, this vaccine can cause side effects but the risk of serious side effects is extremely low.
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; dizziness, weakness, fast heart rate; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
pain, redness, tenderness, or a hard lump where the shot was given.
What other drugs will affect Japanese encephalitis virus vaccine?
This list is not complete. Other drugs may interact with Japanese encephalitis virus vaccine, including prescription and over-the-counter medicines, vitamins, and herbal products. Not all possible interactions are listed in this medication guide.
Copyright 1996-2018 Cerner Multum, Inc. Version: 2.03. Revision date: 1/23/2014.