Oh.... and most important: a gasoline powered blender for margaritas on the trail!
Oh...thats good data DavidK. Got a store that sells that?
What control freaks there are here. Don\'t believe that post you just read!
Some type of shade outside of the vehicle-It can get too hot in a vehicle even with all the windows open. The large beach umbrellas at Costco are convenient but need a towel draped on them if you want 100% shade. I like Easy Ups.
No gas powered or hand cranked blenders needed these days, David. Bring the one from home and use the inverter.
You dont drink your margaritas en las rocas?
Some type of traction mat-some people bring a roll of old carpet, others a 6 foot piece of 2x8. Just something to get you moving if you are stuck a short ways into some sand.
If you are stuck a long ways into sand, shame on you.
Visa card...."Hey," my wife says, "it's not the old Baja anymore! What's that in the distant haze?"
Or use a browser that keeps you logged in.
\"Never argue with an idiot. People watching may not be able to tell the difference\"
\"The trouble with doing nothing is - how do I know when I\'m done?\"
A calculator, and sm. grill for heating tortillas over campfire and making hotdogs & hamburgers.
Pompano - browser is the program you use to read the forums - Internet explorer or as I use Firefox. There are a few others out there also. Mine has the option "Keep me logged in until I log out" I checked that a couple months ago and am still logged in.
I would never remember to do it each time.
Good luck - has several thinks I like - tabs - etc. A latest version came out yesterday. They update lake all the others.
Oh Ya! Need that Blend-O- Matic Folks! But.... for your added primitive camping experience, be sure to bring the outdoor furniture! Can you guess which travel chair belongs to DavidK?
Is it the Lay Z Boy?
Can I tell Baja stories from the campfire?
what about that Port O Let in the background?
Well of course it's the LazyBoy--even I knew that!
On a car key outside the vehicle - zip-tie it to the frame somewhere.
On wipes - once you start taking unscented baby wipes (available at Costco btw), you'll likely never leave home without 'em again.
Louisville slugger, glove & ball.
DAvid K. "I knewthere was something about you" Now I know what it is. Do you get your "oil" from Idaho Falls Idaho?????? I've been using it for over 15 years, and find it most useful when I get a blister from hiking in 'cheap boots & shoes"??/!!!!! Applied one day, noticeble improvement the next. Pain goes away. The water starts disappearing, etc. Love that stuff!!!!!!! And the T36C7 is how I remember it most of the time. And I never travel without it.
machete. fishing gear. extra wax.
about the zip tied key. everyone should do it. those magnetic jobs don't stand a chance. my spare is out there somewhere, so if you find it, please use it as a $75 electronic chipped paperweight.
Hi Phil, that company in Idaho Falls (Melaleuca Inc.) made the product I was introduced to... from friends in Hawaii.. They use it there to treat coral reef injuries... the surfers love the stuff. The past few years I have been buying the tea tree oil from health food stores, like Boney's or Henry's and pay 1/2 the price... and get the same results. I did like the shampoo, tooth paste, and other products containg tea tree oil, however.
"about the zip tied key. everyone should do it. those magnetic jobs don't stand a chance. "
make sure the place you zip-tie to is free of sharp edges and tight as vibration(uncommon in Baja) can eventually wear through plastic. I use a key-ring around a bolt or ??