Disclaimer: Despite checking all contents carefully, we accept no responsibility for the content of external links. Responsibility for the content of external links rests entirely with their operators.
Your personal information will be treated in strictest confidence and not shared with third-parties. Despite painstaking content controls, we accept no liability for the content of external pages to which we have created links. Sole responsibility for the content of target pages is borne by the operator thereof.
With regards to direct or indirect references to external Internet sites ("links") which are themselves outside the field of responsibility of the author, liability for illegal content will only then be assumed if the author has knowledge of the content of those sites and it is technically feasible and reasonable for the author to prevent usage of said sites. The author hereby expressly declares that, at the time links were installed on this site, no illegal content was apparent on the targeted sites. The author has absolutely no influence on the current or future design, content or copyright of the linked pages. Consequently, the author expressly distances himself from all content on said linked pages which have been altered since installation of the original link. This declaration applies to all references and links within the author's own Internet site, as well as entries made by other parties in guestbooks, discussion forums and mailing lists which were created by the author. Sole liability for illegal, erroneous or incomplete content, and particularly for damages which might by caused by use or non-use of any such information supplied, is born by the provider of the target site, and not by the provider who included a link to that particular site.
The author makes every effort in all publications to respect copyright on all graphics, audio files, video clips and texts, and to make use of self-created graphics, audio files, video clips and texts, or to avail himself of non-licensed graphics, audio files, video clips and texts. All those brand names and trademarks cited in the author's Internet platform, some of which are, on occasion, protected by third parties, are subject without restriction to applicable copyright laws and the proprietary rights of the registered owners. The conclusion should not be drawn from their mere naming, that trademarks are not protected by third-party rights! Copyrights for those objects published and created by the author himself, remain solely with the author. Duplication or use of such graphics, audio documents, video clips and texts in other electronic or print publications, is not permitted, except with the expressed permission of the author.
Insofar as the website provides the opportunity to enter personal or business information (e-mail addresses, names, addresses), the user does so on an expressly voluntary basis. The user may avail himself and/or pay for all proffered services – insofar as it is technically possibly or feasible – without having to enter such information or by providing anonymous data or a pseudonym.
This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”). Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage to the website provider.