This lesson explores the cultural and cultic mandates of the human race, and explores in more detail the idea of humankind as coregents of God. All this reveals God’s fundamental purpose in creating us is that we should look like him as a ground and consequence of fellowship with him. This basic truth of humanity is the basis of all human culture, politics, art, and worship- a co-creating with God, and bringing his creation to its most created perfection in intimate union with himself. This union is sacramentally expressed in creation in the union of man and woman as one flesh in the covenant of marriage.
​Please click here to view the video on our Facebook page.
This lesson explores the basis of all God’s other claims and titles from the human perspective: he created all things. He defines all things, establishing their limits and proper function. He orders all things to reflect his rule, fashioning created agents of his rule (to be co-rulers under him) in increasing degrees of complexity. He creates humankind most especially to reflect his sovereign glory, calling us to co-rule his creation with him by filling it and ordering it on the basis of the pattern he establishes. His rule is benevolent, his creation designed to flourish: it is very good.
God Becomes Man, Lesson 1: Why Bother With the Bible?
On Wednesday, September 13, we launched our new Wednesday night Christian Education curriculum. From now until the end of May, we will be working our way through the story of salvation in the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation. Entitled "God Becomes Man," we will discover how the Scriptures tell God's story of entering our world in Jesus Christ to reconcile all people to himself.
Lesson 1: Why Bother with the Bible?
This lesson will orient us to studying the Scriptures as narrative. The basic narrative arc will be unpacked, from Genesis to Revelation, with an emphasis on how to read the whole Christologically. In particular, the major thrust of the Old Testament will be unpacked in terms of “God becoming man” and the New in terms of “man becoming God,” with Jesus Christ as the hinge on which the narrative turns.