Are you in the midst of planning your wedding? Between the hustle and bustle of finalizing guest lists, picking out the dress, scheduling caterers and a venue, it is easy to forget that this will be one of the most memorable days of your life. This day will be filled with pictures that will last a lifetime, so you obviously want to look your best.
At The Plastic Surgery Group, we understand the pressure of wanting to look absolutely perfect for the big day, which is why we offer some different bridal services for brides-to-be to consider.
Non-surgical procedures are the most popular amongst brides because there is usually some sort of time crunch. Obviously if your wedding is only a couple weeks out, you do not want to undergo a more invasive plastic surgery procedure.
With these time constraints, we recommend a variety of nonsurgical procedures depending on the results the bride is looking to achieve. These will perfectly polish your appearance, leaving you looking better than ever for your big day.
With a quick, in-office injection of Botox, you will experience tighter, more youthful looking skin. Botox takes about 2 days for the patient to start seeing effects, and about 7-14 days for full effects to be visible. Some patients may experience slight bruising, so plan this treatment at least 1-2 weeks before the ceremony if possible for the best results. Botox is great for minimizing fine lines!
Injectable fillers have really advanced, creating incredible results with a simple in-office injection. Each filler has a unique purpose – whether it is to add some plump to the lips for that perfect wedding day pucker, or to increase volume in the cheekbones for a smoother and more youthful face.
Fillers can also be utilized to minimize the appearance of acne scars and fill deep wrinkles, all without needing a more invasive procedure. Recovery time will vary depending on the filler utilized, so discuss this with your doctor to determine a timeline.
In just 10-30 minutes, the professionals at The Plastic Surgery Group can perform laser resurfacing. This is utilized to reduce redness and/or minimize wrinkles. After laser resurfacing, some patients experience peeling skin, so it is important to allow at least a couple weeks for healing to take place.
As the bride-to-be, if you are more concerned with looking good in your dress, consider Coolsculpting. This simple, quick procedure utilizes revolutionary technology to literally freeze fat cells in a desired area, destroying them so that the patient is left with a smoother body area. There is zero recovery time necessary from this procedure, and our patients have experienced some pretty incredible results!
If you want a more dramatic makeover for your wedding day, you may want to consider a more permanent plastic surgery procedure. It should be noted that plastic surgery procedures require recovery and rest, which means wedding planning and running around will need to be put on hold. Just make sure to plan your plastic surgery far enough in advance as to not interfere with wedding planning.
Tummy tuck and liposuction procedures are common amongst brides-to-be because they provide a dramatically slimmer waistline. This is ideal for brides who are very self-conscious about their midsection, and want to show off that hourglass figure in their wedding dress.
Breast augmentation is also common, as this procedure can completely change the way a bride fills out her dress. If larger breasts are something you have been dreaming of for some time, this may be the right time to undergo the procedure and look your best by your wedding day.
Here at The Plastic Surgery Group, we want to help make your wedding day as special and memorable as we can. Contact us today to learn more about all of our nonsurgical and surgical bridal procedures and to discuss a plastic surgery timeline that will leave you looking your absolute best!