PROMAN is a leading international consulting company specialised in development cooperation. Created in 1986, PROMAN is providing services to international donor agencies, national governments, public institutions and development partners world-wide.
PROMAN has been awarded the ‘South Africa Sector Budget Support Technical Assistance’ contract. The project will provide support to the Government of South Africa, notably the National Treasury and relevant national departments, in the inception and the implementation phases of the Sector Budget Support provided by the EU. The project will start in April 2019 for a period of two years.
PROMAN (lead) in partnership with NIRAS and Particip has been selected to undertake a mapping of services for survivors of violence amongst women and children in South Africa. The specific objective of the assignment is to contribute to the implementation of the Improvement Plan by the Inter-Ministerial Technical Task Team for Violence Against Women and Children. The project will start in April 2019 for a period of 16 months.
PROMAN has been awarded the contract for the Formulation of the Programme of Support to the SADC-EU Economic Partnership Agreement in South Africa. The overall objective of the assignment is to enhance South Africa's trade and business opportunities by promoting the full implementation of the EU-SADC EPA in South Africa while advancing regional integration.
The consortium led by PROMAN has been successfully providing TA in Support of the Education Sector in Sierra Leone since February 2017. The service contract has been extended with another 2 years. The contract is now scheduled to be completed early August 2021.
AECOM International Europe in partnership with PROMAN has been awarded the contract for the assessment of the 2018 specific performance indicators under the Sector Reform Contract “Support to Police Reform”.
Since early 2015 the consortium led by Louis Berger with PROMAN as partner has been providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Social Assistance and Reinsertion (MINARS) in the framework of the Support Project for Vulnerable Groups. The contract has been extended with another 18 months, with completion now scheduled early August 2020.
PROMAN in partnership with B&S Europe has been awarded the contract for the final evaluation of the "Firkidia di skola" project and the identification and formulation of the 11th EDF education sector support programme.
The past months have been very successful. A total of 5 new long-term contracts were awarded to PROMAN as lead company (2) or partner (3) for a total value of €18.8 million. Turnover has now more than doubled over the past 5 years, and is projected at over €18 million in 2019.
PROMAN (lead) in partnership with Palladium International BV has been awarded the €2.8 million 3-year contract for the Support to the Office of the National Authorising Officer of the EDF in Zambia. PROMAN herewith confirms its position as market leader in the provision of TA to NAO structures in ACP countries. The past 5 years PROMAN has been/is supporting NAO offices in Chad, Kenya, Solomon Islands, Ethiopia, Swaziland, Zambia, Guinea, Comoros, Papua New Guinea, Namibia and Angola.
AECOM International Europe in partnership with PROMAN has been awarded the contract for the Support to the implementation of the EU-Georgia Association Agreement in the field of maritime transport.
PROMAN has been contracted by DFID to provide an independent assessment of progress against DFID’s Jordan Compact Education Programme Disbursement Linked Indicators.
PROMAN has been contracted by the Ministry of National Education, Teaching and Research of the Union of the Comoros to assess the feasibility of the proposed AFD funded project ‘Performance and Governance of the Education Sector in the Comoros” with an indicative budget of €6 million, define more precisely the purpose, content and implementation modalities of the project and provide support during the start-up phase, as appropriate.
PROMAN has been awarded the contract for consultancy services for assessors to assist in the evaluation of grant applications received in the framework of the VET TOOLBOX call for proposals on inclusion in Vocational Education and Training (VET). The call for proposals intends to fund new and innovative cooperation initiatives aiming to improve employment opportunities in the formal and informal labour market for disadvantaged and vulnerable groups (especially women, migrants and internally displaced people, people living in rural and remote areas, the poorest quintile and people with disabilities) through inclusive Vocational and Educational Training (VET). The VET Toolbox is composed by GIZ, British Council, Enabel, LuxDev and AFD, and co-funded by the EU.
AECOM International Europe in partnership with PROMAN has been selected to support the Vietnam Tourism Advisory Board to establish a Tourism Development Fund.
PROMAN has been awarded the contract for the ‘Promotion of Inclusive Education in Kyrgyzstan’. The specific objective of the assignment is (i) to develop and pilot pre-service and in-service teacher training designed to address inclusive education for children with disability; and (ii) to promote budgetary commitments enabling to address the inclusive education. The project will start in February 2019 for a duration of 20 months.
PROMAN is very pleased to announce it has been nominated implementing agency for the first phase of the Programme for the Relaunch of Economic Activities in the Region of Ménaka (DDM). The focus of the €1.5 million, one-year contract will be the realization of small infrastructures, favoring labor-intensive works in order to immediately revive economic activity in the territory; to conduct training/labour market insertion actions for young people; and to undertake feasibility studies for the construction of more substantial infrastructures and equipment to be carried out in Phase 2. This new contract further strengthens PROMAN’s important current portfolio in regional socio-economic development support programmes in the northern regions of Mali, in a difficult security context (3F, SDNM II, DDRG, DDRK IV).
PROMAN will provide social sector expertise on the team undertaking an evaluation of the Humanitarian - Development Nexus process in Mali, and providing technical expertise to relaunch the process so as to accelerate the achievement of concrete results. The TA team is co-financed by the EUD, Swiss and Luxembourg Cooperation.
We are delighted to announce that the consortium led by Cardno Emerging Markets, Belgium with PROMAN, Palladium International BV and the Spanish Association for Standardization-UNE as partners has been awarded the €8.9 million contract for the provision of technical assistance for the implementation of the ARISE Plus-Indonesia programme. The ASEAN Regional Integration Support - Indonesia Trade-Related Assistance (ARISE Plus - Indonesia) will be the first EU-funded trade related assistance programme with Indonesia that is closely linked to the ASEAN economic integration agenda. ARISE Plus-Indonesia aims to contribute to Indonesia's preparedness and enhanced competitiveness in global value chains through specific support targeting national and sub-national levels. By enhancing Indonesia's trade competitiveness and openness, the programme will promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, boost job creation and increase employment in a gender sensitive way. Furthermore, the programme provides country-level interventions closely linked to the regional programme ARISE Plus, supporting regional economic integration and trade in ASEAN. The project will start in January 2019 for a duration of 4 years.
PROMAN has been awarded the contract for the evaluation of the Inclusive Basic Education Component of Education Outcome of the Government of Mongolia and UNICEF Country Programmes 2012-2016 and 2017-2021.
PROMAN has been awarded the contract for the Evaluation of UNICEF’s Disaster Risk Reduction Programming in Education in East Asia and the Pacific.
The consortium led by Linpico with PROMAN and Quarein as partners has been awarded the €2 million contract for the provision of long-term technical assistance services and training for the offices of the EDF NAO in the Republic of Angola. PROMAN currently implements similar TA to NAO projects in Comoros, Guinea, Swaziland, Zambia, Papua New Guinea and Namibia.
The consortium led by Integration with PROMAN and Oxford Policy Management as partners has been awarded the 5-year €3.6 million contract for the provision of long-term technical assistance to the National Authorising Officer (NAO) / National Planning Commission (NPC) Support Programme. PROMAN currently implements similar TA to NAO projects in Comoros, Guinea, Swaziland, Zambia and Papua New Guinea.
PROMAN has been awarded the contract ‘Monitoring, assessment and support to EU and other donors-funded Education and complementary programs implemented by the Ministry of Education to deal with the Syria refugee crisis’. The overall period of implementation will be one year.
The 3-year "Three Borders" (3F) program, with an indicative budget of €33.5 million aims to stabilize the border region of Mali, Niger and Burkina Faso. The programme will support socio-economic development and strengthen social cohesion in cross-border territories. PROMAN has been solicited to support AVSF to undertake a first set of priority activities during the 6-month start-up phase in the region of Gao.
PROMAN has been selected by UNICEF to undertake a meta-analysis of existing research to create a region-specific evidence base on the most effective strategies for improving learning among the most marginalized children in East Asia and Pacific based on existing scientific evidence from the region. Geographically the literature review can consider evidence from the 25 countries in EAP: Cambodia, China, Cook Islands, Fiji, Indonesia, D