If a given year has more named storms than the name-list has names, how are additional storms named?
they are assigned names using the Greek alphabet.
If there is a tropical cyclone moving across the open Atlantic and the hurricane hunter finds it to have a maximum sustained wind of 133 mph, what classification would the National Hurricane Center assign to this tropical storm?
The trade winds are one of the wind belts that help form and steer hurricanes. In what direction do they typically blow?
Does air in the eye of the hurricane ascend or descend?
Which of the following is an incorrect statement about Figure 24.10 on page 450?
the air temperature in the center of the hurricane is cold compared to its surroundings.
Many hurricanes start near the west coast of Africa and move across the open Atlantic Ocean. What do meteorologists call the "trigger mechanism" for these types of hurricanes?
It is September 10th and a tropical cyclone has reached tropical storm strength over the open Atlantic Ocean. Hurricane forecasters however, are not forecasting that this tropical storm will become a hurricane. Why not?
The sea surface temperatures (SSTs) are 78F.
If a hurricane were centered in the middle of the Gulf of Mexico and it was heading directly to the north, on which side of the hurricane would you expect the fastest winds and greatest storm surge?
Which of the following destructive forces is made worse by a high tide?
Which of the following hurricane destructive forces is the most deadly?
What is the nickname of the Air Force C-130 hurricane hunter?
If sea surface temperatures are forecast to increase over the next 100 years, how will hurricane strength respond to this increase in SST?
According to the text book, if hurricane conditions are expected within 24 hours, which type of public advisory is posted?
The Palmer Drought Severity Index is used to rank the strength of a drought. When drought conditions are present over an area, are the PDSI values positive or negative?
What type of "pressure system" is typically associated with drought conditions in the Midwest and central parts of the US?
True or False: There is no formal definition for "drought".
During which decade was the "Dust Bowl"?
According to the journal "Weatherwise", where does the Dust Bowl rank with respect to the 20th century's worst weather catastrophes?
Where does flooding rank with respect to weather-related property damage in the US?
If a flood is called a 100-year flood, what does this mean?
A flood of this magnitude has a 1 in 100 chance of happening in any year.
In which month are flash floods most common and why?
What do meteorologists call it when t-storms follow one another along a stationary front, where storms pass over the same location repeatedly?
Which river in the northern US floods almost every year due to ice jams and snow melt?
In which Ocean does the weather event "El Nino" take place.
In which general direction to the trade winds blow?
Which of the following accurately describes upwelling?
the rising of colder water from deeper levels to the surface.
Are there more or less hurricanes in the Atlantic Ocean during an El Nino?
During the winter of 2010-11 and 2011-12, the Southern Oscillation Index was positive. Does this indicate El Nino conditions or La Nina conditions?
where are the most destructive winds on a hurricane?