There are a lot of amazing benefits of avocado. Avocado is used in many ways including foods, cooking oil and cosmetics. Avocado has a lot of vitamins and mineral such as calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, sodium, etc. Besides, avocado is rich in fiber but less in sugar and starch. Monounsaturated fatty acids contained in avocado also help to control the metabolism in the body. So what are amazing benefits of avocado? Today, I’ll share you with the amazing benefits of avocado to our health.
One of benefits of avocado is to prevent cancers. Avocado contains important vegetable compounds which is supportive in cancer prevention. Furthermore, antioxidants in avocado like glutathione, vitamin C and E, and carotenoids may prevent oral (mouth) cancer, skin and prostate cancer.
Another benefits of avocado is to help you lose your weight. With protein and fiber, avocado helps to manage the hunger and make you feel full for a long time. Unsaturated fats in avocado have effect on balancing calorie in the body.
Contents of the nutrients which are good for health such as omega-3, carotenoids and vitamins have effects on treating and preventing inflammation in the body. Many studies showed that essential oil extracted from avocado and soya beans may reduce inflammation as well as osteoarthritis.
Many researchers found that vitamin E in avocado may reduce the risk of coronary heart disease up to 30 – 40 percents. Also, unsaturated fats including monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) may lower blood cholesterol level to avoid cardiovascular diseases.
Amazing benefits of avocado also impress in eye protection. Content of monounsaturated fatty acids in avocado may reduce the risk of macular degeneration and cataract. Additionally, antioxidants like lutein and zeaxanthin have effects on protecting the eyes by improving the absorption of carotenoids.
Avocado is not only used for healthy, but also for beauty. Let’s figure out some of remarkable benefits of avocado’s contents in improving the skin.
Fatty acid: maintain the moisture of the skin and make it smoother.
Vitamin E: remove free radicals which can inhibit the cells; therefore, it slows down aging process. Vitamin E can also support in healing the bruises.
Vitamin C: increase collagen production and elasticity of the skin.
Vitamin A: boost collagen production, remove dead skin and keep the skin cells healthy.
Vitamin B: reduce damage caused by free radicals, make skin fresh and glory.
Potassium and phosphorus: make hair and skin healthy.
Vitamin D: maintain calcium level which is good for bones and teeth.
Avocado is rich in potassium but less in sodium so that it may help to balance electrolytes and blood pressure in the body. Some studies showed that good fats contained in avocado also have a key role in lowering blood pressure; however, those who suffer from high blood pressure (hypertensive patients) should strictly follow their doctor’s advice if it is alright to consume avocado.
Although avocado brings a lot of advantages to our health, too much consumption is bad. There are some notices while consuming avocado.
Cause an allergy: Some people who are too sensitive, avocado may cause nettle rash (hives), or redness, or nausea, digestive problems, etc.
Harm your liver: Some studies found that estragole and anethole may hurt the liver. People who have problems with liver should avoid this fruit. In case you really love to try avocado, you had better get consultancy from your doctor.
Gain weight: If you consume avocado in limit amount, it can help you control the weight. In case of consuming much, avocado may make you gain weight.
Reduce good cholesterol: When there is an overconsumption, beta-sitosterol in avocado may absorb good cholesterol in the body that will harm the health.
Impact on people having latex allergy: Some of proteins in latex that cause latex allergy contain in avocado. Latex can increase IgE antibodies in serum, so those people with latex allergy should avoid this fruit.
Influence pregnant and nursing mother: When pregnant women eat avocado, amount of milk may reduced and mammary gland gets pain. Nursing mother consuming too much avocado may cause a stomachache to her baby.
Affect to some medicines: Avocado is good in anti-inflammation but it can influence in efficiency of medicines. If you are taking blood thinners, you should ask your doctor for advice before eating avocado.
In short, avocado is really helpful to the health if we wisely consume it in a limit. Do not forget to have advice from your doctor (for those who are under treatment process or having particular problems) before you eat this fruit.
Addition to health benefits, avocado is also used in beauty care. You can check some face masks here to make your skin more glorious.
Thank you for spending your time on reading my blog. I hope you can pick up some useful information from my page. Should you have any concerns or opinions, or disagreements, please do not hesitate to have a discussion.