When you provide information to us via this website we will store this data and hold it on a computer and/or in hard copy form. We will use this data to provide you with the services for which you have registered with us and for the purposes described in this statement including, where relevant, marketing, administration, development and improvement of this website.
When you visit our website localhost/allied we collect standard internet log information and details of visitor behaviours. This is statistical data only which we collect in order to find out the numbers of visitors to the site and the pages visited. The information is collected in such a way that does not identify individuals and we do not make any attempts to identify visitors this way.
Where we do collect personal information on the site, this will be made obvious to you through the relevant pages.
A cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor’s computer, and that the visitor’s browser provides to the website each time the visitor returns. This helps us to distinguish you from other visitors to our web site. The following lists the cookies used on this web site.
Google Analytics – these cookies help tell us understand how many people have been to the site before, what time people visited the site and what pages were looked at.
Information that you provide, or that is obtained by us as a result of your use of this website, will be used by us for assessment and analysis to enable us to review, develop and improve the website and the services we offer. It will also enable us to provide you (by email, fax, telephone, post or text message (e.g. SMS)) with information which we think may be relevant and of interest to you where you have consented to being contacted for such purposes.
We will take all reasonable steps to protect your personal information but we cannot guarantee the security of any data you disclose online. Once we have received your information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access. However, you accept the inherent security risks of providing information and dealing online and agree that any transmission of personal information is at your own risk.
Please be aware that our site may link to other websites which may be accessed through our site. If you follow a link to any of these websites, please note that they will have their own privacy policies. OGS / Allied London are not responsible or liable for the privacy policies or the content of these websites.