We hope you had a wonderful Easter Sunday filled with family, love and lots of goodies in your basket!
Emerald Cut Eternity Band with a larger look but have a lower price (for price call 713-789-3359)! These super long stones are J color but they still face up white.
After our deep cleaning, your ring will sparkle and shine like the day you got it. Package Includes Diamond Tightening, Detail Cleaning, Prong Tightening & Full Polish!
The KELSEY style: ER5822W44JJ by Gabriel & Co. has the same stunning emerald cut as Jennifer Lopez’s new engagement ring!
Comment which Simon G. Engagement ring is your favorite!
Badass more badass and uh dats badass too. 1,2,3.
This is a classic emerald cut diamond eternity band/wedding band. Made with the best cut emerald cuts on the market it is set in a platinum setting with a shared prong. Each diamond measures 1 carat each for over 14 carats total weight.
We also carry a variety of shapes including, oval cut, asscher cut, princess cut, radiant cut and fancy yellow colors. Our wedding bands range from 3 carats total weight to 15 carats total weight with a choice of all colors and clarities, gia certified.
How much is this band? What clarity and color are the diamonds?
Select Jewelers, LLC is in Houston, Texas.
Reignite your love, reawaken the feeling, and relive the moment this Valentine's Day with two-tone Renewal (Remount) engagement rings from the Gabriel & Co. Renewal Bridal collection.
Plan a romantic Valentine’s day with dinner for two, a movie and Gabriel & Co. jewelry for an special evening she will never forget and jewelry she will always cherish.
Enjoy spirits and light bites as you browse through top-selling Valentine’s Day gifts her him, her and kids at our Valentine Happy Hearts Happy Hour Event on Tuesday, February 12th from 4:00 – 8:00 PM.
Men come in and let our expert staff help you pick a gift that will leave her in wow.
Ladies come in to create your Valentine Wish List!
You may even win a prize from our Candy Jar Guessing game!
Please Call 713.789.3359 to RSVP you and your Valentine!