Oracle ILOM CLI shell (default) – The Oracle ILOM shell provides access to Oracle ILOM's features and functions through a CLI.
Oracle ILOM web interface – The Oracle ILOM web interface supports the same set of features and functions as the shell.
Note - Unless indicated otherwise, all examples of interaction with the SP are depicted with Oracle ILOM shell commands.
Note - The CLI includes a feature that enables you to access Oracle Solaris fault manager commands, such as fmadm, fmdump, and fmstat, from within the Oracle ILOM shell. This feature is referred to as the Oracle ILOM faultmgmt shell. For more information about the Oracle Solaris fault manager commands, refer to Server Administration and the Oracle Solaris documentation.
You can log into multiple SP accounts simultaneously and have separate Oracle ILOM shell commands executing concurrently under each account.
SER MGT – Connect a terminal device (such as an ASCII terminal or laptop with terminal emulation) to the serial management port.
Set up your terminal device for 9600 baud, 8 bit, no parity, 1 stop bit and no handshaking. Use a null-modem configuration (transmit and receive signals crossed over to enable DTE-to-DTE communication). The crossover adapters supplied with the server provide a null-modem configuration.
NET MGT – Connect this port to an Ethernet network. This port requires an IP address. By default, the port is configured for DHCP, or you can assign an IP address.
Decide which interface to use, the Oracle ILOM CLI or the Oracle ILOM web interface.
Open an SSH session and connect to the SP by specifying its IP address.
The Oracle ILOM default username is root, and the default password is changeme.
Copyright (c) 2010 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Note - To provide optimum server security, change the default server password.
The Oracle ILOM prompt (->) indicates that you are accessing the SP with the Oracle ILOM CLI.
Perform Oracle ILOM commands that provide the diagnostic information you need.
show command – Displays information about individual FRUs. See Display FRU Information (show Command).
show faulty command – Displays environmental, POST-detected, and PSH-detected faults. See Check for Faults (show faulty Command).
Note - You can use fmadm faulty in the faultmgmt shell as an alternative to the show faulty command. See Check for Faults (fmadm faulty Command).
clear_fault_action property of the set command – Manually clears PSH-detected faults. See Clear Faults (clear_fault_action Property).