​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ ​​​The School Health and Nutrition webinar series provides monthly presentations by leading policy makers, researchers and implementators engaged in improving the health and education of children in low and middle income countries across the globe.
The webinars cover all areas of school health and nutrition with speakers draw from organisations engaged in furthering the aims and objectives of the FRESH movement. ​​ This series builds on the SHN Webinar series by Save the Children which began in 2011 and over the past 5 years has brought speakers from the SHN sector of many organizations, including policy makers, researchers and practitioners.
​Why is eye health promotion in schools important? What are its components?
El Salvador's health program that promotes healthy lifestyles focusing on nutrition, physical and emotional health.
Connell DB, Turner RR, Mason EF. (1985) Summary of findings of the School Health Education Evaluation: health promotion effectiveness, implementation, and costs, J Sch Health. 1985 Oct;55(8):316-21.
​This session explores the pitfalls relating to the very wide scope of the social role of schooling as well as in the various methods/entry points and the practical realities and capacities of school systems in different contexts (low resource, high resource and conflict/disaster-affected)?
​What is the WHO's strategy for Health Promoting Schools and how is that linked with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the WHO's 13th General Programme of Work? What learnings do the School for Health in Europe Network provide to fill gaps between policy and practice in high and low resource settings? What are the next steps for a renewed Health Promoting Schools Approach?
This webinar presents the results of a pilot feasibility study and follow-up trial from Kisumu, Western Kenya, testing the value of providing menstrual cups to school girls. It outlines the effects and the costs of menstrual-specific intervetions versus broader initiatives have on adolescent girls’ sexual and reproductive health; school enrolment, retention, and attainment.
The webinar highlights the new tools are under development to assess the outcomes of menstrual health programming on girls' related self-efficacy, stress, and school participation.
Oral diseases are among the most common diseases worldwide, particularly for school-age children and adolescents. They pose significant public health problems for all countries and entail substantial health, social, and economic impacts.
Caroline Hilari, Margarita Franco: What is Needed to Improve Food Sales in Schools? Food Vendors’ Opinion from El Salvador, Frontiers in Public Health. 2015; 3: 168​.
World Health Organization, 2011. Intermittent iron supplementation in school and school-age children.
World Health Organization, 2010. Set of recommendations on the marketing of foods and non-alcoholic beverages to children.
World Food Programme Website on School meals.
How do you ensure different sources of food and nutrition in schools?
This webinar focuses on how mental health programmes and teacher training can be delivered and sustained in low resource countries.
Dr Kutcher's presented recent findings of a review of relevant research, reports and resources on school mental health in low resource countries. The webinar touched on how mental health programmes and teacher training can be delivered in low resource settings.
​The positive and negative aspects of mental health relevant to low resource settings.
Accessing the skills, information and resources to provide basic adolescent mental health services.
The School Heath Integrated Programming (SHIP) initiative is a global programme that tsupports governments to mainstream school health and nutrition interventions into national education sector plans. The initiative is focused on two cornerstones of school health and nutrition: deworming and vision screening. These two simple interventions can be used as a platform for other interventions.
As part of the programme the initiative worked with governments in Cambodia, Ethiopia, Ghana and Senegal, to distribute treatments for intestinal worms and screen the eyes of 40,000 school children, giving glasses to those who need them.
Health Promoting School: an effective approach for early action on NCD risk factors. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2017.
Following up on the recent publication of a UNODC-UNESCO-WHO guidance document, this session will review and discuss the research and practice on programs preventing substance abuse, including alcohol and tobacco.
This webinar will be interactive, with remarks from several experts and practitioners, leading into a discussion among all attendees. Different aspects, effective strategies and challenges will be discussed.
A series of findings from a recent review of research, reports and resources relevant to low resource countries, presented in the form of a mini-Delphi consultation, will be circulated and discussed as a backdrop and eventual product of the session and follow-up​.
Stefan Witek-McManus, London Applied & Spatial Epidemiology Research Group, LSHTM.
Stefan Witek-McManus, highlights the results of study into the impact of Learner Treatment Kit (LTK)in schools in Malawi. This innovative study looked at the effectiveness of training teachers to use LTKs - simple first-aid kits containing malaria rapid diagnostic tests and artemisinin-based combination therapy, to manage un​complicated malaria and other basic health problems experienced by primary school children.
To mark this year's International School Meals Day the FRESH webinar will be focusing on the impact that the McGovern–Dole International Food for Education Projects is having on the education, child development and food security of low-income, food-deficit communities of Guatemala.
Jenelle Babb, UNESCO; Julie Hanson Swanson, USAID; & Hassan Muluusi, Raising Voices, Uganda.
​This webinar will explore tools and approaches for preventing, measuring, monitoring and responding to school-related gender-based violence (SRGBV), based on evidence and country experiences.
SRGBV affects millions of children and young people, cutting across cultures, economies, peoples and practices. It constitutes a major barrier to children’s ability to learn and develop, and is correlated with lower academic achievement.
Ending school-related gender-based violence is a priority for countries wishing to achieve ambitious global goals on inclusive and quality education for all, good health and well-being and gender equality.
This webinar discusses the role of education sector in contributing to the prevention of drug use and other risky behaviours, and introduce the types of school based approaches found effective for preventing l​​ater su​bstance​ use.
Dr Aurino discusses the initial findings of a large scale impact evaluation of the Ghana School Feeding Programme on the health and educational outcomes of children and the incomes of local small holder farmers.
Rachel Pullan discusses the importance of mapping worm prevalence as a means to design and target effective school based deworming programmes.
Laura's webinar presents initial research findings from the Enhanced School Health Initiative, an innovative collaboration with the Government of Ethiopia to assess the effectiveness of integrating multiple school health and nutrition programmes in Southern Ethiopia.