I like the south. It makes me happy when I call to reschedule a doctor's appointment here and the receptionist isn't mean to me. I like shopping at Publix where I'm offered a sample of whatever cheese and cold cuts I'm buying at the deli. They also give Dean a free cookie if he wants one. (He usually doesn't.) I like football season here, too. Everyone wears their team colors with pride and participates in (usually) friendly razzing of the other team. I like that my students automatically call me Mrs. Lane (or mistakenly, Dr. Lane) out of respect for my position, even though I've told them they can call me Jen. I like that people eat the way I like to eat and that every restaurant in town serves sweet tea.
I like New York, too. I miss seeing the autumn foliage up there, especially upstate. I like the energy of the city and the fact that you can find any type of food you want any time of day. I like walking down the street and hearing 8 different languages. I like the knowledge that when I step off the plane there for BlogHer next August, I'll feel like I'm home, even though I will have been gone for over 2 years.
I like organizing things. Even though the auditions I'm currently coordinating are making me want to pull my hair out on a daily basis, I like being in charge of them. I'm enjoying organizing my friend Meredith's baby shower for next month. I have lists all over my house. Some contain menus, others supplies I need to pick up next time I'm near Staples. I like the method to my madness.
I like to cook. I LOVE that it's fall and I can employ my crockpot full-time again with things like chili, chicken tortilla soup and pork roasts. When I'm stressed, I cook, especially when I have a project on hold. When I"m waiting for someone to complete their part of a project, I tend to feel antsy and helpless. Cooking gives me almost instant gratification. I can prepare a meal, serve it and eat it in a realatively short amount of time and it gives me a great sense of satisfaction. This, friends, is why my child is so well-fed.
I like to count my blessings as often as I can so I don't lose perspective. This week is all about perspective. Now that I've taken a step back, things look pretty good.
We like you too "Dr" Lane!! And the reminder for thankfulness...did you know it's our Thanksgiving this weekend? Your post was very fitting for us Canadians!
ps - I'm jealous that you've lived in NYC (I <3 NY) and get to go back there next summer.
Perspective is a very good thing. I love living in the south, but I hate MRS. I don't know why I have such an aversion to that...could be because my mother in law still addresses my birthday card to MRS. Mr. P.
I am glad you can find things you like in any place. I do love small towns for the ease of life, but big cities have things that are great too!