Just thought we should maybe have a business and marketing forum. Why re-invent the wheel, if something has worked for you why not share it? One thing that we as pro photographers must strive for is being more professional.
"Ah, but.." you say "we are in competition witheach other"
If you look at it we are not really in competition with each other. Even 2 wedding photographers may not necessarily be in competition because they use different styles. They could help each other with marketing and business tips and even refer clients to each other if they knew the others' style was what the client needed.
Lets help each other build our businesses and make us more professional.
"Judge art not by what others say, but how it makes you feel"
Do you think I should change the title of "Selling Your Photography" to "Business and Marketing"?
You know, I visited this forum and even posted in a thread and idn't realise it was a business thread - thought it was about selling prints more than business, my mistake but could be made by more people. Might be a good idea to change it.
Just hope it doesn't turn out to be like dpreview's pro forum - so much off topic stuff and amateurs asking about the best P&S etc.. Splitting the topics up like you have will more or less take care of it.
I'll take your suggestion into consideration. Feel free to remind me.
Would it hurt to have a business forum and a Selling your prints forum?
There is a big need for a stock photography forum. Never took off in DP review. Could be a very big section. Lots of people are interested in this field.
Right now I have a Selling Your Photography forum and a Your Work on the Web forum. How do you see Selling Your Prints differntiated from the Your Work forum? Suggestions welcome. Same with Business forum. Guess what I'm asking for is a little more hand-holding concrete suggestions. My feeling is: if it's useful to members, I'll seriously consider it.
I think the titles confuse people.
I thought the your work forum was for getting your web site out there. Not so much getting your business out there.
Correct on the Work forum. How would Selling Your Prints be different from Selling Your Photography?
I'm getting tired, so forgive me if I'm dense at this point.
Done. Will be interested to learn more about this myself.