Ether Capital is a Multi-cryptocurrency Private Portfolio launched the 3rd May of 2016 by Bochsler Finance (BF) with a full two-year track record.
To achieve its investment goals, Ether Capital typically invested at least 80% of its total net assets in large market cap high-yielding cryptocurrencies and initial coin offerings (ICO) of projects which have been approved by Bochsler Finance’s team of experts. Additionally, Ether Capital rebalanced its portfolio on a daily basis to optimize return on investment. This rebalancing effectively guaranteed that we buy low and sell high taking advantage of the volatility in these markets. While the waters of cryptocurrency can be quite turbulent, experience teaches us that–with the right steering and asset diversification–the rewards can be great.
The key risk for the fund is the systemic risk that comes with its full exposure to the cryptocurrency markets – sometimes large systemic downturns cannot be avoided. In such situations, patience is rewarded.
Ether Capital does all the work to get you safely invested in cryptocurrencies.
Growing rate of adoption. Proven as an alternative store of value.
Great portfolio diversification strategy. Hedge against traditional financial markets.
With practical applications, the value rises significantly due to the disruptive nature of the blockchain technology.
For example, without a bank, how would people send money to each other?
Blockchains are a new and disruptive technology that enables financial transactions and the creation of decentralized applications in a “trustless” environment that is censorship resistant and hacker-proof. Because of these properties, it is reshaping the world of finance, and soon it will reshape governance, the internet-of-things, and potentially many other sectors. In short, it is bleeding edge technology and a hotbed for entrepreneurial innovation which aims to disrupt markets that are measured on the order of trillions of dollars. It is THE investment opportunity of the century, and we can add it to your portfolio.