Cosmetic surgery has become increasingly popular in the UK over the last ten years. Social media and cosmetically-enhanced reality TV stars, on shows such as Made in Chelsea and The Only Way is Essex, have undoubtedly played a key part in influencing this trend.
Cosmetic surgery is “the choice to undergo an operation, or invasive medical procedure, to alter one’s physical appearance for aesthetic rather than medical reason” – according to the Royal College of Surgeons.
Gone is the hiding of the shame of enhancements, like generations before. Now, a new group of cosmetic surgery patients are developing, with botox parties becoming a social norm.
In 2015 the UK market for cosmetic procedures was estimated to be worth as much as £3.6bn and is anticipated to have risen sharply since.
For ladies, the most popular cosmetic surgery procedure is breast augmentation – accounting for around 30% of procedures performed. Other popular choices include blepharoplasty (eyelid surgery), breast reduction, neck and face lift, liposuction, abdominoplasty (tummy tuck) and rhinoplasty (nose job).
For men, facial surgery, and brow and eyelid lifts are the most common procedures performed.
The multi-million pound cosmetic industry, though, is one of the least regulated.
Reputable cosmetic and plastic surgeons often work in the public and private sectors, with many belonging to professional organisations, such as the British Association of Aesthetic Plastic Surgeons (BAAPS). Here, all members belong to the Specialist Register of Plastic Surgeons, maintained by the General Medical Council (GMC).
There are also practitioners in the field with no formal training or certification, and this is causing serious concern.
Negligent surgery or treatment performed without the necessary care or skill can result in physical or psychological damage and have a devastating effect. As a result, you may require further surgery or treatment, or you may be left with permanent scarring, causing cosmetic disfigurement.
If you are unhappy with the service provided, or you have suffered from ongoing pain and problems since your cosmetic surgery, you may have a case for Medical Negligence.
Our nationally recognised expert solicitors at Osborne Morris & Morgan are only too aware of the serious effects of cosmetic surgery errors and are committed to helping those who have suffered as a result of poor treatment.
To arrange a free initial consultation with one of our Medical Negligence specialist solicitors, please call us on 01525 378177 or contact us online.