Worldpay was owned by Royal Bank of Scotland. Bain Capital and Advent International bought a majority stake.
In late 2013 they took full ownership, valuing the company at over £2 billion.
This new ownership has lit a fire under the organisation who has now stepped up it’s operation, with a new focus and a newly energised management team.
Because Worldpay operate on such a large scale it was important from the beginning to develop a core idea which would tell their whole story through their branding. Yes they process transactions and provide payment solutions, but what they really do is connect people. They enable buyers and sellers to interact with one another from anywhere in the world, seamlessly and with ease.
An exhaustive set of iconography enables the brand to transcend language across the 40+ countries they operate in.
Of course, there’s a new logo, inspired by the data trails made by money as they travel around the planet seamlessly.
Brand work for the new London HQ, including new systems for navigating almost 100,000 square feet of offices in the Foster + Partners designed Wallbrook Building in the City of London.
The move to Wallbrook brings together five offices to one central state of the art London hub. We worked with the TSK group on the interior design to bring the brand world into the space without it becoming repetitive badging.
This is what the old Worldpay website looked like.
We worked for over a year to create a strategic approach to the newly invigorated brand analysing and redesigning hundreds of touch points. Everything from how the brand speaks to people, the imagery it uses, iconography it employs, to installations in the new and existing offices have been created by SomeOne.
SomeOne elsewhere on Identity Designed: Wright Brothers, Big Eyes, Resonate.
More work on the SomeOne website.
Overall very nice. I agree with Naill that the 2d logo is a tad bit awkward. I would bet at a smaller scale and in print it is looks quite elegant, but this large scale isn’t doing it any favors.
I think the tone and esthetic quality of the type and symbols is very appropriate. It reminds me of the animated videos—which were keyed to Gershwin’s Rhapsody in Blue—that they would play preflight in United Airlines airplanes. I think that same grand, busy, and connected world tone is resonating here.
While the loxodrome and wordmark are a big improvement on the previous design, I think there’s a disconnect between the logo and the custom alphabet and icons.
I find the logo to be a bit forgettable although the loxodrome is really well done, but the alphabet and icons are truly lovely. The write-up edges close to hyperbole in places, and I don’t find the website to be particularly radical, but it is a finance company after all.
Having said that, the whole thing – website, packaging, stationery, etc – is lovely (mainly thanks to that gorgeous bespoke type).