Up to an inch of snow is likely on the Eastern Shore and up into Sussex County Friday afternoon.
Below-freezing temperatures this week is leading to extra slippery roads Friday as snow falls across the Delmarva Peninsula.
Multiple school districts and Sussex County government offices have closed early for the afternoon snow that is supposed to linger into the early evening, according to Eswar Iyer, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service in Wakefield, Virginia.
"The heaviest snow should move east in the next couple hours and might not taper off until later afternoon and early evening," Iyer said just after 2 p.m.
Accumulation totals have not changed from the morning prediction of 1 inch, but some areas could see a little more, Iyer said.
Multiple vehicle crashes have been reported on the police scanner as roads have become icy, which is due to the cold temperatures leading up to Friday.
"When it’s colder, the snow is able to stick to the roads quicker, and your roads are going to get slick quicker," Iyer said.
The Ocean Police Police Department announced at 2:40 p.m. that westbound Route 90 lanes were closed because of a crash.
It could take up to two hours to clear the crash. Maryland State Police is investigating.
Rt. 90 is closed between Rt. 589 and Ocean Due to poor road conditions. Avoid the area.
Salisbury Police tweeted they have nine active crashes under investigation as at around 3 p.m.
"Snow catches us by surprise today and causes very icy road conditions," police said.
"Slow down, use caution if you must be on the roadways this afternoon."
Temperatures were forecasted to climb close to the freezing point for water in Salisbury, while Georgetown and Rehoboth Beach were only going to reach 28 degrees. It will be a little warmer in Ocean City and Accomac, with temperatures in the mid to upper 30s.
The temperature won't drop significantly at night, with a low of 20 degrees in Salisbury, 18 degrees in Georgetown and 26 degrees in Accomac.
Over the weekend, expect temperatures to rise into the 40s across Delmarva. By Monday or Tuesday, Delmarva residents can expect temperatures in the low 50s.