Affordable Forklift Training and MEWP Training Specialist Training Your Staff on Your Machines in the familiar surroundings of their own workplace.
We cover Hereford and Worcester, Wales The West Country and The West Midlands. We are based in Newport South Wales, but travel the west side of the country providing effective affordable lift truck training and MEWP training. Our Prices Are Very Competitive because we are a home based business keeping overheads to a minimum, without compromising our quality expert fully registered forklift truck training recognised by the biggest forklift training body in the UK.
Specialists in lift truck training and Mobile Elevated Work Platform MEWP Training (Booms Cherry Pickers and Scissor Lifts) we are a local company providing onsite training to our customers requirements at times to suit our customers. This means that we train your staff when you want them trained keeping downtime to a minimum.
SW Fork lift Training was established to provide cost effective flt operator training for companies in Worcester, The West Midlands, The West Country and Wales, we firmly believe we have the most competitive prices in the UK, in fact we know so as we sub contract to several of the UK’s leading Lift Truck Training Agencies.
Call us now for a fast quotation and free advice on all of your fork lift training and MEWP training needs.
We have many training courses covering Flt Training and MEWPs Training. This starts at novice level and includes intermediate level and of course refresher or conversion forklift training for many machines including Bendi Flexi, Pivot Steer and Telehandler Forklifts. Remember That We Supply Affordable Onsite FLT and MEWPs Training In Worcester At affordable Prices.
We offer Novice, Experienced and Refresher Courses on various forklift trucks, We pride ourselves on serving our customers on their own premises, this means that your staff have flt training or MEWP training on the machine or machines that they will be using within the environment in which they will be working.
Worcester is just 45 minutes away so we are often providing forklift training and or MEWP training in and around Worcester. Infact many of our clients are in and around the Worcester area.
We also pride ourselves on being available to carry out forklift truck training and MEWP training in Worcester for our clients. when our clients require lift truck training or MEWPs training we are there when our clients need us.
This means that we will be able to carry out forklift safety training and MEWP training when your workplace is at its quietest, keeping to a minimum any down time due to lift truck training. Our lift truck training and MEWP training gives trainees confidence and expertise in the workplace improving productivity and profitability as well as safety.
We do not work 8-5 we work when our customers need us, and where our customers need us. Forklift Training in Worcester at affordable prices, Onsite Training when and where you need us and always at Low Prices.
SW fork lift training have over 20 years experience of training on many large military machines as well as Lift Trucks and Mobile Elevated Work Platforms of all types.
Forklift Safety Training Novice Experienced And Conversion Training Carried Out Onsite On Your Machines.
For Fork Truck Training Exeter Click Here.