Compare two popular grit concentrators by Smith & Loveless Inc.
Durable PISTA® Grit Concentrators feature a large discharge orifice for effective grit washing and dewatering, removing 95% of the residual organics in total. PISTA® Grit Concentrators are available in both 250 and 500 GPM (16 and 32 lps) models.
The new Smith & Loveless PISTA® DURALYTE® 250 GPM (16 lps) Grit Concentrator combines uncompromising strength and acclaim for superior grit concentrator performance. Specially-designed for large flow applications, the PISTA® DURALYTE® effectively washes collected grit while delivering extended service life beyond standard concentrator designs. The top section is constructed of Ni-Hard, with a minimum thickness of 3/4” (1.9 cm) in high wear areas. The bottom section features a minimum of 3/4”(1.9 cm) thickness of a proprietary polyurethane blend molded with a proprietary blend of silicon carbide (minimum of 1/2” (1.3 cm) thickness) in the high wear area of the bottom portion of the cone. Additionally, a large underflow opening of 3.75” (9.5 cm) minimizes clogging. The inlet connection is 4-1/2” (11.4 cm) outside diameter. This 2-piece material combination is designed to better withstand the abrasive action common with high grit loads. More durable than hard iron designs and longer lasting than models with wearing liners, the PISTA® DURALYTE® makes cone handling simple because of the lightweight material.
The PISTA® DURALYTE® effectively functions as a primary grit washing and dewatering device, separating the pumped flow into basic components of water, organics and grit. Working in concert with the PISTA® Grit Screw Conveyor or the PISTA® TURBO™ Grit Washer, which it is positioned over and discharges into, the PISTA® DURALYTE® Grit Concentrator’s overall performance achieves greater than 95 percent removal of the residual organic material.
Longer expected life than cast iron / steel alternatives.
No neoprene liners to replace.
Return of 95% of residual organic material to the grit removal chamber.
How Does DURALYTE® Compare to Other Materials?