Ronny Deila blamed a rutted, ploughed Hampden pitch for his side's failure to inflict League Cup embarrassment upon Rangers.
Denying they removed their feet from the pedal after the break Deila warned the SPFL the awful pitch wasn't good enough - and wrecked his team's efforts to play passing football.
Asked if he urged his players to consolidate their lead at half-time the Norwegian insisted: 'I didn't say that – I said to go for three.
'But we wanted to really go and just kill the game.
'But we killed it another way – we were solid at the back and kept them away from the goal.
'We wanted to attack more, but I have to make the excuse as well that we are a passing team and we had no chance to pass the ball on that pitch.
Relaid in the aftermath of the Commonwealth Games the surface at the National Stadium cut up badly during Dundee United;s victory over Aberdeen in the other semi on Saturday.
Urging Hampden plc and the SPFL to make sure the surface if repaired adequately before the first showpiece final of the season on March 15 Deila added: 'If you are going to develop Scottish football you need pitches you can play football on.
'If you are going to go four or five months with poor pitches all over the country then every game will be in the air.
'If you are talking about Champions League it's not even near.
'This is the national team's stadium – it has to be much better.
Delighted with his side's first half display – less so with the second – Deila savoured his first experience of an Old Firm derby.
'It can't be better. It was a very good day.
'There was an unbelievable atmosphere in the stadium.
The Celtic boss will now turn his attentions to transfer reinforcements today with an increased bid for Dundee United Stuart Armstrong expected.
A £1.5million offer was rejected on Friday and the midfielder would miss the League Cup Final, cup tied if he made the move.
Declining to expand Deila added: 'We want to add people tomorrow and keep everybody. We are now in the critical period. On Tuesday we will know the answer, which will be good for you and for me.
Celtic have also secured Tannadice winger Gary Mackay-Steven on a pre-contract agreement in the summer and must decide whether to pay £250,000 to secure him now.
Bolton Wanderers could also launch a formal bid to sign Celtic goalscorer Kris Commons today, despite Deila insisting the 31-year-old is staying.
Celtic are also considering a move for South Korean free agent Kim Bo-Kyung.