Today I will be reviewing Organic Harvest Anti Pigmentation Cream. I’ve tested this product for good 2 months. Since I tested this Anti Pigmentation Cream fro Jan end, I can tell you how it fares in both seasons – summer and winter. Be ready for a detailed review of this product!
First, a little background on my skin – I’ve dry combination skin. My t-zone is super oily especially my nose and my cheeks & forehead usually run dry. My skin is super sensitive and acne & blemish prone. I am prone to cystic acne as well (will talk about how I conquered cystic acne in another post).
P.S. Always keep in mind even if you & I have similar skin, what worked for me might not work for you.
The pure ingredients like organic daisy flowers extract have been integrated efficaciously to provide an even pigmentation and prevent melanin synthesis so effectively that you will have your skin turning visibly softer and glowing. A natural remedy for pigmented skin, age spot, blemishes, sunburn and tanned skin, this anti-pigmentation cream possesses the benefit of a full-fledged treatment, which clarifies the skin while averting the appearance of any future discoloration, thus, leaving the skin fresh and youthful.
Aqua, Organic Daisy Flower Extract, White Mulberry Extract and Vitamin – C in Cream base.
I usually apply a moisturizer first on my cleansed face then apply this cream in night. Topped it with facial oil during winters. I don’t apply it in day time (along with night time) as mentioned by brand cos’ the product contains Vitamin C in it. Vitamin C makes skin sensitive to sun, even though I apply sunscreen I wanted to be on a safer side. The sun is anyway too harsh in India.
My first impression of this cream was that it felt dry & stretchy on my skin. It felt too stretchy in applying the cream as it finish in matte. Keep in mind it was during the Jan end, peak winter, when I tried it for the first time. So I started to apply facial oil after applying this cream. But during application it still felt stretchy so I started to apply a moisturizer before slathering this cream on. Since it was winter, I could get away with so much layering. No I didn’t face any acne breakout.
After a month’s use, I did observe that my fresh acne scars (I had an acne breakout as a reaction to stage makeup) were fading very lightly. The appearance of lil’ pores on my upper cheeks seemed to even out after applying the cream. But didn’t see any effect of any sort on my previous acne spots and the discoloration. I know for a fact that anti pigmentation creams take time working on old scars and discoloration. So I was ready to be patient with it.
After two month’s of use of Organic Harvest Anti Pigmentation Cream, the fresh scars faded a lot. I noticed an overall brightening on face. But nothing on the discoloration around mouth areas (if it lessened, it’s like barely noticeable). Old acne scars were still there with very very slight fading (it can also be cos’ I started being somewhat consistent with my skincare). However, overall appearance of pores seemed to be better even in tropical hot March in India.
Fades new acne scars significantly in two month’s time.
Pores seemed to look evened out.
Does give an overall brightening effect.
No to very very slight fading on old acne scars.
No effect on slight discoloration/pigmentation around mouth.
Dry skinned beauties might need a moisturizer along with it.
Good for oily skinned beauties as it is mattifying.
Doesn’t clog pores nor does cause any acne breakout.
Decent cream to use in night time.
Disclaimer – The product was sent to me by PR for review purposes but the review is 100% honest. Real Girl Talks will always keep it real with you, there’s no place for bs here!
That stuff sounds so good. I want to use it now.
Thanks for sharing babe! I suffer from pigmentation issues after acne scarring and definitely want to try this product out!
Great post, thanks for sharing. Sounds like a cool product!
OMG this stuff sounds amazing! Need to try it!
I’m glad it worked partially for you – although it didn’t work on older marks it’s nice it worked on the newer ones. Definitely something you’d have to consistently use to get the benefits from!
Good to know it works in dealing with new acne scars. Thanks for sharing your review dear!
That is a not-so-bad rating at all. Lots of positive things said. Thanks for your honest review. Helps a lot.
Happy Easter and Sunday to you beautiful.
Omg this sounds sooo amazing!! I have terrible hyper-pigmentation, so this would be super handy!
i need to try this! got so many red marks on my skin, and i love that it’s organic!
It seems like it takes awhile, but with consistent use you will get results. Thanks for the honest review.
I didn’t even know there was anything like this out there!! Sounds wonderful!!
Thanks for the review. I never used anything like this before.
Thanks for your thoughts on this, babe! I love hearing about new products!
I wish this scar lightener is available in the Philippines.
I adore natural, paraben free cosmetics. This sounds really good!
It sounds like a great product, I’ll have to check it out! Thanks for sharing!
Sounds like something my oily skin would like. I have had the same experience with Vitamin C products, they work much better on fresh scars than on older ones. No clue why.
I haven’t heard of this brand before but this product sounds really nice, glad it helped with the overall brightening!
Maybe I should try this product as I have some discolouration too. Thanks for the honest review!
Sounds like a great product hun! Thanks for the review.
Sounds like a decent cream and with a reasonable price tag too. Good that you saw some differences albeit small ones.