Home / Blog / Bitqyck Review – Is This A Good Opportunity Or Big Scam?
Bitqyck Review – Is This A Good Opportunity Or Big Scam?
In the last few weeks, Bitqyck has been getting a lot of attention in the network marketing circles.
With all this hype, I am sure you have seen some of your friends trying to sell Bitqyck in your social media feeds.
The first thing you need to know is that I am NOT an affiliate or distributor for Bitqyck.
I wanted to gather all the information about Bitqyck in my Bitqyck Review in order for you to make a decision about joining Bitqyck.
Is Bitqyck legit or a scam?
Let me show you in my unbiased review of Bitqyck.
What The Heck Is Bitqyck?
In today’s latest review, we’re taking a look at an MLM opportunity by the name of Bitqyck. As the “Bit” part of the company’s name might suggest, Bitqyck is the latest company to take a stab at the MLM niche of cryptocurrency.
For those that haven’t been following the MLM landscape that closely over the past year or so, the field of cryptocurrency has gotten insanely popular over the past year or so as a new means of making money and offering a new business opportunity.
Looking at Bitqyck, we’ve got a company that’s based out of Texas in the United States and has a co-founder by the name of Sam Mendez.
Sam Mendez is a name that might be familiar to some of you, and that’s because Bitqyck isn’t the first time we’ve seen Mendez get involved with the world of MLM.
The first reported company that Sam Mendez was affiliated with was My Shopping Genie, with Mendez showing up once again as the co-founder for this company as well.
Unfortunately for Sam, My Shopping Genie wasn’t around for too long as it eventually collapsed after a period of six months or of being unable to pay its affiliates.
Following My Shopping Genie’s collapse in mid-2012, Mendez went on to launch 15 Winks in 2014 — a opportunity that offered a dating app after buying in to a subscription plan.
Calorchi succeeded 15 Winks in 2016 as an e-commerce platform with a cryptocurrency element, but current Alexa rankings for the Calorchi website indicate that the company shut down around the second half of that same year (2016).
What Are The Bitqyck Products?
In regards to the product line that Bitqyck has to offer, the company does’t have any true goods or services that are being sold to retail customers. Instead, Bitqyck sells nothing more than access to its affiliate membership program.
If and when someone decides that they’d like to become an affiliate for the company, they will be given the opportunity to invest real dollars into Bitqy. Bitqy is the in-house cryptocurrency that Bitqyck has created, and affiliates are also able to generate sales through an e-commerce platform.
I tried to look into said platform to see just what it has to offer, but there’s currently not a lot of detailed information about it not he Bitqyck website.
What About The Compensation Plan For Bitqyck?
Members of Bitqyck are able to earn money by recruiting other individuals to invest their own dollars into the Bitqy currency and by generating sales through the company’s e-commerce system.
When it comes to investing money into Bitqy, there are three main levels of investment that affiliates have access to. Bitqyck calls these “product options”, and the first one sees members investing $199 in order to get $200 worth of Bitqy coins.
The product option above this asks affiliates to invest $349 to receive $400 worth of Bitqy, and the last level requires an investment of $499 in order to get a whopping $600 worth of Bitqy.
Commissions that affiliates have access to are paid out in two main ways, and the first has to do with investing money into the Bitqy coins.
Whenever a personally recruited affiliate of yours invests their own money into the Bitqy coins, you’re able to earn a 10% commission based off of how much money they decided to invest.
In addition to this, you’ve also got access to a matching bonus of 10% for any affiliates that your downline is able to recruit and get to invest as well.
The second main commission that affiliates are able to earn come through the e-commerce platform.
These commissions are handled in a very unique manner, with a 25% commission being offered to an affiliate who introduces a customer to the platform that then decides to purchase product from it. A 25% commission is also paid out to the affiliate that was behind the recruitment of the referring affiliate in this situation, and that same 25% commission is even offered to the e-commerce merchant and the customer that’s buying from the platform.
What’s The Cost Of Joining Bitqyck?
If you’d like to join Bitqyck for whatever reason, the membership is free to start out with.
With this being said, you’ll need to either recruit someone who invests at least $199 or make the investment yourself if you’d like to be considered an official affiliate for the company.
So, Is There A Bitqyck Scam Going On?
Have you been hearing rumours that Bitqyck is a scam?
So – what is the truth? Is there really a Bitqyck scam going on?
If I am being perfectly honest, Bitqyck isn’t entirely a scam.
Finally, My Bitqyck Review And Conclusion!
From what I can tell, Bitqyck is simply a relaunch of what Mendez tried before with Calorchi.
Looking at the company and its e-commerce platform from the perspective of a retail customer, I don’t see anything at all that’s very compelling.
Customers don’t care about earning money, they want to save money. Furthermore, if a customer decides they want to buy something form the Bitqyck platform, they’ll need to invest money into Bitqy.
At the time of this writing, Bitqy is not tradable on the public market in any fashion. This likely isn’t ever going to change, and with Bitqy not being a public cryptocurrency, Mendez can pretty much set the value of it at whatever he would like.
The requirement of having to purchase Bitqy in order to buy items from the e-commerce platform will quickly turn off any real retail clients, leaving the only interested individuals being affiliates who are looking to make a quick buck.
Affiliates for Bitqyck will more than likely spend the majority of their time focused on investing in Bitqy and recruiting others to do the same, and just like similar opportunities that have come before Bitqyck, the whole operation will start to fall once this recruitment activity dies down.
I really hope you have gained value from my Bitqyck Review.
I wanted to make sure you had all the information you needed, because most other Bitqyck reviews are just trying to sell you something.
If you really do decide to join Bitqyck, I want you to succeed with your business. Learn how to market yourself properly!