Happy Friday everyone! I hope that you've all been enjoying the Virtual Card Making Party. I am delighted to introduce you all to, Jodi, our featured cardmaker this week. I've got some wonderful samples of her cards to share with you and I think these will provide you with inspiration to tackle some of the party challenges. Jodi does not have a blog so I hope that you will take a moment to say hello and leave her a comment here at the end of this post.
My husband says "OH YES "
Stamps are Stampin up, products, couldn't do without my Big Shot & Spellbinders, also love my Cricut, and Graphic 45 papers.
I think embossing with folders and also the powders.
I love the combo of Black, White and a dash of color..
I read about it in the Paper Crafts magazine, then went to the website.
Just wanted to share with the ones who are sharing their lives for us all.
Thanks for sharing your talents. Great cards! I think the one with the balloon is my fav!
Great cards, Jodi! I love the pennant banner - so bright and cheerful!
Jodi your cards are beautiful!
Jodi All your cards are great but really like the first one I think it is so soft looking and the background paper is so different.
Beautiful cards! Love the rich colors.
I just love your style Jodi. These cards are all clean and crisp with such perfect detail in each one. Designing the inside of the cards really kicks it up a notch. I like too much about to many of these to single out a favorite! Thanks for letting me share your OWH story with everyone today.
Thanks for sharing your cards. I love the extra effort you took to decorate the insides of the cards. So cool but I never take the time. Hard to pick a favorite but the bright bold colors really caught my eye.
Jodi, Very nice cards. Love the variety of your talents. All of these cards will be loved by their recipients. Thanks so much for the inspiration you have given us today.
Hi Jodi, thanks for sharing these beautiful cards and inspiration! I'm going to print a couple for CASEing! Lovely work!
Hi Jodi, your cards are wonderful. I love the range shown in your cards from the masculine to the more whimsical. I think every card is just perfect. I like the first card the best, but the balloon card just strikes my fancy! Thanks for sharing your cards and story with us today.
Great cards, Jodi. I love the clean look of the cards.
Wow! That top card is just stunning!
Beautiful cards, Jodi! I need to dust off my balloon set from SU. I love what you did with that one. Thanks for sharing your talent with us!
Great cards!I love your style.
I just love the balloon card, such cheerful colors. Thank you for supporting OWH with your talent.
I love your cards; my fav is first sort of vintagey one... very nice work.
Congrats!! Your cards are all really wonderful and I'm sure they are big hit whenever they are received! Thanks for sharing!!
Love your cards Jodi---they are very special--keep them coming-I'm sure the service men & women love sending them to their loved ones.
Virtual Card Making Party: Master Post!
VCMP Challenge #9: Cut it Out!
VCMP Challenge #3: Funky Fold!