Offers ten times the effective life of "Bronze Wool".
Guaranteed not to corrode or rust.
Removes grime and oil when used with Teak Brite cleaner.
Its uses are limited only by your imagination.
An effective cleaning tool for boat owners.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. A non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: White. Size: 80 ml tube. Weight: .42 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. A non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound Features low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide strength. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: Black. Size: 80 ml tube. Weight: .42 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: Mahogany. Size: 80 ml tube. Weight: .42 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: White. Size: 10.5 oz tube. Weight: 1.4 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: Black. Size: 10.5 oz tube. Weight: 1.4 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: Mahogany. Size: 10.5 oz tube. Weight: 1.4 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: Brown. Size: 10.5 oz tube. Weight: 1.4 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: Brown. Size: 80 ml tube. Weight: .42 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk two-part sealant. A fast-curing polysulfide deck and hull seam compound. Type P (pourable) for easy application. Cures to a firm, resiliant rubber seal. Flows very freely, will fill wide seams and NOT sag. Color: Black. Size: 1 gallon. Weight: 12 lbs.
BoatLIFE Life Calk liquid sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Designed for use on fine cracks and seams. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: White. Size: 80 ml tube. Weight: .4 lb.
BoatLIFE Life Calk liquid sealant. Non-shrinking, flexible, sandable compound. A low-viscosity, free-flowing polysulfide solution. Designed for use on fine cracks and seams. Offers excellent resistance to petroleum derivatives. Ideal for hull hardware, fittings, and underwater seams. Will bond to fiberglass, wood, metal, glass, and itself. Cures to a firm flexible rubber seal. Color: Black. Size: 80 ml tube. Weight: .4 lb.