This article provides trademark practitioners and legal professionals with a simple guide to Italian trademark law, procedures and enforcement strategies.
• Unregistered marks do not benefit from the presumption of validity; the burden of proof in civil proceedings is therefore higher than in the case of registered trademarks.
• Unregistered marks cannot form the basis of an opposition and can be enforced against subsequent registration only by means of civil action.
• The prior use of a sign which results in the sign becoming only locally well known does not exclude the novelty of a subsequent trademark.
• Locally well-known unregistered trademarks may still be used locally, regardless of the subsequent registration by a third party of an identical or similar trademark for identical or similar goods and services. However, this prior use does not affect the novelty and validity of the subsequent third-party registration. Further, according to Article 6bis of the Paris Convention, foreign registrations that are well known in Italy may enjoy protection as unregistered trademarks.
To establish unregistered trademark rights, use of a sign must be effective and continuous. Such use may affect the validity of a subsequent registration only if it leads the previously used mark to become more than merely locally well known.
According to Article 19 of the Industrial Property Code, any natural or legal entity that “uses or intends to use” a mark can apply for its registration in Italy, as long as the application is not made in bad faith. Marks can be used by either the applicant or an authorised third party, and use is considered genuine if it is true, continuous and effective. A representative of the rights holder requires power of attorney before filing; however, this power of attorney need not be notarised or legalised.
• deceptive signs – in particular, signs which mislead the public as to the geographical origin, nature or qualities of the relevant goods and services.
• signs which are applied for in bad faith.
Trademark applications must be filed with the IPTO. The first e-filing system was implemented in 2006 and a completely revised e-filing system was introduced in Spring 2015. The new e-filing system is yet to be fully implemented (eg, applications for international trademark registration still require paper filing), but the IPTO is working diligently to complete the process within the shortest timeframe possible.
Once the application is filed, the IPTO will perform an examination based on formal requirements and absolute grounds for refusal. If the application does not meet formal requirements or must be refused on absolute grounds, the IPTO will issue a formal notification to the applicant, which is granted a period of at least two months to complete or revise the application or file observations in response to the refusal. The IPTO will then examine the applicant’s response and decide whether to accept the application or reject it, either totally or partially.
If the application meets the requirements, it will then be published for opposition or observation by third parties.
The IPTO is not entitled by law to carry out any kind of search of prior rights; therefore, no official searches are available. An official online database is available at www.uibm.gov.it, but the search tools are very limited at present. However, with the implementation of the new e-filing system underway, the IPTO will soon be able to provide users with improved search tools.
designations and acronyms of events and those of non-lucrative entities and associations, including the relevant emblems.
Unregistered trademarks, company names, domain names, well-known trademarks under Article 6bis of the Paris Convention and reputation claims cannot be enforced through opposition. These can be enforced only through invalidation actions. A notice of opposition must be filed with the IPTO in writing. The notice must be written in Italian and include all required documents. An opposition fee of €250 (plus postage) must be paid before filing the notice. The notice must be submitted to the IPTO through the new e-filing system. If a representative is appointed, power of attorney is required; however, the power of attorney need not be notarised or legalised.
• persons, entities and associations that hold relevant rights (under Article 8).
If the opposition is accepted, the IPTO will notify the applicant of the contested mark (the first communication). The notification will be issued within two months of the expiry of the opposition period. The parties then have a twomonth cooling-off period in which they may reach an amicable settlement, which may be extended by joint request of the parties by up to 12 months from the date of receipt of the first communication. If an agreement is reached within this period, the parties must inform the IPTO. Otherwise, the opposition enters the adversarial stage. Within two months of the expiry of the cooling-off period, the opponent may file additional supporting documents or arguments, which the IPTO will forward to the applicant, setting a term for filing its observations. Within this term, the applicant may also request the opponent to submit proof of effective use of the enforced earlier trademark, if it was registered more than five years before the date of publication of the contested application. Evidence of effective use must be filed within 60 days of the relevant notification (this term may be extended up to six months). At the end of the adversarial stage, the IPTO will decide on the opposition, either refusing the contested application (in full or in part) or rejecting the opposition and awarding costs to the winning party (which may consist of the opposition fee and up to €300 of professional fees). The losing party may appeal to the Board of Appeal within 60 days of notification of the IPTO decision. If, after making all efforts provided by the law, the IPTO cannot serve the applicant with the notice of opposition, the opposed application will be rejected ex officio.
In the case of an opposition against the Italian designation of an international registration, the IPTO will issue a provisional refusal, setting a three-month term for the applicant to appoint an Italian representative to defend the designation. If no representative is appointed, the provisional refusal becomes final and the designation is rejected with no further action required from the opponent.
Where no objections are raised by the IPTO and no third-party oppositions or observations are filed, an application can mature to registration in approximately nine to 12 months. A trademark is valid for 10 years from the filing date and can be renewed – for all or part of the originally claimed goods – for unlimited subsequent 10-year periods. There is also a grace period of six months after the official deadline, provided that the renewing party pays a surcharge. Renewal registrations are assigned new renewal application and registration numbers and a renewal certificate is issued within a couple of months of the renewal date.
Surrender: A trademark holder can always surrender its registration. Surrender must be recorded on the register by means of an appropriate declaration (subject to fiscal registration).
Revocation: If a trademark is not put to genuine use for five consecutive years after registration, it becomes vulnerable to revocation for nonuse, which may be filed by any interested party. If use of the mark begins or resumes after the five-year period of non-use but more than three months before the claim for revocation is filed, the registration cannot be revoked, except in the case of rights in the trademark acquired by third parties through filing or use.
Invalidation: After registration of the mark, holders of conflicting earlier rights or any interested party (on the basis of absolute grounds for refusal) may file a claim for its invalidation. Invalidations are civil proceedings and must be filed before an IP court (tribunale delle imprese). The timeframe from filing of the claim to judgment may vary depending on the complexity of the case, but the average timeframe is two to three years.
The competent courts for any IP matter – involving registered or unregistered rights – are the tribunale delle imprese (enterprise tribunals): 21 highly specialised sections of the civil courts (approximately one for each Italian region). Where one party is a foreign enterprise, competence is limited to 11 of these venues, depending on the domicile or head office of the Italian counterparty of the suit.
In cases of either imminent or ongoing violation of an IP right, the rights holder may request the IP court to grant provisional remedies.
• injunction (enforceable at the infringer’s premises, those of subsidiaries and warehouses, and against third parties not identified in the petition).
The average period from filing of the petition to grant of the remedy is one month. Regarding compensation for damages, Italian judges usually take into account all appropriate factors, such as negative economic consequences – including the lost profits of the rights holder and unfair profits made by the infringer – and moral prejudice caused to the rights holder. The infringer can be forced to return all profits earned. According to Articles 473 and 474 of the Criminal Code, the infringement of a registered IP right so as to create the risk of confusion among the public is a criminal offence. Public prosecutors can therefore prosecute the felony independently if there is public deception. Consequently, even where it is advisable, it is not strictly necessary to file a criminal complaint. Article 517ter of the Criminal Code applies where the infringement does not involve an actual risk of confusion among the public. In this case, the rights holder must file a criminal complaint.
There are no specific requirements in Italian law to finalise an assignment, insofa