Then I saw heaven opened and a white horse stood there; and the One Who rides on the horse was Named 'Faithful and True' - the One Who justly punishes and makes war. His eyes were like flames, and on His head were many crowns.
Then I saw an angel who in the sunshine stood, shouting loudly to the birds, 'Come! Gather together for the supper of the Great Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA! Come and eat the flesh of kings, and captains, and great generals; of horses and riders; and of all humanity, both great and small, slave and free.'"
Then I saw the evil creature gathering the governments of earth and their armies to fight against the One riding on the horse and His army. And the evil creature was captured, and with him the false prophet, who could do mighty miracles when the evil creature was present - miracles which deceived all who had accepted the evil creature's mark, and who worshiped his statue.
Both of them - the evil creature and his false prophet - were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulfur. And their entire army was killed with sharp sword in the mouth of the One riding the white horse, and all the birds of heaven were gorged with their flesh."
"Then I saw an angel come down from heaven with the key to the bottomless pit and a heavy chain in his hand. He seized the dragon - that old serpent, ha-satán - and bound him in chains for 1,000 years, and threw him into the bottomless pit, which he then shut and locked, so that he could not fool the nations any more until the thousand years were finished. Afterwards he would be released again for a little while.
Then I saw thrones, and sitting on them were those who had been given the right to judge. And I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for their testimony about Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA, for proclaiming the Words of YÁOHU UL, and who had not worshiped the creature or his statue, nor accepted his mark on their foreheads or their hands. They had come to life again and now they reigned with Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA for a thousand years.
This is the First Resurrection. (The rest of the dead did not come back to life until the thousand years had ended). Blessed and holy are those who share in the First Resurrection. For them the Second Death holds no terrors, for they will be priests of YÁOHU UL and of Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA, and shall reign with Him a thousand years.
When the thousand years end, ha-satán will be let out of his prison. He will go out to deceive the nations of the world and gather them together, with Gog and Magog, for battle - a mighty host, numberless as sand along the shore. They will go up to the broad plain of the earth and surround YÁOHU UL's people and the beloved City of Jerusalem on every side.
But fire from YÁOHU UL in heaven will flash down on the attacking armies and consume them. Then ha-satán (satir) who had betrayed them will again be thrown into the lake of fire burning with sulfur where the creature and false prophet are, and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever."
And I saw a great white Throne and the One Who sat upon it, from Whose face the earth and sky fled away, but they found no place to hide. I saw the dead, great and small, on their feet before YÁOHU UL; and The Books were opened, including the Book of Life. And the dead were judged according to the things written in The Books, each according to the deeds he had done.
The oceans surrendered the bodies buried in them; and the earth and the underworld gave up the dead in them. And death and hell were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the Second Death - the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found recorded in the Book of Life, he was thrown into the lake of fire."
Then I saw a new earth (with no oceans!) and a new sky, for the present earth and sky had disappeared. And I Yaokanam (John), saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, coming down from YÁOHU UL out of heaven. It was a glorious sight, beautiful as a bride at her wedding!
And then He said to me, 'Write this down, for what I tell you is trustworthy and true: It is finished! I am the Alef and the Tav - the Beginning and the End.
I will give to the thirsty the springs of the Water of Life - as a gift! Everyone who conquers will inherit all these blessings, and I will be his UL and he will be My child.
But cowards who turn back from following Me, and those who are unfaithful to Me, and the corrupt, and murderers, and the immoral, and those conversing with demons, and idol worshipers and all liars - their doom is in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur. This is the second death."
"Then one of the seven angels, who had emptied the flasks containing the seven last plagues, came and said to me, 'Come with Me and I will show you the bride, the Lamb's wife.
In a vision He took me to a towering mountain peak and from there I watched that wondrous City, the Holy Jerusalem, descending out of the skies from YÁOHU UL. It was filled with the glory of YÁOHU UL, and flashed and glowed like a precious gem, crystal clear like jasper. Its walls were broad and high, with twelve gates guarded by twelve angels. And the names of the twelve tribes of Israel were written on the gates. There were three gates on each side - north, south, east, and west.
The walls had twelve foundations stones, and on them were written the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. The angel held in his hand a golden measuring stick to measure the City and its gates and walls. When he measured it, he found it was a square as wide as it was long; in fact it was in the form of a cube, for its height was exactly the same as its other dimensions - 1,500 miles each way. Then he measured the thickness of the walls and found them to be 216 feet across (the angel called out these measurements to me, using common unit).
The twelve gates were made of pearls - each gate from a single pearl! And the main street was pure, transparent gold, like glass."
"No temple could be seen in the City, for YÁOHU UL Gavoha and the Lamb are worshiped in it everywhere. And the City has no need of sun or moon to light it, for the glory of YÁOHU UL and the Lamb illuminate it. Its light will light the nations of the earth, and the rulers of the world will come and bring their glory to it. Its gates never close; they stay open all day long - and there is no night!
And the glory and honor of all the nations shall be brought into it. Nothing evil will be permitted in it - no one immoral or dishonest - but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's Book of Life.
And he pointed out to me a river of pure Water of Life, clear as crystal, flowing from the throne of YÁOHU UL and the Lamb, coursing down the center of the main street. On each side of the river grew Trees of Life, bearing twelve crops of fruit, with a fresh crop each month; the leaves were used for healing the nations.
There shall be nothing in the City which is evil; for the throne of YÁOHU UL and of the Lamb will be there, and His servants will worship Him. And they shall see His face; and His Name shall be written on their foreheads. And there will be no night there - no need for lamps or sun - for Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA will be their Light; and they shall reign forever and ever.
"I, Yaokanam, saw and heard all these things, and fell down to worship the angel who showed them to me; but again he said, 'No, don't do anything like that. I, too, am a servant of Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA as you are, and just like your brothers the prophets are, as well as all those who heed the truth stated in this Book. Worship YÁOHU UL alone.'"
Then he advised me, 'Do not seal up what you have written, for the time of fulfillment is near. And when that time comes, all doing wrong will do it more and more; the vile will become more vile; upright men will be better; those who are holy will continue on to greater holiness.
Blessed forever are all who are washing their robes, to have the right to enter in through the gates of the City, and to eat the fruit from the Tree of Life.
Outside the City are those who have departed away from YÁOHU UL, and the sorcerers and the immoral and murderers and idolaters, and all who love to lie, and do so.
I, Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA, have sent My angel to you to tell the Congregations all these matters. I am both David's Root and his Offspring. I am the bright Morning Heavenly Light.
The 'RÚKHA' and the bride say, 'Come.' Let each one who hears them say the same, 'Come.' Let the thirsty one come - anyone who wants to; let him come and drink the Water of Life freely.
And I solemnly declare to everyone who reads this book: If anyone adds anything to what is written here, YÁOHU UL shall add to him the plagues described in this book. And if anyone subtracts any part of these prophecies, YÁOHU UL shall take away his share in the Tree of Life, and in the Holy City just described.
The grace of Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA hol-MEHUSHKHÁY be with you all, am-nám!"
All this is given to you in the Name of YAOHÚSHUA the Messiah, am-nám!
We believe that, by the grace and mercy of YÁOHU UL, the 'RÚKHA-YAOHÚSHUA' has been teaching all of you, leading you into all truth, reminding you of the words of Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA, is revealing Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA and His eternal truths now to each one of you, and that YÁOHU UL is always watching over His words to perform them.
We also believe that the 'RÚKHA-YAOHÚSHUA' is the One Who is giving life and powerful oiling to YÁOHU UL's words, and He's now convicting your hearts as regards sin, righteousness and judgment, as we bind all of you to the full submission to Molkhiúl YAOHÚSHUA hol-MEHUSHKHÁY, now and forever, ol Shúam YAOHÚSHUA hol-MEHUSHKHÁY, and we all say, am-nám!
And we now loose you from all the powers of ha-satán and all his religious wicked spirits, evil spirits of confusion, all lying spirits, and all seducing spirits and we stop, rebuke and renounce all their wicked influences, deceptions, power and control over your whole person and we now set you free from all the powers of all