It’s amazing what a difference time can make in the way we perceive certain technologies. A few years ago, the idea of the cloud was terrifying to many people. What exactly did it mean to have something “in the cloud”? Was your personal information just floating around somewhere, ready for people to steal? Now, a lot of those hesitations have disappeared as people learned more about the cloud and its benefits. Businesses and individuals are more than willing to stick their information “in the cloud,” but it’s really not that simple.
Sure, there are plenty of cloud providers in the market, but choosing the right one for your organization can be a tricky process. Brand name cloud providers are often seen as a reliable option for companies, but the truth is that they may not be the right option for your small-to-medium-sized business (SMB) needs.
Migrating successfully to the cloud requires a SMB to have the right partner by its side, especially if it lacks cloud expertise or the time to develop an appropriate migration strategy. The right partner will be able to ensure that a SMB’s cloud deployment meets regulatory requirements, offers future scalability and flexibility, and/or provides it with the most cost-effective option possible.
Again, finding a cloud provider that can do all of the above should be easy, but that’s not always the case. A lot of cloud providers are focused on helping enterprises rather than SMBs. Luckily, there are some cloud providers that cater specifically to SMB customers.
If you’d like to learn more about SMB cloud migrations and how to choose the right cloud provider to meet your company’s needs, be sure to register for the upcoming webinar titled “How to Know if Your Cloud Decision is Right for Your SMB.” The webinar, presented by Ed Dryer, senior technology strategist at Steadfast, will take place on Tuesday, August 22, 2017 at 2:00 p.m. EDT.
Attendees will gain a better understanding of public, hybrid and private clouds for SMBs; learn the operational and cost benefits of virtualization; hear what is driving SMBs today to make cloud investments; and understand how cloud services complement business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR) services, managed security, and on-demand infrastructure. If this sounds like something you’d be interested in, you can REGISTER HERE.