As a parent or caregiver, have you ever wished that you could get to the core reasons why your child is challenged with time, organization, or emotional control?
Do you KNOW your child is bright and capable, and yet disorganized notebooks, lost assignments, and anxiety surrounding tests get in the way of success?
Wouldn’t it be wonderful if you could discern the difference between WON’T and CAN’T when it comes to attitude and behavior?
Did you know that what you see as defiance may actually be decreased motivation and mounted frustration that are greatly impacting a child’s perception of success?
Sign up today for this resource-packed 4 week webinar series and get to the ROOT CAUSES of your child’s challenges.
Help children achieve success by learning how to establish routines and develop strategies to eliminate endless cycles of frustration and failure. Discover how to ensure these strategies stick!!
Within this series, you will discover lots of EASY, IMMEDIATELY USABLE strategies to help kids with organizing space, materials and time. Learning what is behind these struggles is the key to making lasting change!
Enhance your parenting by implementing simple changes in communication styles that lead to independence eliminating frustration and improving motivation.
This workshop series, designed specifically to meet the need of busy parents and caregivers, cuts quickly to the core areas of need for children with Autism, ADHD, Dyslexia, Auditory and Sensory Processing Disorders, and many other areas of extra need.
The flexible, weekly webinar format allows for multiple flexibility. Register for one, or better yet, attend them all for maximum learning and a discounted price! The webinar format allows for busy schedules and the ever-present need for parents to be flexible, so if one time doesn’t work you can catch it at a later time! Lori Benson Adams, M.Ed., an Educational Intervention Specialist, national presenter, and parent of a child with learning differences, provides over 6 hours of action-packed ideas and advice for a fraction of the cost of one:one educational consultation. Join us to gain strategies for creating a calmer home and more successful child!
Secure resources for support/advice/legal support etc.
Lori Benson Adams, M.Ed., has over 30 years of experience working with children with a wide range of learning and attention challenges. Her background includes over a decade as a special education teacher, early intervention specialist, independent consultant, and public speaker. She is the owner of Breakthrough Learning Solutions, a company directed at sharing the most cutting-edge information with parents and educators. She is the parent of a child with learning challenges, and has experienced first-hand the need for a positive, strengths-based approach to helping our children reach success!
A few weeks ago, my husband and I went to see the movie “The Imitation Game.” It is the story of Alan Turing, a British scientist, cryptanalyst, and computing pioneer, and his development of a system to crack Nazi codes in order to significantly shorten World War II. It was both fascinating and brilliantly acted. Benedict Cumberbatch’s Turing breathtakingly transports viewers to another place and time.
As we processed through the movie over dinner, my husband (an engineer himself), said ,” He was a pretty quirky guy, wasn’t he?” I shared my hunch that Turing’s portrayal was indicative of someone with Asperger’s Syndrome, reviewing the nuances that led me to that conclusion.
I became intrigued if my intuition was correct. I spent the evening diving into blogs, websites, and eventually Autism activist sites, hoping to find the opinions of others. Although the term Asperger’s was not around during Turing’s life, I found there is great debate in the Autism community about the pros and cons of posthumous diagnostics. Many were passionate about the danger of applying labels to someone who is not alive to interview or participate in the diagnostic process. Others were equally vehement about the societal advantages of adding brilliant, world-altering people into the category of those living successfully with some form of autism. Before I knew it, I’d spent several hours drawn into to the debate and reading link after link, comment after comment.
I stopped dead in my tracks. DID it really matter if Turing is considered to have been on the autism spectrum? Of course not. A posthumous diagnosis does not change who he was, the impact he had on our every day lives in terms of computer science, or his undeniable shortening of World War II.
So why had I spent hours digging, researching, reading? Yes, it was out of curiosity, diligence, and an interest in the opinions of activists within the autism community, but I have to admit, ashamedly, that is was also part of my need to make sense of a highly unusual man. It was my need to put things neatly in a box, tied with a bow. I was disappointed in myself, quite honestly. I try diligently to spend my days helping teachers, parents, children look outside of the box, to celebrate their uniqueness, to be empowered to find their own way, and yet here I was, trying to fit someone nicely and neatly into a corner, giving a label some kind of power.
Shame on me. I should know better. Honestly, we all should.
It doesn’t matter. Diagnosis don’t matter. Yes, yes, they do help us answer questions, they can certainly help us obtain services, and quite often they can help us guide interventions. But when it comes to understanding, TRULY understanding, a person, his or her traits, his qualities, her heart, a diagnostic label is a grossly insufficient way to tie things up.
Brilliant, funny, loving, tender, energetic….these are the words that matter.
Child. Father. Brother. Sister. Uncle. Son. These are the words that matter.
In the midst of our diagnosis-laden, therapy-heavy world, sometimes we need to stop, take a deep breath, and really focus on was DOES matter. It is the true heart and soul of each individual, the rare and unmatched gifts and talents we all bring to the table, that determine who we are in this world.
What a month August has been! I have had the humbling opportunity to quite literally meet with teachers, parents and administrators across the country! From a large district in Cheyenne, Wyoming to a private school is Washington, D.C., teachers and administrators have been busily preparing for a fresh year of learning. From a small adobe school in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to a school for unique learners in Tulsa, Oklahoma, bulletin boards are going up, pencils are being sharpened, and fresh books are being placed on desks in anticipation of students. From a district in Lexington, Kentucky, where teachers came during their own summer days to learn about children with learning challenges to a group of motivated and profoundly dedicated home school parents in Atlanta, Georgia, the 2015-2016 school year is underway.
OUR KIDS ARE IN GOOD HANDS!
My work affords me the unique ability to view education in every form in every state. It is a rare and sacred experience for someone like me, who has never dreamed of being anything other than a teacher.
What I know is this: Our kids are in good hands!
I am blessed to spend my days with teachers: Classroom teachers, home school teachers, public school teachers and private school teachers. Teachers who wake up every morning, pushing through the fatigue and haze of sleepiness to quickly grab materials together to create the lesson that came to them in their sleep. Teachers who have gone out and developed schools to meet the needs of other children who have challenges similar to their child’s. Teachers who have given up their own careers or person goals to stay home and educate their own children, even though it means seldom having a break or a second for themselves.
Teachers are a forced with which to be reckoned!!!
Aside from a mother’s ferocious love for her children, I know of few other earthly forces as powerful as the Teaching Heart. Thousands upon thousands of men and women face every day, ready to love, nurture and educate our children. Against increasing and ceaseless odds, they demonstrate dedication, energy, creativity, passion, compassion, mastery and curiosity. They spend their own time, their own limited income, and their own emotional resources to keep children engaged, loved and moving forward. They teach our children how to read, how to add, and how to share. They teach that art is essential, music is magical, and who you are on the playground is as important as how you do in the classroom.
So let me share the good news: Our kids are in good hands!
Our diverse, expansive and often tumultuous nation is brimming over with people dedicated to the art of teaching. Nurture your child’s teachers. Be present. Be available. Ask them what they need, and then help out. Encourage and support them. When you see your child’s teacher dragging at the end of a long day, smile and say thank you. Take the time to ask you neighbor why she has chosen to home school her children, and watch as her eyes light up. Almost every teacher will tell you it’s never the children that cause them to leave the profession. It’s never their lack of love or dedication, but rather a sense of unsurmountable expectations that don’t seem to go noticed or appreciated. Show your support and appreciation. Let’s keep the good ones around.
There is life-changing power in the Teaching Heart. It is the power to move mountains, the power to love children, the power to change the world. Think about it. Pray about it. Then go nurture it.
The 4 of July. Just the thought of this holiday floods my heart and brain with precious childhood memories. I can close my eyes and instantly be transported back in time. I am a little girl in pristine Madeira, Ohio, holding my dad’s hand while we stood on the sidewalk outside the Daisy Chain gift shop and watched the parade go by. I look up at my d