Did you know that the average American eats about 67 pounds of beef a year? It's obvious that we love our burgers and steak, but we seldom take time to think about the people and processes that are involved in producing the beef we eat. The beef industry is an intricate system that involves cattle ranches, feed lots, processing plants, and retailers. Each element is crucial in providing a safe and nutritious product to you.
Did you know that Americans on average eat over half a pound of cheese per person each week? It's no secret that cheese is one of America's favorite foods. But how it's made may be a mystery to most people. Making cheese is a multi-step process that involves farming for feed, animal care, milking, cheese production, packaging, retail, and ultimately you the consumer.
Did you know that the United States is the third largest cotton producer in the world? Cotton essentially is the fabric of America. Not only do we wear it, but it's in so many products we use. The cotton industry is weaved together with a network of farmers, cotton gins, and clothing manufacturers. The process begins with a cotton field and ends with the retailer who sells you your jeans.
It's common knowledge that honey comes from bees. But many people don't know how bees make it and why and what it can be used for. Honey making is a collective effort between nature and man. It's a process that's involves bee colonies, native plant life, agricultural crops, and of course beekeepers.
Did you know that dairy industry produces billions of pounds of milk each year? Milk is a diverse product that is used in so many different ways. But many people are unaware of how it's produced. The dairy industry in the United States expands far beyond milk. From the dairy cow, to the packaging plant, and from retailers to consumers, it's a system designed to provide a safe and nutritious product.
Did you know that Americans eat an average of 20 pounds of onions a year? It's a vegetable that's often under-appreciated, though most of us cook with it and eat it every day. Onion growers are hard working farmers who are dedicated to providing a quality product. From the field to the supermarket, onions take quite a journey before they reach you, the consumer.
Did you know that peanuts aren't really nuts? They're legumes, making them a close relative to beans. Although they may have a case of mistaken identity, peanuts still make for a perfect snack. Peanuts are a versatile product and can be found in many of our favorite foods like candy, baked goods, snack foods and more. And because they're in such demand, peanuts are a desirable crop for farmers to grow.
Did you know that America is the largest producer of pecans in the world? There's certainly a high demand for these tasty nuts. But many people are unaware of how pecans are grown and processed. The pecan industry in the United States produces a vast quantity of nuts each year to meet the demands of national and international markets. The pecan process involves growers, specialized equipment, cleaning and shelling plants, retailers, and of course consumers.
Did you know that the United States is the second largest producer of pistachios in the world? There's certainly a demand for this nut due to its unique flavor. Pistachios are a desert crop, so they can be found growing in the American West. From the orchard to the processing facility and retailer, pistachios undergo quite a journey before they can become your afternoon snack.
Did you know that there are about 26 different species of chile peppers? Some range from mild to scorching hot. But chile peppers add a lot more than just heat to certain foods. They add color and flavor. The chile pepper industry in the United States produces a vast quantity of peppers each year. These chiles will venture from fields to processers, spice producers, retailers and finally chile enthusiasts throughout the country.
Salsa is more than a condiment. It's a dish that can be fiery hot, or sweet and savory. It's made of fresh ingredients that are full great flavor, and it's a healthy addition to some of our favorite foods. Salsa can be made many different ways. But what most salsas have in common are three key ingredients - chile peppers, onions and tomatoes. Each ingredient comes together in perfect blend of zesty flavor.
Turf grass is great for landscaping. But it's beneficial in so many different ways. And growing and caring for it can be quite a process. Growing turf grass is a science. A lot goes into finding the right varieties to grow in specific regions. Maintenance and irrigation are important factors as well. All this hard work, so we can enjoy our favorite outdoor activities.
The United States is one of the largest producers of wine in the world. And with so many varieties available to us, it can take a lifetime to explore the complexities of wine. Winemaking is an intricate process that involves highly skilled people who grow the grapes, process them, and make wine. It's a product that reaches a wide consumer base. It can high priced or very affordable.