How to unblock ABC Go UK outside US? Watch ABC in the UK on Apple TV, iPhone, iPad, Android, PC or Mac. ABC is geoblocked outside US. In order to bypass geographic restrictions and access ABC in UK, you have to spoof/change your online location. VPN and Smart DNS allows you to watch ABC in the UK.
If you try to watch ABC shows online in the UK, you get the following error message: “You appear to be outside the United States or its territories. Due to International rights agreements, we only offer this video to viewers located within the US.” That basically means you cannot watch any of ABC’s shows in UK due to geo-restrictions. VPN enables you to trick ABC into thinking you are in USA by giving you an American IP address.
VPN allows you to unblock all US channels in the UK. Watch ABC, NBC, CBS, Netflix, Vudu, Hulu, Showtime, or HBO Go.
VPN apps can be installed on Android, iPhone, iPad, PC, or Mac.
Thanks to VPN’s data encryption, your ISP will not be able to see what you are doing online.
Your Internet speed will drop by around 10 to 15% when using VPN.
I am currently using ExpressVPN to unblock WatchABC in the UK. You can use any of the three VPN providers in the table below to watch ABC outside US.
There is an alternative way to watch ABC outside US. Smart DNS also allows you to remove geoblocks and access US channels in the UK. You do not get a new IP address when using Smart DNS. Therefore, you will still appear to be in the UK for all websites apart from the ones you are trying to unblock.
Smart DNS can be setup on Apple TV, Mac, Smart TV, PS3, PS4, Xbox, Amazon Fire TV, Roku, Chromecast, Android, iPhone, iPad, or PC.
No effect on Internet speed with Smart DNS. No traffic encryption either.
You can still use all local UK apps and sites while unblocking US channels with Smart DNS. Your IP address is left unchanged.
No need to install or download software. Smart DNS can be configured directly on your device. All you need is access to your device’s network settings.
Some ISPs uses transparent proxies or DNS hijacking. Either method might prevent Smart DNS from functioning properly.
There are quite a few Smart DNS services available. Not all of them help you to unblock ABC outside US. Unlocator allows you to unblock and watch ABC in the UK. You can check the list of 214 channels they allow you to unblock.
So, you can either use VPN or Smart DNS proxy to unblock and watch ABC in the UK. Keep in mind that you still need a valid American cable subscription in order to sign into ABC. Even if you are outside the US.