Jesus' Apostles ordained bishops, who in turn ordained the next generation of bishops. This continuous line of ordination, called the apostolic succession, has continued down to the present day. Thus the authority for the ordination of a new bishop today could theoretically be traced back as far as the individual Apostles -- except that accurate records were not kept in the early decades of Christianity.
The gospel message started in a state of purity. There was a consensus on all beliefs. All of the subsequent heretical movements represented deviations from this initial state.
The Bible describes Jerusalem as being the initial center of Christianity, with James the brother of Jesus at its head.
The book of Acts, Paul's epistles, and others describe Paul as being the main founder and supreme authority of the Gentile churches -- that is of Pauline Christianity. Meanwhile, Jesus' disciples formed the Jewish Christian movement centered in Jerusalem, under the leadership of James, the brother of Jesus.
Peter probably did not write any part of the Christian Scriptures (New Testaments). 1 Peter was probably not written by Peter; 2 Peter certainly was not.
Although churches are mentioned in the Christian Scriptures (as in Revelation 1:4) they are described as independent groups who met in believers' homes. They were apparently not part of a religious organization that is centrally controlled from Rome.
Siricius, who reigned at the end of the 4th century CE, was the first bishop of Rome to be called pope.
Pope Leo I, who reigned from 440 to 461 CE was the first to claim that the bishop of Rome was highest ranking of the bishops of the church.
It took many centuries before the pope could speak for the church. Before that, all decisions affecting Christendom had to be settled by all of the bishops meeting together, as at the Council of Nicea in 325 CE.
The early Pauline congregations were informal faith communities. A formal, hierarchical organization only came much later.
Except for the first few years after Jesus' execution, there was no consensus of belief among Christians. The movement was split into many different groups, each teaching different belief system. The main ones were Gnostic Christianity, Jewish Christianity and Pauline Christianity. Often, there were a number of Christian congregations in the larger cities with competing and conflicting messages.
Matthew 16:18-19: "And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." (King James Version) The Greek word "ekklesia" is translated as church in the King James Version of the Bible. Catholics typically interpret "ekklesia" as referring to a formal church organization. This passage thus assigns Peter the responsibility to begin to assemble a great monolithic religious organization with Peter as its initial head. Many Protestant theologians generally interpret the word as referring to an informal faith community, vaguely similar to today's independent house churches and cell churches. Some liberals interpret this passage as a simple pun without any deeper significance. In Jesus' language, Aramaic or Syro-Chaldaic, the word "Cephas" meant both the name "Peter," and the word "rock." Also the word translated as "this" is more accurately translated as "this very." So the 18th verse could be translated into modern English "...you are Rocky, and upon this very rock I will build my church."
1 Corinthians 3:10-11: "According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon.	For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ." (KJV) This statement by Paul appears to credit himself (and not Peter) as the master builder who has laid the foundation of the church, up on which others are to build further. It contains no reference to Peter's contribution.
Ephesians 2:19-22: "Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints, and of the household of God; And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone; In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord: In whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit." (KJV) This statement by Paul credits all of the Apostles (presumably including himself) and prophets as forming the symbolic foundation of the church, with Jesus Christ being the main corner stone. Peter appears to be considered as simply one Apostle among equals.
1 Peter 2:2-6: "As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby: If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God, and precious, Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded." (KJV) The Catholic church doubts that Peter wrote this epistle, and attributes probable authorship to a disciple of Peter, perhaps Silvanus. 5 It says that all believers form part of a "spiritual house, an holy priesthood," with Jesus as cornerstone. The contribution of Peter appears to be as one believer among many equals.
The original 12 disciples, less Judas plus Matthias (chosen in Acts 1).
all of the Apostles and prophets, with Jesus as cornerstone.
all Christians, with Jesus as cornerstone.
The lack of earlier non biblical references might have been due to those writings having been lost. Very few writings survived from that era. An alternative interpretation is that the concept of Peter founding the Christian church in Rome did not develop until after the middle of the 2nd century CE.
211 CE: Tertullian wrote: "...remember that the Lord left the keys of it to Peter here, and through him to the Church..." ("Antidote Against the Scorpion," 10).
Were leaders in Rome recognized as the head of the Christian religion?
Some ancient letters have been cited as proof of a functioning Pope in Rome who controlled all of Christendom. Some date from the late 1st century to the late 2nd century CE.
80 CE: About 15 years after the executions of Peter and Paul, Clement of Rome wrote a letter to the church at Corinth. He apparently was recommending that the Corinthians expel "a few rash and self-willed persons" who have promoted "abominable and unholy sedition." He asks the church to "Accept our counsel and you will have nothing to regret...If anyone disobey the things which have been said by him [God] through us let them know that they will involve themselves in transgression and in no small danger...You will afford us joy and gladness if being obedient to the things which we have written through the Holy Spirit, you will root out the wicked passion of jealousy" (Letter to the Corinthians 1:1, 58:2-59:1, 63:2). He is claiming to know the will of God and the Holy Spirit. He appears to be write the letter as a Christian leader, much like Paul's letters to the same group at Corinth. But, it is not clear whether he is writing as the supreme authority within Christendom, i.e. as the pope. It is worth noting that Clement seems to have written this document some 8 years before the Roman Catholic church believes that he became pope. If the Church is correct in its dates, then Clement did not write the letter as a pope.
80 CE: Hermas wrote "Therefore shall you [Hermas] write two little books and send one to Clement and one to Grapte. Clement shall then send it to the cities abroad, because that is his duty." (The Shepherd 2:4:3). Clement is described as having the responsibilities of a type of corresponding secretary for the churches "abroad." Again, this letter appears to have been written some 8 years before the Roman Catholic church believes that he became pope.
110 CE: Ignatius of Antioch wrote a letter "...to the church also which holds the presidency, in the location of the country of the Romans, worthy of God, worthy of honor, worthy of blessing, worthy of praise, worthy of success, worthy of sanctification, and, because you hold the presidency in love, named after Christ and named after the Father" (Letter to the Romans 1:1). Ignatius seems to view Christendom as being composed of a number of churches of which the one at Rome is the most important; it holds "the presidency." It makes sense that the Roman congregation would be considered the principal Christian church, early in the 2nd century. It was located at Rome, which was the economic, cultural, educational, and political center of the known world. However, Ignatius' letter says nothing about a single individual, a pope, within the Roman congregation controlling the rest of the the churches.
From the 3rd century onwards, there is a consensus within the Roman Catholic church that each generation of bishops were ordained by previously ordained bishops. The church teaches that the original bishops were ordained by the Apostles, who in turn had been ordained by Jesus. 8 This continuous, unbroken line of ordination from Jesus to modern-day bishops is called the "Apostolic Succession."
Circa 260 CE: Firmilian wrote: "Christ breathed upon the Apostles alone, saying to them, 'Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive any man his sins they shall be forgiven, and if you retain any man's sins they shall be retained.' The power of forgiving sins was given to the apostles and the churches which these men, sent by Christ, established