"Our SAN infrastructure is an open book - easy to read, but next to impossible to duplicate," says Jason Silverglate, CEO and chief architect of the company's storage solution. Silverglate says that his SAN was designed to deliver industry-leading performance with a high-level of reliability. The SAN's design includes redundant head nodes with redundant 10Gbps cards and redundant SAS 6Gbps wide internal SAS paths. The end result is two highly capable volumes that can achieve extremely high read and write speeds.
Jason remarks, "on Volume 1 we are able to achieve 1600MB/s read and 1300MB/s write. Mind you, Volume1 is our low performance Volume... Volume 2, which is our SSD volume can achieve 250,000 IOPS and can easily max out a few 10Gbps circuits."
That speed makes all the difference when it comes to cloud purposed storage and that is what Jason and his team are counting on. Earlier this year, DedicatedNOW partnered with OnApp to launch a managed private cloud solution. The DedicatedNOW private cloud solution allows customers to configure and deploy scalable, redundant hypervisors onto the SAN, connected through a redundant switch stack via multiple gigabit connections both to the Internet and The Company's own internal SAN network.
DedicatedNOW, provides managed dedicated servers and complex hosting solutions to customers in nearly 100 countries. More information about DedicatedNOW's private cloud and SAN technology is available on their website at http://cloud.dedicatednow.com.
For the past seven years, Jason and his team have been building and maintaining complex dedicated server environments for ecommerce companies. "We've learned allot about supporting and maintaining clusters and load balanced setups during that time," says Silverglate. "For starters, scalability is a problem with physical clusters. You can't expand resources at a moment's notice. Servers need to be brought down for upgrades, planning needs to go into making these kinds of changes." With the expansion of cloud technology, many of the constraints within the physical world are done away with.
Jason and his team have been developing their cloud technology for the past two years from the Company's New Jersey based datacenter. A cornerstone of that development has been improving on some of the downfalls of complex hosting. Jason commented on the benefits of the shift to virtualization, "when we move a complex setup to a virtual environment, we lose those physical constraints. We can scale horizontally and vertically and for less money".
Ditlev Bredahl, CEO of OnApp, has worked with FortressITX throughout the development of their cloud. Bredahl remarks, "I'm impressed by the significant investments Fortress has made into their SAN infrastructure. When speaking with our own clients, I often recommend that they take a look at the storage technology that Jason and FortressITX have designed, before investing in their own." Silverglate claims that the Company's SAN storage is capable of performance that most never thought possible in a virtualized environment, due to its unique architecture.
Jason will be presenting his ideas on virtualization at the OnApp booth (#313) on Tuesday, Aug. 9th at 11:45AM and again on Wednesday, Aug. 10th at 12:45PM.
"This merger brings together a unique combination of talents between DedicatedNOW and Solar VPS. Our new company has vast experience with Windows hosting, virtualization, dedicated and managed hosting," said Ross Brouse, former CEO of SolarVPS, who will now serve as COO of the combined company. "We've brought together so many talented individuals whose knowledge we are blending to develop truly unique hosted partner and customer offerings. We have also recruited other top talent from the industry to expand our offerings and reach more customers around the world."
Although there is no change in management or existing server locations, the merger will provide benefits to new and existing customers of both companies. DedicatedNOW customers now have access to world-class Windows web hosting support and virtualization expertise. Additionally, with access to SolarVPS's locations, DedicatedNOW will be offering hosting for new servers in Los Angeles, Dallas and Miami.
SolarVPS can now access DedicatedNOW's resources to sustain and stimulate growth in addition having a place to call home - DedicatedNOW's Clifton, N.J. datacenter. The new company's datacenter has a multi Gigabit bandwidth network accessing all key tier 1 providers, while hosting routers, load balancers, firewalls, Internet servers and switches and accommodating large and small clients.
"I'm excited about the new opportunities that will open up as a result of this move. Both DedicatedNOW and SolarVPS customers will have access to more staff, better resources and a wider product selection. The merger makes both brands stronger, more marketable and sets the foundation for the growth of our cloud hosting division," says Jason Silverglate, CEO.
SolarVPS started in 2005 as a managed Windows Virtual Private Server provider before quickly expanding services to Parallels and linux VPS hosting and spreading to 5 cities around the globe. DedicatedNOW was founded in 1998 and has earned awards for its customer service and managed hosting expertise. Financial considerations were not disclosed.
DedicatedNOW, provides managed dedicated servers to customers in nearly 100 countries. Customers rely on DedicatedNOW for reliable, secure and value-rich services such as dedicated servers, managed hosting, complex hosting, CDN, private clouds and colocation. DedicatedNOW's servers are located in a state-of-the-art data center in Clifton, New Jersey. The Clifton facility houses nearly 5,000 servers in a secured environment, right next door to the Company's corporate headquarters and network operations center. To learn more about DedicatedNOW, please visit http://www.dedicatednow.com.
Founded in 2005, SolarVPS was established to provide next-generation windows and linux vps web hosting services on virtualized infrastructure. With the help of automation and virtualization software, it has quickly become a global hosted application service provider. Through the operation of virtual business infrastructure and strong partnerships with industry leaders, SolarVPS provides a fully automated service platform that enables a focus on personal customer relationships and superior customer support. To learn more about SolarVPS, please visit http://www.solarvps.com.
"I've met the brightest people in the (hosting) industry, here at DedicatedNOW," says Salvatore Poliandro, Director of Information Technology. In recent years, DedicatedNOW has carved out a niche for itself within the managed and complex hosting space. Leaning on its proficiency with Linux clustering, load balancing and managed security, the Company has earned many awards over the years for best in class service.
Current client Chris Azzari says "DedicatedNOW sets the bar high... Just knowing that your site that you have spend countless hours creating and promoting is in good hands is worth its weight in gold." Mr. Azzari's sentiment mirrors that of many DedicatedNOW customers - the support and customer service available with DedicatedNOW are unparalleled in the industry. That level of service has helped DedicatedNOW to earn the business of headliners like AirTran, COMODO, NYU and SpiritAir. "We love what we do and we do it well," says CEO Jason Silverglate.
DedicatedNOW, provides managed dedicated servers to customers in nearly 100 countries. Customers rely on DedicatedNOW for reliable, secure and value-rich services such as dedicated servers, managed hosting, complex hosting, CDN, reseller and colocation. DedicatedNOW's servers are located in a state-of-the-art data center in Clifton, New Jersey. The Clifton, NJ facility houses nearly 5,000 servers in a secured environment, right next door to the Company's corporate headquarters and network operations center.
These will be the companies to look at in 2011.
The awards are based on the mantra: 'Ahead of the rest.' This mantra is well reflected in the award winning plans provided by these companies.
DedicatedNow's high performance managed dedicated servers are setting new standards of reliability and efficiency in the industry. "This award not only highlights DedicatedNow's growth and commitment to excellence, but also continued emergence as a leader in the Managed Hosting and Managed Service industry," said Mr. Shelton Walker, Managing Director, Top10DedicatedHosting.com.
DedicatedNOW's primary datacenter, located in the NY Metro area, has undergone significant improvements over the past year. In addition to improved security, the building recently added a new power sub-station, which provides true redundant power feeds and improved power stability to all of DedicatedNOW's managed hosting and colocation clients.
While DedicatedNOW's commitment to excellence within the managed dedicated server niche has brought them notoriety and awards in recent years, the company will be breaking ground on its cloud hosting offering later this year. "If the company's current success is any indication, the new cloud product should be a real game changer," says Walker.
"This award highlights Online Tech's commitment to proactive professional support and delivering a turnkey colocation experience," said Mike Klein, President and COO of Online Tech.
Online Tech's investment in SAS-70 certification over the last 2 years and its reputation of proactive customer support has propelled Online Tech into a leadership position for enterprise managed colocation and servers.
Online Tech's data centers provide sophisticated power backup systems, high tech security, multiple Tier 1 ISP feeds and redundant Cisco core networks. Other offerings include locked racks, rack and stack services, backup, VPN services and network firewall protection.
Online Tech is a premier Managed Data Center Operator in the Midwe