HomeLight runs the stats on each of the 134 agents in Redding so that you can select the top performing real estate agents. The top 3% Redding agents work with 487 homes and get them sold in 53 days.
Redding, CA has 134 active real estate agents. The average real estate agent in Redding sells about 365 homes and each home spends about 80 days on Redding's housing market. Let's see how the top 3% perform in comparison.
In contrast with the average Redding real estate agent, the top seller's agents sell 310.17 more homes, close deals 26.39 days faster, and earn sellers an extra 9.1% on each home sale.
When compared against the average real estate agent, the top Redding buyer's agents move about 277 properties and save buyers $24,823 on their home purchases.
When is the right time to hire a real estate agent in Redding?
It's going to depend on the temperature of the Redding housing market but we generally recommend that you hire a real estate agent as soon as you're thinking of selling your home. Generally speaking, that's anywhere from 3 to 6 months prior to your desired move date.
How important is it to hire a top real estate agent in Redding?
On average, the top performing 5% of seller's agents generally command a higher selling price (+9%) than the average real estate agent. The top performing 5% of buyer's agents generally save their clients 2.5% more than the average real estate agent at closing. So, whether you're buying or selling your house, your odds of making more money on the transaction are higher if you work with a top performing agent. We encourage you to explore all of your options if you're selling a house in Redding, CA.
Why do I need to hire a licensed real estate agent in Redding?
What is the average real estate agent commission for agents in Redding?
While individual real estate agent commissions do vary, most real estate agents in Redding work for 6% of the home price.
How do I find a real estate agent that specializes in a specific Redding neighborhood?
What are the most important questions to ask when interviewing Redding neighborhood?
We've put together a list of 24 questions to ask your real estate agent. Make sure to ask them of your Redding real estate agent during interviews.
Why should I use HomeLight to find a Redding real estate agent?
HomeLight analyzes all real estate agents in Redding to bring you custom, unbiased, data-driven recommendations. We use actual home sales transaction data to compare Redding real estate agents and will only introduce you to the top performing agents.
Do these Redding real estate agents work for HomeLight?
What factors does HomeLight consider when evaluating real estate agents in Redding?