It should come as no surprise that I’m in the midst of a lifelong love affair with all shades of purple. Lavender, orchid, lilac, mauve, plum, blackberry, and violet are music to my ears…or rather candy to my eyes. You might shy away from purple when it comes to makeup, but I’ve been searching for some of the best shades that are very wearable. Deep plum colors are beautiful for fall, and sheer lilac shades are pretty in spring, but I think many of these shades can be used almost any time of year depending on how you apply them. You can create a look that merely hints at purple, or a full on dark vampy look. For the violet faerie look I styled below I aimed somewhere in the middle of that spectrum.
24-Karat Gold Leaf Tray from Tatcha.
As in all the makeup and skincare products I seek out, I also tried to find purple products that contain as high a percentage of natural ingredients as possible – all of these are also paraben-free and most are free of many other harsh no-good ingredients. And of course, this is but a glimpse of the purple products in my collection (narrowing it down to 20 favorites wasn’t easy!) and I am always looking for more purple … if you have a favorite purple shade of a natural beauty product I’d love to hear about it in the comments below!
Au Naturale Lip Gloss in Wild Lotus – Vegan, free of preservatives, parabens, fragrances, additives, bismuth oxychloride, nano-particles, and sulfates. This gloss gives a vibrant sheer violet orchid color that is beautiful alone or for layering. My favorite purple gloss!
Bite Beauty Cashmere Lip Crème in Burgundy – a deep berry purple cream-to-powder matte lip color. I love this so much! It is so smooth and rich!
Bite Beauty BB for Lips in Dolce – A deep purple sheer tint that acts like a balm. Contains SPF 15. Formulated without parabens, sulfates, phthalates.
Vapour Organic Beauty Siren Lipstick in Vibe 411 – a rich violet lipstick with subtle shimmer highlights. Made with 70% Organic ingredients and 30% natural mineral pigments.
Rituel de Fille Forbidden Lipstick in Against Nature – a bold fuchsia purple that delivers a punch of color with matte velvet texture.
Rituel de Fille Forbidden Lipstick in Hex – A unique cool tone lilac lipstick with matte opaque coverage. Handcrafted in the USA with natural ingredients.
Burt’s Bees Tinted Lip Balm in Sweet Violet – Just a hint of violet color with nourishing botanicals.
Everyday Minerals Mineral Eyeliner in Purple Rain – A rich vibrant plum violet with a matte finish. This can be used as an eyeliner or an intense shadow. It really packs a punch, plus it is all natural.
Alima Pure Luminous Shimmer Eyeliner in Black Cherry – A shimmery deep mauvey plum. This also can be used as an eyeliner (with wet brush) or dry as a shadow.
Alima Pure Pearluster Eyeshadow in Orchid – This is one of my favorites, and its limited edition! A soft glowing fuchsia violet with super fine shimmer.
Ofra Eye Shadow in Lilac – Super intense matte lilac pressed eyeshadow. Case has a little mirror under the pan inside which flips up.
jane iredale PurePressed Eye Shadows in Pink Bliss – a trio of shimmery cool tone baby pink, matte burgundy/brown/mauve, and ecru.
jane iredale Mystikol in Amethyst – a double ended product with a pinky mauve highlighter on one side and a deep purple powdered eyeliner on the other.
tarte skinny smolderEYES Amazonian Clay Waterproof Liner in Deep Amethyst – This is a great pencil for creating a dramatic purple cat eye, or just adding a small hint of violet at the lash line.
100% Pure Fruit Pigmented Mascara in Blackberry – This is my favorite brand of mascara currently and this dark purple/brown shade is perfection!
Julep Polish in Gayle – A classic deep aubergine crème polish. One of my absolute favorites any time of year. 4-free.
Priti NYC Polish in Empress Tree – An opaque pastel lavender. 5-free.
Pacifica Nail Polish in Drift – A very unique dusty grey purple. Vegan, 7-free.
Côte in No. 85 – A raspberry sherbet, mauvey rose violet shade with a hint of shimmer. So in love with this one! A 5-free polish blend that is made in the united states, cruelty–free, vegan, FDA approved.
Rituel de Fille Inner Glow Cream Blush in Desire – a most unique shade of dusty mauve with just a hint of plum. Non greasy and long-wearing. Plus isn’t this sleek little compact enchanting!?
My Violet Faerie look includes: Bite Beauty Cashmere Lip Crème in Burgundy with Au Naturale Lip Gloss in Wild Lotus layered over it. Tarte skinny smolderEYES Amazonian clay waterproof liner in deep amethyst to draw wings, with Everyday Minerals powder liner in purple rain on outer corners, Alima Pure eye shadow in orchid dusted over whole lid and lightest shade of jane iredale PurePressed eye shadow trio on brow bone, 100% pure fruit pigmented mascara in black berry. Violette Vine headpiece by Violette & Iris.
« October Julep Maven Box!