Do you feel like going out and enjoying a drink at one of Perth’s great bars, but don’t want to leave the dog at home? Here are some great bars/pubs to take your furry friend along to.
With both undercover and open air seating options this is a great place to visit with your dog year round.
If the water bowls scattered around the floor weren’t invitation enough, I can confirm this new Burswood brewery is dog friendly. Their spacious outdoor area is a beautiful spot to relax on a summer’s day with one of their many delicious beers in hand. The food and beer alone should be enough to draw you here, but if not, just take a look at how well this place has been decked out!
You may have figured out by now from Henry’s Summer Instagram page, this Northbridge jungle (aka bar) is dog friendly. For those that haven’t been, the reason I call it a jungle is because this place is absolute plant heaven!
The Stanley is a super quirky bar located next to Flipside Burgers in Wembley. For those who didn’t know – you can order a burger to get delivered to you at the bar. Perfect combo! They don’t seem to advertise this so many probably don’t know that the whole bar, inside and out is dog friendly!
With a cute outdoor area to sit and enjoy a refreshing drink in Subi, Refuge Small bar is a relaxing place to bring your pooch along to.
I love this laneway bar with all its quirkiness and board games to play. Being able to bring your dog here makes it all the better!
A beautiful spot on the waterfront to enjoy lunch and a drink with your best friend.
Freo’s favourite brewery has an outdoor dog friendly section.
Another option if you’re heading to the Swan Valley is Ugly Duckling Wines. You can see from their Instagram they they make it known that they are a dog friendly venue.
Want to know more dog friendly places to visit in Perth? Check out my other blog on my Top 10 Dog Friendly Cafes in Perth.
Do you know of any other good bars/pubs that are dog friendly in Perth? Let me know in the comments below.