Oh wow--I just turned my head for a second and boom my screen changed.
Good morning, Shelley. Hello there, appy.
Good morning Appy, Happy Independence Day. How is the day celebrated there in India?
a tribute to Mother India..Vandhematharam in my you tube...you can enjoy the beat and rhythm of it even if you dont understand the meaning of it..A.R.Rehman is enjoyable in any language..
Good morning all! Mixed day today. Have a great one!
Good MAEN It looks like the horse is laughing.
Shelley - that Ian is hard to beat!!
everyone - wish we would hear from our old friend Sweta fron India someday.
Morning all, Happy Independence Day to India - and Pakistan too, I believe. Meant to post that on yesterday's page because it was the right date here - but..... sleep got in the way!
I must not have had enough coffee yet. World time is confusing this morning. Some are celebrating the 16th, but here it is the 15th.
So I don't know if I am giving a birthday wish or a belated one.
Anyway, Happy Birthday to Angie in Wisconsin and Eve in Oregon.
I think there's a bit of horseplay going on there!!
It feels great starting the day with a good laugh.
Or he could be screaming for his breakfast. I would like to think he is laughing.
Bienvenido a Ruth from Donostia!
to Angie from Wisconsin & Eve from Oregon (who's now safely in CA, we hope!) I didn't have Eve on my birthday list Karen, thanks for the heads up!
Happy Birthday, EVE and ANGIE! Stay cool and have a good one!
Have a great day everyone, I'm off to work and will check back in on the days hijinks later tonight.
I hope you both have a wonderfully special day!
Appy, best wishes as you celebrate your Independence Day!
It appears the Sudokuland book reviewers are on vacation this week. Only 7 people voted, but since this is just a practice run, I guess it doesn't matter.
happy birthday to angie and eve. hope you both have a wonderful day.
and TODAY is going to be the birthday of our new grandson 'roary anthony'!!! got the call at 6am this morning. labor is starting to be hard and fast. i will let you all know when he FINALLY arrives!!!!
What did Wilbur say that was so funny?
Good to see you appy, Enjoy your celebration.
Angie! Will we be celebrating at 'you-know-who's' place tonight? I'll bring some bubbly.
Angie (Wisconsin): Oops! You're not the Angie I thought you were - but I certainly wish you a happy birthday!
hi there Jeb..funny?? mmmm, perhaps this??
Happy Independence Day to all of our friends from India.
Eve and Angie....Happy Birthday to you both. May it be a great beginning of many birthdays yet to come.
and horses have never hurt anyone yet, except when they bet on them.