Between 2003 and 2015, thousands of U.S. soldiers deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan were issued Dual-Ended Combat Arms™ Earplugs (CAEv2). Throughout those 12 years, the U.S. military paid the 3M Company millions of dollars for its earplugs. Unfortunately, the manufacturer failed to disclose defects associated with the product, which has resulted in hearing loss and other issues.
If you’ve experienced hearing loss or tinnitus due to using 3M Combat Arms earplugs during deployment or training, our Los Angeles product liability attorney at Shoop | A Professional Law Corporation is committed to helping service members recover their entitled financial compensation. Attorney David Shoop was enlisted in the U.S. Army and served overseas in Germany, which is why he is outraged at the fact 3M provided our service members with defective earplugs. Let our firm protect your rights and best interests.
Why Were the Earplugs Defective?
These selective attenuation earplugs were dual-ended (one olive side and one yellow side)—with each side offering a specific form of noise protection. One end was used as a traditional earplug and the other provided more protection from explosions and gunfire while providing normal hearing.
But according to court documents, these earplugs were too short and could be easily loosened in the user’s ear, exposing him/her to damaging noises that lead to hearing loss and tinnitus (i.e. ringing in the ears). The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) claims approximately 60 percent of all service members report hearing problems after leaving the military and over 2.6 million veterans are receiving disability compensation for hearing loss and tinnitus.
In July 2018, 3M agreed to pay $9.1 million to the U.S. military to settle the matter as a result of violating the False Claims Act. The company and its predecessor, Aearo Technologies, allegedly knew about the design defects in 2000 after the product failed numerous safety tests.
The lawsuit was brought under the whistleblower provision, allowing private parties to sue on behalf of the government if the defendant submitted false claims for government funding. The whistleblower, Moldex-Metric, Inc., was awarded $1,911,000.
Service members who were affected by this defective product can now file individual lawsuits to obtain monetary damages for personal injuries, pain and suffering, and loss of enjoyment in life. Our legal team can assess your case, listen to your concerns, and determine all your available legal options. Do not hesitate to get the justice and compensation you deserve today.
Contact us and discuss your case with our Los Angeles product liability attorney for more information today.