I've had a few enquiries about my personal life.
I am single, in good health, heterosexual and support Marriage Equality (Gay Marriage). I am not vegan/vegetarian. I am a light meat eater, mostly fish. I believe all life should be respected and that plants are 'alive'.
Anyone can be creative. Without it we couldn't adapt to a new situation or the unknown. I worked for more than a decade as a Music and Arts therapist in Australia in the 1980's with traumatised teens and adult professionals. Part of the work was to conduct clinical research into 'Creativity' to formalise therapeutic use in Public Health systems across the globe.
The images from the CybaFaeries and WolfDragons CD come from my Sami family culture. Sami, sometimes referred to as indigenous Europeans or Fairy's, come from the northern Norway / Sweden / Finland area going back some 8000 years BCE.
My family language of Northern Sami was illegal for 200 years up until 1958.
80min feature documentary about the underground dance style called the MELBOURNE SHUFFLE from 1990-2010, by Garry Shepherd.
This is the first set in a new Art Print collection called URBAN, based on still video images taken around Melbourne Australia in the early 1990's.
I'm currently preparing a set of prints for sale thru Imagekind, which I'm planning to have published on this site with links to the print order site, within the next week or so.
The images are from Video footage I took in the early-mid 1990's around Melbourne and are being enhanced with video colour processing. I used this camera (pic below) mostly, a Panasonic MS1, SuperVHS, seen here below retired to my Nicholas Building display case 2005 - With dust and grunge on the case glass which I should of cleaned off before taking the pic :-) I've removed the camera shell to show the tape transport mechanism.
They are still frames, which is kinda odd, seeing as video essentially captures motion. Normally you'd use a stills camera to take still photos.
CybaFaeries and WolfDragons Album Now Released !
The new CybaFaeries and Wolfdragon album by Garry Shepherd has now been formally released.