I met with Secretary of the Air Force Heather Wilson to discuss the Administration’s ongoing reforms to the national security space enterprise. The 5th Congressional District of Colorado is the epicenter of national defense space, and I had a productive conversation on everything Colorado Springs has to offer, including coming decisions on topics such as where U.S. Space Command will be located.
I was honored to have met the brave Navy Seal who killed Osama Bin Laden. I’m thankful for his service and sacrifice to our country.
On March 23rd I had the privilege of presenting awards to the winners of the Congressional Art Competition here in the Fifth District. I've been amazed at the great artistic talents of the young people in the Colorado Fifth Congressional District over the years of judging the competition. This gives me the chance to meet the best and brightest young men and women of the District. This year we recognized the teachers of the students, as they're the primary shapers of our young people's artistic talent. The art competition provides us with a wonderful opportunity to showcase the abilities of our District's brilliant young artists to the rest of the nation. Once the winners have been selected by a local panel of professional artists, the Grand Prize winner's art displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year. It's always a joy to walk by the artwork of our young students and admire their hard work and artistic ability I look forward to seeing the work of this year's winner displayed alongside that of other brilliant young artists from across America.
I was honored to receive the True Blue Award from the Family Research Council. Consistently voting pro-life and pro-family is important to me.
Rep. Lamborn rallied for Jack Phillips today while the Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission case. Jack doesn’t violate any proper understanding of nondiscrimination laws. He serves all people, but declines some requests for custom cakes that conflict with his faith. That is not a form of unlawful discrimination, but a legitimate exercise of his artistic and religious freedom.
Rep. Lamborn and Rep. Lee Zeldin (NY-01) join Stuart and Robbi Force, the parents of Taylor Force, whom H.R. 1165 was named for after his murder by Palestinian Authority funded terrorism. The Palestinian Authority allocates hundreds of millions of dollars annually to pay terrorists to murder innocent Israelis and Americans. The bill is an important first step in ending U.S. tax dollars from supporting terrorists who kill innocents like Taylor.
After nearly two years, the Mueller report is now available to the public, and it shows NO collusion between the Trump Campaign and Russia. It is time to move away from the false collusion allegations that stem from the Democrats and the media. I voted to make the report public because I believe the government should be transparent, and my constituents deserve to read the findings of the report. I hope this will finally end all of the partisan games so we may focus on our jobs, and continue with the legislative agenda to better our country.
I applaud the Senate for confirming Colorado native David Bernhardt as the next Secretary of the Interior. I believe Bernhardt will continue to use his vast experience to remove burdensome federal regulations and advance policies that will benefit Colorado.