Today, that quote means more to me than ever. You see, since I started consulting in 2007, I’ve gotten on an early morning flight almost every Monday morning (besides when I was in business school). Well, today I’m not on a plane, and I’m not getting on one.
I have left my job. I am no longer a management consultant. And you have no idea how hard – and scary – it is for me to even type those words. I’ve been a consultant for my entire adult life, and (although I don’t recommend this) it had become a big part of “who I was.” As I mentioned in this post, I kind of chose my job because everyone else at my college wanted an offer from my company, and I was fortunate enough to get it. So, I figured it must be great. Over the years, I was fortunate to realize that it was great – I learned so much about business and the way various companies operate, got such amazing opportunities and responsibilities, and met such incredible people.
As of today, I am taking action. I am making a promise to myself to go confidently in the direction of my dreams, and to live the life I have imagined. And I will appreciate and enjoy every single moment of it.
So tell me in the comments … Have you ever left a job? What’s the scariest thing you’ve ever admitted to yourself? What can you do to make your life a little bit better today?
Wow Megan! I’m so so proud of you! That is a great and huge step in following your dreams. It may not be comfortable right now and actually quite scary but I know you are finally doing what you want to do! I know how scary being jobless is and that is awesome that at least you have a view. It is hard to know what to do sometimes – and you have done an AMAZING job! Good luck I know this is the start to a wonderful a new journey for you!
Thank you so much for the support and encouragement, Sara! I’ve been busy researching all kind of fun stuff like how to register/ license a business, how to pay taxes when you’re self employed, and brushing up on my marketing, so the fear was far greater when I was actually trying to work up the courage to quit!
My long comment just deleted thanks to airport wifi gah! I’ll try to retype it.
MEGAN! I could NOT be more proud of you. You know how I feel about taking risks and pursuing your dreams so I am so onboard with your choice. And don’t think for a second that you could ever disappoint your readers. You are by far one of the most impressive person and blogger I know. Your courage and strength to take the leap makes you even more so.
2014 is going to bring amazing things for you. I have no doubt about this! So excited to follow your journey. Know that I am always here to bounce ideas off of or to just talk through the scariness of it all. I SO get it.
p.s. I just read this to Curt and he said “damnnnn girl!”. That’s his way of saying you’re incredible, and I could not agree more!
Your support and encouragement means the world to me. Your comment was incredibly flattering and heartfelt – and then ended with a laugh … the perfect comment in my mind! I know that you know the exact mix of excitement/ fear/ relief that I feel, and I’m excited for us to help each other along on this fun journey!
Amazing…..so enjoyed this! Even happier that you were my “Elf” and now will have time to share all your knowledge! Bring it on, as I need all the help I can get!
Thank you, Janet! I’m excited to keep sharing some of my knowledge here – and if you ever have specific questions, feel free to ask!
Wow Megan! I’m reading this post and I’m smiling from ear to ear because I am so happy and excited for you! It is so rare to find people that let go of their current comforts(good job, status, etc.) and go for their dreams. You are a true inspiration! I hear way too many people say, “I will do it one day” or “next year” or “when the timing is right”. Those are the same people that are in the same place 15+ years later and wish they would of pursued their dreams when they had the energy, passion, and drive. You are young and the world is yours. Enoch and I could not be more proud of you!
My first job out of school was with GE healthcare and I was 1 out of 8 selected for a prestigious 2 year engineering rotational program. Long story short, I hated my job, barely slept, and was so stressed that I lost weight and my hair was thinning. When I told my family and friends I wanted to quit they didn’t support it at all, the only one who supported it was Enoch. They kept telling me it would get better, but it didn’t. I felt that if I quit I would disappoint a lot of people. One thing Enoch told me and to this day is the best advice I’ve ever received is, you can’t worry about what people will think (yes, this is easier said than done 😉 ). They will have their opinions but you can’t let that affect your decision. I quit my job 4 months later and felt a huge sense of relief. When I told the head of the program I was quitting she first tried to convince me not to, but eventually she realized my decision was made and I would not budge. Funny thing is when I handed her my letter of resignation the 50+ year old woman said she wished she had as much courage at my age to have quit her job. She admitted how she has not been happy for the 30+ years she has worked there. Quitting that job gave me the opportunity to find a different field of engineering that I was more passionate about and actually enjoyed. I will say that if it wasn’t for Enoch being my rock and supporting my decision 100%, that decision would have been a lot more difficult to make. We are very lucky to have the partners we have in our lives that support our decisions and dreams.
Following your heart and dreams is worth every risk. Looking forward to following your journey. I know it will be a success!
Ps: Love the above picture of you. You are glowing with happiness.
Thank you so much for sharing your story, Angela. My father-in-law wrote me to say that your comment was so insightful and spot-on to my situation, and I agree! It’s SO nice to hear about people who were in similar situations and went with their heart, because (like you say) so many others don’t end up doing so. Also … your text yesterday morning meant so much! It was before many of the comments came in, so I wasn’t sure how people were going to react, and it was exactly what I needed. See you guys soon!
I’m going to stop letting fear of failure stop me and go confidently in the direction of my dreams. I admire you and hope to find it in me to live the life I imagine!
I hope you find it in you, too, Jill. Honestly just taking the leap is so freeing and wonderful! Get out there and do what you need to do for your happiness!
Ah Megan, my heart is so full as I read this post that I know I won’t be able to articulate everything I am feeling. I am so, so, SO happy for you. Not because I didn’t think you COULD live a healthy life while having a demanding job, but because it wasn’t what you WANTED to do, so you’re not doing it anymore. I can tell that you are so passionate and so driven, and I can only imagine how wonderful you were at your job. Yes, I admired (and continue to admire) you IMMENSELY for keeping the schedule that you did. But I admire you even more for taking this step. I’ve never had a job as demanding as yours, but I have loved people who certainly did. And let me tell you, all the money and prestige in the world really doesn’t make up for the time lost when that kind of job becomes your world.
You are going to be AMAZING in whatever you choose to do. Absolutely amazing. .
Amy, thank you SO much for your support. I admit that you were one of the “blends” I worried most about, since you’ve always been so nice to comment on how much I was balancing and are incredibly successful yourself. But hearing your kind words makes me even more relieved than I already was. And thank you for already helping me get up to speed on the corporate wellness industry by sending over the article today!
I AM SO HAPPY FOR YOU!!! we must catch up!
Thank you so much, Clare! Your support means a ton! And YES – I would love to catch up and hear about all the great things going on in your life. Give me a call or shoot me an email anytime!
Megan – I am SO incredibly happy for you and cannot wait to see what the coming weeks, months and years bring! While I am sad we will no longer see your smiling face around the office, I hope to see even more of you in Dallas!!!
Thank you so much for your email and this comment, Dawn! I really appreciate your support. So happy to have a yoga teacher friend close by :).
Thank you so much for your support, Maegan! I really appreciate it! Looking forward to being an SO with you, and would love to grab lunch sometime!
I am so proud and happy for you!! I know how scary it is, especially not having “it all figured out” but ultimately our number one priority is AND should be our happiness. Thank you for being such an inspiration.
ps. You look absolutely gorgeous!!
Thank you SO much for your support, Amy. I know you know how it feels! I’m excited to help each other figure things out this year. I know it’s going to be a great one for both of us!
Thank you so much, Jillienne! I hope you DO have enough guts to go for what makes you truly happy! It took me several years, but it’s never too late. I appreciate your support!
I am so thrilled and excited to be reading this – you have been hinting and poking, and I knew it was coming especially from one of your comments on my blog.
It sure IS scary – and while all of those people who will tell you ‘this is the time in your life to do things like this’ are right … that doesn’t make it any LESS scary!
And I have two opinions on the ‘you seem happy’ thing: first off this just means you are a good employee, keeping on a brave face as you work through things, only revealing your dissatisfaction to those like your husband or family. It is also one of those key phrases you never use with a depressed person because it ends up having the opposite e