Lendly Pty Ltd (ABN 57 108 502 745) and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“we”, “our”, “us”, “Lendly”) collects and uses data related to your online activity using cookies and other related technologies to deliver and improve our websites, to display relevant content, products, services and advertising. This policy provides information about how and why we do this.
In this policy, “our website” refers to all information, services, text, graphics and other data contained under the domain names lendly.com.au and “you” or “your” refers to the person accessing our websites.
'First party cookies' are those cookies that come from Lendly’s server, that we set up on your computer or other devices.
'Third party cookies' are those that are stored by a different domain than Lendly and are set up on our behalf. We can access the cookies for activities such as advertising or tracking the performance of ads on other websites. These cookies may also be required to show certain forms, such as the submission of a job application, or to allow for some advertising outside of the Lendly website.
'Performance cookies' are cookies that collect information about how you have used the website so that less strain is placed on our backend infrastructure. These cookies may also be used to allow us to know that you have logged in so that we can serve you fresher content than a user who has never logged in. The information collected is used to improve how the website works. For example, they collect information about which pages visitors go to most often and help Lendly to provide a better user experience on our website.
'Functionality cookies' are cookies that allow us to tailor the website to you to provide enhanced features and content for you and to remember how you’ve customised the website in other ways. The information these cookies collect may be anonymous, and they are not used to track your browsing activity on other sites or services.
'Strictly necessary cookies' are essential in order to enable you to move around the website and access its features. Without these cookies, not all features are visible or available to be used.
4. How do we use them?
Lendly uses third parties and their cookies to provide certain services on our websites. For example, we use analytics services to collect visitor information so that we can better understand how to improve our products and services for you. Third parties may place a cookie (either on our behalf or their own cookie) on your device and uses the collected data and information to evaluate the use of our website and to provide online reports, which show the activities on our website, and to provide other services concerning the use of our website for us. Information collected includes your IP address, location of the device being used and frequency of use of the website. Additionally, Lendly may embed content from other websites which may present cookies from these websites. We do not control these third-party cookies and their use may be governed by the privacy policies of the third parties employing these cookies. To learn about these cookies and to disable or reject third-party cookies, please refer to the relevant third party’s website.
6. How long will cookies stay on my computer or device?
7. How can I stop using cookies?