One of the most popular series of posts, along with the Empaths & Sensitive Series, are my posts on the Black Madonna, Sophia, and the Mysteries of the deep, re-emerging Feminine.
Many of the posts at Sophia’s Children arise out of my Persephone-and-Inanna-like initiation journeys — the Via Feminina — and remembering and re-embodying the Sacred Feminine, and all that that entails and creates.
But there is also a collection of posts where I’ve written specifically about the Black Madonna, Sophia, Lilith, Magdalene, and others.
So here’s a new index to many (if not all) of these posts on my experience (so far) in being called into deep remembering and re-embodying of the deep Feminine Mysteries, Sophia, and the Black Madonna.
You’ll find a couple of short excerpts from Black Madonna & Great She posts, and then you’ll see a whole list of posts if you’re really looking to stir your remembrance!
Mentor-Coaching and Wise Guides Apprentices also receive select audio programs from my Feminine Mojo Mystery School archive.
If you have questions or would benefit in your own journey of awakening to have a ‘been there’ journey guide and mentor, just let me know (send along an email to info ‘at’ sophias-children ‘dot’ com).
Featured Image Credit: Our Lady of Guadalupe shrine in a New York City taqueria. Image by Jamie Walters. Use it with citation and a link to this post.
Funny that I was looking around the web into ‘deep estorics’, and I came across a photo I loved. when I clicked on it, it sent me to your blog.
Of all the blogs in all the world, yours happens to speak to me!! as it always does.
I love your organization! You’ve inspired me to organize my postings better!
Oh yes, yes, yes and it’s taken many situations to keep throwing me off so I catch onto the lesson 😉 I HAVE to make this a daily ritual. If not.. I cannot function and I’m very confused. Affected. Sick. All sorts of stuff!
I’m glad you’re enjoying Sophia’s Children, Trina. It seems a ‘sync’ for sure (having read some of your posts as well!). Your posts did come through, by the way (I’ll email that to you as well, just so you know).
You’re right about the daily rituals, lest we get really thrown off by the unhelpful energy. Those symptoms … ill-feeling, confused (foggy, spacey), etc. are often also symptoms of energy or psychic attach (witting or unwitting) and just not-so-good energy. And we’re empath-sensitives ‘in the world’ as they say, so it’s good to have the roster of practices to help with that.
Re your ‘education’ in dealing with Narcissists, you’ll see a couple of good posts here (in the Empath Series List), including one called “5 ways a narcissist gets in your head” (shared from a sister blog) … you’ll recognize the ‘tactics’. And it really is an education. I found it the same way.
But I realized that there was also something ‘too familiar’ about it, and I realized I’d grown up with it and it had just become ‘normal’ … until I realized while it may have been ‘normal’ it wasn’t healthy. And off we go to uncondition and shift into healthier, more self-respecting relating.
Thanks again for adding your voice and story to the conversation here!
Hello Jamie 💓 Yes, when I feel spacey lately I say, “I release all of which isn’t mine and return it to the source of its origin. I return it to the divine light of all that is. So it is, so it is, so it is.” Also, I envision my feet on grass or earthy ground, and I saw “I am coming fully into my body. I am fully present.” Sometimes I’m not fully anchored in my body. I tend to travel alot in my sleep!
Yes I did see the articles on narcissists by the lady 🙂 and all the behaviors is correct, I noticed them with my ex years ago and with the one in Philly. I had NO idea this was narcissism. I just quickly realized there was emotional abuse going on with the Philly guy. And alot of protection. And denial. I always thought narcissism meant vanity, like she said. So it was interesting to educate myself! And yes! Codependents tend to be empaths, or empaths tend to be Codependents and we learn it from childhood – wanting to please everyone and make everything better. It’s part of our nature to want to help everyone. But it stems from a parent who is narcissistic and/or the other parent being the codependent. Yes, my parents played the dance. Thank you for sharing your story with me too 💜 Are you on Facebook or Google+? Any other way to share info and inspirations? You can find me if you’d like – Trina Otero on Facebook, Google+.. Cheers!
Oh this is delicious. Thank you.