The sun slowly sinks in the sky, touching the spot where the water meets the sky in a spectacular blast of colors. No Instagram filter needed here! Bring the ohana – family – and experience these amazing sunsets for yourself from the private lanai of Poipu Palms 302.
Inside, you’ll find new furnishings and new wood laminate flooring. Open and airy, the fully-equipped kitchen has everything you’ll need for meal prep, including coffee and condiments. Having the ocean right out the kitchen window while your cooking doesn’t hurt either!
Sit down for meals at the 4-person dining table, with room for 2 more at the kitchen bar. The oceanfront views continue in the living room, where floor-to-ceiling patio doors let the outside in. Crash on the couch or armchair, doing a little channel surfing on the flat-screen TV with cable.
Both bedrooms have fun tropical décor, queen beds and en-suite bathrooms, ideal for two couples traveling together. You also get all the comforts of home with amenities like Wi-Fi, washer and dryer, linens and beach towels and starter kit of paper and cleaning supplies.
1. Sea Turtles, Dolphins and Whales…Oh My!: Grab a front-row seat on the private lanai to an amazing show. From your perch on the top floor, you’ll see turtles and dolphins play in the waves year round, and humpback whales swim through the area in the winter months.
2. Upscale Pool and Deck: Clear your schedule…you’re going to want to spend all day soaking up the sun on the gorgeous deck with multiple levels, tiki hut and lounge chairs. Splash down in the plunge pool to cool off with the waves of the Pacific rolling in the background.
3. Quiet Condo Complex: Part of the intimate Poipu Palms community, the condo is one of 12 and sits on the top floor for privacy, peace and quiet.
Gather up the beach chairs, umbrellas and sand toys and walk the 10 minutes down to pretty Poipu Beach. If you’ve got enough stuff for an army, pack up the car instead and make the quick 2-minute drive.
If you want to get the blood pumping, hike the Maha'ulepu Heritage Trail, which is chock full of amazing photo stops perfect for Instagramming. Adrenaline junkies will love zip lining, aerial obstacle courses and a wide variety of watersports.
The building from the street view looks a little dated. The unit itself is very nice. It is updated and fresh. Very clean. The rear wood deck is beautiful tropical hard wood.The view is spectacular. You feel like you are on the water. --- Mahalo, Ben!
Balkony, Location, Pool and View are wonderful! Apartment could have been cleaner, still we had a very nice stay!
Poipu Palms 302 is just as advertised - lovely views out into a cove (we watched a lot of sea turtles and even saw a few spinner dolphins passing through). There are effectively two suites, which gave us plenty of room to spread out and would give two couples enough privacy. The lanai and living room were wonderful places to relax. An easy walk (0.5 mi) to the Grand Hyatt (several restaurants and a beach) or Brenneckes Bar (laid back) and beach-front park. Everything was clean and the kitchen had everything we needed for breakfast, lunches or a simple dinner. The condo was in a quiet area - no noisy neighbors and (somehow!) none of the roosters Kauai is infamous for. GVR is great to work with - very responsive and helped with a few special requests.
My friend had a medical emergency the day after we arrived, and my attempts to reach 911 didn't work; I'm not sure why. Not knowing what else to do, I called the GVR office to explain what was happening, and Janie (I think it was Janie) stayed on the line with me while contacting the paramedic squad. Within 5 minutes, the emt crew was there, and shortly after that, Mark arrived to ask if there was anything he or GVR could do. That gesture meant a great deal. He stayed for at least half an hour, to make sure we were OK. Thank goodness my friend recovered and we were able to enjoy the rest of our vacation. Everyone at GVR was so friendly and helpful, and genuinely interested in making our stay a pleasant one. MANAGER RESPONSE: We are so glad that everything worked out for your friend. What a scary experience! Glad we could help in anyway possible. We hope to see you again!
We enjoyed everything about the property! The location is superb; the amenities (including the wonderful-smelling toiletries!) are great. Having dishwasher detergent and Tide pods supplied was a plus. The lovely dishes added so much ambiance with their colorful fish and ocean design. The balcony was perfectly situated to allow the best ocean view, and we spent many relaxing hours there, just watching the waves come and go. Very peaceful and quiet! MANAGER RESPONSE: Mahalo! We hope to see you again soon!
Very impressed. Bruce was my "goto" guy and was very attentive and responsive. We had one issue that was NOT related to the property itself or GVR but a different property manager on a unit below ours. I contacted Bruce and he instantly got things resolved and came up with a resolution. It was over and beyond what I expected.
This property is very well equipped with little amenities that made it very special. The furnishings and condition of this rental is extremely nice. It will be a great pleasure to any and all who stay here.
Our stay at Puipo Palms was great! The location was unbeatable with awesome views. The pool, though small, was never crowded and has beautiful ocean views. You could hear and see the waves crashing (and sea turtles swimming!) right from the patio. The beach was an easy 5 minute drive with easy parking or 10-15 minute walk. The beach was great for snorkeling (we even swam with sea turtles and saw the monk seals playing in the water 20 feet from us!) The waves can be intense but this beach is well protected and great for kiddos though not crowded. Breneckes restaurant right across the street had the best lunch and drinks! There are plenty of shops and other restaurants another 5 minutes down the road. The only complaint we had is that one of the beds is so firm we opted to sleep on the couch instead. The other bed, though softer, squeaked and sagged a little. We informed the hosts and they came out and looked at them. They did some adjusting to the bed that squeaked and we didn't have any trouble after that but we still didn't sleep on the firm one. If you're looking for a place to stay with awesome beds, this might not be the one for you. The internet was also a little spotty if you had more than a couple devices connected. Otherwise the apartment was clean and the kitchen was well stocked, complete with a blender. The only thing we were missing was a coffee grinder and they brought us one right away when we asked. They provide a list of farmers markets to attend and great reference books for what to do on the island. We would definitely stay in Poipu again!
Lovely stay. We had a great surprise when we saw the pool. You should promote it in the property description.
The view is unbelievable! we saw dolphins and sea turtle right out the balcony.
Never actually spoke to them personally, just emailing back and forth. Great response from everyone with answers to my questions, etc. And I asked about a possible early check in because we were going to arrive early- I was about to call and actually got a text that it was ready. Great timing!!
Beautiful spot, close to the beach and short drive to shopping/restaurants. Nice and clean and well stocked with everything you need. Great lanai to just sit and watch the ocean. Very comfortable beds and lots of room. Lots of fans and the set up of the windows lets the air move around the condo nicely- never got hot inside! Pool area was adequate- not a large pool, but nice to take a dip in -I'd rather be at the beach anyway ;) Overall excellent stay!!
Great location and price. Right on the water and right up the street from Poipu beach. Had everything you needed in a rental and was very comfortable. GVR was great at communicating check in info and making sure we had everything we needed. Highly recommend staying here.
Excellent stay with all amenities included. Lots of kitchen utensils and beach gear, the staff have definitely thought of everything so you can have a worry-free vacation and feel at home.
Each team member was extremely helpful. They answered all of my questions promptly and with a positive attitude. They were all very friendly.
As always, our stay in Poipu Palms was excellent. We enjoyed the beautiful views and the great condo. We were impressed with the amenities available such as shampoos, conditions, soap (which smelled wonderful), toilet paper, paper towels, etc. The staff was extremely helpful with making sure we had everything we needed and were comfortable. This was our first trip with our daughter (she is 1) and this area was perfect. We were able to have a pak n play delivered to use before we even arrived, enjoyed taking her to the newly remodeled pool area which was great and was even able to do a late checkout which was so very helpful with hour daughter. I enjoyed the welcoming and departing text messages-very thoughtful!!! We will be back soon :) MANAGER'S RESPONSE: I am so glad that you enjoyed your stay with us. Our goal is to be sure our guests are enjoying themselves while staying with us. I hope you get an opportunity to come back and stay with us again someday -- and bring you daughter!!!
This team was amazing. I tend to have a lot of questions and want to make sure every box is checked, and sometimes rechecked. They were so helpful and always responded in a timely manor. I loved that they texted me as soon as we landed that our condo was ready for us to check in and to let me know what number to contact if I had any more questions. MANAGER RESPONSE: Mahalo for your review! So happy to hear that you enjoyed your stay. Also, it i nice to hear that our texting service is helpful. It is sort of new for us and we love it! Hope to see you again soon.
This prope