7 Household Items With Major Home Remedy Power - The Co.
I’ve done it. Wrestled the kids, got them into the car or stroller, waited in line at the walk-in clinic because I couldn’t get in at the doctor’s. Found out there is a two-hour wait, returned home, unpacked the kids, only to return two hours later to be told my kids just need a bit of saline for their stuffy nose or honey to treat their cough. I would much rather treat common ailments with home remedies when medically advisable than take my kids out unnecessarily. I have since taken to the nurses line when it seems like a common cold and used natural remedies under their consult. Because I’ve had such success with the above mentioned natural remedies, when Meredith Hale, a favourite blogger of mine, announced she had written an A-Z Guide of Quick and Easy Natural Cures, I jumped at the chance to review it.
Having poured over the contents of the books several times now, I must say, the book is incredibly comprehensive, beautiful, informative, and pragmatic. Common ailments are listed from A-Z, each being given two-page coverage showcasing a handful of natural remedies and suggestions on when to see the doctor. The photos are bright accents to the recommended ingredients on each page; the home remedies are described in tangible terms; and the coloured boxes with additional facts, warnings, or considerations give the text more depth. The book is so thorough and so well thought out! As a result of my reading Home Remedies An A-Z Guide of Quick and Easy Natural Cures, I have compiled a list of 7 household items with major home remedy power.
Disclaimer: Home remedies should never take the place of consulting a doctor.
1. Apple Cider Vinegar: This particular vinegar is a natural anti-inflammatory. It also acts as an astringent. Uses: a toner to treat acne, help decrease the swelling of a bruise, help dry up excess oil in hair, treat psoriasis.
2. Hydrogen Peroxide: I love hydrogen peroxide as a household cleaner, but this natural ingredient also helps eliminate bacteria and decrease swelling. Uses: an under-arm deodorant, dislodge debris and reduce inflammation of an earache, reduce plaque on teeth, fight gingivitis.
3. Garlic: Garlic has natural antibiotic properties. Uses: on cuts to fight bacteria, help with nasal congestion, help decrease blood pressure.
4. Aloe: Meredith recommends using 100% natural aloe rather than bottled, store bought kind as it can also contain alcohol that can be drying. One of the main benefits of aloe? It may reduce pain and inflammation. Uses: moisturise dry, cracked skin, alleviate itch and burn of rashes, hives, chaffed skin, eczema, and/ or sunburn.
5. Honey: This one is one of my favourites because honey can seemingly do so much (NB organic honey is recommended in the book). It has antibacterial, antiviral, and anti-inflammatory properties. Uses: coat a sore throat, increase healing time for canker sores, relieve the pain of chickenpox, soothe and coat mucous membranes acting as a natural cough medicine, help metabolise alcohol helping to treat a hangover.
6. Baking Soda: Another favourite of mine for common ailments and cleaning, baking soda helps to kill bacteria and has anti-fungal, anti-inflammatory properties. It also exfoliates. Uses: relieve itching of chickenpox, hives, or from stings/bites, prevent the formation of plaque on teeth, treat diaper rash, or as a natural anti-acid.
7. Coconut Oil: It is anti-fungal, antibacterial, and rich in vitamin E. Uses: lip balm, treat diaper rash, razor burn, dry skin.
For additional uses of these ingredients and countless more as well as additional information and ratios and combinations for these ingredients, please check out Home Remedies An A-Z Guide of Quick and Easy Natural Cures by Meredith Hale.
Or you can enter to win your own copy below!
Disclaimer: If you choose to purchase the book through my Amazon account, the price you pay is the same. I will receive a small commission from the purchase.
This is an excerpt from the article 7 Household Items With Major Home Remedy Power which originally appeared on Parenting from the heart.