Recent developments in several industrial economies, particularly in the three largest ones, raise important issues about how to judge the stance of monetary policy. In the United States, recovery from the recent recession has been exceptionally sluggish, whereas inflation has fallen to its lowest level in two decades. In Japan, growth has slowed considerably during the past eighteen months. In Germany, by contrast, inflationary pressures surged in 1991–92 following unification, although more recently growth has stagnated. At the same time, the evolution of broad monetary aggregates—which the monetary authorities have preferred to target or monitor—suggests that monetary conditions have been tight in the United States and Japan but easy in Germany. But other indicators—including nominal and real short-term interest rates, the slope of yield curves, and narrow monetary aggregates—suggest that monetary policy has eased in the United States and in Japan, whereas it has tightened significantly in Germany.
This annex examines the experiences of these three countries and, more briefly, those of selected other industrial economies in order to assess the reliability of indicators of the stance of monetary policy. The analysis shows that contradictions among the various indicators, as is now the case, often occur over the course of the business cycle. Moreover, the growth of the broad monetary aggregates now appears to be giving misleading indications of the true stance of monetary policy and of its probable effect on future growth and inflation. Appropriately assessing the stance of monetary policy and the need for policy adjustments therefore requires examination of a range of indicators.
In the United States, the recovery from the recession that began in the third quarter of 1990 has been unusually sluggish by historical standards: growth in the first four quarters following the trough has been only about half that in the weakest previous postwar recovery (Chart 20). Although several factors have contributed to this disappointing performance, there has been concern that the slow growth of M2, which has fallen below the bottom of the Federal Reserve’s target band, indicates that monetary policy has not eased enough to sustain a robust recovery (Chart 21). This behavior apparently contrasts with earlier experience, when a fall in velocity, typically due to a surge in M2, has usually preceded a pickup in output growth by about four quarters.
1As identified by the National Bureau of Economic Research.
The recent behavior of M2 has been sufficiently unusual to suggest that this aggregate may no longer be very useful for assessing the stance of monetary policy.1 During the 1970s, a positively sloped yield curve was associated with rapid growth of M2 relative to M1. After financial deregulation in the 1980s, however, this relationship apparently broke down; since the mid-1980s, an inverted yield curve has been associated with rapid growth of M2 relative to M1. The recent pattern reflects the fact that low short-term interest rates and high long-term rates reduce the attractiveness of short-term assets in M2 relative to both demand deposits and longer-term assets, thereby reducing the growth of M2.
Other factors have also contributed to the recent slowdown in the growth of M2. On the demand side, households and businesses may have been liquidating short-term assets in order to reduce their debt burden by paying down loans. On the supply side, depository institutions have been increasing the spread between the return on assets (loans) and the cost of liabilities (deposits, including time deposits) in response to low profitability, regulatory pressure to boost capital-asset ratios, slack loan demand during the recession and subsequent period of slow growth, and the perception that some loans are now riskier than before. As banks have consolidated the asset side of their balance sheets, they have had less need to raise funds and therefore have offered relatively low returns on instruments such as time deposits. Finally, asset shifts associated with closures of insolvent savings and loan institutions have reportedly slowed the growth of monetary aggregates.
Indicators other than M2 suggest that the stance of monetary policy in the United States has eased substantially. In particular, the narrow aggregate M1 has been growing robustly, and the dollar has weakened as short-term nominal interest rates have fallen to their lowest levels in three decades. Short-term real interest rates are now close to zero, the lowest level since real interest rates were negative in the early 1980s. Long-term interest rates, however, have fallen only modestly, resulting in a very steep yield curve. In contrast to the often confusing signals provided by monetary aggregates, the yield curve has proved to be a reliable indicator of economic activity, with a lag of about four quarters.2 In the 1974–75 recession, the yield curve became steeply inverted about four quarters before output growth turned negative; it then became positive as output recovered. A similar pattern occurred in the 1981–82 recession. The recent steepness of the yield curve has been signaling an upturn in economic activity for some time and is consistent with a recovery in output growth in 1993, although the process of resolving private sector balance sheet difficulties may continue to restrain the pace of expansion.
In Japan, as in the United States, the monetary aggregate monitored by the central bank (M2 + CD) has barely grown over the past eighteen months, suggesting very tight monetary conditions (Chart 22).3 This slow growth was preceded by unusually rapid growth in 1990, however, and to that extent may reflect a return of the aggregate to its underlying trend. The evolution of the monetary aggregates was also influenced by the sharp rise in market interest rates in 1990 and their subsequent decline through 1991. As interest rates rose in 1990, funds were shifted out of postal deposits, which are not included in M2 + CD, because returns did not rise as quickly as interest rates paid on other assets. Prime lending rates also rose more slowly than market rates in late 1990 and early 1991; in response, firms borrowed at prime and reinvested in CDs. As interest rates fell during 1991, funds were shifted back into postal deposits, and firms unwound their positions in CDs, with the result that growth of M2 + CD was unusually slow.
1 CD, certificate of deposit.
Indicators other than M2 + CD suggest that the stance of monetary policy has loosened somewhat. The growth of the narrow aggregate M1 increased during 1990–91 and, although it declined somewhat in 1992, it was at about the same level as average growth in the 1980s. In addition, short-term rates have fallen by over 300 basis points in the past eighteen months in Japan, and real short-term interest rates are at their lowest level in more than a decade (except for a brief period in 1989). Short-term rates have also fallen about a percentage point below long-term rates. As in other countries, a positively sloped yield curve is associated with high growth of the narrow aggregate compared with the broad one.
However, the factors underlying the recent behavior of monetary aggregates and other indicators in Japan are not completely understood, and it is therefore unusually difficult to judge whether current monetary conditions can sustain adequate growth in 1993. In particular, as in several other industrial countries, the collapse of equity and real estate prices has eroded the capital base of the banking sector, has resulted in a rise in nonperforming loans, and may also be depressing household consumption. The prospect that these effects may prove as pervasive and long-lasting as in other industrial countries suggests that the current stance of monetary policy in Japan is not overly expansionary.
In Germany, the twelve-month growth rates of the broad monetary aggregate M3 during the first nine months of 1992 were running well above the target range of 3.5 to 5.5 percent established by the Bundesbank (Chart 23).4 The rapid growth of M3 has been cited as an indication that monetary policy has been too loose. By contrast, following an upward surge during 1991 because of German monetary unification, M1 grew relatively moderately, despite a probable increase in the use of the deutsche mark in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. Although moderate M1 growth suggests tight monetary policy, the divergence between the growth rates of the aggregates has complicated the assessment of the stance of policy. Historically, M3 has tended to grow more rapidly than M1 in response to a flattening or inversion of the yield curve—as has occurred during the past two years—because relatively high short-term rates increase the attractiveness of the short-term interest-bearing assets in M3. In addition, the prospect of the introduction of a withholding tax on interest income in mid-1992 may have induced movement out of longer-term assets and into the relatively liquid interest-bearing assets contained in M3.
Monetary unification has made movements in both the narrow and broad monetary aggregates misleading as indicators of monetary stance.5 In addition to a substantial once-and-for-all increase in money stocks of perhaps 15 percent, unification increased the demand for money from the eastern Länder. It will be difficult to evaluate how the behavior of asset holders and borrowers in east Germany will evolve; hence, the growth rates of the monetary aggregates may prove to be misleading guides to underlying economic conditions.
Whereas M3 and M1 have been providing mixed signals, other indicators suggest that monetary policy in Germany is now quite tight. Short-term nominal and, more important, real interest rates are very high by postwar standards. This has put considerable upward pressure on the deutsche mark and contributed to the recent turmoil in