Thrilled that their friend’s Broadway debut was a rousing success, Nic and Nigel Martini, along with Nic’s college pal Harper, are trying to enjoy the exclusive after-party. Unfortunately, all the champagne and repartee in the world aren’t enough to overlook the churlish behavior of Harper’s husband, Dan. Nic is shocked the next morning when she learns that Dan’s been murdered. Nigel thinks the world may be a better place without him.
Still, Harper’s their friend and they’re intent on helping her any way they can. The Martinis will stop at nothing—with the possible exception of cocktails and walks with their bull mastiff Skippy—to see that the killer ends up behind bars.
This is one of my all-time favorite series!
I was so excited to get this book. Nic, Nigel, and Skippy are so much fun to be around. The characters are loosely based on the characters from The Thin Man Series by Dashiell Hammett but you don’t need to read the books or watch the movies to enjoy these stories although fans will love the similarities.
This time they are in New York for a Broadway debut. After a critic gives a scathing review he is found dead. The critic happens to be married to Nic’s friend Harper. Nigel is not too sorry the man is dead but he joins Nic to help find the killer and support her friend any way they can.
This story is a really quick read. The pace is fast, the dialogue is snappy, and humor runs profusely throughout.
If you are new to this series you need to know that Skippy is not a small dog. He is a bull mastiff and he goes almost everywhere with Nigel and Nic. When people see him for the first time there is usually quite a reaction.
As we approached, her gaze dropped to Skippy: seconds later, her jaw followed suit. “Dear God, is that a dog?” she asked.
I really enjoy the way Tracy Kiely writes. I feel like I am right with the “in crowd” tagging along with the Martinis. I can picture everything so clearly from the setting to the drinks to what everyone is wearing. She also gives us a fine mystery with plenty of suspects. The plot is lighthearted and has a breezy feel. You know like the movies from the days before I was born that remain some of my favorites today. I easily read it in an evening and found it absolutely entertaining.
A Perfect Manhattan Murder is the perfect spring/summer read, including recipes for some perfect cocktails. I highly recommend the entire series!!
Hey, I actually knew a Nic Martini! She kind of behaved like this one, too.
Sounds like a fun mystery! Thank you for the contest!
Sounds like a fun new to me series, would love to win, thank you!
Will have to check this series out since my daughter has owned bull mastiffs and currently has a daniff, sweetest dog ever but very intimidating.
I’m a big fan pf these mysteries & this one looks amazing. Thanks for this generous chance.
Another new-to-me author to try. Thanks for a chance to win a copy. I love the cover.
Thanks for the review. Another new to me author. On my TBR.
The Thin Man returns, updated.
Wow — A Perfect Escape! I’m looking forward to reading this book!
Live the cover! Sounds like a great read and I’m looking forward to reading the book.
Sounds like an interesting story. I’d love to read it.
Looks like a great read! Thank you for the heads up to a new author and read. Do hope this will be a beginning.