There is a great diversity of inequalities in our world.
But let's focus on inequalities among states at this international global level.
among states which are less or more powerful.
social inequalities, natural inequalities and so on.
These inequalities can be considered trough the concept of human security.
cultural security, economic security, individual security.
And these securities are more or less achieved.
Let's give the priority to the food security, why?
causing also political, social and economic instability.
which are also working for the other insecurities.
About food security, let's first forget some commonplaces.
is able to feed these 7 billion of people which are composing humanity.
But it does it badly and this is the problem, it can, but it does it badly.
multiplied by 2.4 in 40 years.
That is probably something really efficient.
900 million starving people in the world.
however, the global population is increasing.
That is apparently the evidence that the situation has improved.
In proportion, starvation is fortunately decreasing.
by now currently 6,000,000 people die of starvation per year.
with very severe nutritive deficiencies.
And last point, starvation changes, formerly it was rural.
Now it's more and more urban.
that starvation in rural societies didn't have.
And starvation is more and more centered on one continent.
That's to say, on Africa.
three remarks, very important remarks, to make.
First of all, starvation, hunger, are economic problems.
That's to say the main factor of starvation is to be found in poverty.
70%, 90% of the family budget for food.
If the price of food is increasing they have just to reduce their own consumption.
but it's also as my second point, a poverty problem.
to the misconception of global public policies.
But it's also a systematic problem.
in the ways of consuming in northern, developed countries.
Let's now focus on these factors of hunger in our present world.
why our global world is not working well.
The first one is, as I mentioned, overconsumption in northern countries.
That's to say inequality ladies and gentlemen.
In his life, a Frenchman like me, will eat seven [INAUDIBLE].
9 sheep, 60 rabbits, 1,300 chickens.
in our developed countries which is taken away from the southern consumption.
area of farmland multiplied by 1.6.
China needs Its own farmland multiplied by 2.5.
multiplied by 7.1 and US by 1.9.
That explains this process of land grabbing.
vital parts of their own agricultural resources.
agriculture in thousand and developing countries.
developing countries than for developed countries.
It creates new areas of farmland in Canada or in Russia.
as you know, one of the main factors of starvation in this part of the world.
a regression of farmlands in developing countries.
which is pushing away farmlands out of the main places of urbanization.
which take every year about 100 million tons of cereals.
market is marginalizing small producers.
the main factor of development and of reducing starvation.
Seventh factor, maybe the more critical, is speculation.
20% within two weeks in 2007.
we can imagine the consequences of this.
But the problem with that is the price is decreasing, the risk is the same.
That's to say, in this case, small producers are ruined.
aggravation of, and worsening, of this situation.
Solutions are very difficult to find.
But however, however, some countries could do the job.
policy, which was defined by the president Lula Da Silva.
food purchase to people in condition to send their children to school.
And this program could cut the number of starving people by 20 million.
there is a possible willingness to do that.