I'm sure I'll have more to add to this soon since I am currently helping a girlfriend to find an EDC. My trouble is I'm a bit lumpy and my idea of concealable is different than what is concealable on her very thin frame with close-fitting attire. I've stressed the #1 thing is to get a gun that she will want to carry every day and not leave at home. I expect to defer to a couple of clerks as I am not familiar with every new thing out there. And that's where I expect the fun to start. This girl can shoot 9's and .40's all day long. I keep joking with her that she needs one of those pink guns cause she's a girl. Of course, I Keep getting back-handed too.
I live out of state, but my experience has been mixed.
I shoot with a local ladies club and we have ladies' (only) classes and monthly get togethers at a local range. The range owner is very supportive of us using the range, gives us a discount on port time and trains the RSOs to respect ladies and not talk down to us. We have women instructors and the men who are instructors are taught to listen and not talk down/talk over and generally act in a respectful manner. The owner is extremely conscious of his female and racial minority clientele as he wants the range to be welcome to all, regardless of gender or race. Being both a person of color and a woman it can be daunting to (no offense intended) wander into a sport/pastime/interest populated mostly by white men. Or at least you'll see that in the media.
Unfortunately the experience I've gotten at some other ranges is because I am a woman I get attitude as to whether I know anything about guns. One of my club's ranges the RSO is always telling me I should probably try a lighter caliber as the gun I am shooting is too big (!!!). For the record it was a .45ACP. And I can punch holes in a quarter at 25 yards.
Other things, let's see. Go into a gun shop and get asked if I want a gift certificate. Being shown everything pink (I don't like pink) as if pink magically transforms any item into a woman's.
But there are a lot in the community who will treat me like an equal. That is welcome. Honestly though, I do enjoy the ladies only get togethers because we can talk about stuff we don't talk with the guys about.
kate_r wrote: I live out of state, but my experience has been mixed.
I'm glad to hear some positive experiences, along with the the not so positive. Feel free to post anytime, you said you are out of state, but you didn't name which state you are in. We would really enjoy perspectives regarding the gun laws, attitudes, etc. in other parts of the country.