This article aims to demonstrate how leggings are not a garment that can only be worn by one age bracket. By paying particular attention to how leg wear can be worn and with what other garments, it is the aim to support the fact that leggings can be worn by ladies of all ages.
Leggings have often been a garment associated with childrenswear. With their ease of movement and comfortable style, they are appropriate for a growing child who may change in size regularly. Stirrup style leggings are also popular amongst those purchasing childrenswear.
Emerging from the eighties era, leg wear also become popular during this time when fitness wear was deemed stylish and worn as everyday wear. Popularised by chart topping bands of the time and the likes of Jane Fonda's workout videos, fitness wear was definitely a trend that many associate tight fitting leg wear with today. Whilst during the eighties, neon bright colours were popular for leg wear, but since then styles have developed and we now see that prints and patterns have become more and more popular. Seen on catwalks throughout London, Paris, Milan and New York, prints are consistently in fashion and are unlikely to ever go out. Whilst some prints come in and out of fashion such as animal print, other prints quickly come into replace them such as this season's popular print of dogtooth. What remains in style is the basic design of the garment such as classic leggings.
Depending on the occasion they are worn for will also coincide with an acceptable age to wear leggings. For example, if an older lady wore leggings to the cheap, she may not be judged as much as if she was to wear them on a night out. Whilst they do make great gym wear, it is not to say that they cannot be worn for nights out. Recently popularised by celebrities such as Kim Kardashian, leather look leg wear is at the height of fashion and create the perfect look for a night out, but should these style of leggings have an age restriction?
If the wearer feels comfortable in the garment, why should there be an age restriction? Yes it is clear that some styles will be more suited to some ages than others but it remains entirely the wearers choice.
Another consideration would have to be gender. There is nothing to say that men can also not wear leggings, if it is acceptable for the gym it should be acceptable for everyday wear.
Conclusively, leg wear has developed dramatically over the years and is clear to see that no age restrictions should be applicable when considering who can or cannot wear leggings.