Cost-effective buffets and elegant formal dinners near Rocky Mountain National Park.
Here at The Ridgeline Hotel and Conference Center in Estes Park, catering special events is one of our specialties. Whether you’re planning a meeting, convention, corporate retreat, or wedding, The Ridgeline caters with innovative style and service. From cost-effective buffets to elegant formal dinners, our award-winning Executive Chef and professional banquet staff provide our guests with inspired, crowd-pleasing meals. We personally prepare custom menus based on theme, entertainment, decor, and (most importantly) budget.
Nothing satisfies a crowd like a buffet, and at The Ridgeline, we have buffet catering options to suit every palate. Our breakfast buffets run the gamut from The Continental, featuring assorted danishes, turnovers, muffins, and fresh fruit, to the deluxe Big Thompson, which includes pancakes, French toast, ham steaks, and more. Lunch buffet options cover an array of cuisine from around the globe, ranging from the Orient Express to the Taste of Italy to South of the Border. And when it comes to dinner buffets, we pull out all the stops! Just to name a few, you can choose from the Southern Hospitality Buffet, featuring BBQ Ribs, Southern Friend Chicken and Cajun Potato Salad; the Land and Sea Buffet, including Prime Rib with Au Jus and Horseradish, and Honey Pecan Grilled Salmon; or The Rodeo Buffet, showcasing Chipotle Roasted Pork Loin and Slow-Braised BBQ Brisket. Vegetarian options are also available, as well as a variety of a la carte selections.
If the occasion calls for something more formal, look no further than our Plated Banquet menus. Choose from Plated Lunch options ranging from Chicken Penne Alfredo to London Broil, Seared Salmon Filet to Homemade Pot Roast, Italian Chef Salad to Chicken Fried Chicken, and more. Plated Dinners take things a step further by including coffee, hot tea, fresh green garden salad, warm rolls, and a Chef’s choice dessert. Dinner entrees include Chicken Piccata, Seafood Trio Primavera, Grilled NY Strip, Chicken Parmesan, Filet Mignon, and more!
Are you interested in holding your event outdoors? We can do that! Our spacious Aspen Courtyard accommodates up to 250 guests, with a special event tent that can be set up for covered dining in the refreshing Rocky Mountain air, and fire pits circled by Adirondack chairs create a relaxing atmosphere for your guests to enjoy while they socialize and dine under the stars. This outdoor venue is directly adjacent to our Grand Ballroom, providing ease of access to our indoor event spaces as well as the hotel common areas and guestrooms.
A wide assortment of break items, snacks, beverages, and hors d’oeuvres are also available to help fill in those spaces between events and keep your guests energized and engaged. Choose from selections such as Bacon Wrapped Scallops, Teriyaki Beef Skewers, Vegetable Spring Rolls, Hummus & Pita Chips, Sliced Seasonal Fruits with Caramel Creme Dip, Warm Brie & Gouda Fondue, and much MUCH more! And, what party would be complete without Cocktail and Bar Service? A variety of wines, spirits, and domestic and imported beers are available, and our attentive bar staff is on hand to serve your guests with style.
For more information about catering your event, or to request a quote, please call our event staff at 970-480-4012 or send us a Request For Information.