Founded in 1923, Nielsen is the global authority on the consumer. We help over 20,000 clients, from Coca-Cola to Walmart to Apple to Disney, in 105 countries understand consumers and grow their businesses, every day. The company is organized into two areas: What Consumers Watch, serving media, telecom and tech industries; and What Consumers Buy, serving consumer goods, retail, financial services and automotive industries.
Responsible for analyzing, developing, testing and supporting highly complex application software: Determine solutions for applications by providing necessary designs and technical expertise to the development team. Investigate and analyze verbal and written requests for application software, interpreting application requirements to construct highly complex applications. Perform data analysis on reference data and apply software design principles to satisfy application requirements. Develop highly complex software code, which is maintainable, and easy to use. Develop and execute application test plans, analyze test results, and make appropriate revisions to ensure the applications function as specified. Create working prototypes. Create build and deployment process scripts, owning the end-to-end deployment process. Work closely with solutions designers and architects to design and implement reusable system solutions. Work with the technical project manager to ensure that the project plan is on track by advising on risks and quality. Provide project updates to management. Involves the opportunity to telecommute from within the Richardson, TX area 1 day/week as feasible. Tools used: Java, UI technologies (JSON, AJAX and XML), Objective-C, PL/SQL, Web Services, GIT, GitHub, and Atlassian tool suite.
Nielsen is a global performance management company that provides a comprehensive understanding of what consumers Watch and Buy. Nielsen’s Watch segment provides media and advertising clients with Total Audience measurement services across all devices where content – video, audio, and text – is consumed. The Buy segment offers consumer packaged goods manufacturers and retailers the industry’s only global view of retail performance measurement.
By integrating information from its Watch and Buy segments and other data sources, Nielsen provides its clients with both world-class measurement as well as analytics that help improve performance. Nielsen, an S&P 500 company, has operations in over 100 countries that cover more than 90 percent of the world’s population. For more information, visit www.nielsen.com.