So lucky to have a copy of this book- a surprise from my husband last Christmas! The description online says "This edition is limited to 2,000 copies. Numerous photographs, both B&W and full-color, of folk art of the T'boli people of the Philippines. The author is a Benedictine monk and art historian, who spent considerable time among the T'boli people in researching this book." It's a good book but it needs to be updated. I also want to see a T'boli book written and published by the T'boli.
A beautiful disaster. Crowned Jewel of the south.
🎶 One step closer...I am one step closer to heaven... 🎶 This song sets such a mood. I can imagine myself sipping a dark red in a dim-lit room, wearing a silky slip, watching silent black and white movies while this track by Supreme Beings of Leisure plays softly in the background.
"Ang hindi marunong lumingon sa pinanggalingan, hindi makakarating sa paroroonan."
Getting dolled up and dressed to the nines is very much a part of the T'boli way of life. There's even a ritual dance in honor of it! It's probably the very first dance I learned as a toddler. I haven't been busting a move lately but I might be in the mood at the @helpinghandsfilaminc #GatsbyCharityGala 😉 Come party with us, for a cause! If you haven't already, go get your tickets! LINK in comments below!
Monday Mood! Saw @yourbaroness last night and they are proof that Metal can be very romantic. Found myself and this guy slow dancing to their softer tunes in between the moshpitting! (The kids, not us! Just an old married couple here!) Thanks @kdatusouvenirsofficial and @sj_cayugan for our rockin' threads!
Missing my birthplace. But here is home, too! My love, my refuge, my Ian Weinstein <3 My dad never pegged me as the type who would get married. He used to say, "No one can tie Cecille down!" And no one can. Relationships are not about getting tethered anyway. It's about constantly choosing to stay! No special occasion. Just blessed to wake up next to this one everyday.