Definitely my favorite restaurant in Macau. If you want to experience the authentic Portuguese Macanese dishes, with live one man band (sings with guitar) and cozy ambience. This is it. For extra boost to add on to your one-in-a-lifetime experience, try order Crepe suzette! 3-michelin-stars Chef Antonio himself will invite you to join him cooking at your table and be prepared for a fiery ride!
One of many Signature dish – Seafood rice!
It’s getting hot in here -Flaming Chouriço!
Cooking crepe suzette! Be careful with the alcohols!
Tadaaa! Proudly present Crepe suzette by Chef Antonio and Me!
Another popular local traditional Portuguese Macanese restaurant with more mature settings and environment.
The famous african chicken – this one’s a lil spicy! But superb!
Steamed clams! Make sure you dip the bread in the sauce! Yum!
Ended with my favorite traditional dessert in Macau! Serradura!
A cute romantic Portuguese-Macanese restaurant nearby the famous original Lord Stow’s egg tart bakery!
Portugal is also famous for their glazed tiles. So lovely!
Sauteed shrimp with garlic butter!
Soaky wet Portuguese seafood rice! A must!
Pork ribs!! Love the salty taste!
The french fries sure stole the spotlight from the pork steak!
This cherry whisky is STRONG!! be careful!
Pineapple, Mango, Peach juices! Loving these rejuvenating refreshments! Just can’t get enough!
Lovely meal indeed! Bon appétit!
The famous Egg tart!! It’s shooo gooood u guyz!!
A regular Chinese restaurant, but what impressed me the most is the fact that they have a short tiny table where ladies can put their bag on while eating! Talk about hospitality! A major problem for all ladies who carry handbags, basically everyone! We always need to get extra chair, or hang it on the chair, or let the bag share half of our chair! So Bravo! And obviously the food is Goo-Oood tooo! HEre i picked out my favorite dishes!
Crispy pork! Not oily at all!
Crispy Spring rolls stick filled with shrimp and mangos!
Website: http://www.cityofdreamsmacau.com/dining/chinese/jade-dragon Probably the most exclusive and expensive restaurant with millions of dollars on investment, from the interior designs, décor, utensils and obviously the exquisite ingredients for the dishes that are created by Chef Tam Kwok Fung. Be prepared for a fabulous Chinese fine dining.
Prepared for a memorable meal!
Tiny portion, long name, here we go! Crispy yam and vegetable roll serve with sweet and sour sauce, marinated black fungus with garlic and cucumber in aged italian balsamic vinegar, deep fried bean curd with spicy salt, jade dragon dumpling!
Don’t let the simplicty appearance fool you. It’s Lychee wood roasted crispy chicken with black truffle! Umm yummz!
Looking for Dimsum? Looking for fine dining setting? Looking for traditional Guangdong culinary? Look no further! Look for Lua Azul! Enjoy the numerous dimsum menu they offered, but better yet, the taste will make you smile like a crazy person! Or is that just me?
Not a complete dimsum meal without Ha-Gao!
Highly recommended – Spring rolls with smoked salmon and shrimp in mustard sauce. YUMSSSSS !
Need something cool? Or something hot? Not too much, not too little. Just to warm up or cool down. Here I highly recommend you steamed milk pudding with red beans! (Well im a big red beans lover) Everytime I go, the café is always packed! And I know exactly why! Go try yourself!
When you see this sign, you know you’re there!
The famous steamed milk pudding! Comes in both hot and cold! Your call!
“The only things more colorful than the décor are the fragrant whiffs of savory goodies.” Their quote didn’t do them justice. Not just the smell, but the taste! The looks! It’s a brillian work of art. You’ll feel very girly at this Pastry Bar being undecisive of which one to eat. A Truly Desserts heaven!
Can you feel dat? Dat magic power luring you in!
Hot cocoa unlike any other place!!! Look at it!
Pulled pork sandwich worth the try!
Don’t be fooled by the looks! Yummiest soup ever!
Exquisite experience! Feeling pampered at this gorgeous 3 michelin stars restaurant, situated at the dome of Grand Lisboa hotel that overlooks the Macau peninsula. Too bad the day I went was a little foggy though L When you enter this restaurant, you will feel like a royalty, from the excellent service, marvelous food; a truly mixture of art and culinary, spectacular interior design; the chandelier, the plates, the décor, the grand piano… urgh everything is a dream!
Yes! Desserts come in carts! So hard to choooose!
Other yum yum in the tum tums. Below are some photos from cafes/restaurants worth mentioning!
Love the mango froyo with mango bubbles!
Other restaurants i’ve been to but didn’t get a chance to take photos, sorry! But undeniably worth mentioning are A lorcha, Fernando’s, and Miramar. Well hope you piglets have fun eating and enjoying all the food in Macau. Let me know what you think! Or recommend any that you think I should try! But for now…. Oink Oink!
OMG You just made me sooo hungry….