「Hotel WBF Artstay Namba」takes the combination of culture and art as the concept, 80 rooms from 3F-10F are stylish and decorated with drawings by the children of 'Ban Rom Sai' in Thailand, a home for children who have lost their parents due to AIDS or have contracted HIV from their parents. The other 9 rooms on 2F are decorated with art works of active artists from different counturies. Please stay in your unique room and enjoy the fun of the art hotel. The hotel is the mixture of the belief of power of creativity, art, as well as imagination. The collaboration of children's drawings and aritists' works creats the special space. Walking into the hotel, you may feel a totally different atmosphere contracts with the noisy city. Please stay in the adorable rooms and sleep with spectacular artworks.
Front Desk, Lobby and Lounge are all surrounded by art. There is also a kids corner in the hotel.
「Staying and being happy in the hotel」is our concept to set a goal for providing best service for our customers.
Staying and enjoying the art atmosphere in the hotel by art works of artists and children.
All rooms in Hotel WBF Artstay Naha are creative and sylish for your special stay experience.
Blankets, irons, ironing boards, trouser presses, wine opener, bottle opener, portable charger, nail clipper, sewing set, etc.
Starting a wonderful day by enjoying your breakfast in a space which is full of art.
「PASSENGER TERMINAL」Sta.（about 20 mind）→5 mins walk from「Matsuo」Sta.
Just walking distance to most new sightseeing spots as well as retro streets.
Makishi Public Market 4 mins walk from the hotel. Passing the arch of Maket main street in the crossing of Kokusaidouri and Mutsumibashi, walking about 200m, you will see Makishi Public Market on your right side. You can buy Okinawa souvenirs such as fresh vegetables and seafoods, Tebichi（pig's feet）and Chiraga（pig's face）at here. There are resturants in the 2nd floor, you can enjoy the fresh special local dishes at here because the dishes will be cooked by ingredients you bought at the market.
Naminoue Beach 10 mins from the hotel by cars, 25 mins by walking. One of few beaches in Naha city. Enjoying the clear blue sea in the city. Not only sea bathing season in summer, for people who are searching for the comfort by blue sea, this is a great sightseeing spot through the whole year.
Shuri Kinjocho Stone Pavement 15 mins by cars from the hotel. Stones in Kinjocho are used to build the main street from Shurijo to Naha port or Southern Okinawa main island in 16th century. Because the war, there are about 300m Stones remained and buildings in that area make a historical atmosphere of Ryukyu Kingdom era. The popular drama「Churasan」was shoot here.