is a key component of a heart-healthy lifestyle. These supplements can help.
Cholesterol. Along with blood pressure and glucose (blood sugar), it’s a factor that you have to keep under control for the sake of your cardiovascular system. What’s more, this waxy material seems to have other ominous connections: A recent study found a link between even moderately elevated cholesterol levels at mid-life and dementia risk in old age.
According to the American Heart Association, total cholesterol levels below 200 mg/dL are desirable. Levels of 240 and above are high risk; anything between 200 and 240 represents a borderline risk area. For LDL (“bad”) cholesterol, less than 100 is good, 190 and above is very high risk, and anything in between falls into a pattern of increasing risk (100-129, near optimal; 130-159, borderline high; 160-189, high). Conversely, you want higher levels of HDL (“good”) cholesterol—less than 40 for men and 50 for women increases heart disease risk.
Cholesterol imbalances are harmful because they contribute to atherosclerosis, the buildup of fatty plaques within arteries that slow blood flow. LDL can become oxidized, a process similar to the rusting of metal. When it does, it can become stuck in the tissue that lines arterial walls. The presence of LDL in arteries attracts blood cells called platelets, which attempt to make repairs; this process causes inflammation, which in turn further stimulates plaque development. Sometimes the plaque becomes unstable, or prone to rupture. If it ruptures a clot can form at the site, which can lead to a heart attack (in the coronary arteries) or stroke (in arteries feeding the brain). HDL, the “good” form of cholesterol, helps shepherd LDL back to the liver for processing.
While atherosclerosis is best known for its cardiovascular consequences, it can cause symptoms elsewhere in the body—anywhere blood flow is reduced by plaque-laden arteries. Plaque buildup in pelvic arteries can lead to erectile dysfunction (ED) in men and is strongly suspected of causing sexual dysfunction in women. Reduced blood supply in the arms and legs, a condition known as peripheral arterial disease (PAD), can cause numbness, weakness and pain.
Not smoking. That should go without saying.
Avoiding such dietary hazards as heavily refined foods (including white bread, pasta, rice and sugar), excessive amounts of table salt and saturated fat, and food grown or processed with pesticides, antibiotics or preservatives.
Not drinking or, at the very least, limiting your alcohol intake. The same goes for caffeine, which acts as a stimulant and diuretic.
Regular relief of stress, which has been linked to inflammation. Meditation, tai chi, yoga and plain ’ol exercise are all known to reduce stress.
Exercise for its own sake; physical activity helps lower both total and LDL while raising HDL.