Types Community Group or NGO | Get on the Doc Bus!
World Film Festival Kelowna is a local committee made up of film loving social activists who wish to share the wonderful Travelling World Film Festival along with additional documentary selections to our local Okanagan Community. We love our festival with its focus on social and environmental subjects which strive to show a better way is indeed possible and that change needs to happen ( and is happening already) and soon! Thanks in part to great institutional support of Okanagan College and its Communications Dept and UBCO and its Cultural Studies Dept we are able to share the festival with a non cost admission policy and donations collected are shared with Inn from the Cold and the Ki low Na Friendship Society. We just celebrated our 10th year of bringing this festival to Kelowna. Documentary films are a very valid way to educate and share information about issues.
On Screen Manitoba is a non-profit, member-driven professional association that leads, builds and represents the Manitoba media production industry. Our membership includes individuals and industry organizations (production companies, service suppliers, training bodies, funding agencies and exhibitors) representing some 1500 industry professionals from Anglophone, multi-cutural, Francophone and Aboriginal communities of Manitoba.
Our goal is to provide independent Canadian filmmakers with a platform to reach audiences directly. We hope to assist independent Canadian media artists in showing Canada – and the world – what we’re capable of. Part of our mission is to use past projects to support the present ones being released.
The site endeavours to be inclusive rather than exclusive to Canadians by providing additional online space to all genres and formats of Canadian moving pictures, and by supporting organizations from all corners of the country. Cinema Canadiana aims to help give a voice to the independent filmmakers of our nation by providing free online space for user-driven content, thus allowing for a diversity of voices to emerge.
Beyond being a crowdsourced site with a user-driven experience that promotes Canadian content, Cinema Canadiana’s design philosophy is two-fold. First, to utilize our website to drive users to other areas of the Internet that highlight the content created around these projects (official sites, places to see the work, reviews, interviews, etc.). Secondly, we will provide a forum to encourage dialogue in order to advance the knowledge and exchange of ideas, thus improving the capacity to appreciate the works.
Creating community and an appreciation of films and movies, by bringing eclectic, rare, inspiring BIG Screen events to communities in British Columbia’s Kootenays.
DOC-BC is the British Columbia Chapter of the Documentary Organization of Canada.
DOC helps Canadian documentary-makers get their work made and seen. We offer top-notch professional development and networking opportunities through our workshops, master classes, mentorship programs, services and benefits. Our vibrant network of professionals is connected coast-to-coast by an ever-humming members’ discussion group. The services we offer DOC members reduce their business costs and connect them to top industry players.
Documentary is a uniquely Canadian art form that blends passion, art, observation, humour and criticism. Our country has a rich history of documentary filmmaking, a tradition we honour and celebrate while advocating on behalf of current and future generations of Canadian documentary makers.