Installed over 200+ 7450's with ip phones and cameras connected to switches. Currently we have several that are "working" sort of. Essentially POE is working great until I had to replace a camera the other day. Put new one up plugged in no POE, Tested with a Fluke Tester no POE, so I was like weird I guess I'll reboot the stack pull power and maybe that will fix it. Used CLI to check config on port 1/1/8 everything was good enabled and inline power. Still was not working and still not working to this day trying to figure out if there is a POE defect that needs to be updated to fix. It is all ports on the switch not just 2/1/6, 7 ,8. I unplugged a working device and then plugged back in and it would also not come back online with POE. We are using LLDP as well.
Here is running config of stack with issue and poe details.
Thanks in advance for any help that anyone can give.
I'm unclear on the steps you've taken so far. Did you try to disable and re-enable inline power on the port? When I've had inconsistent behavior with PoE ports, I'll disable the port, disable inline power to the port, re-enable the port, and re-enable inline power to the port. And usually that fixes the issue unless the hardware itself failed.
Also try another port that you know is working.
As mentioned above, show inline power would be helpful.
Yes to all of the above troubleshooting steps.
Power Capacity: Total is 1496000 mWatts. Current Free is 1082046 mWatts.
Power Capacity: Total is 1496000 mWatts. Current Free is 1158111 mWatts.
As for other troubleshooting steps we have reloaded the switch stack, pulled power from switches, moved to a working poe port and the port we move to also will not work even when plugging back in the old device that was currently working. The only thing I have not tried is to update the poe firmware to a newer version.
And I asked tech support to get in touch, after I released your post from possible SPAM folder due to the length of your config. Case 794153 is your ticket with Ruckus. I'll keep this thread open if you don't mind sharing a 'show inline power' output please?
It seems like it is the first 8 ports but I can confirm plugging into port 10 >> on it would not power the device i get a link from my tester and no power though. resetting the switch usually fixes the issue but this time it didn't. Our current firmware does not allow that command to try it we would need to update our switches in this closet to test this. Thanks for the input Larry.
I would strongly suggest taking a patch, there have been a few POE fixes since 8030h, 8030q is now available.
Hi, I faced same issue before. It was PoE firmware issue which you are using 01.6.7 Build 013.
I solved it by upgrading 1.8.8.b001. You should upgrade boot code and FI image as well.