DAVENPORT - Don Skipper, an administrative assistant at Ridge Community High School, was named the school's head boys basketball coach Wednesday.
Skipper has served as an assistant basketball coach the last two years for the Bolts and had stints as a head coach at McKeel Academy and All Saints' Academy, and was named Coach of the Year three times by the Coaches Association of Polk County, according to a press release from the school.
BABSON PARK - Webber International University will host the 2007 NAIA Region 14 softball tournament today and Friday at the Diamond Plex in Winter Haven.
The opening ceremony will take place at 4:30 p.m., with Webber playing Thomas University (Georgia) on Field A at 5 p.m.
The tournament will continue at noon Friday with the elimination games.
Admission for the tournament is $5 per day or $8 for a two-day pass.
The tournament champions will receive an automatic place in the NAIA National Tournament to be held in Decatur, Ala, May 18-23.
For details, go to and view the softball page or call 863-638-2980.
LAKE WALES - The 13th annual Lake Wales Football golf tournament will be June 2 at the Lake Wales Country Club.
The tournament will start at 8 a.m. The cost will be $75 and play will be in scramble format.
Cost includes lunch and door prizes. Hole sponsors, prize donations and auction items are needed. Major sponsors are also available for $500.
For details, call Rod Shafer at 863-678-4222 or 863-604-3304.
BALTIMORE - Aubrey Huff homered with one out in the 10th inning against his former team, giving the Baltimore Orioles a 1-0 victory over the Tampa Bay Devil Rays on Wednesday night.
After James Shields pitched nine brilliant innings for Tampa Bay, Brian Stokes (1-4) faced only two batters before giving up the game's lone run. Ramon Hernandez hit a fly to center before Huff drove a 1-1 pitch over the wall in center, his fourth homer of the season and second against the Devil Rays.
Huff played for five seasons in Tampa Bay and briefly with Houston last year before signing with Baltimore as a free agent in January.