April is an exciting time at Dental Depot as we celebrate all of our wonderful dental hygienists and all they do to keep our patients happy and healthy for years to come. But there’s a whole lot of good your hygienist does that you might not realize. Here are 5 reasons you should thank your favorite hygienists!
They’re a familiar face. Often when you find a hygienist you click with, you tend to stay with them for years! And while you may only see your hygienist twice a year, they get to know you and your family. Some even treat the same family for generations as your family grows and changes, like recently retired Linda Bryant, who served Dental Depot patients for 31 years!
They’re your first line of defense. Your hygienist can be counted on to help you with preventative care like cleanings and fluoride treatments, but they’re also often the first to spot signs of trouble like places in your mouth that might be hard to reach or hiding pesky cavities. In fact, it was a visit to a good hygienist that got Melissa Stevens interested in dental hygiene.
They are some of the nicest people we know. While we pride ourselves on compassionate care, hygienists take it to a new level. Taking care of your smile is just one part of what they do and for hygienists like Linda Frazier, giving you something to smile about is something she looks forward to every day.
They’re constantly learning. Hygiene school is highly competitive but even after a hygienist has graduated, they’re still learning. More than half of hygienists complete 20+ hours of continuing education each year to improve their skills as dentistry evolves. Take it from Tracey Domingue, there are always new goals to set.
They give back to their communities. Did you know that 70% of hygienists participate in 1-5 community service events each year? We’re grateful to our hygienists for volunteering their time to participate in events like Dentistry from the Heart. And they even go out of their way to find other ways to give back, like Delano Debro and the ministry he does in prisons.
Do you have a hygienist you love? Tell us all about them on Twitter @DentalDepotOKC or @DentalDepotTuls and use #NDHW19.
Next:Battle of the Brushes: Which Toothbrush is Best?