The legal representatives of The Law Office of Benjamin Hartford are regarded as professional and experienced criminal defense attorneys in the Boulder area. We have been providing counsel to our clients throughout the Boulder area for over 15 years. In this time, we have developed a unique view on the way we handle vehicular assault cases. Our firm will not sleep until our client in the Boulder area is receiving deserved representation in his or her vehicular assault case. Whatever charges you are facing, trust the advisors at The Law Office of Benjamin Hartford.
Here at The Law Office of Benjamin Hartford, a defense attorney will earnestly and aggressively defend your rights. With many of our lawyers holding 15 years of experience, your rights will be properly considered, and your case will be treated with the professional focus it deserves. Our firm has helped dozens of Boulder area clients in their vehicular assault cases.
What sets our vehicular assault representation apart from the herd is our talented ability to efficiently negotiate deals with Boulder area prosecutors. At The Law Office of Benjamin Hartford, our savvy vehicular assault approach chips away at the case of the Boulder prosecution; finding their weaknesses can leave the courts open to dropping or reducing your criminal charges and recommending a lighter sentence.
You need a law firm that is entirely committed to its clients' vehicular assault case and that is what you will receive from The Law Office of Benjamin Hartford. We are trained to provide you with the highest level of customer service and confidentiality in the Boulder community. No questions you have, big or small, will ever go unanswered with The Law Office of Benjamin Hartford. Throughout our 15 years of practicing defense law, we have learned that honest, direct, and discrete client service does not end with the law. The Law Office of Benjamin Hartford will be with you as counselors and fierce legal advocates at every step of your legal proceedings. Please feel free to contact us today using the information below to discuss any aspect of your case.