These Card Characters are a new range of LogoBugs that are a little different from the standard LogoBug. There are four constituent parts to these bugs - the fluffy pom and the ribbon of course, but these character LogoBugs then have printed cardboard feet to the front of the pom and then an additional printed cardboard head to the rear. Promotional LogoBugs, sometimes called 'Weebles' have a sticky pad underneath the character making them excellent for sticking around the office or in the car as they stick to almost anything, the computer screen, the fridge, the dashboard...anything!! Every Printed LogoBug sits on its own ribbon and it's here that we'll print your name, logo or message. If your artwork fits - we'll print it on there for you, and best of all, the print will be in FULL COLOUR.
Can you find a Card Character Bug that's right for your marketing campaign?
Part of a range of dog card character LogoBugs, this one is a labrador.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little beaver is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Cat is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little pup is sure to be popular with your customers.
This little pup is cute and cuddly and a brilliant way to sneakily advertise your brand identity.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little bunny is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Duckling is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Pig is sure to be popular with your customers.
With full colour printing onto the ribbon. Loyal and sweet, give these cute little pup Logo Bugs to your customers. A top choice we think...time for a treat?
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Horse is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Leopard is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Lion is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Panda is sure to be popular with your customers.
Shaped like a Squirrel - these amazing little character bugs are a fun way to get your message across.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little bear is sure to be popular with your customers.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little Tiger is sure to be popular with your customers.
Celebrate Thanksgiving or Christmas with this fantastic promotional gift for customers. It is available in a variety of different colours and is a great way to get your message across.
Fluffy, cute and cuddly this little unicorn is sure to be popular with your customers.