President Trump broke his silence on Twitter on Sunday after special counsel Robert Mueller submitted his report to the Justice Department.
In a pair of tweets -- his first in more than a day and half -- the president put out an upbeat message without mentioning the Russia investigation.
"Good Morning, Have A Great Day!" he said in one tweet.
"MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!" he said in the other.
Trump left Washington, D.C., on Friday morning for Florida, where he is spending the weekend at his Palm Beach property, the Mar-a-Lago, with first lady Melania Trump and their son Barron, who just turned 13 last week.
The president hadn’t said anything publicly about the end of Mueller’s investigation, which he has called a “witch hunt” run by “angry Democrats,” but he has been updated about any Russia investigation developments by his lawyers. Before leaving the White House, Trump repeated his assertion to reporters that there was “no collusion” between his 2016 presidential campaign and Russia.
Before his tweets Sunday morning the president had been quiet on Twitter, his primary forum for attacking the special counsel’s investigation, since news that Mueller’s investigation concluded broke Friday evening.
While in Florida, Trump stepped into a Mar-a-Lago fundraiser Friday evening where Sen. Lindsey Graham delivered a speech and played golf with singer Kid Rock.
Trump has no public events on his schedule for Sunday and is expected to return to the White House in the evening.
Mueller delivered his report to Attorney General William Barr on Friday, concluding his 22-month-long investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Kremlin. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter he may be able to provide them with the special counsel’s “principal conclusions” as early as this weekend.
The investigation led to the indictments of 34 people and three Russian companies, including six individuals close to Trump like former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, but none relate to collusion with Russia. Mueller is not expected to not recommend any new indictments.