For the month of April only: Receive Dermapen 4 Face & Neck Treatment + An Alginate Mask + IonZyme Machine Treatment for only R1,500 (all inclusive).
We are proud to launch the new Dermapen 4 at Natural Aesthetics. We were the first clinic in South Africa to receive the Dermapen 4. So what makes the Dermapen 4 so much better than the Dermapen 3 or any other microneedling device?
Dermapen 4 has a 16 needle cartridge instead of just 12 needles, reaching an inflammatory response at a much quicker rate.
The Dermapen 4 generates 47.9% more micro-channels than Dermapen 3 and 104% more micro-channels than any counterfeit device.
The Dermapen 4 generates 1,920 puncture channels per second, which means we can almost double the amount of serums and actives that we needle into the skin per treatment, than before.
The additional 620 micro-channels makes the treatment much quicker and more comfortable than before.
Dermapen 4 is the only microneedling device with a dedicated scar setting and protocols for revision of deep, atrophic scars; including surgical, burn contracture, striae and post-acne scars. Needle penetration can now be increased up to 3.0mm.
AOVN technology, automatically calibrates the motor speed, pressure and penetration for targeted precision.
The Dermapen 4 is safer than other microneedling devices, no dragging or pulling of the skin.
Only Dermapen 4 features a unique, medical-grade silicone seal and fluid guard. The external cartridge is fortified with a specialised fluid guard that prevents cross contamination to the outer cartridge shell. Safety First!
Specialised retention valves relieve the build-up of procedural pressure within the Dermapen 4 needle cartridge. The effect prevents fluid build-up within the needle cavity. The vacuum-like sensation removes the risk of cross contamination whilst ensuring pressure-free contact to the skin during a procedure.
Top: Medical grade numbing cream applied for 20 – 30 minutes, we then needle medical grade serums and actives into the skin via the Dermapen 4 device. Bottom: An Alginate Mask is applied and connected to our IonZyme Machine. A medical grade concealer is applied to speed up recovery and cover any immediate post treatment redness.
The Dermapen is an award winning micro-needling device.
We use the Dermapen 4 to create safe pathways to deliver quality anti-aging serums deep into the skin.
New collagen and elastin are now being produced by the body; tightening the skin and healing scars, fine lines and literally keeping the skin young and full of volume.
What is the Dermapen 4 good for?
Skin conditions: Treat pigmentation, skin texture, oily skin, acne and sun damaged skin.
The numbing cream that we apply is a 30% Lidocaine medical-grade numbing cream that is only available at medical practices. Should your skincare “clinic”, not have an overseeing doctor, chances are that you are not receiving the appropriate numbing cream (only a 2% Lidocaine), which can make this treatment uncomfortable.
The concentrated actives in the mask are delivered into the skin immediately after a microneedling treatment to instantly cool and soothe the skin and to improve the skins health complexion.
The IonZyme machine introduces the use of Pulsed Iontophoresis; the use of a specifically pulsed electrical current to facilitate penetration of vitamins into the cells.
Immediately post this microneedling treatment, we apply an Alginate mask over the face. We then connected it to our IonZyme Machine to send an electrical current via the mask. This reduces inflammation to speed up recovery. The mask itself is infused with skin corrective peptides and anti-inflammatory actives which makes it the perfect compliment for the skin after a Dermapen treatment.
Natural Aesthetics is not a spa of “beauty salon”; we are a medical practice.
Our Therapists are specially trained to administer medical microneedling and IonZyme Machine treatments safely and correctly.
Each of our Therapists have also received special training by Dr Wade Merchant to further ensure that our patients receive the safest and most effective treatments.
For the month of April only: Receive a Face & Neck Dermapen 4 Treatment + An Alginate Mask + IonZyme Machine Treatment for only R1,500 (all inclusive).
OR call us on 021 433 0967.