DDU-GKY is mindful that it must engage the support of multiple partners to ensure success and maximize on the investment made in time and resources. In order to energize and build mass support as well as create awareness amongst the rural youth, The DDU-GKY projects are market linked and implemented in PPP mode. The involvement and partnership between civil society organizations, Educational institutions, apex skill partners and regulating organizations, the Government and Private organizations, ensures that DDU-GKY can leverage on the strengths of all and achieve transformative change.
Curriculum framing and assessment support is through NCVT (National Council on Vocational Training) or SSCs (Sector Skills Councils). Industry partnerships allow access to new technology and on the job training. There are dedicated training hours for soft skills, spoken English and basic computers, in residential as well as non-residential well equipped campuses, with adequate technology as per industry standards. Our team makes unrelenting efforts to make sure that we can achieve a minimum placement of 70% of the project target of all trainees, through the support of our training partners and employer engagement. With a minimum recommended monthly salary of INR 6,000/- (varying based on training acquired).
Industry interactions have emphasised the need for training in soft skills, team working etc., as more important than domain skills, which they learn on the job. To ensure that candidates can perform in their work areas as well as assimilate into the organization and society, DDU-GKY has mandated a minimum of 160 hours of training in soft skills, function English and computer literacy. Additionally, a finishing module called Work Readiness training is suggested to ensure that trained candidates hit the ground running wherever they join.
A retention strategy is just as important to us and we have put in place mechanisms to track performance post placement, salary top-ups to candidates through DBT, incentives to training partners for achievement of outcomes in retention & progression and a framework for the establishment and operations of a migration support centre.
​Over 180 million or 69% of the country’s youth population between the ages of 18 and 34 years, live in its rural areas. Of these, the bottom of the pyramid youth from poor families with no or marginal employment number about 55 million.
Vision: "Transform rural poor youth into an economically independent and globally relevant workforceType your paragraph here."
In reference to the Minutes of the meeting of Pre-bids query for TSA. The Tentative dates for RFP bids (Download).
Advertisement for TSA under DDU-GKY.