Tickets are now on sale for this year's CCS Dance Academy End of Year Concert.
CCS Dance Academy presents a night of dance set to your favourite artists, rock stars, pop stars and famous composers.
2. Select "Continue Shopping: This event" and order a DVD if required.
Parents and Staff join us to enjoy a scrumptious morning tea as we give thanks to God for 2017. It’s a day to remember, to connect, to catch up, to be loved and to know you are appreciated. No RSVP needed.
Parents and Staff join us to enjoy a scrumptious morning tea, prepared by Michelle Rogers and her senior Hospitality students, as we give thanks to God for 2017. It’s a day to remember, to connect, to catch up, to be loved and to know you are appreciated. No RSVP needed. Come and go as you need to.
Together we want to say thank you for your partnership with the community at Covenant.
We always thank God for all of you and continually mention you in our prayers. We remember before our God and Father your work produced by faith, your labour prompted by love, and your endurance inspired by hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
In collaboration with the Greener Communities and Waste Teams we are hosting a Beach Clean Up, an Outdoor viewing of A Plastic Ocean and a subsidised Manly SEA LIFE Sanctuary Tour on Saturday 25 November starting at 5:00pm at Manly Cove Beach. Our Creeks, Lagoons and Beaches are what making living on the Northern Beaches so special. However, plastic is threatening the place we hold so dear. Join us for this fun filled night to show your love for the sea and see how we can solve this plastic problem together.
Outdoor Screening of A Plastic Ocean Starts at 7pm – BYO Picnic Blanket.
Learn about Urban Art from Industry Professionals in this free hands on course. Sessions are held every Wednesday 4-6 pm for 6 weeks, starting November 1, ending December 6 at YoYo’s Youth Centre in Frenchs Forest.
Things are sure busy at Covenant Christian School this term. You will no doubt have noticed by now that we are in the busyness of a building development, something we are very grateful to God for. The new C Block will be a wonderful addition to the resources of our school, and we are excited about the opportunities ahead.
Besides the obvious, it is now week three of the HSC examinations, and a number of our students are now finished their final examinations, and many getting close to the end. We would appreciate your ongoing prayers for our students as they seek to communicate their understanding in their exams at this time, as they approach the last day of testing on November 7. But much more than that, our prayer is that the students, who complete Year 12 and move onto other things, will remember the things they were taught at school, and find their identity in Christ Jesus.
On Monday, I was one of the parents picking up children after the Musical rehearsals, feeling thankful for the time our staff and students are putting into their preparations for Chitty Chitty Bang Bang, which is only a few short weeks away. As you continue to pray, please remember our staff in particular, who on top of their enormous marking and reporting load, are giving up many hours to ensure that the show is a great success! Don’t forget to buy your tickets, and I look forward to seeing you there!
As we come to the end of another year, it provides an opportunity to reflect on the things God has taught us, and the privilege it is to serve Him here at Covenant. For me, this year has been a year when I have learned much about trust. Trust in God and His sovereignty in all things. A reminder that He is in control and I am not. That His ways are higher than our ways, and that He is worthy of our trust. To God be the glory.
​This year, Covenant again hosted the annual Pushing the Boundaries Extension and Enrichment Day for Year 9 students. The day was a buzz of energy, creativity and academic fervour as 225 students from schools all around the state came together for a day of exciting workshops.
This year, Covenant again hosted the annual Pushing the Boundaries Extension and Enrichment Day for Year 9 students. The day was a buzz of energy, creativity and academic fervour as 225 students from schools all around the state came together for a day of exciting workshops. There were nine morning workshops and nine afternoon workshops for students to consider. Topics were many and varied, from UNSW Engineering, to Philosophy to Digital Music and Psychology. The Australian Theatre for Young People hosted a Physical Theatre and Stage Fighting workshop for those who were dramatically inclined and the University of New South Wales hosted a coding workshop for those eager to develop their computing skills.
It was fantastic to see students pushed creatively and academically with like-minded peers. Many were excited to experience subjects, which aren’t normally addressed in the regular curriculum. One highlight was seeing so many students from so many different schools come together and form new friendships.
All in all, an exciting day!
Year 9 IST visited Telstra and Apple in the city. At Telstra they spent time looking at the technology that Telstra use to both communicate and support their customer requirements. They looked at how technology is now being used in the home and also in the store. They saw how sensors are used to track popular products in store by looking at the location of people in the store and how prices on products are now updated digitally rather than printing new prices for stock.
Students then went to Apple and looked into the history of Apple products up to the future. They focused on Augmented Reality and spent time learning to code using the new Swift application.
At the beginning of the last holidays, I was lucky enough to be awarded a scholarship to attend SCIVIS which is Space Camp for visually impaired students held in the US Space and Rocket Center in Alabama USA. I was just old enough to participate in the Advanced Space Academy which was pretty awesome.
At the beginning of the last holidays, I was lucky enough to be awarded a scholarship to attend SCIVIS which is Space Camp for visually impaired students held at the US Space and Rocket Center in Alabama USA. I was just old enough to participate in the Advanced Space Academy which was pretty awesome.
I flew over with two students and two chaperones from the RIDBC (the people who support me at school). We were even allowed to sit in the cockpit once we had landed (which is really unusual nowadays with all the security stuff). We went a few days early so that we could get over the jetlag because you do not want to be tired at space camp as every day was from 7am-11pm.
The camp facilities themselves are really cool. The dorms are replicas of shuttles and rockets and are designed to look like a futuristic space station. There are also various shuttles, rockets and military vehicles all around the camp.
We were all put into teams of about 12 people and we stayed with our team for all 6 days of camp. As part of a team you do a lot of things together: eat meals, hang out, do missions and lots of physical and team building exercises to build up trust and believe me, you definitely want to trust your team at space camp, especially when you are relying on your team to not crash your shuttle when you are entering Earth’s atmosphere.
We also completed many different space simulated missions. I was appointed shuttle commander on our final mission to Mars. Throughout the mission I had to fill out a checklist of things to do like pressing buttons, flicking switches and doing a lot of calculations so that you don’t aim your shuttle in the wrong direction. We had to fix malfunctions of the shuttle when a light from a panel of lights would turn on saying there was an “Oxygen deficiency” or “Rocket thrusters go offline” and things like that. These missions and situations really help you to think on your feet and handle stress quite well.
We also had people from NASA come in and talk to us about their jobs, some of whom were visually impaired and they were doing really high-level jobs at NASA like engineering. Their stories were really encouraging for us because it showed us that nothing can stop us from pursuing our passion.
The Physical Challenges are really full on, with the hardest one probably being the one where we have to climb to the top of a 35ft telegraph pole, stand on the top for a few seconds, and then jump off.
At space camp, we were given a lot of different simulations to give the feeling of lack of gravity. We even went scuba diving (in a tank so no sharks!) which was really fun. We also went on a device called the 1:6 chair which holds 5/6 of your weight and gives you the experience of being super light.
We also went on something called the multi-access trainer which spins you around and gives you the feeling of what it would be like if your shuttle was hit in space. Luckily, nobody threw up! We also took part in engineering challenges where we were given a small amount of time and fake money to design things like rockets (which we launched at the end of camp) and Mars land rovers. We also attended a lot of different seminars based on astronomy and history.
Space Camp is open all year but once a year it is open to visually impaired students only. All the instruction and information is in Braille or large print so that everyone can participate. It was great to meet so many different people from around the world and see what their lives were like, and how they face their own challenges in life (I also had people believing 'drop bears' are real and Australia doesn’t have SpongeBob).
I am so thankful for the opportunity to have attended Space Camp. I was sponsored by Northrup Grumman (which is a company who creates parts for the Shuttles and Rockets for NASA) and the RIDBC who sent over chaperones to take photos of our course. Space Camp was an unforgettable experience and something that I would recommend to any