Fit Green Protein is a 100% plant-based protein powder made from high quality pea proteins. Fit Green Protein has a complete amino acid profile and is a great choice for anyone who is serious about building a fit and healthy body.
Why 'Fit Green Protein' protein shake?
Fit Green Protein is a premium source of protein that contains all the essential and non-essential amino acids. Proteins (amino acids) are the building blocks for every cell in our bodies and help to maintain, repair and build muscle after training.
Fit Green Protein is made from high quality pea proteins and pure plant-based ingredients. It is also fat free, low in sugar and contains more amino acids than any other plant-based protein.
Fit Green Protein is hypoallergenic and totally free from lactose, soy, wheat and gluten that can cause bloating, gas or skin problems. This pure composition makes Fit Green Protein very suitable and safe to use for people that suffer from allergies or sensitivities.
Fit Green Protein is a perfect combination of high quality plant-based ingredients. These carefully selected ingredients are not only great for your health, but also give Fit Green Protein its rich taste and delicious flavour.
Fit Green Protein is also suitable for vegetarians, vegans and people that want to avoid products such as whey, casein or egg protein.
Fit Green Protein has been approved by the Netherlands Security System Nutritional Supplements Elite Sports (NZVT). Fit Green Protein has been tested safe for use by top athletes complying with anti-doping regulations and this allows them to truly focus on their athletic performance.
Discovered a tasty protein shake for the first time. Also delicious with the overnight oats (mango / peach) or in banana bread (chocolate)!
Super satisfied, especially with lactose and gluten intolerance. Recording is much better than with other shakes.
Now have the protein vanilla and chocolate shake, and am very happy with it.
Tasty flavors and does not clump.
2. Add 1 scoop Fit Green Protein.
Sweetened with a natural sweetener. Keep dry and cool. Perishable after opening. Fit Green Protein is made at a location where milk, egg and soy can also be processed.