ARTIST KO is a cooperative with artists, musicians, and entrepreneurs as members. We are registered under the Cooperative Development Authority (CDARegistration No. 9520-07017800) as ARTIST KO MULTIPURPOSE COOPERATIVE as amended.
ARTIST KO supports the creative skills and individual talents of musicians and artists in Cebu and channel them into sustainable income generating streams by inter-disciplinary collaborations and the exploitation of intellectual property. We do this because we also aim to mount self-help mechanisms to raise internal reserves that will provide welfare benefits to all its members and continuously build a common fund resource for the development and improvements of local music and arts.
Artist Ko’s earliest projects were small scale concert productions in local bars, clubs, and venues. Over time, we managed to build partnerships and a network of clients that offered us more projects such as voice talents for online gaming characters, music design for online games, songwriting campaigns such as VISPOP, and artist management.
You can borrow money from Artist Ko. Members of good standing can avail of the short-term funding assistance offered at single digit total interest rates. The loan is a funding mechanism designed to encourage the members to innovate and tap the talents and services of other members and to enable them to benefit economically from the cooperative.
FILSCAP constituted Artist Ko as its exclusive licensing agent, to administer the license required of copyrighted musical works in business establishments in Metro Cebu and its component cities. This is in compliance of Section 177 of the Republic Act 8293 (RA 8293 – Intellectual Property Code of the Philippines).
The music studio is a joint project of the Dept. of Trade & Industry – Region 7 (DTI-7) and the University of the Philippines – Cebu under the Shared Service Facility (SSF) Projects Program. Services offered by the music studio includes sound recording, production of profile videos, band rehearsals, songwriting workshops, music forums, songwriting clinics, music tutorials, and production of digital content. All revenues made from this music facility are for the purpose of continuously building a common fund resource for Artist Ko’s program in the development and improvements of local music!
You can issue an OFFICIAL RECEIPT to your clients without having to worry about paper works. Artist Ko understands that these are the least of your priorities as an artist. As a member, you can use Artist Ko as your business entity so you can legitimately offer your creative services to companies and work with them professionally. This allows you to gain momentum until you can fully springboard your service into a business.
© 2009 - 2019 ARTIST KO - ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
I hereby certify that the above song entry is my original work; that it has not been previously recorded, released or commercially sold; that it has not been previously assigned to a third party; and that no part of this song infringes on the copyright of any other existing work. I hereby indemnify the organizers of VISPOP Songwriting Campaign, its officers and staff from any liability arising from copyright infringement.
Should my entry song be chosen as one of the 6 finalists to vie for the Grand Prize, I hereby agree to assign all rights to the song to ARTIST KO for a period of five (5) years.
I further certify that the information I have supplied herein are true of my own knowledge; that I have read and understand the competition rules and regulations and agree without reservation to abide by them and the final decision of the Board of Jurors.