Fast, accurate, and confidential STD testing in Crawfordville, Florida.
At Priority STD Testing Crawfordville, getting tested is quick, private, and reliable.
Priority STD Testing Crawfordville provides the most private, accurate, and fast STD testing service available. Our locations are confidential, convenient, discreet, and professional. What this means is no embarrassing free STD testing centers, lengthy wait occasions, or hard to rely on tests. All STD tests carried out at our Crawfordville facilities are FDA approved, so getting reliable results isn’t a problem.
Why Choose Priority STD Testing Crawfordville?
Your time is important, which is why we offer same day STD testing in Crawfordville. No appointments are required after your test has been ordered, and the testing process itself takes just minutes. Unlike other testing services, we will never fax or mail your lab order to the collection facility. This means you can get tested immediately after your order has been placed, knowing that your information is kept secure and encrypted.
We understand the need for privacy when it comes to confidential STD testing in Crawfordville. Our service is HIPAA compliant, and absolutely nothing will be mailed to your home or reported to your healthcare provider. We will never contact you directly without prior consent, and your privacy is respected every step of the way. Our business name or anything related to STD Testing will not appear on your bank or credit billing statements after your test has been ordered.
Public clinics or health departments offering free STD testing in Crawfordville provide little privacy when it comes to your sexual health. Going to your physician can be embarrassing and even raise questions as to the reason for your visit by others. Our private collection facilities are non-descript, meaning you will never be singled out for getting an STD test. No other patients will know the reason for your visit other than to provide a routine blood and urine sample.
We aim to provide the fastest and most accurate STD test results in Crawfordville to our patients. All of our tests are FDA approved and performed in CLIA certified laboratories so you can rest easy knowing your results are conclusive. Once your sample has been collected, results are expedited as a rush order and typically process in just 24-72 hours. You can access your results online 24 hours a day or by calling one of our care counselors.
Unlike other testing services, we offer STD treatment in Crawfordville to patients who test positive for Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, or Trichomoniasis. If you receive a positive result, simply call to speak with a care counselor who will assist in scheduling a phone consult with one of our physicians. No office visits are required, and your medication is sent directly to the pharmacy of your choice. In almost all cases, medication is available the same day.