American Made Toys Made in USA.
Parents, including guardians, are children's first teachers. Before they even reach school age, they are already learning about new things from parents, siblings, and other people within their household. Toys are also their first learning tools. Here at USAB2C, we have made American made toys readily available for parents, guardians, and every other adult figure in a child's life. You will find that our selection includes toys that are suitable for kids of different ages.
So whether you're looking for dolls made in USA, blocks and puzzles, board games, or tricycles, we have every imaginable toy available that kids will surely enjoy. We invite you to check out our full product line so you can find the right toys for your little ones.
Are you looking for American made dolls? If so, you're in the right place. We carry a wide assortment of rag dolls for your little princesses. Some of the pieces in our selection even come with additional dresses for the dolls! You can choose what type of extra dress you'd like to go with the doll from the available options provided.
Who says dolls are just for girls? We've also got dolls made in USA appropriate for boys. Your tiny toddler would also like someone to keep him company when he sleeps and our selection of dolls include just that.
We also offer handmade wooden doll beds for a place to lay the dolls in at night.
Our American made dolls are appropriate for kids from 2 years old and up.
Want to teach your little girl about things to see and do in the kitchen? We've got kitchen play sets that include a mini sink, mini stove, and a play refrigerator. Tea sets, cookware, and dining sets are also available.
For American made toys for boys, our most popular are trucks, cars, sea planes, and tug boats. Recommended for children aged one and up, these toys give parents the right tools to teach their little boys about different transportation modes. Most of these toys are eco-friendly as well. Made from recycled materials, parents can also start their kids on learning about the importance of taking care of the environment.
Flying discs, wooden horses, tricycles, and kick flippers are also among our selection of toys made in USA for boys.
Encourage your kids to enjoy nature's gifts. Give them toys they can play with outdoors. Our outdoor toys include beach toys, gardening sets and tools, ride-on toys, and mini golf sets. Make these activities even more fun when you join in and play with the kids!
These toys made in USA for outdoor play are excellent for family bonding moments.
Please feel free to call us at (775) 888-1378 if you have questions or you would like to know more about our American-made toys. We are open from Monday to Friday, 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM Pacific Time.