Theo Louwes Motors v.o.f. process your personal data when you use our services or place an order in our webshop.
Theo Louwes motors v.o.f. analyzes your actions on the website in order to improve the website and to tune the range of products and services at your preferences.
Our website and / or service does not intend to collect data about website visitors who are younger than 16 years. Unless they have permission from parents or custody. However, we can not check if a visitor is older than 16. We encourage parents to be involved in the online activities of their children, in order to prevent data about children being collected without parental consent. If you are convinced that we have collected personal information about a minor without this permission, please contact us via info@theolouwesmotors .nl, then we will delete this information.
Theo Louwes Motors v.o.f. shares your personal data with various third parties if this is necessary for the execution of the agreement and to comply with any legal obligation. With companies that process data on our behalf, we conclude a processor agreement to ensure the same level of security and confidentiality of your data. Theo Louwes Motors v.o.f. remains responsible for these processing operations.
Theo Louwes motors v.o.f. uses only technical and functional cookies. Theo Louwes Motors v.o.f. also uses analytical cookies that do not infringe your privacy.
Keep track of the current session of the user. These are things like which page, logged in user, and cached data to increase the speed of the site.
Registers a unique ID that identifies the device of a returning user. The ID is used for targeted advertisements.
You have the right to view, correct or delete your personal data. You also have the right to withdraw your consent to the data processing or to object to the processing of your personal data by Theo Louwes Motors v.o.f. and you have the right to data portability. This means that you can submit a request to us to send the personal information we have in your computer file to you or another organization mentioned by you.
You can send a request for access, correction, deletion, data transfer of your personal data or request for cancellation of your consent or objection to the processing of your personal data to info@theolouwesmotors .nl. To ensure that the request for access has been made by you, we ask you to send a copy of your ID with the request. Make your passport photo, MRZ (machine readable zone, the strip with numbers at the bottom of the passport), passport number and citizen service number, black in this copy. This is to protect your privacy. We respond as quickly as possible, but no later than four weeks, to your request.