Bosch Security Systems was chosen as the central supplier for the security systems at Marmara Park Shopping Center in Istanbul, one of the largest of its kind in Turkey. The shopping center is completely designed in a galaxy-theme. Space-related lighting, planet models and a theme park for visitors form the individual identity of the shopping center. The networked and integrated security solution from Bosch comprises fire and voice evacuation systems, video surveillance, access control, and intrusion detection. All of these systems are centrally managed and operated via Bosch's Building Integration System.
With a total floor space of 100,000 square meters, 250 individual shops and restaurants, a hypermarket, a cinema complex and parking for 4,000 cars, Marmara Park serves approximately 40,000 customers per day. More than 2,400 jobs were created within the shopping center developed by ECE Türkiye. In 2013 it was awarded the MIPIM award in the shopping center category, one of the world's most prestigious awards in real estate development.
To enable the highest security level for customers, employees and suppliers of Marmara Park, local Bosch partner Entegre designed a highly modular and scalable security system that meets all the standards as set in norm EN54. The Bosch fire alarm system consists of four networked Modular Fire Panel 5000 Series with 59 loops supporting more than 5,000 fire detectors. It is tightly integrated with the Bosch PRAESIDEO voice evacuation system which can also be used for announcements and background music in normal operations. This system with 64 amplifiers supports 140 independent zones, allowing targeted messaging in case of an evacuation.
Video surveillance of the entire premises has been realized using almost 300 cameras and 18 digital video recorders. In addition, Entegre installed a comprehensive access control system for non-public areas within the centre as well as the addressable intrusion detection system Modular Alarm Platform MAP 5000 from Bosch with more than 1,000 detectors. This allows the operator to exactly locate every alarm in real time, enabling fast response to any incident. The same holds true for the panic buttons which have been installed in all of the shops.
Being a tightly integrated solution, the entire security system can be configured and operated very efficiently from one central location or distributed consoles. The open architecture makes it highly scalable and adaptable to future additions or changing requirements.