UPDATED! Scroll down to see who won!
Before I get into the review, the photos and the details, let me say we will have THREE winners for this amazing giveaway which includes a Springfield Girls doll, the Springfield Collection Storage Trunk for 18″ dolls, outfits and accessories to fill it! WOW. Now on to the photos, my insight and how to enter (scroll to the bottom of the post to find out how to enter).
Let’s start by meeting the Springfield Collection. Maria, Olivia, Madison, Abby and Emma are a line of very affordable 18″ vinyl play dolls that are similar to American Girl, Journey Girls, Madame Alexander and other lines. The Springfield Girls dolls can be purchased at Michaels craft stores nationwide, along with other stores like A.C. Moore and Joanns. The dolls run approximately $20 and if you use one of the retailers coupons you can get them even less expensive. Their accessories are adorable and make excellent stocking stuffers, gifts for friends, and birthday party favors.
The girls come dressed in simple meet dresses and they make a perfect friend for your other 18″ dolls, are great as a starter doll for a young girl who is just getting into dolls or as a model for your sewing projects. Like American Girl dolls, they have vinyl faces and limbs and soft bodies. The Springfield Girls limbs are not strung like American Girl, rather they are sewn in. The girls have a hard time standing without shoes on, but once you dress them up and put shoes on their feet, they do great!
In this photo Abby and Madison are modeling some of the outfits we received for review. Abby is wearing the Plaid Tunic and Leggings outfit ($9.95) with a pair of Springfield Collection Crocs that we already had. Madison is so comfy in the Pajamas and Bunny slippers from the Pajamarama Set which includes two pair of jammies and slippers for $16.99. Madison is very happy to be here and immediately went to the library and picked out her favorite Cecile book and found the comfy chair I had made earlier this fall.
This is Maria (some packaging still says Sophia but her name has been changed) modeling the Pop Princess outfit from the gift set while standing in front of the Storage Trunk. The Storage Trunk is made of sturdy cardboard and features two hanging racks and two drawers to keep your doll’s accessories neat and tidy.
I have more photos of the Springfield Girls in action and will be posting them throughout the weekend, but I want to get this awesome giveaway started first!! Go to this post for more photos.
CONGRATULATIONS to our lucky winners Kathy, Lynn & Marissa!
Visit the Springfield Collection website and click on Meet the Girls. Then come back here and leave a comment letting us know which of the Springfield Collection Dolls would be a great BFF for you or one of the dolls you already have.
Leave your comment(s) no later than midnight December 17, 2011.
We will be using the “And the winner is” plugin to select three (3) winners at random.
Disclosure: We did receive a large number of products from Springfield Doll for review purposes however all opinions are our own. Additionally many of the items we received will be donated to families in need in our local community through an arrangement with our local elementary school.
I like Abby and her blonde hair.
My daughter would like Abby.
My daughter is getting Abby for christmas, but I know she would LOVE all of them. I think she would like Olivia, because she has green eyes like her, or Maria.
I would like to enter. Maria would make a great BFF for my AG doll Felicity.
I just entered a comment about Maria being a great BFF for my doll Felicity and i think I got the email wrong, but I’m not sure. the correct email is the one in this post. Don’t count this as a second entry, I just want to make sure my email is correct.
My daughter loves Abby – not only because she also wants to be a vet but she loves the color blue as well. Abby and Kit would be great friends.
My daughter would love Madison for Christmas. Singing, winter, dressing up like a princess… that description could have been written about her. Madison and Addy would just love to share their adventures. We’re sure of it!
Maria would make a wonderful addition to our daughter’s dolly friends. She’s caring and loves reading, which is one my daughter’s favorite things.
Emma would be perfect for my granddaughter. They look like they could be sisters!
Olivia would make a great add-on to our doll collection!! She likes school, and sports just like the rest of our dolls and my daughter. She would also make a new hair color to add onto our collection!!
Emma would be a BFF. Love those dark brown eyes.
i want olivia really bad!!!! i want an 18 inch doll more than anything if i got this doll i would be the happiest girl in the world!!!! my family cant afffored to get me anything for christmas so me and my sister are just going to go to the dollar store to get a thing to share if i got this doll me and my sister would be soooooooooooooooooooo happy i hope i win!
i want maria she would be the perfect best friend!
My daughter would LOVE Abby! Her interest in animals would make her a perfect friend!
I like both DollDiaries and Springfield Dolls on Facebook! We want Maria or Olivia!
I shared this website on my Facebook page to let friends know about the contest.
We are following you on Twitter (@RuthZipfel)! My daughter would love to win this contest!
I have subscribed to both your YouTube channels!
My favorite doll is Abby, but they are all beautiful. Thanks for having the contest!