The following blog post is sponsored by DressFirst.com.
My best friend from college was married 18 years ago this week. As her maid of honor, I felt like a princess. We has our hair and nails done, rode in a limousine to the reception while New Orleans police officers stopped traffic just for the wedding party, and then we all danced under twinkling Christmas lights. The other bridesmaids and I wore gorgeous emerald green dresses with a long satin bow in the back. Maybe because it was a Christmastime wedding, the dress was packed away with my Christmas decorations. It no longer fits, but I look at it every year as my children and I unpack ornaments. This year my daughter asked to try it on. The girls are both still teenagers and smaller than I was in my 20s, and it was too long for both of them still.
They have both been in a wedding, and part of the excitement was helping them to find just the right dresses. If I had known of DressFirst.com then, finding them may have been easier. DressFirst.com is an online site selling wedding dresses, prom dresses, evening dresses, holiday dresses, homecoming dresses, etc. They have a large selection of both jr bridesmaid dresses and bridesmaid dresses.
Actually, almost everything needed for a wedding can be ordered from this one website. From lovely floral bouquets to napkins and serving sets for the wedding cake and even invitations. Arranging a wedding with online conveniences is so much different than when I went to multiple businesses as I planned my own wedding. The lovely Romantic Round Satin Wedding Bouquet is the same soft peach color my own wedding roses were.
In addition to everything needed for weddings, DressFirst.com also offers dresses for other special occasions as well as shoes for any dressy occasion. The ballroom selection may have just what we need for the next time we go English Country Dancing.
Disclaimer: This is a sponsored blog post by Dress First. This is disclosed in accordance with FTC guidelines.
I enjoyed reading your memories. What a special time to remember a friend, a wedding, a change, and sharing that with your family.
Thanks for the info - always looking for good dress sources!
Cannot wait to check this site out!
Looks like a great site, thank you so much!
I definitely need to check this one out for a dress for the Azalea Ball. Thanks for sharing.