Breaking up is never an easy thing to do, no matter who you are or where you are.
But breaking up on a television show has to be one of the most brutal ways a relationship can end.
Izzy Vesey and Simon DeBono from Australia were engaged to be married and have been appearing in the latest season of the Aussie reality show Bride & Prejudice.
The programme follows couples planning to wed against the wishes of their family and in this week’s episodes Izzy and Simon’s controversial relationship came crashing down.
The pair, who are a model and a barber respectively, were involved in an open relationship, where they could sleep with other people.
They claim this was due to problems in the past with Simon cheating.
But in order for them to stay together there were some rules in place that they had follow and one of the most important was that they weren’t meant to get involved with former boyfriends or girlfriends.
However it seems Simon wasn’t a massive fan of this rule and had been breaking it for a while.
In heartbreaking scenes one week before their wedding, Izzy discovered that her husband-to-be has been sending very explicit texts to his ex-girlfriend Megan.
“What did I lie to you about?” asks Simon.
Simon then went on to admit that he was still in love with his ex and didn’t want to marry Izzy anymore.
But was he bothered by her words? Not really. He merely responded by saying “that’s wonderful” before walking away.
Furious with his reaction, Izzy storms back to the house and her cast mates watch in horror as she goes into a meltdown.
She screams: “That’s wonderful. That’s WONDERFUL? THAT’S ALL I F***ING GET? THAT’S WONDERFUL?
The camera then shows Simon putting in his headphones and walking off for a midnight stroll.
Shortly after the pair both left the show, with Izzy’s mum Bobbi coming to pick her up – relieved that her daughter is now free from the “devil”.
Following the airing of the emotional episodes, Izzy opened up about the dramatic situation to New Idea.
“There was a lot of stuff that was going on behind the scenes with Simon that I wasn’t privy to and I felt like I was fighting so hard for this relationship and it became apparent that I was the only one fighting for it.