Interactive Voice Response (IVR) transaction processing reduces your PCI scope over-the-phone payments. Fully customizable and available in different languages, Bankcard Associates IVR acts as a phone-based payment acceptance application that ensures the safety of sensitive customer payment information.
Processing payments just got easier with Bankcard Associates IVR systems, which allow merchants to accept credit cards and manage the payment process through a touch tone phone. Merchants on the go can receive real-time credit card payments in a mobile environment, processing credit cards quickly and easily without the need for an Internet connection or credit card terminal.
With Bankcard Associates IVR capabilities, customers can make payments, check balances and manage accounts from their touchstone phone. Paying bills becomes quick and easy, eliminating lengthy on-hold times for improved customer service. When customers can make credit card payments without the need for an Internet connection, they can pay wherever they go and minimize late payments. Multiple language capabilities simplify the process and ensure clear communication.
At Bankcard Associates, we go to great lengths to protect your business, your customers and sensitive data. Our IVR systems work seamlessly with our PCI certified payment gateway, processing credit cards safely while reducing the risk of credit card fraud.
Customer calls in to a number listed on merchants website/bill to make a payment or Customer Service Agent transfers call to IVR to make payment.
That Phone number is hosted on our gateway server.
IVR digitally connects to the Gateway to securely process the transaction and tokenize the sensitive payment data.
The payment processes securely. Gateway digitally connects to the merchants accounting system or website to return the token and truncated payment data. The transaction can be confirmed in one of three ways.
Real-Time Response: Instant notification to merchants system, confirming payment has been made.
You can reach us at 1-800-921-9584 or you may use the contact form below.
Since BA introduced us to debit technology and low rates, our processing expenses have decreased by 40% and revenues have increased by 20%.
Our experience with BA has been extraordinary. We found the staff to be professional and attentive to our needs. BA has been a valuable member of the Landscape Warehouse team. Thank you BA!
Bankcard Associates, LLC is a registered ISO of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Walnut Creek, CA.
Copyright © 2004 - 2014 Bankcard Associates LLC, All Rights Reserved.