Attendify is an event management software that enables users to create event mobile apps and websites. Its features include event registration, lead retrieval, real-time analytics, data management, and more. In this article, we cover Attendify reviews and pricing. Ready to get started? Request a demo.
Users who gave Attendify a positive review said that the software efficiently communicates event agenda and schedule to their target attendees. Some of them mentioned that setting up events is very intuitive and the program provides a social interface for identifying potential event attendees.
Users who gave Attendify a negative review said that their target event attendees were initially hesitant to download the event app. Some of them reported issues with downloading graphics that do not display correctly on mobile devices. A few of them also wished for options to create an attendee database and a full document library that can hold various file types (.pdf, .doc, .ppt, and .xcl).
Attendify pricing has four subscription plans: Starter ($200/month), Basic ($900/month), Pro ($1,600/month), and Premier ($2,900/month). The main differences between the plans are the number of registrations, event app credits, audience contracts, and lead retrieval discounts.
Attendify offers pay-as-you-go options: Registration (2.5% plus $1 per ticket sold) and Event App ($999 per event). There are discounts available to the following: charitable organizations (20%), educational institutions (10%), and religious organizations (10%).
Ready to get started with Attendify? Request a demo.
How long does it take for Attendify users to build their event app?
Many of Attendify users are up and running with their own custom apps within 30 to 90 minutes.
Users just need to enter some basic information about their event, follow the prompts to build and preview their app, submit it, and they are done.
Can Attendify users update the event website and event app at the same time?
Yes. Attendify users can convert their event app into an event website or simply push the content from their event app into an existing website.
Have you read these Attendify reviews and are still not sure if it’s the right fit for you? Read our reviews of all top event management software or check out one of these three Attendify competitors.
Attendify is super-easy to use. It’s intuitive, so training someone new to it is a cinch. Within five minutes you can train a colleague on how to enter content into your event app and viola! They are off and running. Also, their staff are great at getting back to you. If you have a question, you will usually get an answer the same day, often times within an hour.
I just wish we knew about Attendify sooner.
Attendify takes an apparently overwhelming task, such as building a conference application, and makes it simple! The interface is simple and simple, without the need for coding. In the time it takes to publish a blog in WordPress, you can create an application with Attendify.
I have very few cons on Attendify, but some of our assistants came to ask me about the possibility of adding their own events along with the events in the application.
We are a non-profit association. Many of our assistants are also speakers. It would be nice if your personal profile and speaker profile could be connected.
This software has seemed to us to be one of the most reliable, as well as easy and has a well-designed design, it does not strain your eyes nor is it a headache to experiment with it.
We like the product as it is, it has no defects, in fact it is very complete and although at first we complained about the technical support that we did not like from the beginning, we have already been able to leave this thinking aside.
From the beginning we did not like technical support, which was the only thing we would have liked to know before we started using the application but now they have improved their customer service.
We love how good our event apps are at Attendify! We have used the product for three years and every year we received such great comments about our application. We also love how simple it is to configure and use.
It has been difficult to explain the registration process to new users. Some attendees are still skeptical about the use of an application during the conference. Some do not want to install software on their phones and have opted to use the version of the website, which could use a little more functionality.
It has all the features we need and it is extremely easy to configure and maintain. They have a great documentation of help and customer service. They keep in touch with me as a customer and are eager to hear new ideas.
It has all the features we need and it is extremely easy to configure and maintain. They have a great documentation of help and customer service. They keep in touch with me as a customer and are eager to hear new ideas. It has been a good investment in our annual conference. My employees and customers are satisfied with the application.
Some employees are still skeptical about the use of an application during the conference. Some do not want to install software on their phones and have opted to use the version of the website, which could provide a little more functionality.
The fact that graphics can be a bit restrictive to download. It is unpredictable how an image will appear and it will be difficult to edit once it is downloaded. But otherwise, I have not found another error or surprise of the platform.