He hopes you’ll buy his latest CD and tickets to his show Jan.15 at Anthology. But at the same time, bluesman Otis Taylor saysthat if he’s honest with himself, he’d have to admit he probablydoesn’t care as much about the money end of things as heshould.
“I just don’t care if I sell records ---- I must not care,because I do the things the way I do,” Taylor said recently byphone. He explained that he views each album as a chance to explorea new concept ---- and thus keeps moving into new territory, ratherthan finding something that sells well and then turning out thesame style of record over and over.
“When I first started, I didn’t care; now, I can say I carebecause I’m making a little money. I care about money; I just don’tcareenoughabout money.
One thing he’s not doing the same is touring with daughterCassie Taylor, his longtime bassist and co-vocalist.
When asked if this surprised him, Taylor said his daughter hadmet someone and was tired of being away all the time. So for thistour, he’s bringing a different bass player and a drummer as well,"which is unusual,” he said.
He’s still touring in support of “Pentatonic Wars and LoveSongs,” released last June on Telarc. That album’s core concept waslove, while the album before that, “Reclaiming the Banjo,” wasabout exploring the black roots of the banjo.
His next album, set for release this June, is already finished.Taylor said he produces his own albums and then delivers a finishedproduct to Telarc.
Taylor said that he likes the playing on his recordings to soundfresh, so he will only go to two takes on a song ---- and only totwo takes because the other musicians playing with him may beplaying one of his songs for the first time on take No. 1. But ifthey don’t get it right the second time?
“Three takes makes me nervous, and I don’t get to four takes---- there’s no emotion left.
Although Telarc Records, his home since 2003’s “Truth Is NotFiction,” has been bought by the Concord Group, Taylor said thechanges haven’t filtered down to the musicians.
“They don’t send anyone out there to watch you. Some things aredone differently; a little more corporate, but not artistically.... There’s just more paperwork for everything.
While he admitted that his brand of “trance blues” is farremoved from the mainstream, Taylor said it is possible to beinfluential without being famous.
“I figure it’s better to have a niche than just be part of thepack. I have a lot of young filmmakers wanting to use my music.There’s a whole younger set that’s hearing about me, which iscool.
“Who’s more important in the world, Miles Davis or Mick Jagger?A hundred years from now, it will be Miles. Who’s sold morerecords? The Rolling Stones. But who’s hipper? Miles Davis.
“That’s a legacy I’d like to leave ---- but we’ll see.