Starbucks’ Unicorn Frappuccino not only took social media by storm — it’s now even sparking various twists and takes on the drink, such as the Unicorn Lemonade, the Pink Pegasus Frappuccino, and the Dragon Frapp. And while the original elicited strong feelings, with plenty of folks either loving it or hating it, it looks like most totally missed a HUGE part of the experience. In many of the images shared via the internet, taste testers were taking a sip or two, and if they didn’t like it, tossed it in the trash. BUT WAIT! That means they didn’t give the drink’s most magical quality a chance to do its… well, magic. Did YOU?!
We’re gonna go ahead and bet that more than just a few of you missed the fact that this particular Frappuccino had a very special quirk to it. While the pink and blue concoction was surely snazzy as it was served, Starbucks announced prior to its launch that there was a quirky trick to the treat. The two colors initially have a sweet (= pink) and sour (= blue) kick, but that all changed if you mixed it up.
Giving it a good stir resulted in the drink changing into a pure purple version. The taste would also transform into something much more tangy and tart. Starbucks even introduced the drink by saying, “Starbucks Weaves its Magic with New Color and Flavor Changing Unicorn Frappuccino.” See? It was all about the transforming magic of the drink!
However, with all of those posts being shared on Instagram, no one was mixing it up. No one was testing out the magical color-changing, taste-transforming claims that Starbucks was making. Perhaps if more peeps had tried it out, there would have been a few more fans on board with the viral treat.
Did you realize that the Unicorn Frappuccino changed color and taste? Let us know @BritandCo!
Desirée O is a ‘Professional Bohemian’ who loves anything and everything related to the arts, entertainment, and pop culture. She ADORES being a ‘Newsy’ for Brit + Co, covering all of the latest tidbits of awesomeness that you want to read about. When she’s not writing, she’s either making messy art, going on long adventurous walks with her camera, or poking around over at bohemianizm (http://www.bohemianizm.com/). You can find out about Desirée O and her work at http://DesireeO.com/ or follow her on Twitter @DesireeO.