Of Course BPA Can Be Found Inside You!
It doesn’t take a rocket-scientist to understand how toxins from plastics can be found in the umbilical cord of our newborn babies, in our blood and in our tissues. Generations of exposure to those toxins that can be found in EVERY plastic bottle is always leached into your water, and it always finds it’s way into the body. When N.I.H (National Institute of Health, the primary agency of the United States government responsible for biomedical and public health research) labels our children as being “PRE-POLLUTED” then you KNOW we have bigger problems than most people want to acknowledge at all.
The average temperature of water that is processed through reverse osmosis is 190°. This means that the source water has already reached temperatures that cause the chemicals to leach out from the plastic BEFORE you buy and refrigerate it! In other words, the dangers of consuming fluids from a plastic bottle begin at the bottling plant and there’s nothing you can do to prevent exposure to these chemicals whatsoever.
It takes approximately 5 liters of water to produce (and fill) a 1 liter bottle of water using the reverse osmosis process. If you understand the volatility of our natural resources, this should be of great concern to you!
The reverse osmosis process doesn’t discriminate – is very good at removing the bad things (at least before it hits the bottle, that is) but it removes all of the natural minerals right along with the bad things. Water without minerals has absolutely NO BENEFIT to the human body whatsoever. This is true for distilled water too!
It doesn’t matter if the plastic is made with BPA or if it’s BPA-free.
There is NO such thing as safe plastic…not for you and your family, and not for the environment. Just say “NO” to all plastics…especially those used for your water consumption!
If you decide to take a positive step in the right direction by making the decision to do away with all those harmful plastics impacting YOUR health (and the health of the future generations) reach out to me. There is a better, healthier way and it doesn’t involve a toxic water bottle filled with clear fluids. Your body will thank you for it, the future generations will thank you for it AND the environmental will thank you for it too.
I’m an environmental advocate specializing in water. A mini “Erin Brockovich” …instead of fighting for justice, I have solutions for businesses and families. Families like the Donald Trump family, the Bill Gates family, the Seattle Seahawks families, the NY Yankees families and familes like yours and mine. If you’d like more information about the solutions that I have to offer, reach out to me.
Lynn Gardner, lynn@liquid-assets-usa.com or call 202 241 1542.
With bottled water out-selling carbonated drinks for the first time, there is no limit to the options being made available to consumers by money-hungry providers and most of it is NOT what it claims to be! Bottled water dominates more square footage in the grocery story than any other product! More and more “alkaline” waters and more and more”hydrogen infused” options are hitting the shelves and the $30.00 per gallon price tag doesn’t seem to be slowing anybody down! Wise consumers are looking at affordable, long-term options so that they can have an endless supply of alkalized water in their own home and these wise consumers are looking to consumer ionization appliances as a result. These wise consumers also understand that by purchasing a long-term solution; they save thousands and thousands of dollars over the long run.
Longevity. Because consumers are rapidly catching on to the benefits of drinking cleaner, healthier water and more alkaline water and the ionizer industry is beginning to boom as a result. Unfortunately, there are many start-up and 3rd party ionizer companies chasing the market, promising the moon and selling the truth short online. Look for a company that has been in the market long enough to be established AND long enough to have proven to stand behind their product and their warranties, one that offers reliable and reasonable service inside of the U.S. and one that can speak with experience about the life-cycle expectations of your unit. a quality ionizer SHOULD last for 20+ years with simple, routine maintenance. Look for a company that has the stay-power to be there for you long after your investment and one that already has a track record to “prove” how long your investment should last!
Reputable. There are good things and not-so-good things about the Internet. One of the not-so-good things is that it’s easy to “look good on paper”. Dealing with strangers on the Internet over ANY investment but particularly a sizable investment is never a good idea. Many of the 3rd party ionizer companies that you see online have already undergone name changes a few times and some have the worst Better Business Bureau ratings possible; that’s saying a whole lot when so many of them have been in business for just a few years. It’s not a good sign OR a good investment to put your money with a company that has already proven to be a problem for other consumers. Look for a company that has been around the block a few times and one that you can go directly to for any concerns or problems that you have.
USA Focused. Most (if not all) ionizers are manufactured outside of the US. The majority of the units that you see on the market today are manufactured by the same Korean manufacturer under different labels. The company that you may buy from is likely a 3rd party representative and not the manufacturer at all and in that case, they don’t manufacture, service or warranty the units at a;;. When services is needed, your unit must be shipped back to the original manufacturer in Korea, and at your expense. Look for a USA focused ionizer company that will actually stand behind and service your investment here in the United States. In other words, look for a direct manufacturer and NOT a 3rd party sales entity.
Sight Unseen. If you’re going to make the investment in ionization technology for you and your family, it’s not a good idea purchase sight unseen. You should have the chance to see it (and try it) for yourself before you buy. Although one company may give you the opportunity to see and try for yourself most of them don’t. Each ionizer on the market is vastly different from another and it’s not reasonable for you to expect that what you find online is like what you’ve already seen and tried for yourself! Consumers don’t buy vehicles that way…”test driving” one brand and then buying a completely different vehicle without ever seeing or driving it first. That is a risky approach no matter how large or how small the price tag is and it makes no financial sense whatsoever. Look for a company that will allow you to see (and try) the product for yourself before you buy!
Warranty: There are warranties and then there are warranties, and it’s important to select a company that will not only stand behind the warranty, but also one that will be able to honor it within the U.S. Wise consumers recognize that there is no such thing as a lifetime, unlimited warranty without a “catch” of some kind. Late-night infomercials often use this strategy to entice sales, but they generally have low-cost items and studies have proven that 98.9% of consumers will not bother to ship back a low-ticket item even with that “money back guarantee”. If necessary, ask to see the full warranty before you purchase (versus a warranty certificate) and don’t just “buy in” to a company that says they’ll stand behind the product “forever”and ever no matter what. Every “lifetime” warranty on the planet has exclusions of some sort and “lifetime” warranty ionizer companies are no different. If they go out of business; you have no warranty and if you’re required to ship your product back to Korea to the manufacturer (avg shipping $600 each way), it makes no financial sense whatsoever. Look for a company that has a solid (and realistic) warranty along with U.S. service centers prepared to offer timely and efficient serving whenever it’s needed.
Investing in ionization water technology is (by far) the single most significant investment that you can make for your health and well-being and it makes perfect financial sense for the long run…if you buy the right one, that is! When it comes to anything consumable, it pays to do your homework AND it never pays to skimp.
If you’d like more information on ionization technology, reach out to me.
Experts Blame Dehydration for Stroke Damage? It’s About Time!
Headlines in a an article published by Everyday Health reads – “Dehydration Leads to Greater Stroke Damage”. More accurately it should read “Dehydration Leads to Greater Stroke Risk“. Dehydration is your enemy and it’s time to give it the blame that it deserves. The human brain is 85% water and the blood is 90% water. When the body is deprived of water, the consequences go well beyond what most people understand. We’ve replaced the body’s NEED for water with a beverage-of-choice and we no longer recognize the signs of dehydration.
Dr. Paul Bendheim, a clinical professor of neurology from the University of Arizona College of Medicine in Tucson, says “there are no hard-and-fast rules for staying well-hydrated, despite recommendations to drink eight glasses of water each day“. That’s a no-brainer! Obviously the amount of water each individual needs depends on a number of factors; activity, weight and status of health just to name a few. Dr. Bendheim goes on to say, “prior research found that the majority of people are dehydrated when they have a stroke, but it’s not clear why”. How in the world can it not be clear why people are dehydrated? It’s interesting to note that most heart attacks and strokes happen in the middle of the night when the body is the most dehydrated. It’s a very good thing to drink water before you retire for the night!
The 8 Glasses of Wa