Discussion in 'Search Engine Optimization' started by unisecureus, Oct 25, 2018.
Normally SEO is long term works to get traffics but its important for organic traffics on regular basis. As you are looking for traffics improvement on fast mode then your main key is Unique and informative blog, use social media platform to get traffics from starting. Once user will notice that you are giving very good information then they will subscribe you or follow you.
Second ratio or update, you should update your blog by unique contents at least twice in a week (If can do regular or alternate then best) because it will attract search engines eyes and once you get noticed that updating blog very frequently with unique and informative contents then you can boom. Keep in mind that SEO is also still part to get good organic traffics for long term so dont leave process of SEO in natural ways like Link building and social bookmarking top sites for each new post.
Learn about content marketing. Publish engaging blog posts that visitors will want to share.
The only way to increase your traffic FAST is to buy it.
You can do that with Google Adsense, Facebook advertising, JV partnering, classified ads, solo ads. Just to name a few.
If you try the solo ad route you'll need to be especially picky in choosing your vendor. There are a lot of not so ethical providers in that area of advertising. Udimi is a good source. Study the vendor ratings to find the reliable ones.
Your SEO will play a good factor in it, but you can start working on social media right now to increase it. I find FB great for boosting traffic quickly.
First of all start with SEO, it won't provide you with a fast result but it will benefit the most at the end of the day. For relatively fast traffic I suggest using active social media and forum promotion. In case you need instant figures - try PPC.
Thanks all for valuable replies.
Hi, When I start where I post article on daily basis or may be 2 or 3 article per day with quality content also top keyword searches, So without link building can I get rank in top searches?
In starting you must have to let search engines know that you are updating your blog or informative website with unique contents on regular basis. For this best ways is bookmark to top sites like digg, redit your each submitted contents. When search engines will see that you are updating or giving very good information for visitors then no need to do more link building. For example this sites and forums digitalpoints, ezinearticles, articlebase ..... Till now i did not listen that these sites are doing link building along with update.
You can increase your traffic via google search engine, SEO, You should share your post link on social media and the promote your website.
Good way to increase traffic will be quality content. It will be the most correct decision.
Try to publish unique content. Also, you can try guest posts. It can bring you a lot of traffic if a famous site will accept your article.
It is advisable to circulate your blog on various high traffic micro-blogging sites and do social bookmarking accordingly. You can also take advantage of social media promotion as well.