The high high density makes it a very tough material with a lot of great properties like high wear-resistance, corrosion-resistance, low friction coefficient, anti-aging, inflammation-preventing and electrostatic-resistance. The high molecular weight makes it a very tough material with a lot of great properties like high wear-resistance, corrosion-resistance, low friction coefficient, anti-aging, inflammation-preventing and electrostatic-resistance. We have a wide variety of products, mainly including all kinds of UHMW-PE Fender Pad ,UHMW-PE Sheet ,HDPE Sheet ,PP Sheet ,Urethane Sheet ,PVC sheet and other Engineering plastic products.
3 YRS Linyi Dongming Plastic&Rubber Co., Ltd.
1 YRS Linyi Shangheng Plastic Co., Ltd.
UHMW-PE, has the excellent Performance of low-temperature resistance, which has a good ductibility in the Liquefied helium (-269&#8451;), was started to apply in the refrigeration technology and low-temperature field. UHMW-PE, has the excellent Performance of low-temperature resistance, which has a good ductibility in the Liquefied helium (-269&#8451;), was started to apply in the refrigeration technology and low-temperature field. The latest UHMW-PE tube that made by Guangzhou Engineering Plastics Industries (Group) Company, can be applied in semiconductor field instead of a great deal of PTFE tubes.
we ca n make ,and more information about them are as following: Product feature High temperature resistance. is a professional manufacture for OEM mechanical parts in rubber & plastic & metal material. All the New design weather resistant durable PVC plastic sheet with low prices w ill be packed well before shipping.
, established in January 2009, is a professional production of "engineering plastics accessories" high-tech enterprises. The company has a complete set of imported production equipment and numerical control processing equipment, processing means is advanced, technical force is abundant. 2. Q: How long is your delivery time9 A: According to the difficulty and quantity of product processing,a reasonable arrival time will be given to you.
Alibaba.com offers 10,233 blue hdpe sheet products. About 53% of these are plastic sheets, 1% are hdpe, and 1% are prefab houses.
A wide variety of blue hdpe sheet options are available to you, such as pe, pp. You can also choose from free samples, paid samples.
There are 10,233 blue hdpe sheet suppliers, mainly located in Asia. The top supplying country is China (Mainland), which supply 100% of blue hdpe sheet respectively.
Blue hdpe sheet products are most popular in Southeast Asia, North America, and Domestic Market.
You can ensure product safety by selecting from certified suppliers, including 7,422 with ISO9001, 1,355 with OHSAS18001, and 1,265 with ISO14001 certification.