Applying for an Immigrant Visa in the U.S.
In order for a foreign national to legally enter, live and work in the United States, he or she must obtain an immigrant visa. Temporary visits or stays in the U.S. can be authorized by obtaining a non-immigrant visa, however permanent residency for foreign nationals can only be obtained through an immigrant visa.
Once a foreign national is granted a green card and has lived in the United States for either three years (if they married a U.S. citizen) , or five years if they obtained their green card through another method, they may be eligible to apply for naturalization and citizenship.
Knowing which immigrant visa to apply for and ensuring your application is complete, can mean the difference between your visa getting approved or denied. That is why we advise you immediately consult with an immigration lawyer if you are considering applying for an immigrant visa.
Do you need an attorney to apply for an immigrant visa?
While some people may tell you that you do not need an attorney to apply for an immigrant visa, we recommend you seek counsel from a knowledgeable immigration attorney prior to applying for your visa. Our attorneys are board certified and experienced with all aspects of immigration law. We have been in practice for over 40 years and our attorneys have a combined experience of 100 years in practice.
Maney | Gordon | Zeller, P.A. has been recognized with an AV rating from Martindale-Hubbell. An AV rating is the highest rating available and shows the level of legal excellence, professional ethics, and high-quality customer service our new and existing clients can expect to receive. When you come to our firm, we take the time to discuss and review your current immigration status, eligibility and objectives. We help you review the options available to you, and determine the best avenue to pursue.
When you need an attorney who will work with you closely, and will take the aggressive steps needed to protect your interests throughout the entire immigration process, you need to contact an immigration lawyer at our firm today.
We have offices in Tampa, Clearwater, Dade City, and Jacksonville, FL, as well as Philadelphia, PA, Albuquerque, NM and El Paso, TX.