Mason Jar Taco Salads are easy to make and make the week ahead a breeze with having a nutritious lunch ready to go! Features layered lettuce, tomatoes, pepper, cheese, black beans and a creamy dressing.
Are you a fan of meal prep? I go back and forth with it. When I do it, I am happy every time having the food made ahead of time and it makes our week so much easier. The hard part is wanting to spend our precious weekend time prepping the meals and thinking of foods that sound good to make for the week ahead. Today, I want to share a recipe that I meal prepped that made our week easier and took no more than 15 minutes to make.
Have you gotten on the salad-in-a-Mason-Jar trend yet? I tried it a couple of years ago and think that it can be a great time saver for those who have limited time to make a lunch, those who work outside the home and those who want to eat healthier and having a nutritious meal prepped helps them do so. I know that you guys are a fan of salads in a jar because my Barbeque Chicken Mason Jar Salads are my most popular salad recipe of all time. I thought that it was about time to share this delicious Mason Jar Taco Salads recipe with you.
For these Mason Jar Taco Salads, I made a bunch of them on a Sunday and enjoyed them through the week. As long as you layer them right (especially the dressing), they will last at least a few days. You can choose to make them vegetarian with black beans or tofu. Or you can add meat such as ground beef, shredded chicken, beef or pork. They all will work great!
I wanted to add a bunch of color so I used tomatoes, yellow and orange bell peppers, green onions, romaine lettuce, black beans and more. The dressing was super simple: I just mixed together light creamy caesar dressing and salsa. It work also work well with ranch dressing. These mason jar salads are filling, nutritious and so easy to take with you on a busy day!
Mix together salsa and salad dressing. Pour dressing into the bottom of two quart-sized mason jars.
After the dressing is in the jars, layer tomatoes, followed by the peppers, black beans, cheddar and green onion in the jars. Fill to the top with lettuce.
Stores well in the fridge for about 3-5 days. Dump contents of jar onto a plate or in a bowl and eat. Enjoy!
**Since the dressing is wet, make sure to put on the bottom of the jar with the tomatoes. The lettuce goes on the top so that it does not get soggy.
What a great idea! Thanks for the recipe.
Thank you! So easy too!
I love easy recipes because I am so busy and this looks DELISH!