Clawson and Staubes provides representation to both plaintiffs and defendants in claims involving daycare abuse and neglect. Whether you are a parent whose child has been injured or neglected at a daycare or you are a childcare facility accused of such conduct, we have the experience necessary to handle your case at any level.
Parents place absolute trust in daycare facilities to provide a safe and nurturing environment for the most valued and vulnerable members of our society: our children. Unfortunately, annual statistics from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services show that there are more than 3,600 instances of abuse and neglect at daycare facilities nationwide each year.
In 2014, state lawmakers enacted a law permitting licensed inspectors to inspect home daycare centers unannounced to ensure compliance with laws and regulations governing the operations of child care facilities. As a result of the new law, which was enacted following the death of a 3-month-old infant in Greenville County, DSS inspectors have closed over 50 child daycares since 2014.
Drowning in various bodies or pools of water.
Mental and emotional injury can also result to the child, the effects of which may linger for years, potentially resulting in a significant claim against the daycare facility. These claims, which arise from a unique area of law, require the assistance of experienced counsel. Cases are often fact intensive and require attorneys with knowledge of the regulatory framework imposed by the S.C. Department of Social Services on child care service providers and capable of conducting a detailed investigation of the allegations in an effort to evaluate the potential liability. Furthermore, daycare abuse and neglect claims often require the identification and use of expert testimony to establish the nature and extent of the injuries suffered or likely to be suffered by the child. Punitive damages may be recoverable if the conduct of the daycare center or its employees was particularly egregious.
Our daycare abuse and neglect attorneys are experienced in representing both plaintiffs and defendants in cases involving allegations of physical injury, wrongful death, choking, suffocation, drowning, poisoning, burns, and sexual abuse. These cases can be complex because of the various laws, statutes, regulations, and administrative procedures that families and childcare facilities must navigate. Thus, it is imperative that you hire an attorney who has the experience necessary to ensure that your claim is handled properly. Our attorneys are equipped to provide you with competent counsel and assist you in navigating what is sure to be a very emotional ordeal for all involved.