Cam Newton #1 of the Carolina Panthers indicates a first down against the New York Giants in the fourth quarter during their game at Bank of America Stadium on October 7, 2018 in Charlotte, North Carolina.
Reid, who signed a one-year contract with the Panthers last week, claimed at the beginning of the offseason that he wasn't receiving interest from teams due to his decision to kneel during the national anthem. Reid informed media on Monday that he is moving forward in his collusion case against the National Football League and that he is considering ways to continue his protest against social injustice. I'm a football player. "But that's not the way it works".
"Eric knows what's best for Eric and what Eric needs to do".
Regardless of Reid's beliefs, the Panthers (2-1) are excited to have the 2013 Pro Bowler, who is expected to start at safety after Da'Norris Searcy was placed on injured reserve last week with a concussion. As new safety Eric Reid gets his legs under him and further comprehends the playbook, his impact should grow.
"We have great players in this locker room and we've accepted him with open arms", Newton said. "I publicly declared that I didn't agree with his comments and I asked anybody that was interested if they wanted clarification [to] go to Odell because he's a big man".
That's why it shouldn't be a huge surprise when Newton flattened New York Giants linebacker Kareem Martin when the Panthers ran a trick play and Newton turned into a blocker.
These are the key players for the Carolina Panthers to secure a win over the New York Giants and to keep pace in the NFC South.
Now, we don't know whether Bruce was watching these last few plays - but based on how down and out he looks here. we're just gonna say it's very possible.
Newton is probably the most multitalented quarterback in the NFL. That's not something the Giants are running with the slow-footed Eli Manning at the helm.
"I didn't have any cool "Superman" celebration like Cam", Gano said of Newton, who celebrates touchdowns by pretending to reveal the "S" on his chest. He successfully connected from 64 and 65 yards at J.J. Tate High School in Cantonment, Florida.