Our PE R420, with a Perc H310, came with one 100 GB SSD, and I replaced it with three 990 GB SAS and I configured it as RAID 5 via the H310; the S130 just says no hard drives found. Side question, is there a way to disable that?
I removed the RHGB and quiet options in the kernel line of grub2, as we are running Fedora Server 27, and it takes about 20 minutes for each reboot to start showing the kernel boot logs. I changed the Embedded SATA setting from AHCI to RAID. Once the kernel kicks in boot time is less than a minute. I got a suggestion to run modprobe on either the driver for the hard drive or H310. Dell's downloads page has a driver for the H310 but only for Red Hat. Is the Embedded SATA setting incorrect? Do I try the mod probe route?
Can you private message me your service tag so I can get some additional information?
We replied to you on Twitter.
I sent a PM on Twitter. So for now, when I go to the RAID configuration, what drop downs should I select to get better performance?
Will a H710 or H710P fit and not require a reinstall?
You can replace the H310 with an H710 or H710P and it will import the virtual disk without a reinstall. RAID 1 or 10, should provide better performance on the H310, but that would require a reinstall.
When in the config for the RAID can you tell me the optimal drop downs I should choose for gaining some read/write performance?
For the H310 the options are more limited and not anything that will dramatically effect performance. Switching controllers is the best option.
I see in the Advanced Options of the controller BIOS is grayed out and Read Policy is set to No Read Ahead and Write Policy is set to Write Through. Is there a way to edit this or did that need to happen when I initialized the disks and created the array?
Those features require an H710. The H310 doesn’t have cache on the controller to use them.
We replaced the controller with a h710 but now the BIOS does not pick it up and error with no boot disk found. Lifecycle controller is set to automatically detect new hardware. Anything else to check?
What does it show in ctrl+r under pd mgmt?