– Daily Express – Mention for the IW Walking Festival.
Further coverage was received following a media visit by leading Dutch garden writers, Marieke van Gessel and Modeste Herweg. Please click here to view this exposure. It’s been used by HDC Media: http://www.hc-hdc.nl/overhdcmedia/ several editions, circulation 255.000, read by 830.000 people and is valued at approx. £12,000. Our PR media value (ad value) coverage for 2014 now stands as £2.3million. This figure currently excludes local, on-line and any TV coverage.
You will doubtless have seen the fantastic images as some of the world’s best ice climbers took on the challenge of ascending the sheer cliffs of chalk at The Needles as the first ever Red Bull White Cliff competition came to the Island on Sunday 19th October. The film of this spectacular climb is on YouTube, or you can see it by clicking here. Katie Jones of VIOW who helped to set up the event together with The Needles Park, The National Trust and the ferry operators is hopeful of the event returning to the Island to become a real tourist attraction in 2015.
And for those who missed the Isle of Wight episode of the new BBC1 television series “Holiday of my Lifetime” featuring Len Goodman and Esther Rantzen, more details about the programme which show Len taking Esther back to the Island to relive her holiday as a 6-year old in 1946 can be found by clicking here.
In the film they can be seen in and around Bembridge, watching the daily demonstration of the donkeys at Carisbrooke Castle and visiting The Needles Park where Len surprises Esther with a chairlift ride with stunning views of the Island’s coastline. Robin Hill’s new event attraction “Electric Woods” also features in the programme as well as Isle of Wight Adventure Activities. Along the way Esther reveals that her journalistic curiosity may have started during her time on the Isle of Wight.
We were first approached by the programme makers back in June when they requested our assistance in finding suitable film locations and we were delighted to be able to provide support and act as a liaison between the television crew and relevant tourism providers.