Paraplanner required by this regional IFA firm that provides Individual advice to HNW Private Clients working on a model based on ongoing client service. The firm delivers efficient service and high-quality advice to a wide range of clients across the full range of investments, tax and retirement planning.
Applicants will be experienced in IFA paraplanning and ideally have progress towards the industry Level 4 exams. Excellent benefits package over and above the basic salary.
IFA Support required by this regional Wealth Manager that provides financial planning to HNW clients across investments, taxation and pensions. Connected to a professional practice the IFA arm continues to grow and now seeks an additional team member to support the Financial Planners.
You will deal with the preparation for client meetings and follow up of action points, new business processing, platform trades and other servicing, valuations, record keeping and data management plus liaison with clients and providers. The role will increasingly include technical support across report writing and research.
You will be experienced in supporting Financial Advisors including exposure to the industry platforms and back office tools. You will have excellent team working skills whilst also capable of operating on your own initiative taking responsibility for your full remit.
IFA Paraplanner required by this well-known asset manager to work with the firm’s HNW Private Clients across the full range of financial planning including Investments, Tax and Retirement work.
The Paraplanner will provide technical support to the IFAs including research, report writing, valuations, client reviews, platform work, database management and a high level of client contact including attendance at client meetings.
You will be a highly experienced paraplanner within a Wealth Management environment though applications are welcome from less experienced candidates with progress towards the industry Level 4 exams. The company offers an excellent salary, full benefits and a bonus depended on individual performance.
Paraplanner required by this wealth manager that operates within a niche market, to work with the firm’s Private Clients across the full range of financial planning including Investments, Pensions and Protection, working with complex advice for HNW individuals.
The Paraplanner will provide support to the Financial Planners including research, report writing, valuations, client reviews, platform work, database management and a high level of client contact including attendance at client meetings.
You will be an experienced paraplanner within a Financial Planning environment ideally with progress to Level 4. You will have excellent communications skills, technical exposure and be experienced in the compilation of advice. The company offers an excellent salary plus benefits.