Hot-essay.com can honestly say that it has a long experience in the online writing industry. The team has been founded 12 years ago and since then, we have delivered custom papers to students all around the globe. To be more specific, almost 700,000 customers have taken advantage of our professional academic assistance.
Like every other business, we started with a little project, but with big ambitions. The original team was made out of students able of completing impressive dissertations and of helping their fellow colleagues. In time, the team grew larger and experienced writers joined the company as we could now deliver more types of papers. Because there were more and more clients asking for assistance, we kept hiring competent people.
These days, hot-essay.com has become one of the top ten online writing companies preferred by students. This is because we can be trusted in respecting deadlines and in completing complex and difficult tasks. No matter how urgent, it can be done!
This is how more than a decade has passed since hot-essay.com has been founded. Have no doubts you will manage to become a brilliant student, just as our online writing service has succeeded in growing and developing over the years.
Maybe you won’t believe it, but in present, there are no less than 3,000 writers and editors working for us. The ph.D. Holders are responsible for dealing with dissertations and for completing flawless texts. Then, writers who hold master degrees take care of the rest of the orders like essays, term papers, research papers and so on. Having such a big team, the company can deliver absolutely any kind of content with top notch quality. In conclusion, students can rely on us for all academic urgencies.
Whoever wants to work for our company must pass a series of tests. First of all, candidates have to answer correctly to 90% of the questions from a writing test. Then, they are asked to complete an essay on a given topic and to apply the right formatting rules to a dissertation. In the end, we test the conversational skills of candidates by undertaking an interview. This is how only the best are hired!
All clients receive customized products writers start every paper from scratch and strictly follow students’ indications regarding the content and its structure.
We use an advanced plagiarism scan detector for all papers. Only those that are 100% unique are delivered to customers.
Customers are entitled to ask for free revisions for 14 days since delivery.
Discounts are flexible as to apply to every order new clients get 15% off!
Deliveries are always on time, as we know deadlines are critical for students.
Even more, discounts are available through our referral program gain money by recommending the company to your friends.
Loyal clients are rewarded within the loyalty program 5% of the order is saved in their bonus balance.
PROFESSIONALISM the papers are always of high quality and deserve every penny when getting a great grade.
RELIABILITY unhappy clients are not ignored! They are entitled to fair refunds and free revisions, as their academic results matter to us.
ATTENTION TO DETAILS students is free to come up with as many requirements as they want. Writers will always meet every single indication!
Improve your academic situation now!
Gain more free time by purchasing papers from hot-essay.com! Thus, you will be able to better handle other crucial tasks like jobs, exams, family issues and so on. Now you are not alone our professional team will complete the most difficult papers for you! Just go to the ordering page and ask for help. We will contact you as soon as possible.