We’ve been reading up on New Year Eve party ideas and the ‘Oh so sophisticated’ theme caught our attention. Always adding value to our clients’ experience at Reel Time Photo Booths we thought you might enjoy some ideas to work with when you plan your New Year Eve party. You could even incorporate the photo booth that you hired from Reel Time Photo Booths in creating fun mementos that your guests can take away with them.
Easy white and gold elegance is the trend and you could do most of it yourself. Have fringed garlands of tissue paper and aluminum foil, use glittery card stock letters strung together as a backdrop for the open ended mobile photo booth.
Use fairy lights around the room and add white pillar candles, prettied up with glitter paper as centre pieces. You could even glitz up the bubbly and accompanying glasses.
The elegance of the theme could be portrayed in the tablescape with simplicity in the tablecloth and added dramatic flair in the table runner. White roses are always a winner as they are elegance perfected.
Elegant photo booth props are heart shaped black and white frames, elegant yet sassy eyewear frames, feathered masks, crocheted parasols, classy handheld fans to let only your eyes do the talking. Or, you could always decide to have photo booth props that provides a quirkiness to your ‘Oh so sophisticated New Year’s Eve Celebration’ and take the mickey out of the theme. It is after all your party, and you can have it any way you want to.
You can pull ut all the stops with your ‘Oh so sophisticated’ New Year Eve party.
The photo booth attendant we provide will take care of the snapping, all you need to do is get to the camera and pose like a star. Your guests will have their photo strips within 8-10 seconds of being snapped and you will have a USB drive with all the photos taken on the night. You could even request an album to remember the celebrations by.
To request pricing information on our very affordable photo booth hire packages, please contact us on 0400 777 979 or email us info@reeltimephotobooths.com.au and we will respond to your enquiry.