Adult Open Hip Hop- All 10 classes discount $195 Drop in Rate: $23 available at the front desk.
She has taught the French Language continuously for decades and has been in Seattle teaching French for Highline Community College for the past for 11 years. She will be offering a 5 week course in the French Language at WSPA that will be held before her Ballet Class. Sylvie is comfortable teaching a multi- level class with beginners and those experienced in the French Language. She creates a warm and encouraging environment for learning and teens and adults are invited to join in this workshop. We warmly welcome Sylvie to our Faculty.
Ballet 1 is an introductory level that builds on the concepts of locomotion, body awareness, pathways, dance vocabulary, sequencing and a strong sense of anatomy. An 18 week curriculum is followed that bases each class on a strong concept of movement, space or the body and how it works. A twist on the traditional classical ballet class we will start each with a class with a vigorous series of locomotor movements across the floor, for example: skips, gallops, chasses, and prances. Ballet 1 digs deeper into the classical ballet vocabulary with a beginner barre , center floor and jumping sections of class. Peer to peer correction, French vocabulary and the use of musical terms such as ; Adagio, moderato, allegro, presto etc are all woven into the class for a full experience.
Teaching philosophy: I have a very strong philosophy of respect in the classroom. Student to teacher, Teacher to Student ,Students to each other, the space and the learning environment. Every student is an individual that learns in a unique way. My job as a teacher is to choose the best language and examples to create a stimulating and playful learning environment. I choose to eliminate negative words in the classroom like” No”,” not” or” wrong.” I believe in transparency. I crave an authentic and healthy relationship with both my students and their families.
Ballet 2 can be used as an introductory level or one that builds on Creative, Pre-Ballet and Ballet 1. The concepts of locomotion, body awareness, pathways, dance vocabulary, sequencing ,musicality, and a strong emphasis on anatomy, core strength and the use of proper alignment are strongly taught at this level. An 18 week curriculum is followed that bases each class on concepts of movement, space or the body and how it functions. A rehearsal component is included in this class to prepare them to perform in the Seasonal Concert.
A twist on the traditional classical ballet class we will class with a vigorous series of locomotor movements across the floor, for example: skips, gallops, chasses, and prances. Ballet 2 does include a full barre, center work and petite allegro and grand allegro exercises. It digs deeper into the classical ballet vocabulary French vocabulary and the use of musical terms such as ; Adagio, moderato, allegro, presto etc are all woven into the class for a full experience. Teaching philosophy: I have a very strong philosophy of respect in the classroom. Student to teacher, Teacher to Student ,Students to each other, the space and the learning environment. Every student is an individual that learns in a unique way. My job as a teacher is to choose the best language and examples to create a stimulating and playful learning environment. I choose to eliminate negative words in the classroom like” No”,” not” or” wrong.” I believe in transparency. I crave an authentic and healthy relationship with both my students and their families.
Ballet 3 can be used as an introductory level for those students 10-11 years who show the maturity to dive in and work hard. Students would be asked to take a placement class if they are new to dance and have not taken ballet in the past 2 years. Ballet 3 can also can be taken as a sequential class following Ballet 2. The concepts of locomotion, body awareness, pathways, dance vocabulary, sequencing, musicality, and a strong emphasis on anatomy, core strength and the use of proper alignment are strongly taught at this level. An 18 week curriculum is followed that bases each class on concepts of movement, space or the body and how it functions.
A twist on the traditional classical ballet class we will begin each class with a vigorous series of locomotor movements across the floor, for example: skips, gallops, chasses, and prances. Ballet 3 continues with a full barre, center work petite allegro and grand allegro exercises. It continues to dig deeper into the classical ballet vocabulary French vocabulary and the use of musical terms such as; Adagio, moderato, allegro, and presto. This is strictly a technique class. Students wishing to need to register for Rehearsal 3 which meets after class on Wednesdays. Those enrolled will have 2-3 dances in our Seasonal Concert. Contemporary /Modern 3 is highly recommended along with Rehearsal for this level.
Rehearsal 4 Nutcrackeron Mondays following Technique class for those students who crave working on more choreography for Nutcracker and will be in a minimum of 3 dances.
Ballet 4 is a minimum of a two to three year intermediate/advanced technical level. On the rare occasion a student can audition to start dance in level 4/5 if they have had previous experience or show exceptional talent to jump levels to begin. Ballet 4/5 is a love that prepares young girls for pointe and young males for exceptional. The concepts of locomotion, body awareness, pathways, dance vocabulary, sequencing, musicality, and a strong emphasis on anatomy, core strength in the use of proper alignment are strongly taught at this level. An 18 week curriculum is followed that bases each class on concepts of movement, space or the body and how it functions. Stretching will be heavily included to increase range of motion. Ballet 4/5continues with a full barre, center work petite allegro and grand allegro exercises. It continues to dig deeper into the classical ballet vocabulary French vocabulary and the use of musical terms Students are invited to start Pre-Pointe in year 2 once they show proficiency in holding alignment, strength and turn out.
Rehearsal 5 Nutcracker Fridays following Technique class for those students who crave working on more choreography for Nutcracker and will be in a minimum of 3 dances.
Ballet 5 is a minimum of a two to three year intermediate/advanced technical level. On the rare occasion a student can audition to start dance in level 4/5 if they have had previous experience or show exceptional talent to jump levels to begin. Ballet 4/5 is a love that prepares young girls for pointe and young males for exceptional. The concepts of locomotion, body awareness, pathways, dance vocabulary, sequencing, musicality, and a strong emphasis on anatomy, core strength in the use of proper alignment are strongly taught at this level. An 18 week curriculum is followed that bases each class on concepts of movement, space or the body and how it functions. Stretching will be heavily included to increase range of motion. Ballet 4/5continues with a full barre, center work petite allegro and grand allegro exercises. It continues to dig deeper into the classical ballet vocabulary French vocabulary and the use of musical terms Students are invited to start Pre-Pointe in year 2 once they show proficiency in holding alignment, strength and turn out.
Students are invited to enroll in Pointe Technique.. This is strictly a technique class. Students wishing to perform need to register for Rehearsal 6/7 on Saturdays. Those enrolled will have 2-3 dances in our Seasonal Winter Concert. Contemporary Modern 5 , Jazz 4/5 and Lyrical 6/7 are highly recommended as a performance component to this class.
Teaching philosophy: I have a very strong philosophy of respect in the classroom. Student to teacher, teacher to student ,students to each other, the space and the learning environment. Every student is an individual that learns in a unique way. My job, as a teacher, is to choose the best language and examples to create a stimulating and playful learning environment. I choose to eliminate negative words in the classroom like” No”,” not” or” wrong.” I believe in transparency. I crave an authentic and healthy relationship with both my students and their families.
This class is taken along with Ballet 4 and provides additional time with a choreographer for upcoming performances. Dancers who study in rehearsals classes perform 2-3 additional dances in Nutcracker.
Executive Director of West Seattle Performing Arts, has been directing dance programs for the past 23 years. She has served as the Summer Dance Coordinator directing a national program and teaching for the Preparatory Dance Faculty at Cornish College of the Arts since 1994. She is part of the External Programming team for the college. She has been the acting Director of Dance for Vashon Center for the Arts since 1996 on Vashon Island, WA and the Artistic Director of the Vashon Center for the Arts, a pre-professional dance company, Christine has dedicated two decades bringing the classical and contemporary arts to communities in the Seattle area . She has directed and taught dance to diverse populations for the past 34 years.. Christine has also served on the dance faculty of Washington University in St. Louis. She holds a M.S. from Indiana University in Modern dance and Physical Sciences and a B.S. in Ballet and Music from the Jacobs School of Music at Indiana University. Christine is a Master Artist in Residence for the state of Washington and enjoys collaborative projects annually with classroom teachers integrating academics and movement She has staged numerous full length ballets. Christine is thrilled to introduce her program and stellar faculty to the artists of the community.
Instructor:Anne Motl BFA in Dance, Cornish College of the Arts.
Beg/Intermediate Modern embraces a full spectrum of movement including working through a rounded spine as well as tilted balan