If you want to have a unique experience hiking in the forest to find the elephants and observe their natural behaviours in their home environment, Kindred Spirit Elephant Sanctuary is the right place for you. Come and join us for the experience of a lifetime. Volunteers must be physically fit to hike everyday up and down the mountains to get to the elephants. In our sanctuary, you can see exactly where your donations are going and how they are benefiting our sanctuary, our elephants and our community.
Kindred Spirit Elephant Sanctuary is set amongst the rolling hills of Northern Thailand in a Karen hilltribe village. It is surrounded by a forest that is perfect for our elephants to forage in.
The Karen people are originally from Myanmar but they have migrated to Thailand in search of a better life during the many wars over generations. Volunteers will have the opportunity to learn and experience their language and culture. They are keen weavers and are well known in Thailand for their elephant keeping. They make an income from their elephants and working the fields, mainly growing rice and corn using rotational slash and burn techniques. Volunteers will have the opportunity to learn more first-hand about their culture and even help out with the community when required.
You will have the opportunity to participate in teaching English at the school, to the homestays and to the mahouts as well receiving education about elephants in Asia and learning the local tribal language and culture. We also have a number of add-ons you can choose such as relaxing with a Thai massage or learning how to basket weave.
Volunteers can stay with us for 3 days to 3 months. However, we recommend at least a week to get the full experience of our sanctuary. Students who wish to carry out research for their studies are also welcome.
1 week - 4 weeks: 15,000thb per week (approx. $440/£326/570AUD).
This price inculdes all transport, accomodation and food in the village as well as 1 night accomodation in Chiang Mai on arrival.