As things have become might crafty of late I thought I'd share with you some of my current works and projects in progress.
I've been working on quite a few things already this month, some are stocking up on staple pieces for my Etsy shop and lots are brand new things I've never tried before!
The first thing I wanted to show you it my first ever baby jumper. Not long ago a lovely customer of mine complimented some of my nursery decor suggesting that she would love to see more gender neutral things on the market, and ever since I've been on a wild adventure to test my skills and incorporate a gender neutral collection into my shop.
This jumper is my first ever attempt at making tiny person sized clothes and I'm super pleased with how it came out. I love the colours, I like the pattern, and its so so uber soft, now just seam it all together and you'll be able to find it in the shop very soon!
I've also been working on a ton of different pompom crafts. Its amazing how much you can do with pompoms and I'm obsessed with my new pompom makers (you might remember I wrote about these in a post last week) so I can wait to share all my creations with you.
For now I'm going to keep them a secret but if you can guess, some of the clues are in the picture! Let me know in the comments if you think you figured it out!
I'm also expanding my Celtic knot jewellery collection to include an assortment of new knots, links and colours. Although I think these look a bit shocker in the photos (thank you bright sunlight!) I really think they are going to turn out great.
Lastly on my current Pips is a collection of bunting. I think knitted bunting can have a high risk of looking super out-dated, but I have a few tricks up my sleeve to really make these special.
So that's everything I have to show you this week.
I'd really like to start doing tutorials on here, so if there's anything you've seen of anything you think of you've always wanted to know how to make, let me know in the comments and I'd love to start a simple DIY series.