An inventory advertisement allows a continuous intake of applications, over as long a period as desired. This inventory has no closing date, although one may be added in the future. Once a candidate has submitted their application it will stay active in the inventory (assuming it meets the essential screening criteria) for 180 days. At the end of that period, candidates will need to refresh their application to ensure it stays active in the inventory. 15 days prior to the end of the 180 day period, candidates will receive a notice to their PSRS profile instructing them that their application will expire unless it is refreshed. Candidates are also able to withdraw their application from the inventory anytime they desire.
If you are found unsuccessful during any point of the process your application will not be considered again until 60 days has elapsed from the date of your elimination notification.
This position provides a comprehensive programme in basic academic education, assesses the academic needs and abilities of inmates through testing; coordinates correspondence courses; provides individualized instruction; develops individual educational plans; assists in inventory control; and performs other duties related to the position.
The candidate pool resulting from this selection process may be used to staff similar positions on an indeterminate (anticipatory), term, or casual basis.
Graduation with a degree from a recognized university with acceptable specialization in education, linguistics, sociology, psychology, mathematics, physics, home economics or some other speciality relevant to the position (e.g. Adult education, English, history, geography, learning disabilities, English as a second language, etc.).
One year recent experience teaching academic subject matter to adults and/or at risk youth in a classroom setting.
Ability to assess student academic progress toward mastery of subject matter.
Ability to assess the suitability of instructional materials.
through substantiation by examples. Information on your described skills, experience, etc. provided in screening questions should be supported by your resume. Failure to provide the above information in the format required may result in your application being rejected from the process. Although the asset qualifications are not mandatory, they may be an important factor that will be considered for specific positions being staffed. Therefore, if you meet the asset education and experience, it is to your advantage to demonstrate this in your application as well.
address) of 3 supervisory references, including your current supervisor.
Your referees will be asked to respond in writing to a number of questions that demonstrate your competency in the areas to be assessed.
Ensure that your referees are prepared to provide comprehensive responses in writing.
communications regarding this selection process.
Candidates must be prepared to provide original proof of education (including equivalencies), and citizenship when requested. Failure to do so, by the deadline requested, may result in you not being considered for this pool.
Reference checks will be conducted.
Ensure that you read the invitation to the examination and interview thoroughly and follow any directions for documents that may be required at the time of the assessment.
an Aboriginal person, a person with a disability or a member of a visible minority group.
accommodation measures will be addressed confidentially.