© 2019 Thurlow Church of England (VC) Primary School.
As a Local Authority Maintained school Suffolk County Council is responsible for co-ordinating the admission arrangements for the normal year of entry at a school.
Children enter Thurlow CE VCP School during the academic year in which they have their fifth birthday. We have a Pupil Admission Number (PAN) of 15.
Most children transfer from local pre-schools and close liaison takes place between these establishments and with parents before children start school. This enables pre-school knowledge to be passed on to Early Years staff at Thurlow CE VCP and ensures that we have a very clear picture of a child’s needs before they start.
At Thurlow CE VCP we aim for all children to feel confident and happy from their first day at school. During the summer term before they enter, Early Years children and parents are invited to taster sessions. Children and parents join in with activities led by Early Years staff and this really aids a smooth transition into school life as well as giving parents ideas of things they can do with their child at home.
A meeting for all new parents of children about to start in Early Years is held in the summer term.
Prospective and new parents are encouraged to attend the taster sessions and parent meetings that the school organises. This enables parents to find out through first-hand experience how children learn at Thurlow CE VCP School. If you would like to visit the school please contact the school office (01440 783281) to make an appointment.
Our Nursery children learn alongside our reception children in a purpose built learning environment. Nursery sessions are 5 days a week (mornings) and the sessions run from 8:50 until 11:50. Children between the ages of 2-4 are welcome if funded.
We have a maximum of 13 places for our Nursery sessions during the school year. Either 5 sessions 8.50-11.50 or 3 sessions 8am-1pm. Applications for places are considered each term, with priority being given to the oldest children. To apply for a place in our nursery, please request an application form from the School Office. Please complete the form and return it to school. The school will need to see the birth certificate of the child and this information will be recorded on the application form. We have three intakes per year. Eligible two year olds can join the nursery in the term after they turn two; three year old children can join the nursery in the term after they turn three.
Enquiries regarding applying for a place at our Nursery can be made via the School office – 01440 783281. Please note that applications for entry in to our Reception year will need to be made via the Suffolk Schools admission even if your child attends our nursery and a nursery place does not guarantee a place at the school.