Kick start your Kashmir holiday tour with arrival at Srinagar. Here, you will meet a representative and get transferred to a Deluxe Houseboat. In the afternoon, head out to enjoy a romantic 'Shikara ride' on the much famed Dal Lake. You can also go Shikara shopping and buy Kashmiri shawls, handicrafts and curios on the lake. Return to the houseboat in the evening, where you will have dinner and spend the night.
Have a delicious breakfast and head out to Sonmarg. Spend the day at leisure and bask in the captivating beauty of the Himalayas. In the evening, drive back to Srinagar. Upon arrival, return to the houseboat, have dinner and spend the night.
Post breakfast, drive up to the picturesque hill station Gulmarg, which is home to the world's highest green golf course and some exciting skiing slopes. The day is at leisure - you can take a cable-car Gondola ride from Gulmarg to Khilanmarg and delight in the stunning vistas of snow-capped peaks and green meadows. Head back to Srinagar and return to the hotel, where you will stay overnight after a delicious dinner.
Have breakfast and start off to Pahalgam and on your way, take a short trip to the saffron fields and the Awantipura Ruins, relics of old temples dedicated to Lord Vishnu and Lord Shiva built in the 9th Century AD by King Awantiwareman. Arrive Pahalgam and check into the hotel booked as per your Kashmir tour package. Spend the remaining day at leisure. Post dinner at the hotel, enjoy your overnight stay.
Have breakfast and proceed to take a scenic drive to Srinagar. After arrival, check into a hotel. In the afternoon, start off to the picturesque Nishat Bagh, a terraced Mughal Garden and Shalimar Bagh, another Mughal Garden linked to the Dal Lake from the northeastern shore via a channel. Return back to the hotel and spend the night following a delectable dinner.
Have a savory breakfast and check-out of the hotel. Then, proceed to the airport to catch a light to your onward journey.
Srinagar – The capital city of Jammu and Kashmir, Srinagar is noted for serene Dal Lake and remarkable Mughal gardens like Nishat Bagh, Shalimar Bagh, and Chashmashahi. Other places of interest are Hazratbal Mosque, Nehru Garden, Pari Mahal, Roza Bal, and Shankaracharya Mandir.
Gulmarg - One of the most famous tourist destinations in India, Gulmarg is a hill station most noted for its awe-inspiring natural beauty. Gulmarg is a popular skiing destination during winters as its long and high slopes make perfect piste areas. In summers as the snow melts, the town becomes a major golfing hub with the world's highest golf course. Enveloped by the gigantic mountains, lush greenery, and stunning meadows, Gulmarg is surely worth a visit.
Sonamarg – The fascinating countryside area, Sonamarg lies at a high altitude, which makes it chilly even in summers. Thajiwas Glacier, Krishnasar Lake, Vishansar Lake, and Gangabal are the major attractions in the area.
Awantipura – Set amidst a verdant valley, Awantipura is widely famous for the ruins of Awantipura that lure in hordes of tourists from around the world. Amidst the scenic landscapes, the ruins of several temples built by King Awantiwareman in the 9th century AD take your breath away.