Some of you might have seen that Spectrum Noir is launching new range called Colorista.
This is a range of coloring books, pencils & pens and I was very lucky to be able to play with the goodies before their release.
Before I show you some of my coloring I also wanted to let you know that Spectrum Noir are offering an 8 week FREE coloring course where you will receive e-books, downloads & video content, whilst this is based around the Colorista Range it will cover coloring basics that can be used within card making, and hey it is free so what do you have to lose ?
The Colorista range is something I have to be 100% honest about, I have tried the adult coloring books…infact I have a few, but didn’t like them as I found the paper quality was poor.
Me and the rest of the team working with the books have all commented on how amazing the cardstock in the books are….honestly its like coloring with butter on it, such smooth blending with pens & pencils !
The books also come in a variety of different finishes including Foil (for use with pencils) and also colourable glitter ! (for use with markers). They also come in A4 and smaller A5 size and with a number of different themes.
Anyway here is some of my colouring that I have done with the range.
With the range you can also buy a USB stick which is preloaded with tons of printable pages for you.
I printed one out, coloured the flowers and then made a card.
This is one of the A4 Foil books, I colored it using my pencils and then went over the top with my Spectrum Noir Clear Sparkle. I have not used any blending solution, this shows how fab the pencils and also the paper are.
This is another one of the foiled books, but this is smaller A5…perfect for taking out and about.
For this one I again coloured with pencils but then one the butterflies I went over them with my Black Spectrum Noir sparkle pen and using a clean cloth I dabbed the color which left this effect.
This was a total fun, going in with lots of random colors type coloring.
This is an A5 Glitter pad. Most of the flowers and house are glitter so you can see how well it allows you to blend with your markers.
I loved colouring this one….but then I am a huge fan of lilies. It is from the USB and printed onto Neenah and coloured using the new Colorista Markers.
This is A4 from one of the larger books, and although it took me ages it honestly was so relaxing and i really enjoyed it.
For this one I wanted to show the how the pages looked coloured, against uncolored.
Along with the books Spectrum Noir are also launching a new range of pens and pencils specifically for the range.
The pens are Alcohol based Markers but come with a bullet nib and an ultra fine nib for all those tiny areas.
The range will be launching on HSN in USA at the end of August and then launching here in the UK soon after.
To be kept upto date with everything make sure you check out the Spectrum Noir Facebook page where there is also a ton of sample pics being shown from my amazingly talented teamies.
I will also have some more samples coming soon to show what you can do with your pages when you have finished colouring them.
Love them all, you did such an amazing job!