Every quarter we will be publishing the winning and highly commended Flash Fiction entries in our Short Fiction section.
Please see below for further details on the awards, general criteria, judges, and the submission link.
Following a conversation with Kit de Waal (interview with TSS here), we are happy to announce that submission fees for the Flash Fiction 400 competition will be waived for any writers from marginalised and disadvantaged communities, or anyone suffering from economic hardship. For further details please click here.
Results: longlist announced mid-April. Winners and Highly Commended in late April / early May.
Highly Commended: Up to five further flash fictions will be highly commended and published online. They will also receive £25 each.
All 1st place winners will be nominated for the Best Small Fiction Awards.
All winners (1st, 2nd, 3rd) will be published in a chapboook within 12 months of the spring competition.
All winners (1st, 2nd, 3rd) will be interviewed, by TSS Publishing, about their flash fiction and their writing more generally.
Please read through the Terms and Conditions before submitting.IMPORTANT: Due to the volume of submissions, we do not have the capability to email entrants individually regarding results. Please sign up to our newsletter (right sidebar) to keep up to date with competition news, or check the website directly.
Sign up to our newsletter to stay up to date with news of competitions, results, and more.
Elisabeth Ingram Wallace lives in Scotland, and her writing is published in SmokeLong Quarterly, Atticus Review, Flash Frontier, and the Bath Flash Fiction Award anthologies. A finalist for The Best Small Fictions 2018, she has a Scottish Book Trust ‘New Writers Award’, a Dewar Arts Award, and won ‘Writing the Future 2017’. She studied English as a mature student at Oxford University, and has a Creative Writing M.Litt. with Distinction from the University of Glasgow. She also won the TSS Flash 400 summer competition with her Flash ‘Space Hopped’ . You can find her on Twitter @ingram_wallace or on her website here.