You can upload up to 12 photos with us.
Use a high resolution - our software will resize them appropriately.
Your photos should be a JPEG, GIF or PNG format. These are the only formats supported on the internet.
You cannot upload photos inside a Microsoft Word, PDF or other kind of document.
You can upload all the photos at the same time during the process of creating your advert.
If you do not have your photos ready now, you can still create your advert and add the photos at any point in the future. You are also able to add/amend the photos at any point in the future after the advert is live.
Hand held cameras are great for taking spur of the moment pictures, but a tripod will give you the stability to take clearer, sharper photographs.
Even during the day, having all the lights on in your home will instantly make it look warmer and more appealing.
Dark corners don’t do your home any favours online, but simple lighting equipment will help you illuminate them. A flash will help, as will a reflector and even a light stand.
Sometimes called staging, preparing a room is a way of showing how best it can be used. This is very often done by temporarily repositioning furniture in a room and putting lamps on tables and flowers in vases, or setting a table for dinner.
To prevent your pictures looking wonky, use a bubble spirit level to ensure your camera is perfectly angled for each room.
Getting up a dawn isn’t everyone’s idea of fun, but it’s the ideal time of day to get the best photographs of the outside of a property: dawn light is better and there are fewer people around.
At different times of the day, and at different times of year, the light will change how your house looks. Take some time to stand outside and see how it looks on different days.
Today processing is a term for how the image is put through photography software before it is ready to be used. This helps to soften, sharpen and generally tidy up any imperfections.
There are photography courses run at adult education centres all over the country, and are the best place to start learning about taking better pictures.
Hiring a professional is very cost effective. They are not expensive and can make the difference between the house selling/renting quickly or not. If you’re thinking of renting your property, then with a one-time investment in professional photographs, you can re-use them each time you come to let the property. Contact us if you'd like a quote.