Did you know that Google indexes and handles video content in a different way compared to content on blogs and sites? If you create a video and an article written together for a niche, there is a higher chance of a video popping up on the landing page. Video Jeet helps with all that!
Creating an article or a post with video is the way to go. And with Video Jeet, it has a higher chance of ranking on search results. But, what if you can’t create a video and need one. In this case, you will have to find a good video that matches your content from video sites to give your post a higher chance of ranking on search results on search engines. Well, Video Jeet is a tool that can help you to do this without a problem!
Check out the screen capture.
Video Jeet is for those businesses who or literally for anyone who wants to start ranking on Google. The aim of Video Jeet is to include a related video into your article to give your audience a more informative approach to providing content. Most articles and posts lack video and as a result tend to have less affect on their rankings as opposed to video within content.
Video Jeet increases the on page SEO and ranking in search engines.
We all want that, right! Give it a go, it is easy to install and use on your WordPress website.
It is really not about who needs Video Jeet but rather who’s wants to rank their web pages. It really is a tool for anyone regardless of occupation.
We are in a technology phase in history and ranking and growing a business is about being noticed and on the internet it’s really about your organization’s digital footprints being noticed.
Video Jeet is really an affordable to to boost on page SEO.
This tool is wonderfully crafted to work with popular free blogging sites such as Blogger, Tumblr, WordPress and Livejournal. Just set up your blog on these free platforms and Video Jeet will interact with them at no additional cost.
The third best part I like about Video Jeet is the solution it provides by being a push button tool. It works on the premise of keywords, just provide the best keyword that describes your content and let Video Jeet bring back a suitable video for you to add into your content. With fresh video content being posted again and again you are sure to rank on search engines like Google, Bing, Yahoo and others. Everything is done on auto!
The last point about Video Jeet that makes it reach above it’s peers is that it actually pings the biggest search engine (Google) after its done with the creating the posting! Very handy, is it not? So, there really is no need for additional plugins to call on Search bots to come index the page.
What will you get inside Video Jeet?
Research data plainly indicates that traffic is more and more video based. Not traffic from video sites but traffic from video blogs that use video sites as a secondary site. It is a matter of letting Video Jeet do all the hard work for you when creating content on your site day after day.
Video Jeet automatically finds fresh related videos as per your niche and adds them to your blog’s pages and posts.
This tool will automatically ping search engines together with cross posting on your social media accounts.
Nifty little addition where it will automatically retrieve keywords on the target video and creates multiple hashtags when it shares the post on Twitter and Facebook.
It has the ability to generate multiple versions of your call to actions and textual content that you put in. Spinning your text to create new versions.
We all want this feature, the ability to schedule posts as per interval. Let Video Jeet save you even more time. Set up your posts in advance and let your blog truly be on autopilot.
You have total control of what gets written. You have the ability to modify descriptions, titles, keywords as you desire.
Uses authorized APIs to make posts on your social media accounts. It will let you work with any theme or setup for your blogs.
It is only after using the software can one answer this part. I have used this tool and have seen exponential growth in traffic to my blogs. Try as I may I could not find anything wrong with this tool! It really does a lot for you to save time.
Video Jeet has one of industries best talents behind it. In fact Cyril has always been so confident of his products that he actually gives you a money back guarantee.
Try it out for yourself! You have nothing to lose.
Let Video Jeet help you create your content by converting videos into website content and gets you rankings automatically. Over the last few years video has become the defacto in providing information. More and more businesses are providing this to their audience. It is a rush to get on top of search engines and trying to develop the best of video.
With Video Jeet you can make use of all that content and propel your website/blog on search engines like Bing, Google and others. Just spend one day at the desk to complete several months worth of scheduled posts/content to go. Spend that extra found time now doing other activities!
You can Get Video Jeet through this link today!
Explaindio Video Creator v3.0 is out and is much more advanced.
I have been using it for the last 4 years and have highly benefited from it’s simple use. The money I paid has enabled me to create simple explainer videos for my own business and also to my clients. I’ve stopped using other video tools ever since I purchased Explaindio Video Maker.
I use these tools in my work and want to share with you how it has made a big difference in creating my own high quality video presentations.
Explaindio is not a cloud software and it can operate both ons a Windows or MAC computers that is easy to install and easy to use.
No prior skills are required to operate the Explaindio Video Creator 3.0 software. I know because I teach people how to use software products. This is easy to use with a small learning curve. Heck, if my 10 year daughter back than can use the software (update: she’s now 13 in 2018) who can use this then you too can use it without any problem what so ever.
I don’t want to use up any more of your time explaining how great it is. If you’re in a hurry just head over there and try it out.
You can take advantage of their 30 day money back guarantee. You have absolutely nothing to loose and everything to gain from having this kind of tool in your computer to generate quality videos for now and ever. I say that with a solid standing because this software is here for the long run, years to come.
You Can Now Create Attention-Grabbing, Professional-Quality Videos!
This article is an Exlaindio Video Creator Review.
With Explaindio Video Creator 3.0 you can create popular videos of the following kinc with ease.
Explaindio High Defintion video – with Audio!
People Who work over at Fiverr and similar service orientated sites.
Webmasters who are keen on creating high quality videos.
You can create attention-grabbing marketing videos in just minutes that will make you stand out from the crowd and present you in a professional manner to be admired.
Video presentations are well known to increase your conversion rate, and your pitch effectiveness. Using videos on webpages tends to keep your visitors on your site longer and thereby lower your search engine bounce rate. Lower bounce rates are better for your sites ranking.
A Picture is Worth … What is a Video Worth?
A picture is worth a thousand words and nwo imagegine what a video is worth. With a video that is appealing, simple, and contains powerful visual metaphors, you can explain your ideas much more effectively and potently to educate and to show off your products, services or whatever you’re presenting to your audience.
With Explaindio Video Creator you can now create unlimited videos royalty free and sell them to local businesses or to anyone on the internet. Marketing couldn’t be any better now that you are equiped with a powerful tool.
What is great about Explaindio Video Creator 3.0 is that it is a tool that you will get to love over and over. Once you have mastered the tool you will be churning out high quality videos for your business, hobby, teaching or whatever you want to send across to your audience.
The product is up there with other high quality video creating tools and with a very affordable price tag too. You’ll be silly to let this one go.
Explaindio Developers are very serious about this product!
The developers are so serious about Explaindio Video Creator that they have put in extra resources to keep the product alive for years to come. The downside is that you need to renew your licence if you want to update to the next version. The good news is that it is a yearly renewal but with a low price tag. Hack this is still way better than the competition who charges a monthly fee the equivalent yearly for Explaindio.
Very Affordable Video Creation Tool – still the best since the intronduction in 2015! It has stayed been the best video creator software for the last 4 years.
In my opinion Explaindio Video Creator 3.0 beats the competition in price and value. If you need to create presentation videos then get it, it is too good to let go.
I hope my Explaindio Video Creator 3.0 Review has shone some light on your curiosity.
This has been a short and clear review of Explaindio Video Creator. For more information please click here.