The Chi. Lena Waithe’s critically acclaimed Showtime series returns for Season 2. The struggles that Black men have to face in Chicago are at the forefront this time around: Picking up several months after the events of Season 1, the plight of Black men in the Windy City are front and center: Aspiring chef Brandon (Jason Mitchell) now runs a food truck and is trying to break into the world of culinary competitions. Kevin (Alex Hibbert) is still juggling middle school and therapy to help deal with his PTSD after his involvement in two shootings. Emmett (Jacob Latimore) is forced to reconnect with his long lost father after his mother kicks him out of the house. Ronnie (Ntare Guam Mabaho Mwine) battles alcoholism while adjusting to life in prison after confessing to murdering Brandon’s brother. Though the emphasis on the men of the show, the ladies are not left out: Ronnie’s grandmother Miss Ethel (LaDonna Tittle), finds herself at the center of a battle of gentrify her neighborhood; Emmett’s mother Jada (Yolanda Ross) who is Ethel’s home care nurse, is trying to build a new life outside of work and motherhood. Brandon’s girlfriend Jerrika (Tiffany Boone), is part of a real estate deal that can dramatically alter the make up of the South Side. Though violence and its aftermath casts a large shadow over all of the characters, this series remains a celebration of the city and those who live in it. Rich in detail and multi-dimensional characters, look for another solid season for one of TV’s best shows. The Chi airs Sunday nights at 10pm Eastern on Showtime. You can also go to www.sho.com for more information.
Satan & Adam: The Music Will Take You Higher. V. Scott Balcerek directed this new documentary about an unlikely musical partnership between Sterling ‘Satan’ Magee, a southern-born guitarist and Adam Gussow, a white, younger, Ivy League educated New York suburbanite harmonica player. It traces how Magee, after stints with such greats as Ray Charles, James Brown, King Curtis, got tired of seeing how black artists got exploited and took to the streets of Harlem to play strictly for the people. A chance encounter with Gussow, a grad school drop out and part-time street performer turned into a 12 year collaboration that took from the streets of New York to stages all over the world, a cover story in Living Blues magazine and an appearance in the U2 concert film and soundtrack Rattle & Hum. The doc also covers Gussow’s efforts to reconnect with Magee, who, after suffering a nervous breakdown, stopped performing and all but disappeared, as well as their dramatic return in 2005. Though music plays a formative role , the love and mutual respect they have for each other is what really fuels the film. A doc that will move and inspire. Satan & Adam: The Music Will Take You Higher opens in New York this weekend and in select theaters starting April 17th. You can also go to www.satanandadamfilm.com for more information.
Record Store Day. Conceived in 2007 as a way to celebrate the communal spirit attached around seeking out and buying music at your local store, Record Store Day has now become an international holiday for music fans, with some of the top artists in the world contributing material exclusively for the day. Pearl Jam are this year’s Ambassadors and you’ll have the chance to pick up super rare releases by Al Green, A Perfect Circle, J Mascis, surprise appearances and much more. There will also be live events at various stores across the country, making this yet again the must see event for true record heads. Record Store Day will take place on Saturday, April 13th. You can go to www.recordstoreday.com for more information.
New York City: Too Fast To Live, To Young To Die: Punk Graphics 1976-1986. The punk movement that emerged out of New York and London not only produced incredible music, it also unleashed a wave of provocative fashion and graphic art. The Museum of Arts And Design has just launched a new exhibit that captures some of the most memorable images that graced fliers and fanzines and ran as a direct counter to what has being presented in mainstream media. It’s a great primer for those just getting into punk culture or a great refresher for long time fans. Too Fast To Live, To Young To Die: Punk Graphics 1976-1986 will be at The Museum Of Arts And Design through August 18th. You can also go to www.madmuseum.org for more information.
Los Angeles: Annie Leibovitz: The Early Years 1970-1983. This is the final weekend to catch Hauser & Wirth’s extensive exhibit covering the legendary photographer’s formative years working at Rolling Stone. It features over 5,000 photos including her iconic shots of John Lennon, The Rolling Stones, Patti Smith and much more. There’s also a series of personal photos of her family, heroes and mentors and much more. One chance to get the work at an all time great. Annie Leibovitz: The Early Years 1970-1983 will be at the Hauser & Wirth Gallery February 16th through April 14th. You can also go www.hauserwirth.com for more information.
The TCM Classic Film Festival. Celebrating its 10th year, The TCM Classic Film Festival gathers cinema lovers from all over the world to experience some of the greatest films in the way it was meant to be seen: on the big screen. Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid, The Defiant Ones, The Godfather Pt 2, Marty, and The Sound Of Music will air alongside more recent classics such as Do The Right Thing, The Shawshank Redemption, Raiders Of The Lost Ark and When Harry Meet Sally. There will also be guest panel discussions before and after select films and much more. A must see for anyone who truly love movies. The TCM Classic Film Festival runs through April 14th. You can go to www.filmfestival.tcm.com for a complete schedule of events, tickets and much more.