Can it be? Is it true? Is summer finally here? Yes, it seems that despite the unpredictable weather, the seasons of Pentecost and Summer have arrived!
Looking to Growth your faith? Aly Allemeier will gather families in Cross+Generational fun for us to help in growing as children of God. All children of God, all ages are welcome to come and Share, Read, Talk, Pray and Bless!
Looking to plant things that grow? Join us Saturday, June 3, as we cut, trim and plant our campus. There is a depth to gardening that goes beyond the visible produce of flowers or food. Gardens can offer so much more to a community – like fellowship! The process of gardening (weeding, preparing, planting, maintaining, harvesting) enhances the relationships in the community as well.
Perhaps you’re looking for a place to gather friends in Christ’s name? The Friendship Place is a wonderful addition to the fellowship space of the Messiah campus. It is also a good space to be quiet, pray, share food or study God’s Word with a friend. Come inside, bring a friend or make a new friend and enjoy our welcoming Friendship Place!
“Glory to God Forever,” Gloria Dei’s anthem on the Day of Pentecost, June 4, was written in 2009 by the contemporary Christian musician, Steve Fee, who has said that, although the song has a simple message, “Glory to God Forever!,” it also has a great request of God — to give us the faith and strength that everything in our lives be given to His glory: reflecting His mercy, justice and grace. This song – and its message – is one of my favorites.
John, Peter, Andrew, and I thank you for being a part of our faith community, supporting and celebrating with us through the years. It has been a blessing to be a member since 1984, and to serve as the weekly musician since 1989. I have learned so much, as I worked with each of the pastors who served here. I have so enjoyed working with the Gloria Dei Choir, a faithful group of volunteers who have done and sung all I’ve asked. Thank you for your dedication! I also want to thank those people, too numerous to mention, who shared their musical gifts, both vocal and instrumental, in worship.
As I prepare to leave, I pray God may continue to bless Messiah’s congregation and give each of us the faith and strength to continue to live our lives to His glory!
*107 unique individuals attended worship between 1 and 4 times in April.
On Sunday, June 4, we will welcome three full members to our flock (above, from left): Samantha Fogel, Caitlin Levy and Ralphie Lippert.
Confirmation marks the completion of the congregation's program of confirmation ministry, a period of instruction in the Christian faith as confessed in the teachings of the Lutheran Church.
Help us in welcoming and supporting our confirmands as they officially join our community.
Trygve Jensen will be representing one of the two Messiah delegate positions. If you are interested in participating in this annual event this year, please let the office know.
Thursday, July 6, 7 p.m.
We will discuss the book “The Readers of Broken Wheel Recommend” by Katarina Bivald. Book Club is open to anyone who enjoys reading. “The Readers of Broken Wheel Recommend" is a novel about a shy Swedish woman who changes a small Iowa town by opening a bookshop.
Brotherhood Breakfast – Saturday, June 10 at 9 a.m. All men at Messiah are invited! We meet at Just Like Home, 8501 W. Dempster St. in Niles.
Godspeed for Sue Fox – Sunday, June 11 – Come show our gratitude to Sue for all the fine years of service she’s given to Messiah!
Quilts ‘n Kits – Quilt assembly will be on Sunday, June 25 after worship service! Snacks will be available and no sewing experience necessary!
No CHAT Room or Confirmation Class until Fall!
· Samantha Fogel, daughter of Pastor Lynne Morrow and Larry Fogel, will graduate from eighth grade at Lake Zurich Middle School South.
· Caitlin Levy, daughter of Rich and Helen Levy, will graduate from eighth grade at Emerson Middle School.
· Rachel Daye, granddaughter of Diane Wilson, will graduate Richmond Burton Community High School.
· Philip Holzer, son of Paul and Julie Holzer, will graduate Maine West High School.
· Ralphie Lippert, son of Ralph and Teresa Lippert, will graduate from eighth grade at Emerson Middle School.
· Emma Jayne Hanson, granddaughter of David and Donna Hanson, will graduate from Waukee High School in Waukee, IA.
· Jessica Schneider, daughter of Jennifer and Rich Schneider, will graduate from Algonquin Middle School.
from fifth grade at Franklin.
A donation was made for Quilts & Kits in honor of Samantha Fogel’s confirmation, by Millie Anderson.
ONLY 40 PARKING PASSES WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR THE BACK (EAST) LOT FOR JULY 3. PROCEEDS FROM THIS FUNDRAISER GO TO MAP (TOWARDS THE LOAN PAYMENT).
WE ARE SUGGESTING A DONATION OF $15 (THE SAME AMOUNT MAINE EAST IS CHARGING) FOR EACH PASS, WHICH GUARANTEES A SPOT IN OUR LOT.
IF YOU WANT A PASS, CONTACT THE CHURCH OFFICE SOON. YOU WILL HAVE TO COME INTO THE OFFICE TO PURCHASE A PASS, AND IT IS CASH OR CHECK ONLY.
THEY ARE LIMITED AND WILL GO QUICKLY. THE MAIN (NORTH) LOT WILL BE OPEN TO THE PUBLIC ON JULY 3 ON A FIRST-COME, FIRST-SERVED BASIS.
ELCA Day of Service Sunday, Sept. 10!
Godspeed and Farewell to you, Sue Fox!!
Good luck in your move and your new life!
You’ve been a friend, a colleague and an inspiration!
You made the music for our worship!
This place won’t be the same without you!
We also wish to express our deepest thanks to the Gloria Dei Choir and our instrumental performers for another year of magnificent worship music. You have our gratitude.
Flat Jesus is a paper doll children of all ages can cut out and color.
When Flat Jesus arrives at his destination, photograph and document his adventures.
If you lose Flat Jesus, don’t worry! He (in electronic format) can be found on our website: messiahparkridge.org.
In September, we’ll host a Welcome Home party for Flat Jesus and find out where he has been all summer!
It is a pleasure to welcome Kathy Malyszko to the CCC Board as the community representative.
Kathy serves out her vocational call as Mental Health Counselor with Maine East School-Based Health Center as well as a new position with Advocate working with children with obesity.
She has a passion for children and is very aware of the needs of the community. Kathy has heard so many positive comments about Messiah's CCC and looks forward to serving with you all.
For kits, we continue to focus on gathering towels and soap for the Personal Care Kits. If you don’t feel like shopping, we can shop for you for a donation of $3 per towel (Walmart has a good deal on decent towels).
We’re also focused on collecting full-size 4-ounce or 5-ounce bars of soap.
We continue to focus on assembling quilts once a month following worship service in the Friendship Place: June 25, July 16, Aug. 20.
Mark your calendars!! And remember – no sewing experience necessary!
For information or to volunteer, call Carol Hrodey at 847-828-7819 or email cjhrodey@sbcglobal.net.
Pastor Byung Yun Jeong and his wife, Sun Yeo Jeong, of Hope Korean Community Church, will be living in the Parsonage for a while this summer. The missionaries waiting for the go-ahead to take the Word to Nepal.
They serve with Pastor In Song in Hope Korean Community Church, which worships in the church building Sunday afternoons.
Several Boy Scouts from Pack 105 were scheduled to clear buckthorn and other wild plants from the Messiah Lutheran Church grounds on Saturday, June 3.
The work was part of a landscaping effort headed by property coordinator David Hanson.
Those who wish to help out – either with labor or contributions – may email Dave at dghanso@gmail.com.
Students who received their First Communion at Messiah Lutheran during worship services on May 21 were: Marina Cooper, Annabelle Grove, Melanie Diaz, Millie Diaz and Henry Allemeier.
The Messiah Child Care Center's annual Fun Fair was held on May 20 on the campus of the school.
We want to remember in our prayers military and first responder personnel (those known to us and those serving who are not known to us): Brandon Ajyek, Tim David, Tyler Daye, Bobby Hanson, Tom Hanson, Andreas Johnsen, Jason Koesler, Sam Krawitz, Joey Rosequist, Claudine Ward, Matt McGannon.
We celebrated the confirmations of Samantha Fogel, Caitlin Levy and Ralphie Lippert on Pentecost Sunday, June 4, during our regular worship.
We were thrilled on May 21 to celebrate The Lord’s Supper with the students of the First Communion class: Henry Allemeier, Marina Cooper, Melanie Diaz, Millie Diaz and Annabelle Grove.
We celebrated with Christian Travis as he and his bass fishing team were chosen for state competition representing Niles West HS.
We congratulate Mikey Hanson, who will join U.S. Marine Corps upon graduation from Maine West High School. Oohrah!