DESCRIPTION: Hills Science Diet Mature Adult Large Breed 12kg is a wholesome meal containing natural sources of Glucosamine and Chondroitin for supporting healthy bones and joints in Large and Giant breed canines. The diet contains a blend of Vitamin E and C which acts as a super anti-oxidant for reducing the ageing effects and to help boost the overall immunity in Senior dogs. Essential vitamins and minerals present in the diet are easy to digest making way for a higher nutrient absorption. High-quality chicken meat as the main ingredient enhances delectability of the food. Hills Science Diet Mature Adult Large Breed also contains taurine to keep the heart healthy and to maintain good eyesight. The food is absolutely free from artificial colours, flavour or preservatives.
Glucosamine and Chondroitin maintain strong bones and teeth in Mature dogs.
A clinically proven antioxidant blend of Vitamin E and C reduces the ageing effect and builds a strong defence mechanism.
Top quality chicken meat as the main ingredient for making the meal delicious.
Easy to digest vitamins and minerals for sustaining overall well being.
Taurine boosts cardiac health and maintains good eyesight.
Contains no added flavours or preservatives.
INGREDIENTS: Chicken Meal, Brown Rice, Whole Grain Wheat, Whole Grain Corn, Whole Grain Sorghum, Cracked Pearled Barley, Whole Grain Oats, Pork Fat, Dried Beet Pulp, Corn Gluten Meal, Chicken Liver Flavor, Soybean Oil, Lactic Acid, Pork Flavor, Flaxseed, Potassium Chloride, Iodized Salt, Choline Chloride, vitamins (Vitamin E Supplement, L-Ascorbyl-2-Polyphosphate (source of Vitamin C), Niacin Supplement, Thiamine Mononitrate, Vitamin A Supplement, Calcium Pantothenate, Vitamin B12 Supplement, Pyridoxine Hydrochloride, Riboflavin Supplement, Biotin, Folic Acid, Vitamin D3 Supplement), L-Lysine, minerals (Ferrous Sulfate, Zinc Oxide, Copper Sulfate, Manganous Oxide, Calcium Iodate, Sodium Selenite), Taurine, Oat Fiber, L-Carnitine, Mixed Tocopherols for freshness, Natural Flavors, Beta-Carotene, Apples, Broccoli, Carrots, Cranberries, Green Peas.