One of them has been eliminated...permanently.
The traveling TV dance show, Ballroom with the B-Listers, is coming to Washington, D.C., and ballroom dancer Stacy Graysin is first in line to participate. Not only will the publicity propel Graysin Motion, Stacy’s dance studio, into the limelight, but the prize money could help offset her looming debt. Plus, Stacy’s teen idol, heartthrob Zane Savage, specifically requested to be her partner.
But the whirlwind reality contest stumbles when the show’s coproducer, Tessa King, is found dead in the Potomac River. All the clues point to Tessa being murdered—and the suspects are the contestants and crew of B-Listers. Now Zane and the rest of the B-Listers must promenade back to fame, and Stacy will need to hustle to maintain her reputation, win the competition, and catch a killer.
Ella Barrick grew up in the South, but has since migrated West. She spent some time working for Uncle Sam and taught English at the college level before turning her hand to writing mysteries.
Ella and her husband took exactly two ballroom dancing lessons on the quickstep before Ella’s bruised ankles and crushed feet forced them to retire. (Her husband is a wonderful guy, but he doesn’t have a single ballroom dance gene in his whole body.) Thus, Ella relies on the kindness of competitive ballroom dancers and friends who foxtrot fabulously for the dance details in her Ballroom Dance Mysteries. And, of course, she watches Dancing with the Stars for costume and choreography ideas!
Besides writing, Ella enjoys reading, gardening, home decorating, traveling, and long walks or hikes.
This sounds like a fun cozy to read. I would like to see who did it.
I enjoyed DEAD MAN WALTZING and am looking forward to the latest in this series!
This dancing cozy sounds like fun, sometimes it is safer to watch than to dance!
On her website, I read an excerpt from book. I like the part where she says that she felt "transported" to the past.
I entered the giveaway for "Manuscript Found in Accra".
I entered the giveaway for 'Tempestous'.
I entered the giveaway for "A Week in the Winter".
I entered the giveaway for "When She was Gone".
I entered the giveaway for 'Exposed'.
I entered the giveaway for "The Whizz Pop Chocolate Shop'.
I entered the giveaway for "The Mermaid in Brooklyn".
sounds like a real fun book.
Entered AND THEN I FOUND YOU.
Sounds like a fun book to read. The dancing aspect interests me.
The idea that the ballroom show is on the move is fun, plus murder to boot! Thanks for the chance to win!
Entered the House at the End of Hope Street.
please enter me for this giveaway!! thank you!!!
I like watching dancing shows. Now I can read about dancing.
Since I have as many dancing skills as the author's husband---I can only read about dancing in books like this.
I entered Big Sky River.
I entered And Then I Found YOu.
I entered There Was an Old Woman.
I entered The House at the End of Hope Street.
I entered End Me a Tenor.
I entered Oak and Dagger.