The University of Bristol invites partners and institutions interested in discussing customised, faculty-led or bespoke short-term programmes to contact our global summer schools team. The University of Bristol support model includes all elements of programme planning, development and delivery for experiences ranging from one week to one semester.
Talk to us about how we can support your budget, schedule and ambitions.
Bristol is a vibrant city located in south-west England, with easy transport links to major UK cultural sites, global businesses and metropolises. A centre of inclusive and outstanding academic achievement since 1876, the University of Bristol sits in the heart of the city.
Bristol is an independent, walkable, active, creative and green city, home to about 450,000 people from all over the world. With a heritage spanning over 1000 years, modern-day Bristol combines historic tradition with innovation and a thriving arts and performance scene. From aerospace engineering to animation, Bristol is an important hub for UK businesses.
Whatever your discipline, Bristol offers experiential learning opportunities to encourage students to go beyond the classroom and connect with local industry and practitioners. Find out more about why Bristol was recently voted the top place to live in the UK (Sunday Times, 2017) here.
Located at the gateway to the South West, Bristol enjoys easy transport links to Bath, London, Cardiff, Birmingham and beyond, by road and rail. Bristol International Airport, a short distance outside the city, enables easy group or independent travel.
Bristol is close to two outstanding areas of beauty: the rolling countryside of the Mendip Hills and the Cotswolds, the latter home to postcard-perfect English villages. In addition, the seaside resorts of Weston-super-Mare and the Severn Valley are a short distance away. Bristol offers a convenient hub from which to explore the surrounding region and all that it has to offer.
The University of Bristol has inspired and hosted students from across the globe since it’s foundation in 1876. The University of Bristol's city-centre campus, located overlooking the downtown core, at the edge of Clifton, one of Bristol’s most historic areas, surrounded by shops, restaurants and cafes. Multiple bus routes connect the campus to the city centre and the entire town.
The leafy campus is home to both historic architecture and buildings that represent the very latest in innovative classroom and laboratory space. In addition, health services, student support services, on-site eateries, libraries and a newly refurbished sports centre provide all the facilities your students might need.
Please contact the global summer schools team directly at global-summer@bristol.ac.uk for further information about the campus, university or city, and assistance with any marketing or recruitment collateral.
University of Bristol courses taught by visiting instructors.
In addition, it is possible to combine any of the above models with either taught or research University of Bristol in-house programmes. For more on our current taught-programme roster, please click here. For more about upcoming in-house programmes and how they might complement your programmes please contact the global summer schools team at global-summer@bristol.ac.uk.
The global summer schools team can also offer advice and costing plans to ensure the best value and largeset benefits, to maximise the experiential learning component of your programme. This can include connecting you with potential local site visits and regional field trips (both within and outside of Bristol) that would best complement your curriculum. In addition, the global summer schools team is happy to assist with the coordination of ticket booking and transportation both before and during your programme.
Whatever your ambitions, schedule, budget or student needs, the University of Bristol has the capacity to host programmes ranging from one to eightweeks during the summer, or throughout a semester.
In the summer, two University residences offer your group flexible accommodation options. Both are a 15-to-20 minute walk from campus and a five-minute walk from the shops and restaurants of Clifton village, and provide 24-7 on-call staff. THe residences are secured with multiple passcode-entry points and offer on-site laundry facilities, free wifi throughout and social group spaces.
Clifton Hill House is catered accommodation, which comprises halls of residence within a central building. Each hall includes shared washroom and kitchenette facilities. Clifton Hill House also offers catered meals in its central dining room.
Goldney Hall offers self-catered apartments (with catering options in next-door Clifton Hill House) ranging from five-to-eight person units, with ensuite or shared washroom facilities. Each apartment has its own kitchen and communal space.
The global summer schools team can provide guidance and suggestions about a range of co-curricular or non-academic activities to complete your international experience. From dinners out, street art sessions, and walking tours, to river cruises and museum visits, talk to our team about exploring a range of options to fit your schedule and budget.
In addition, the global summer schools team is happy to create and provide risk assessments for all activities on- and off-campus, as well as detailed policies relating to the health, safety and wellbeing of your students while with us.
We understand that leading a group abroad can suggest a number of barriers to entry and logistical concerns. The global summer schools team is happy to assist with or deliver pre-departure and programme orientations that introduce your students to life and study in the UK. We can also provide immigration advice and documentation as necessary.
At the University of Bristol, your group will benefit from access to all our facilities, including sports membership (for a minimal fee), health and student support services. Airport transfers can also be arranged on request.
The global summer schools team also has the capacity to recruit a resident team, student mentors and additional in-country support as required.