For KNX manufacturers who might need occasional guidance and/or support in the process of developing new projects. Participation can take place in early phases (during the definition of requirements), but also during the development of KNX software and hardware.
Specific training for new manufacturers oriented to learn on the whole process of developing KNX products, as well as the usage of the necessary tools (compilers for micro controllers, ETS for manufacturers, etc...), including practical exercises.
Training is completely customizable with retards number of days, content and language (English, German and Spanish) and can take place in our laboratory or at client's premises (internationally).
Service oriented to Non-KNX manufacturers who need to have a KNX device developed as a specific solution to integrate with their respective systems. They will be guided through the whole process, from specification of functionality to the certification of the product.
Examination and validation of the information provided by the manufacturer.
Design, creation and configuration of the test sequences.
Implementation of the test sequences to the product.
Any other extra expense imputable to the client (additional shipping costs, daily allowances, etc.) will be estimated and agreed upon with the client, who will bear these costs.
Also, delays in the test procedures attributable to the client (due to errors in the documentation, faulty sample product, etc.) will be deemed working hours according to the accepted cost estimate.
On the other side, delays attributable to Futurasmus KNX Lab for technical or human errors caused by its personnel or equipment will be neither accounted for nor billed.
Client might either contact Futurasmus KNX Lab directly to ask for information about all the requirements to launch the KNX test procedure or directly download a customer registration form and a request for quotation form from the web.
Those sheets, together with the necessary documentation (handbook of the application program, application program, technical sheets, PIXIT, etc., as well as a product sample, if required) shall be sent back to Futurasmus KNX Lab.
After examination of the information received, Futurasmus KNX Lab will study and evaluate both the project’s viability and the number of hours estimated to execute the test.
If the client agrees with the terms as in the quotation and the conditions of the contract, will sign and submit both documents back to Futurasmus KNX Lab.
The Test Department in Futurasmus KNX Lab studies the device thoroughly, plans and designs the tests to be done, configures the ETS and EITT necessary and these are executed.
If that error can be remedied, the project can be interrupted and will only proceed as soon as the fault has been removed.
If that error meant drastic changes in the planed or executed test, the procedure will be deemed finalized (and the corresponding invoice will be issued). After amending the error, the procedure will have to start again as a new project.
The client discontinues the procedure for causes that can not be attributed to Futurasmus KNX Lab.
All hours worked up to that moment will be billed.
The final report is composed with one of the following results: “COMPLY” o “NOT COMPLY”.
This report is simultaneously sent both to the client and to the KNX Association, as the only organism qualified to eventually certify the product.
The report also includes extensive information on the parametrization of the product and the trace of sequences as executed in each test.
In case the final report had a negative outcome, the client has the possibility to call for a review, which he/she will have to do in written. The claim may include the possibility to be present during the test.
Futurasmus KNX Lab commits to review the test and submit in-detail explanation on the non-conformity ground (if confirmed) or to modify the result (if an error in the tests can be verified). If the client was right, the hours worked to execute the review will not be billed. If otherwise, the corresponding invoice will be issued.
The invoice must be paid within 30 days.
Once all tests are finished, the product will be shipped back to the client. The cost of returning the devices and other materials provided for the test will be borne by the client.
If the final report has a positive outcome, the client is now entitled to address the KNX Association and require the “certification” of their previously “registered” product.