The return of Morning Style!
Many of you have been asking me whether my regular fashion show, Morning Style, will be returning to QVC. The good news is YES!
Wednesday 1st July is the day, in its usual slot at 10am. It will continue right though the summer until the end of September; I’m really looking forward to bringing you a selection of outfits from a variety of brands and helping you get the best out of QVC fashion again.
One thing that is important, whatever your style, is getting the basics right. That can mean choosing underwear that helps rather than hinders the finished look. There’s a reason the old fashioned term for these clothes is foundation garments – get it wrong and your entire look can be undermined, but with the right shape wear underneath you can look better than ever.
Choosing shapewear is notoriously difficult – getting the correct size, shape and style can sometimes seem little better than guesswork, so we’ve decided to bring you a new show to help you make the right decisions.
Your Figure Solutions will be launched on Wednesday 27th May at midday. Not all the clothes are underwear as we’ll be featuring a variety of pieces. The show will feature innovative solutions to some of your swimwear problems, leggings that smooth and sculpt, and possibly the most comfortable bra ever!
If you’re thinking about a holiday you have planned, and how you don’t feel quite as confident as you’d like by the pool or on the beach, you should tune in to hear about how Fit 4 u’s swimwear deals with body concern areas – usually bust, tummy, hips, bottom or thighs – or all of the above!! An empire-line swim dress is one of the piece that’ll be featuring.
Rhonda Shear’s Ahh Bra will also feature – a fabulous pack of six in three neutral colours for under £50. It has great reviews on our website.
A name you may have heard as they’ve been with QVC for years is Slim ‘n Lift. They make some great control wear that can help you lose inches from your chosen area. It’s a temporary loss, of course, but what I always find amazing is that the extra flesh doesn’t pop out anywhere else – it seems to be compressed by the garment, rather than just squeezed elsewhere, which gives the bonus of feeling firmer too. But it’s not just about underwear – we also have a funky pair of shaping leggings in snake or animal print which I’m hoping to wear on the day, but you’ll need to tune in to see them.
We will be kicking off the show with a relatively new name to QVC and that’s skinnytees. This is a classic vest top that feels fantastic to wear. It’s made from a soft stretchy fabric and is seamless and long enough to wear over leggings. When I took part in the charity Moonwalk with TeamQVC last weekend I wore it under my decorated bra (they prefer us to wear just the bra but my tummy is not fit for public viewing!) and it was the prefect choice. Comfy and with a smoothing effect too. Here’s a photo of us all before we started the walk.
I think controlwear or shapewear can be tricky to get right. It can be uncomfortable, ride up or down, make you feel too hot or simply not do the job you want. You can choose a high level of control or something that just smooths your silhouette; something to hide under your outer garments or to show off as part of your outfit. There’s so much choice, where to start?
If you have any questions or concerns about what sort of shapewear is right for you and your particular issue or aim, do please drop me a quick line as a comment below or on Twitter (@kathytaylerqvc). I will be welcoming several guests to the new show and I will put your questions or problems to them and hopefully they will have some answers for you that may help many of us.
I do hope you can join us – midday on Wednesday 27th May. See you then!
Great to see the Morning Style show is coming back!! Looking forward to the shapewear shows, as you say get the underwear right and the outfit wil look great too. I love the spanx range and also vicela Vita.
I will be tuning in for both morning style and the shapewear show!I Find shapewear shopping tricky. I what something that will smooth out my lumps and bumps but but I don’t want to feel uncomfortable after half an hour ! Any suggestions Kathy!
Hi Jilly. Good to hear from you. We won’t be featuring Vercella Vita or Spanx in tomorrow’s show but I think you might like some of what we have lined up. Hope you can join us!
Hi Susan. How are you?! Thanks for the youthful comment – I certainly didn’t feel it at the end of the might, but the hat helped keep me warm!
Thanks for your comment. I agree with you – I can be desperate to get out of some control wear however good it makes me look. We will be address the balance between compression, smoothing and comfort tomorrow so I do hope you’ll join is. Hopefully we can help you choose something suitable for you.
Good news re Morning Style!
The skinny tees are brilliant. I have them in all the colours including the new 4! What I really love about them is that stop trousers etc that are a little loose slipping. They are much more comfortable than wearing a belt! Can we please have more of the dark colours – I love them all but the white ones are pretty unforgiving with nothing else on even if you are slim! But the dark ones are extra good.
Also, more of the vercella vita crop tops. There must be a really strong demand as they always sell out within minutes of going to air, and they are rarely put up before the show ( presumably as they would sell out too quickly!) There are loads of longer vest tops but no crop tops online almost all the time. Doesn’t that say that you need to get more of them!! Especially in the summer.