This website is provided and operated by The British Red Cross Society, incorporated by Royal Charter 1908; registered as a charity in England and Wales (220949), Scotland (SC037738) and the Isle of Man (0752) whose national headquarters is at 44 Moorfields, London, EC2Y 9AL ; and Britcross Ltd, registered as a company in England and Wales (00932598) (collectively ‘British Red Cross’) having its registered address at 44 Moorfields, London, EC2Y 9AL. VAT number is 706 9262 27.
These terms and conditions (the 'Terms') explain how you may use this website (www.redcross.org.uk, the 'Site') which is provided to you free of charge.
This Site and all intellectual property rights in it, including but not limited to any text, images, video, audio or other multimedia content, or other information or material on the Site ('Content'), are owned by us, our licensors or both (as applicable). Intellectual property rights means rights such as copyright, trade marks, domain names, design rights, patents and other intellectual property rights of any kind whether or not they are registered or unregistered (anywhere in the world).
The Red Cross and Red Crescent emblems are protected trade marks under international and national laws. Use of these trade marks is strictly prohibited without prior authorisation from us or the relevant trade mark owner.
Images from Reuters Alertnet courtesy of AlertNet - humanitarian aid and disasters news. Other than as set out at section c. above, use of these images is strictly prohibited without prior authorisation from the copyright owner.
We reserve the right to vary any event registration fees and the prices of any goods or services listed without notice. All event registrations and orders for goods and services are subject to availability. We reserve the right to refuse to accept any registration and to refuse to supply any goods or services to any individual.
The Site is provided "as is". We do not promise that the Site will be fit or suitable for any purpose. The Site and the Content are provided for your general information purposes only and to inform you about us and our activities, news, services and other websites that may be of interest. The Content does not constitute technical, financial or legal advice or any other type of advice and neither the Site nor the Content should be relied upon for any purposes.
Although the Site uses encryption security software in areas where online payment details are accepted, the security of information and payments transmitted via the internet cannot be guaranteed.
You and we both agree that the courts of England and Wales will have exclusive jurisdiction except that if you are a resident of Northern Ireland you may also bring proceedings in Northern Ireland, and if you are resident of Scotland, you may also bring proceedings in Scotland.