Alan Beattie reported on Friday at the Financial Times Online that, “Brazil said on Thursday that it would suspend sanctions on US imports in retaliation for illegal American cotton subsidies, temporarily defusing one of the most contentious disputes in international trade.
“The deal will extend until 2012 a holding arrangement in which the US pays Brazilian farmers $147.3m a year and promises to cut subsidies in future. In return, Brazil will hold off imposing blocks on imports or ignoring patents and copyrights, which it is entitled to do after a World Trade Organisation panel declared the US cotton support programme illegal.
DTN Political Correspondent Jerry Hagstrom reported on Friday (link requires subscription) that, “As USDA officials and crop insurance executives prepared to meet in Kansas City Friday to discuss USDA’s final offer of a new crop insurance contract, Agriculture Undersecretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services Jim Miller and Rep. Jerry Moran sparred Thursday over whether CBO will credit the farm bill baseline with $2 billion the Obama administration intends to repurpose from crop insurance to other programs.
(FarmPolicy.com Note: At an April 21 House Ag Committee hearing, Sec. Vilsack indicated in a response to a question regarding crop insurance and the baseline that, “As it relates to the baseline, just simply let me say that our hope is that we can work with the chairman and others on this committee and conserve and preserve these savings so that you all have the flexibility to do what you need to do as you begin to address the 2012 Farm Bill and Rural Development Bill with as much flexibility as you possibly need.” (Unofficial Farmpolicy.com transcript, at page 27)).
William Neuman reported on Friday at The New York Times Online that, “The Obama administration proposed new rules on Friday seeking to increase competition and rein in potentially unfair practices by large meatpackers and poultry processors. The move is aimed at helping small livestock and poultry farmers survive in an industry dominated by corporate giants.
“The rules could give farmers and ranchers new leverage in suing meat companies that they believe have treated them unfairly. They would end practices among cattle and hog buyers that may lower prices paid to farmers and feedlot owners. And they would set new protections for poultry farmers, who often must go deeply into debt to build the chicken houses needed to win contracts from processors.
The Times article noted that, “The regulatory move comes as the Agriculture and Justice Departments have been holding a series of public workshops to discuss allegations of anticompetitive behavior in agriculture.
Friday’s article added that, “Groups representing the meat industry criticized the proposed rules.
The AP reported on Friday that, “Perhaps the most significant provision in the new rules is one that makes it easier for farmers to file suits under the Packers and Stockyards Act, said Peter Carstensen, a law professor at the University of Wisconsin who has studied agriculture competition law for decades.
“Farmers who now sue under the act must show a company has not only harmed them but that it has hurt competition in the overall meat industry, Carstensen said.
Bob Keefe reported on Friday at the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that, “The rules could have a significant impact on farmers in Georgia — the nation’s biggest poultry producer — and potentially affect how much consumers pay for chicken in the future.
The AJC article noted too that, “The proposed rule changes also raised a red flag at the Senate Agriculture Committee, where Republican Sen. Saxby Chambliss of Georgia is the ranking member.
Reuters news reported on Friday that, “Small-farm groups applauded the proposed rule. ‘As long as the companies can arbitrarily cut off deliveries of birds to contract growers or cancel growers’ contracts at any time, we will always be at the mercy of the companies’ whims,’ said Mike Weaver, president of the Contract Poultry Growers Association of the Virginias.
In other livestock related Farm Bill issues, Lyndsey Layton reported in yesterday’s Washington Post that, “Under the Obama administration and the 2008 farm bill passed by Congress, the USDA is shifting attention to small and mid-size farms, encouraging organic and sustainable agriculture, and investing in projects to bring locally grown meat and produce to consumers.
“The agency is promoting small meat producers in part by funding and approving more mobile slaughter units, staffing each one with a federal inspector, educating farmers and USDA employees about the units, and setting clear guidelines for farmers who want to build one. In December, the department set up a toll-free help line dedicated to small producers.
Alexandra Zavis reported on Saturday at the Los Angeles Times Online that, “With concern growing in Sacramento about the millions of Californians struggling to get sufficient nutrition, advocates for the poor had hoped for progress this year on recommendations to improve access to federal food stamps.
Tom Zeller Jr. reported on Friday at The New York Times Online that, “[P]ower generated by burning wood, plants and other organic material, which makes up 50 percent of all renewable energy produced in the United States, according to federal statistics, is facing increased scrutiny and opposition.
“That, critics say, is because it is not as climate-friendly as once thought, and the pollution it causes in the short run may outweigh its long-term benefits.
Mr. Zeller noted that, “Biomass proponents say it is a simple and proved renewable technology based on natural cycles. They acknowledge that burning wood and other organic matter releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere just as coal does, but point out that trees and plants also absorb the gas. If done carefully, and without overharvesting, they say, the damage to the climate can be offset.
“But opponents say achieving that sort of balance is almost impossible, and carbon-absorbing forests will ultimately be destroyed to feed a voracious biomass industry fueled inappropriately by clean-energy subsidies. They also argue that, like any incinerating operation, biomass plants generate all sorts of other pollution, including particulate matter. State and federal regulators are now puzzling over these arguments.
Erik Eckolm reported on Friday at The New York Times Online that, “The Obama administration has opened a broad campaign of enforcement against farmers who employ children and underpay workers, hiring hundreds of investigators and raising fines for labor and wage violators.
“But to make deep inroads, Congress would first have to change the law. A proposal to ban the hiring of 12- and 13-year-olds, cap working hours by 14- and 15-year-olds and keep teenagers out of hazardous jobs is gaining support in Congress. Some 91 representatives have co-sponsored the Care Act, put forth by Lucille Roybal-Allard, Democrat of California.
And Robert Rodriguez reported on Saturday at the Fresno Bee Online that, “Overtime pay after eight hours is the law for wage earners across California — except for those who do some of the hardest work, harvesting fruit and vegetables in the state’s fields and orchards.
“Now Sen. Dean Florez, D-Shafter, is trying to change that.
Jonathan Weisman reported on Friday at the Washington Wire Blog (The Wall Street Journal) that, “President Barack Obama’s meeting next Wednesday with senators to get energy legislation back on track will likely include discussing a climate change component that caps carbon emissions only from electric utilities, White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel said today in an interview.
Mr. Weisman added that, “Sen. Lamar Alexander (R, Tenn.), who has expressed some support for controlling utility carbon emissions, coupled with expanded nuclear power, is also expected to attend, along with Sens. Kerry, Lieberman, Jeff Bingaman (D, N.M.) and Richard Lugar (R, Ind.).
“‘The president’s view is for inviting a wide range of people who have ideas.’ Emanuel said.
Ben Geman reported yesterday at The Hill’s Energy Blog that, “Sen. Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.) said Sunday that he sees 20 swing votes in play for including greenhouse gas limits in energy legislation that the White House and Senate Democratic leaders hope to advance this summer.
“Lieberman, appearing on CNN’s ‘State of the Union,’ [transcript] said there are 50 senators that want to put a price on emitting carbon, 30 against it and 20 members who are undecided.
“Murkowski instead touted bipartisan energy legislation that the Energy and Natural Resources Committee approved a year ago. It contains a suite of provisions to boost energy efficiency and alternative energy development but lacks carbon provisions,” The Hill update said.
The New York Times editorial board noted in today’s paper that, “To anyone watching the oil spew into the Gulf of Mexico, the argument for curbing this country’s appetite for fossil fuels could not be clearer. President Obama was right last week when he called on America to unify behind a ‘national mission’ to find alternative energy sources, sharply reduce its dependence on oil and cut its greenhouse gas emissions.
Scott Kilman repoted in today’s Wall Street Journal that, “Two years after the global food crisis peaked, grain shortages are turning into surpluses that could create their own problems.
“Some traders and economists are speculating that if the U.S. and world economies don’t heat up soon, surpluses could turn into price-depressing gluts. While cheap grain is good news for consumers and livestock producers, excessive supplies increase a government’s cost for farm subsidies and tend to ignite trade fights between the big farming powers.
The Journal article stated that, “With world grain production this year expected to exceed demand for a third consecutive year, many grain traders and farm economists are beginning to debate the p