"Whoever gets him, they'll be getting a good one," David Montgomery said.
INDIANAPOLIS — Hakeem Butler has been surrounded by some of the best wide receivers on the planet this week at the NFL Scouting Combine.
It’s an experience that might humble some. But for Butler, it has only enhanced his confidence.
As it stands, 22-year-old Butler is not regarded as the best wide receiver in this year’s NFL Draft. He’s projected by some experts to go as late as the third round. But when wide receivers were measured Thursday, Butler gained some attention: He led all receivers in height (6-foot-5 3/8), arm length (35 1/4 inches) and wingspan (83 7/8 inches).
On Thursday, running back David Montgomery, who played with Butler at Iowa State, captured the general vibe surrounding Butler here.
Butler says he’s met with every NFL team on an informal basis. He had “nine or 10” formal meetings set up for Friday night, but didn’t divulge which teams he’d be sitting down with.
There is clear interest in Butler, who declared for the draft after his junior season in which he had 60 receptions for 1,318 yards and nine touchdowns.
But in his mind, the hype machine hasn’t been turned up high enough — yet.
Butler, of course, is talking about Saturday’s wide receiver workouts. If he crushes the drills, he could vault up the draft board — perhaps into the first round. And he feels well-prepared because he’s spent the past few months working out with some legendary NFL receivers in Calvin Johnson and Anquan Boldin.
Butler met Boldin at the South Florida gym where he trains. He was connected to Johnson through his agent.
Johnson and Boldin are known for being precise, tactical receivers. But Butler says the most valuable lesson of working with them has been learning about how they think.
Butler admitted the first time he worked with Johnson, who went to six Pro Bowls with the Detroit Lions from 2010-15, that he was a little starstruck.
Butler is hoping that one day he can leave a legacy like Boldin or Johnson. But for now, his goal is to prove what he already believes is true: that he is the top receiver in this draft.