How to Make Flapjacks - Quick, Easy and Yummy!
Learn How to Make Flapjacks with this easy recipe. The favourite simple, English, chewy, gooey, kids bake. Add chocolate if you fancy, or use dairy free spread to make them vegan. Use gluten free oats to make them gluten free too.
I’ve got to tell you, my home baking has fallen down a little lately.
We are living in a new house (October, is that still ‘new’?) which has a pretty rubbish kitchen and once I’ve been cooking all day for work, I kind of forget to cook treats for George and Harriet.
I’d like to tell you that Mum guilt got the better of me but actually I accidentally ordered a COMEDY sized huge bag of Jumbo Oats by mistake.
I realised that I’d never shared this recipe and in writing up how to make flapjacks, I’ve realised I MUST make them more. They are SO good!
Before we get into the details I feel I should clarify what a flapjack is for any transatlantic readers.
In America a flapjack is actually a pancake. English flapjacks are more of a gooey oat/granola bar, made with butter, sugar, golden syrup and oats, all baked in the oven.
Flapjacks are a super simple and easy treat.
What ingredients do you need to make flapjacks?
All you need to make flapjacks are butter, sugar, golden syrup and oats.
How do you make flapjacks?
The absolute key in how to make flapjacks is all in the cooking time.
They really are such a simple bake to make. Firstly you melt unsalted butter in a heavy bottomed pan. Once the butter is melted, stir in sugar and golden syrup. As soon as the sugar is dissolved, you remove the pan from the heat.
Now stir in your oats, making sure that they are all coated with the mixture.
Put the flapjack mixture into a baking parchment lined baking tray. Carefully press them down using a spatula to ensure they cook evenly and are the same thickness when you cut them.
Bake in the oven for 20 minutes, the edges of your flapjack should just be starting to brown, but the middle should be soft with a slight amount of wobble.
Which oats should I use in flapjacks?
I used Jumbo whole oats, in this flapjack recipe. They give a lighter, more crumbly texture.
You can also rolled oats, which make a more dense flapjack.
Should flapjacks be crunchy or chewy?
For me the perfect flapjack is a chewy one, with slightly crunchy edges. Anything else is simply not good enough!
However, if you of the crunchy flapjack persuasion, just cook your flapjacks for slightly longer.
What other ingredients can I add to my perfect flapjack recipe?
Once you have mastered the basic flapjack recipe, the world is your oyster in terms of other flavours.
A simple covering of melted chocolate after cooking adds some sugary goodness that will be a hit with the children.
You can also add dried fruits for an extra portion of fruit.
The list is endless, let me know if you find your perfect flapjack flavour!
Do you cut flapjacks hot or cold?
Leave the flapjack in the tin until it is completely cooled before cutting into sixteen squares and removing from the tin.
I think allowing them to cool helps them to keep their shape and means that you don’t need to overcook them.
Can you make Dairy free or vegan flapjacks?
Yep! Just replace the butter with your favourite dairy free spread.
How long do homemade flapjacks last for?
In our house this is about 5 minutes but if you can resist temptation this flapjack recipe will last for around 10 days kept in an air tight container.
You can also freeze flapjack in portions for up to one month.
This perfect sized baking tin.
Great quality baking paper like this.
Always use a good quality baking parchment to line your baking tray. A top tip is to make small cuts in your parchment at each corner to help it fit the baking tray better.
You can vary the type of sugar used in your flapjack. I used soft brown sugar in this recipe to make it chewy and rich. You could also use castor sugar but it won’t be quite as tasty. Dark brown sugar would give a darker appearance and a richer flavour.
I have used 1tsp of salt in this flapjack recipe. You can leave this out if you are cooking for young children, but I do have to say I think it really adds to the recipe and brings out the flavour.
If you prefer you could substitute honey for golden syrup, I haven’t tried this myself, but if you do let me know how you get on.
If you fancy some inspiration for other simple sweet treats or after school snacks then take a look at my Ultimate Banana Muffins or Microwave Brownies recipes.
Hope you enjoy this recipe as much as we do. I’d love to know how you got on and what you thought of it if you make this Easy Flapjack recipe. Please rate the recipe and leave me a comment below if you do.
PS. Look at these two getting in on the post photo act. HAHA! Hope your children enjoy this recipe as much as mine do.
Preheat your oven to 170deg (fan) 150deg (conventional).
Line a 20cm x 20 cm baking tray with baking parchment, cut slits in each corner so it fits neatly.
Melt your butter in a large pan over a low heat.
Once melted add your sugar. and golden syrup. Once the sugar has dissolved remove from the heat and stir in the oats.
Give the entire mixture a really good stir so that all of the oats are coated.
Bake in the oven for 20 minutes, the edges should be starting to brown but the middle should still be soft and wobbly.
When the flapjacks are cold, remove from the tin and slice your flapjack into 16 squares with a sharp knife.