March 30, 2016 - The International Society of Automation (ISA) and its Strategic Partner for Calibration, Beamex, Inc., announce the opening of attendee registration for Calibration Best Practices: Interactive Workshop, which will be held Thursday, 18 August 2016 at the Space Center Houston in Houston, Texas, USA.
The jointly sponsored workshop will explore the latest insights, trends and best practices for process plant technicians and engineers seeking to improve calibration quality, safety, accuracy and efficiency. Instructors will discuss day-to-day challenges and how best to solve them through new and innovative strategies and advances in calibration technology—all designed to save time while achieving quality metrics and improving safety.
Access to this event is limited, so interested persons are encouraged to register soon. The registration includes access to all presentations, breakfast and lunch as well as admission to the Space Center Plaza exhibit, including the full-scale engineering mockup and other artifacts of NASA’s Orion spacecraft and a stellar science show.
In addition to offering extensive education programs, a museum of space artifacts and exhibits, and space attractions, the Space Center Houston serves as a gateway for touring the NASA Johnson Space Center.
Beamex, a global leader in developing equipment, software, systems and services for the calibration and maintenance of process instruments, collaborates with ISA through the association’s Corporate Partnerships Program.
The ISA Corporate Partnerships Program offers companies a customized, tailored approach to sponsorship within the organization. Partnership packages include year-round promotion, prominent association-wide access and recognition, and turnkey service from a dedicated team of professionals. Companies can bundle ISA products and services with marketing opportunities, providing a more streamlined approach to corporate sponsorship. For more information about ISA’s Corporate Partnerships Program, visit the partner section of the ISA website or contact Halsey at +1 (919) 990-9287.