Founded in 1979, Samitivej Hospital is a private hospital that has received commendation from international organizations such as World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). The main hospital at Sukhumvithas grown into a network of outstanding hospitals in Thailand, offeringinternational-standard medical care not only tolocal residents and expatriates based in the country but to international patients as well. Samitivej Hospitals are the pioneering providers of aesthetic surgery in the country, asserting its position as the center of medical and aesthetic tourism in Thailand.
Samitivej Hospitals are located in Sukhumvit, Srinakarin, Sriracha, Thonburi, and Chonburi. Children Hospitals are located at the Sukhumvit and Srinakarin campuses, as well as 20 outreach clinics in and around Bangkok, Nontaburi and Rayon.
Each hospital outlet provides an all-inclusive range of medical services from primary to tertiary care. The number of examination suites and highly skilled caregivers are directly proportional to the number of hospital beds and anticipated patients. Living up to the meaning of Samitivej (assembly of doctors), there are nowover 2,000 experienced, and highly commendable specialists available to patients of Samitivej Hospitals. The number of auxiliary medical, technical, mechanical staff is directly proportional to the number of outpatients and inpatients each hospital can handle.
With its state-of-the-art technology, facilities, medicalequipment, and medical treatment, the group of SamitivejHospitals has performed a complex range of ground-breaking surgeries. It has received accreditation from the highly esteemed American Joint Commission International (JCI) and was named the first Baby Friendly Hospital in Thailand in 1999 by UNICEF and WHO.
There are specialized departments for physical rehabilitation and occupational rehabilitation.
For those with psychiatric and mental health needs, the psychiatric clinic, memory clinic and life center will be of much help.
The Well-being Health Center offers a range of wellness and anti-aging programs under the supervision of anti-aging and regenerative medicine specialists and other auxiliary medical personnel trained in anti-aging medicine.
Aesthetic procedures such as hair restoration, plastic surgeries such as liposuction,nose lift, tummy tuck, full face lift, breast augmentation, reduction, and lift are done by highly competent cosmetic surgeons.
Samitivej Hospitals take to heart caring for sick children. Little people must be taken care of in very dedicated ways that Samitivej Hospitals have different department and centers solely designated to patients under 18. Pediatric clinics in cancer, dental, cardiology, dermatology, liver and gastrointestinal, nephrology, neurology, ophthalmology, orthopedic, pulmonary, and rehabilitation medicine are current.
The Srinakarin campus is fully equipped and staffed for bone marrow transplantation, a treatment plan that addresses aplastic anemia, chronic leukemia and other genetic diseases such as thalassemia, common among Thais.
The Growth, Endocrine and Diabetes Center offers comprehensive diagnosis and treatment for diseases relating to the control of growth and development, moods, and metabolism.
It is easy enough to set an appointment with a preferred specialist as Samitivej Hospital website has an online form to request for an appointment. There is a “Find a Doctor” option to browse through the list of specialists. Setting the date for a doctor’s appointment is at the patient’s convenience. If one is unsure of what type of specialist to get, a quick search on the “Symptom Checker” will narrow down one’s search for theright specialist.
Package and promotions are offered on occasions. For the first quarter of 2018, the hospital afforded packages for Pre-marital checkup with genetic screening, Fit for Life checkup and Infertility Treatment plan. Offered on a more regular basis are Childbirth packages, and annual health checkup.
Annual health checkup packages include physical examination and screening to determine risks in developing liver, cancer and heart diseases, and thyroid dysfunctions.
Very few hospitals offer a software application wherein a patient can view his medical history at any given time and place. This application is updates, secure and easy enough to navigate. Available in this application is one’s medical history, prescribed medicines, doctors and their schedules, make an appointment, and more.
The mission of the founders is to establish an advanced hospital that would provide the best possible care to its patients with the help of the best doctors and nurses in Thailand. The vision of a healthcare facility that will treat their patients holistically has come to be a reality.