Open the Recording dialog to set how the camera should store events (alarms).
The recording methods are independent of the selected video codec (JPEG, MxPEG). In order to obtain the highest frame rate and the most efficient storage method, however, you should use the MOBOTIX MxPEG codec.
The effectiveness of Limit Frame Rate When Idle setting in the Setup Menu > General Image Settings dialog will be reduced when using high frame rates in continuous recording or pre-alarm images, or when using pre-alarm image intervals that are too short.
For the time defined in Recording Time, the camera continues storing the video stream as MxPEG clips (or the Post-Alarm Images in Snap Shot mode).
The camera records only when the respective custom signal is true.
The camera records only when the master camera's Recording is armed.
Note: Actions and Messages are not connected to recording and the camera will execute these functions even if recording has been deactivated.
In order to arm the camera in a time-controlled manner, you need to select a Time Table Profile.
Arm Recording in this dialog (see above) has to be set to Enable or can be set to work with the camera's signal input (e.g. with a key switch) using the SI Closed (low) or SI Open (high) options.
The camera signs the recorded data using the X.509 certificate of the camera's web server.
The function will automatically stop the recording of images or video clips if one of the selected events occur once the Time Before Terminate has been used up. Use this option if you would like freeze the stored images or image sequences and to prevent them from being overwritten.
Note: The selected event(s) must have been activated in the Event Settings dialog; deactivated events are shown accordingly.
If the recording has been terminated, the action symbol TR will be displayed in yellow: TR.
Set Retrigger Recording to All in order to combine all events in one event folder with the one event number.
Note: Event Recording is only available for Secure cameras.
Event recording stores MxPEG Clips (M00001.jpg, M00002.jpg, ...; max. ten seconds recording time each) that can also contain audio data (the Record Audio Data option has been activated). One of the advantages of this recording method is the efficient recording method that results in a high increase in server performance (e.g. up to 100 cameras can record on a single standard PC (P4, 3 GHz)). On the other hand, this method also allows storing lip-synchronous audio (sound) data of the camera.
Note: Continuous Recording is only available for Secure cameras.
Continuous recording stores MxPEG Clips all the time (M00001.jpg, M00002.jpg, ...) that can also contain audio data (the Record Audio Data option has been activated). The advantage of this recording mode is a continuous recording with reduced frame rate and permanent audio recording where the camera automatically increases the frame rate if it detects an event.
Similar to Event Recording, the Recording End (RE) event is triggered once the recording has been finished (including retriggered—i.e. prolonged—recording).
The HD (1280x720) and Full HD (1920x1080) resolutions available in the live image and in the image profiles are not available for this mode. Since these resolutions do not have an aspect ratio of 4:3 (letterbox), full image recording would clip parts of the image at the top and the bottom of the image.