I have it for more than half a year..simply can't live without it. Can't even imagine flying without it now. Drivers are getting better, does more fluent job. Now it remembers staying in absolute mode and I can safely shutdown Windows (XP SP1) without getting the trackir drivers stuck. Simply amazing!!!
I've used it for 3 years now in sims. Still works as new.
Software has been constantly improved and it gets better and better all the time.
The longer you have it the more you like it, I hated it at first but now I wont fly without it.
You just have to learn to use it,for example always sit the same distance from the Tir unit or the responce will vary greatly.And use lots of deadzone at first then slowly reduce it as your skills improve.
Brought the 3D into flightsimming, that's for sure. Now I can look at my instruments, out the window, through my body by turning my head.
It's not like in real life, but it gets closer..
I still use it from time to time.
I find it of less value/use on non-full real.
When I have the 'pit off or external views I find it disorienting, but that may be down to practice!
And as I am having a major problem adjusting to the new FM's I don't have the time or patience to put into TIR in these circumstances!
And the orientation is automatic because you always have feedback where you look, because you move your head in that direction. But if you're not used to it, it may take a bit of practice. It's not hard though.
So when i fly pit off, i only fly with just the gunsight as visual reference and never lose orientation. TrackIR is handy with all settings, medium easy or hard. It's just like using a joystick to fly when for years you've been using the arrow keys to fly. TrackIR is also the HOTAS (= hands OFF throttle and stick) to look around.
Sometimes i watch trk's in external view and recreate external padlock with the trackIR. Focusing on 1 plane while tracking the other(s) with it. You can do that all without pressing buttons. It's great. So people who think trackIR is only usefull in full real games haven't yet discovered the full capability of trackIR yet./i/smilies/16x16_smiley-wink.gif Because it's even better in medium or easy games.
It's getting better and better! No flying without it as far as I'm concerned.
New software (2.11) supports it in FS2004 as well. Go get it!
I better stop being lazy and negotiate with my wife for some extra 'stick time'!
You can also look at the map while looking around the countryside to orient yourself looking for landmarks, rivers towns etc. And if you want, you can steer the view independantly of the gun if you want to play reargunner. In short, it was already good back then, it's great now, and it's getting better all the time.
New software/drivers is good too!
Can't wait to fire it up again when I get home tonight!
"Sorry kids, Daddy is busy"
What is the price for TrackIr?
Is it available in skandinavia?
DNMY made a comment about the map and he(she?) was dead on. It's nice to be able to look around when the map is open. I can finally give up on the map navigation lines being on, padlock on, etc and now can fly effectively with 100% realism options on. I paid $119 usd with $19 shipping. I was especially glad to know you can use reflective tape and not have to depend on the manufacturer for those dots.
- What is the price for TrackIr?
- Is it available in skandinavia?
They have a European sales office, they sell TrackIR as well as 3D Glasses.