The debate "Republican memo was fake news garbage" was started by Nemiroff on February 26, 2018, 5:21 pm. 5 people are on the agree side of this discussion, while 8 people are on the disagree side. People are starting to choose their side. It looks like most people are against to this statement.
Nemiroff posted 4 arguments to the agreers part.
Nemiroff, historybuff and 3 visitors agree.
Yiyi, chasediedrich1, NPW, DrMrDaniel, chemikilsm0ke and 3 visitors disagree.
why is it that your entire post deflected to the democrats and completely dodged the topic of the thread, the contents of the actual Republican memo?
is it because the contents of that memo themselves are indefensible?
my entire opening post explained why it was fake. so your opening jab is a miss.
Nunez used half truths to lie to the American people. regardless of the damage that should spark far more outrage.
the damage was to sources and methods of intelligence gathering. it makes intelligence gathering harder for our professionals. do you think you as a civilian would notice the damage? did you notice the snowden damage? of course not. what were you expecting the damage to be? an instant invasion? I think you are making arbitrary excuses to avoid laying blame on your party no matter how badly they slapped you and the American people.
I love how democrats always dissmis the memo as a fake but rarely point out why it's fake. I also remember that democrats stated that the memo would cause major problems and liberal media cites were buzzing with why releasing the memo would bring terrible consequences, yet none of that happened. It's almost as if there was something in that memo democrats didn't want released.
anyone have any argument for why it wasn't garbage?
frankly garbage isn't strong enough. it was outright lies to try to undermine an investigation into potential treasonous activities. when the investigation leads to more charges I hope they investigate Nunes as well for his willful attempt to cover it up.
it represented the Steele dossier as the only evidence when it was supported by numerous independent sources.
it said the fbi hide the fact that one of its leads was started for a partisan purpose, but they openly told the judge that, who then judged it valid.
it forgot to mention that the warrant was renewed several times, meaning it was providing valid intelligence in the eyes of the court. which included numerous republician judges who approved it.
this political farce needs to end. cherry picking from classified data to build a false narrative to deceive the American people, there need to be treason charges brought on some. starting with Devon Nunez. if anyone is colluding, it's him.