PRIDE OF PH. Mekeni Food Corp (Mekeni) was recently recognized in Paris, France for its quality products here and abroad. (L to R) Mr. Alfonso C. Casal, Director, Business Initiatives Direction (BID); Nards Garcia, Mekeni VP for Sales and Marketing; Mr Jose Prieto, President, BID; Mr. Pruds Garcia, Mekeni President; Ms. Marilou 0. Uy, AVP Mekeni Supply Chain Management; Ms. Mary Hope Ulibarri, Mekeni AVP for Manufacturing; and, Dr. Devin Savage, Head of BID Quality Research.
MEKENI Food Corporation, of Porac, Pampanga recently received the ‘Diamond Award’, the highest quality award in Paris, France.
“We dedicate this award (World Quality Commitment — Diamond Category, the Highest Category) to all the great people behind the success of Mekeni. Firstly, to our Founder, Tatay Felix, his unquestionable desire to help others gave birth to Mekeni. For our family who unselfishly shared their resources and time to sustain the operations of the company,” according to Mekeni Food Corporation President Prudencio Garcia.
The Mekeni Food Corporation, according to Garcia, is committed to manufacture quality food products to every Filipino worldwide. It also adheres to global standard.
Mekeni Foods Corporation is the first recipient of ISO 22000 — Food Safety Management System (FSMS) Certified Meat Plant in Asia and in the Philippines and 2nd in the world.
Mekeni is also Halal-certified and uses only the finest and the best of ingredients and meat in every product.
Mekeni was conferred as compliant to Food Safety System Certification (FSSC ), the most comprehensive international standards on food safety and quality. It is also a recipient of the following recognitions: International Quality Awards of Gold (2012) in Geneva, Switzerland; Platinum (2013), in Frankfurt Germany; and now Diamond (2016) in Paris, France.
Currently, Mekeni products are present in United Arabs Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Australia, New Zealand and other GCC countries. Mekeni has also started to export their meat products in Japan. Mekeni is the first and only meat company in the Philippines that is allowed to export to Japan under the strict supervision of the Japanese government.