October 13, 2015 Lehigh Valley, Pa.
Air Products (NYSE:APD) will highlight the company’s latest gas technologies for the metals processing industry at the Heat Treat 2015 Conference and Exhibition in Detroit, Mich., from October 20-22. The company will also share its latest developments in furnace atmospheres—including plasma-activated case hardening of steels at atmospheric-pressure—and heat treating trends as part of the conference’s technical program.
Metals processors are invited to stop by Air Products booth 508 to speak with a knowledgeable representative about their particular heat treating challenges. With over 50 years of heat treating experience, Air Products’ applications engineers can work with customers to learn their specific annealing, brazing, hardening or sintering process and make recommendations to help improve their overall operation.
Air Products’ industrial gases are available in a variety of supply modes to match each customer’s requirements efficiently and cost-effectively. The company also offers gas handling equipment and technology, as well as process audits and troubleshooting, that can help metals processors optimize gas use, lower operating costs, maximize uptime, increase throughput, and improve product quality.
Zbigniew Zurecki, FASM and senior research associate at Air Products, will share new developments in atmosphere treatments as part of the “New Directions and Opportunities in Heat Treating” panel session on Wednesday morning, October 21. In addition, Air Products’ Dr. Liang He, principal application engineer, will present the results of original research titled “Optimization of Protective Atmospheres for Annealing and Hardening Operations in Continuous Furnaces” during the Atmosphere Technology Session on Wednesday afternoon.
For more information about Air Products’ industrial gases and equipment, technology solutions and services for the metals processing industry, please call 800-654-4567, email gigmrktg@airproducts.com, or visit www.airproducts.com/mp.