Home » Healthy Lifestyle » Beauty & Wellness » What Does Your Lip Colour Say About Your Body?
What Does Your Lip Colour Say About Your Body?
While you may make all the girls jealous with your rosy lips, this is actually an indication that your body is overheated. This condition will be accompanied by a constant craving for food and bad breath. Your body gets overheated when your liver is dysfunctional. Take immediate measures to cleanse your liver. You can consume celery, honey dandelion tea, and bitter melon to help the cleansing process. Your lips may also be red if you have an allergy to certain foods.
No, don’t cover them with red lipstick! Pale lips indicate anaemia which is a cause of low haemoglobin or red blood cells. Consume foods that are rich in iron to cure this condition. The richest sources of iron are dry fruits and spinach which will boost your haemoglobin levels.
This indicates that your digestive system needs detoxification immediately and needs to be rid of disturbing food agents. Try to practise an alkaline diet. You can also consume lemon-squeezed warm water. Stray clear of junk food until your digestive system is cleansed and include a lot of fresh fruits, vegetables, nuts, fish, and rice to your diet.
This is not much to be alarmed about if it happens in extremely cold regions. However, you should immediately consult your doctor if you do not stay in a very cold region and the condition persists for more than a few days. Blue or purple lips can mean that you have respiratory or heart problem. It can also mean that your blood is not properly circulated through your body. An improper blood circulation around the spleen and liver can be identified if there is a green line around the lips.
These indicate respiratory or heart problems. Consume foods that are neutral and nature along with a few mild spices.
Rosy Pink Lips indicate that you are maintaining a good lifestyle and is a sign of a healthy body and a balanced mind. This means that your diet, sleeping patterns and workout regimes are suiting your body. More reason to make ‘em girls jealous, huh?
While everyone wants super cool superpowers, my superpower is health indication through lip colour! Do not take a change in your lip colour lightly. Consult with a doctor immediately if you notice even a slight change. And keep drinking the magic potion that will make everything alright. No, not Whisky! Water! Let us know some more natural ways of leading a healthy lifestyle with lovely pink lips in the comments section.