First off, I would like to credit the mods at time_and_chips for this most excellent idea.
This post is a way for the members to get in touch with the mod team here at lifeonmartha. If you have a complaint, feel a poster/commenter is being offensive, you have questions about what's acceptable to post or how to post, you think someone has broken a rule of our community, you want to report someone for trolling, or just have question for us-- please drop us a line.
We mods do try the best we can to keep on top of things here at lifeonmartha, but occasionally things can slip through the cracks. All comments will be screened and can only be seen by the mods unless otherwise requested.
If you would like to the mods to get in touch with you for some reason, please leave your contact info in your comment and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
So...um, I will admit to being slightly nervous about posting a story here. I read the userinfo, and saw that this comm is open to Martha/Doctor friendship and other usage of Martha besides a romantic ship. Do you also accept fics that feature other ships?
The story I wanted to post here is actually a Ten/Rose story (well, sort of. It's a big, epic, action/adventure story wherein the one romance thread happens to be Ten/Rose. It's not an outright romance). Thing is, Martha has a huge role in it, especially in the second story that I'm in the process of writing.
Thank you for thinking we might want to read your story too. It's great to see someone incorporate classic canon as well as Torchwood into an adventure story, but what I can gather from the plotline, the focus is on Rose and that doesn't work for lifeonmartha.
You might want to try posting it to more general oriented communities, like dwfiction or new_who. They are there for such cases are yours, with stories that feature characters from the classic series as well as different new series incarnations.
I'm in the process of pre-writing a fic that involves the plot-line: what if Rose had not been pulled into the parrallel universe? It's a rewrite of series 3, but with Ten, Rose and Martha.
The primary focus is building a friendly relationship between Martha and Rose, and both help each other learn things which make them grow as characters. The other main focus is to look at how series 3 would have gone if Rose was there as well as Martha, meaning a lot of changed plot-lines to the episodes.
It would be a 10/Rose, but it wouldn't be too much of a focus on the story as the main subject plot-line is about Martha and Rose learning to trust one-another and deal with the feelings that they have for the Doctor, though in the end Martha would realise that the Doctor loves Rose and not her - he's just scared of commitment.
I know that, probably for the first five chapters, the fic would just feature Ten and Rose, which would deal with the after-affects of Doomsday and then the plot-line of The Runaway Bride, and after that is dealt with, Martha would come in to the fic and feature prominently throughout the fic until the end.
On some occasions a chapter would focus heavily on Rose, due to circumstances she is in, but most of the chapters would focus around, once Martha is introduced, her relationship with the Doctor and Martha. And vice-a-versa.
Because this fic is being pre-written, I don't know when I would begin posting, but it would be a very long fic, probably around 30 chapters is my best guess.
So, due to the content of what the fic is about, focusing on Rose and Martha (but just sometimes focusing on Rose, for the purpose of a chapter that would expand her character, same would go for Martha as well, and for the Doctor) would I be allowed to post this story here on Life on Martha?
Thank you for considering lifeonmartha when posting your fic, but I have consulted with the other mods, and we all feel that this fic would be too focused on Rose and the Ten/Rose relationship to be appropriate for this community.
Please consider other lj communities that would be more suited for the type of fic you're describing, such as time_and_chips or doctor_plus_one. All of these communities are Doctor/Rose in nature and a better fit for the fic you've described to us.
Hi, I don't usually post in this comm but I've just started a Who fanfic which is from Martha's POV and wondered whether it would be OK to post it here.
The reason I'm asking rather than going ahead and posting is because the fic is very much Ten/Rose-slanted (like pretty much everything I write) and I don't want my posting it to cause any aggro here.
The fic (or the first chapter of it) is here if you want to take a look at it.
Sorry for the delay in responding, I've been dealing with internet issues. Grrr.
Anyway, thanks for the question. I've read the fic and it's really lovely. First person is incredibly difficult and you manage to pull it off.
You could certainly post it here as it does technically fit our guidelines. However, I'm not sure how positive of a reception it would get and I want to be honest about that. There is a very strong feeling among community members against fic that uses Martha as a tool to get The Doctor and Rose back together. It's even spawned a sub-genre title: Yenta fic. While I don't think that it's necessarily a bad thing in the proper context, the lifeonmartha members are looking for fic that highlights Martha in a positive way. While this isn't primarily a shipping comm, any fic that puts Martha second to Rose is going to be given a very critical eye. I'd hate for you to post something in good faith and be unprepared for any negative feelings.
Because of that it would be my opinion that, at this time, this story would be better suited to a more general Who comm such as dwfiction or new_who.
I'm sure you are aware of the sensitivity of fandom at this juncture and I appreciate you taking the time to run this past us. I look forward to a time when such steps are not necessary.
We love stuff like this..post away!
Actually, no there wasn't. As the mod who was leading the chats, it became too much of a chore/responsibility to do every weekend in the off season. Plus, attendance was down and we were basically talking about the same thing every week. I've decided to just have a monthly chat with a corresponding lj thread that will have a definite topic.
When Martha is on TW and DW again, we'll go back to weekly chats for a while.
I suppose I should announce this decision, but I was waiting for it to be closer to the start of the new month, as I'm setting the chats on the first weekend of each month.
Mods have stepped in to deal with the issue and the thread in question was frozen to discourage more negative discussion. Thanks for bringing this to our attention.
I posted a report on my trip to the NTAs, I posted it at freema_love. Is it ok to post a link to the original post there, or would you prefer I just post the whole thing here?
Yes, please. I was hoping you'd post here.
Mods, can I suggest you put a direct link to the 1000 drabbles post and the accompanying cheerleading post on the links bar? As more posts get added to the main page those two are going to get buried and the drabble challenge might well lose momentum.
A good idea! Thank you.
Just wanted to let you know that I attempted to post feedback in the drabbles cheering section -- hit the button -- and it didn't appear at the end of that thread. I checked a couple of other threads, thinking I might have accidentally responded to the wrong one, but I can't find it anywhere. So if it turns up in an odd place, feel free to delete.
The open post about the R1 Last of the Time Lords commentary has a link to a locked dl in another comm.
Thanks for the spot - it's been deleted and the poster notified they made a stupid move.
Hello, modly mods. A question: Inspired by your drabbley goodness, the folks on Loves Them All would like to do a drabblethon for offbeat DW pairings. I don't want to compete with the 1,000 Drabbles of Awesome, so I was wondering if you have any idea how long that will be going on. Do you have an end date, or are you going to just let it run its natural course?
At the moment, we're pretty much looking at until we hit the 1000 drabbles.
No idea how long that will take, as it's entirely dependent on how quickly people write.
Quick, but heartfelt, apology for my comment earlier (which was deleted by malaleen and I only read the comment by email a couple of minutes ago.). I had no intention to bash at all and if it came across like I did, then I'm sorry.
Honestly, mistakes like these are easy to make, but with the climate in fandom right now, especially between the Rose and Martha fen, is not very friendly, and the way the way the post was phrased would have not pleased many.
We realize that people want to talk about this new development, but we need to be careful that we don't bash either characters or fen along the way. So to help take care of this need, we've made a flocked discussion thread here for our members that we mods are carefully monitoring.
Please don't be upset over it, as it was quickly caught before anything could go wrong.
I started a new community for Donna Noble called walkinthedust and I was wondering if it would be okay to post an invite here?
The comm is companion friendly because after all, the Doctor loves them all.
That would be fine with us. Go ahead and post about it.
27th-Dec-2007 10:53 pm (UTC) - Brand New!
Um, hello mods! I'm brand new to Lifeonmartha, however I've been lurking since early March! Yes, yes, shame on me, I know. But I'm not sure if I'm supposed to introduce myself or anything, so please let me know!
P.S. I love this comm SO much!!
27th-Dec-2007 10:58 pm (UTC) - Re: Brand New!
First of all, welcome to our community! You don't need to introduce yourself, but feel free to jump into discussions we're having, review stories, or make a post yourself, as long as you're following the rules set in our user info.
Hello, I'm asking on behal