Longtime South Plains College Athletic Director Joe Tubb recently was honored at Texan Dome in recognition of his induction into the Western Junior College Athletic Conference Hall of Fame.
He as presented with a plaque during halftime of the men’s basketball game against Howard College on Feb. 8.
Tubb served as the athletic director at SPC for 33 years before he retired in 2015.
During those 33 years, Tubb had overseen 42 NJCAA Championships in men’s and women’s track and field, cross country, half-marathon, and men’s basketball. Under Tubb’s direction, the Texans and the Lady Texans basketball teams have claimed a combined 15 WJCAC championships and five tournament titles. The college has also hosted 14 National Junior College Athletic Association championship events under Tubb, such as the 2016 Outdoor Track and Field National Championship meet, in which the Texans made collegiate history by capturing their 10th consecutive Outdoor national championship.
At SPC, Tubb was in charge of supervising all sports programs and coordinating activities designed to promote athletics at the college. Tubb was also responsible for events hosted by the college at the Texan Dome, including both intramural and recreational programs at SPC and Texas High School University Interscholastic League (UIL) events.
Tubb also served a three-year term as president of the NJCAA, where he was responsible for presiding over annual executive and special meetings for the nation’s second largest intercollegiate athletic association.
Tubb was instrumental in the growth of two-year collegiate athletics during his time at SPC. He received the highest honor bestowed by the National Alliance of Two-Year Collegiate Athletic Administrators, the L. William Miller Award. He was also named Athletic Director of the Year by the National Association of College Athletic Directors.
Tubb said he misses his time at SPC and all he did while here.
Next NASA trip provides STEM students with educational opportunity.