• Engage with other SRA functions to support the evidence gathering and credible deterrence approach of the SRA.
The role of a Forensic Investigator is a key component part of the Investigation and Supervision Directorate within the SRA. As a Forensic Investigator, you will attend solicitors’ premises throughout England & Wales to identify, investigate and report serious breaches of all rules (Accounting and Conduct).
You will also investigate serious fraud and dishonesty not specifically covered by the Rules but which are considered likely to bring the profession into disrepute.
You will need to understand our code and principles, which often include mortgage fraud, money laundering, probate fraud, or other schemes as they arise. You will be required, where applicable, to secure admissible evidence for use in the Solicitors’ Disciplinary Tribunal and, if the matter proceeds to a criminal prosecution, at Court.
The role is based either in either our offices in Birmingham or London. However, you will be required to travel extensively throughout England and Wales, for which a car allowance is provided, subject to minimum mileage criteria. The appropriate equipment will be provided to enable you to work in the field.
• Experience in accountancy, law or relevant regulation / investigative environment.
• Experience of analysing complex information and translating it into plain, simple language.
• You should be flexible, tenacious and able to adjust your priorities at short notice.
• Be an excellent communicator, both orally and in writing.
Please make sure that your application clearly demonstrates how you meet the knowledge, skills and experience requirements of the role.
Interviews for Birmingham based candidates will take place on 29 November 2017 and for London based candidates the 30 November 2017. Please make sure you clearly state on your application the location that you wish to be based from.
Experience in accountancy, law or relevant regulation / investigative environment.
Ability to analyse, assimilate and apply numerical and financial information from a wide range of sources to reach conclusions.
Ability to apply regulation and rules to cases.
Working knowledge of Fraud Act, Money Laundering Regulations and the Proceeds of Crime Act.
Resilient and able to cope in a high challenging environment.
Degree and or ideally hold a professional qualification such as an accountancy or legal qualification.
Please state which location you wish to be based from, London or Birmingham.
The SRA is the independent regulator of solicitors and law firms in England and Wales, protecting consumers and supporting the rule of law and the administration of justice. We do this by overseeing all education and training requirements necessary to practise as a solicitor, licensing individuals and firms to practise, setting the standards of the profession and regulating and enforcing compliance against these standards.
We offer a generous flexible benefits package, a friendly working environment and the opportunity to develop your career within a professional organisation.