My father in law Charlie was prescribed Clopidogrel on May 2, 2014.
He was in turn taken to Pittsburgh hospital in July 30, 2014 with bleeding on the brain, as diagnosed by a neurosurgeon. The doctor placed him in hospice because he could not fix the issue. Charlie died on February 13, 2015. The cause of death listed on his death certificate is subdural hemorrhage.
The only lawsuits I have seen relating to this issue are for Plavix, not Clopidogrel which is the generic brand. Are there any lawyers taking Clopidogrel lawsuits? What would I have to do to bring a case for this? Thank you.
Clopidogrel bisulfate, or its generic brand name Plavix, is manufactured by Bristol-Myers Squibb. The drug was approved in 1997 for prevention of blood clots and to reduce the risk of heart attacks and strokes.
While the manufacturer claimed Plavix worked better than aspirin, recent studies have shown that Plavix carries no significant benefit over the much cheaper aspirin.
There are currently several class actions in litigation. It appears they are not accepting victims in class actions against Bristol-Myers Squibb regarding the side effects of Clopidogrel bisulfate.
Go online and search on class actions for Clopidogrel bisulfate. You will find a good number of law firms representing victims of the side effects of Clopidogrel bisulfate in class actions and product liability claims. Feel free to contact those firms for further information.
My father passed away June 2016. A TIA incident brought us to our nearest hospital. There, the nurse recommended Plavix. Not even three months later he had a massive brain hemorrhage. He died from plavix being in his system before he passed away a week later.
I read that if he took aspirin with it, which I believe he did for the headache, it increases the chance of bleeding even further. They never went over that, at least not with me in the room.
This stuff really shouldn’t be on the market, it does not help anyone no mater how great the thought is. It’s only a great way to kill your family. Hospitals have Total lack of understanding of the use of this drug. Do not take this stuff lightly.
I don’t know if I can sue them and the hospital since its been two/three years, but if its possible I will. Even if it doesn’t bring back my dad. I want to fight them so at least he wouldn’t have died in vain, for my family and for others.
I had a heart attack in April 2017 and was put on a generic of Plavix. I was supposed to take it for a whole year but 2 months ago I got a letter in the mail stating the generic for Plavix (the pill I was taking) was on recall. Now I am looking for a lawyer to tell me what I should do because the whole time I was taking this medicine it wasn’t helping me. I’m still having trouble breathing and I have this rash all over my body. I don’t know what to do but I’m about to contact a lawyer.
I am so sorry about your husband’s death. Thank you very much for giving out this very important information about ‘the court ruling’. Only after I read your write up I understood why, not a single law firm is willing to go after these drug manufactures, and why they are dropping the cases.
With all the death and side effect incidents with this drug, FDA is claiming that ‘enough’ victims or doctors are not reporting the adverse effect to FDA so they could not recall it! The ‘number of victims’ report is their base for recall! Did you get a chance to report it to FDA? You could do it online FDA.GOV. Or call 1-888-INFO-FDA (1-888-463-6332) and speak to a person.
My husband was bruising all over his body, cardiologists said that is the side effect of clopidogrel and got a bleeding stroke in April of 2016, followed by seizures and complications from that. Fortunately, he is still alive, could not drive, quality of life completely changed, 72 year old need to be taken care of like a seven year old. Now that FDA has the authority over this drug, there is something we could do, thus our loss will not be in vein.
We need to write to the FDA administrator, with cc to the white house, the justice department who did the ruling, the house appropriation committee chair who is funding the FDA, the senators and the congressmen/women of our states. There are a lot of victims not able to do anything about it legally, however, collectively we could do a lot about it. If I could save one family from going through the suffering, I will be happy. Please communicate with me if you could.
My husband died as a result of taking Plavix following a TIA he had in January of 2012. For 6 months he took Plavix and when it came off patent in May, 2012 he was given the generic called Clopidogrel for 3 more years.
Many of the side effects of Plavix, or the generic drug, presented in my husband, but were attributed to his existing disease, NASH – nonalcoholic cirrhosis of the liver.
During the time he was on this medication he had nose bleeds, bleeding in his mouth, and constant bruising. When he had a cerebral hemorrhage and a gastro-intestinal bleed, doctors could not figure out what was happening.
After his death in December of 2015, I proceeded to do some research on my own. Major side effects from these drugs are cerebral hemorrhages, gastro-intestinal bleeds, nose bleeds, gum bleeds, blood bruising and bone marrow disorder.
It was this last side effect that ultimately killed my husband. He developed a bone marrow disorder which led to AML leukemia. He died from this leukemia.
In my research I have read so many accounts of people who had been prescribed Plavix and were later diagnosed with AML leukemia. Obviously, not a coincidence. It would appear to be a direct result of taking these drugs.
Due to the ruling by the Supreme Court Justices which stated that all generic drugs and their manufacturers, some 80% of all drugs consumed in the United States, are exempt from liability for side effects, mislabeling, or virtually any other negative reactions caused by their drugs.
In short, the Court ruled that the FDA has ultimate authority over pharmaceuticals in the US, and if the FDA says a drug is safe, that takes precedent over actual facts, real victims and any and all adverse reactions.
In other words, if the FDA says something is safe, it does not matter if that decision is wrong or the result of misrepresentation, fraud or deception on the part of the world’s pharmaceutical companies.
There is no way to sue the FDA for being wrong and costing millions of unsuspecting Americans their lives. That result leaves millions of Americans unprotected from an industry responsible for innumerable preventable deaths in the US from use of these drugs and their side effects.
My husband died and there is no recourse. However, if he was holding a hot cup of coffee from McDonald’s, we could have litigated this!
Pharmaceutical companies and our government, in the eyes of the Supreme Court, are putting profits before people. This decision has to be reversed.