If you are prepared to throw yourself into the Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine world, it has one of the best affiliate programs on the market. I will be talking about that too later on.
In case you’ve never created a sales funnel before then Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine has you covered.
While Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine gives you a wonderful starting point with its funnel and page templates, the Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine editor is the place you can truly make each page in your funnel your own.
Elements (or widgets) are all vital for providing you the flexibility to design the specific pages you woud like and Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine gives you a large variety of them to use.
The Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine affiliate program pays out 40% recurring commissions for each referral you make and you can win cool prizes like $500 towards your own dream car as soon as you hit 100 active referrals.
Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine also has another excellent feature for affiliates called share funnels.
Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine limits you to 20 funnels, 100 pages, and 20,000 visitors on their cheapest plan. I’m really not a fan of software products that limit you in this way.
That is why Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine put so much work into the onboarding process to help ease you into the software. The Kartra interface is fairely well designed for the most part and when you’ve assembled a couple funnels yourself, the entire process does get easier over time.
Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine support is fairly good in my experience, although they can be a little slow in responding. They use Intercom, so you may immediately ask questions in the live chat box. Support requests are usually answered in a couple of hours and I found the staff to pretty helpful to all my questions.
Even though Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine has its own email service provider via Actionetics, it also integrates directly with all the best email marketing software on the market.
I believe Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine gets some negative buzz around it due to all of the affiliates who are making an effort to market it.
There are a few Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine alternatives out there which share a number of the same capabilities as Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine. Two that I use myself are LeadPages and SamCart.
However, if you are selling a service or product, then Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine is the better choice. While it comes with a higher learning curve than Leadpages, once you master the tool, you can really explode your sales as soon as you begin creating sales funnels for each of your products.
SamCart is a product that lets users build amazing, high converting checkout pages. Which gives it a lot in common with Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine.
SamCart does permit you to add order bumps, upsells and downsells such as Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine does. You can also quickly create coupons for your products which is just another terrific way to increase conversions.
However, where Samcart is missing, is the capability to capture leads and build complete sales funnels. The products come in at the same $97 a month price point, and I find Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine to be quite a bit more flexible and powerful than Samcart.
Otherwise, Kartra 4 Day Cash Machine could be overkill for you. You can collect leads or sell your front end product more cheaply using alternative services.