Facial implants are designed to augment, reconstruct, or rejuvenate your facial contours. They are available in a wide range of sizes and styles and restore contour and/or proportion to your face. Facial implants can be used to augment your chin and jaw, to provide the sculpted cheekbones that you desire, or to supplement the tear trough area. Chin is one of the most essential feature which gives a balance to the face and creates a major part of one’s profile. People often look in the mirror and focuses on the nose, ears, sagging jowls or wrinkles, but few of them also observes their chins with the same discerning eye. he chin augmentation surgery primarily focuses on correcting the problem of double chin along with damaged chin which is the result of an accident.
Chin Reduction Surgery :Also known as cosmetic chin surgery, it aims at removing the surplus fat by making incisions and also by molding the bone of the chin.
Double Chin Plastic Surgery :The surgery undertakes the different causes of double chin like fatty tissues and the surplus skin is first treated and removed. The other preferable technique in which a tiny incision is made in order to remove the surplus fat is known as Tumescent Liposuction.
Genioplasty :The oscillating bone saw is used in order to remove a particular section of the jaw. The metal screws and metal plates are used to keep the bones in a proper place so as to give a new look to the patient.
Cleft Chin Surgery :Chin cleft surgery is a surgical enhancement of the cheek and chin that brings additional beauty to the face. It can also correct facial asymmetries and congenital defects. It does not require extensive incisions and involves lower chances of infections and discomfort.
You should be able to return to work and other normal activities within a week.
You should recline in a face-up position at a 45-degree angle for at least one week.
Stitches are removed in five to ten days; sutures placed inside the mouth will dissolve in a similar period of time.
You may be restricted to a soft diet for up to ten days.
After four to six weeks, vigorous physical activity can be resumed.
Non-Surgical Chin Enhancement is a safe, non-invasive alternative to traditional chin enhancement. The procedure involves injecting a filler such as Radiesse or Artefill into precise areas of the chin in order to increase the length, width or projection of the chin. Non Surgical Chin Enhancement is a 10 minute office procedure that involves no anesthesia and very little pain, redness or downtime. Most patients go back to work the next day. Non-surgical chin enhancement avoids the basic risks of surgery. There is no solid implant, so therefore no risk of movement or infection. Radiesse and Artefill do not move after they are injected (they become part of the skin) and infections are unheard of with injection of Radiesse or Artefill into this area of the face.
Orthognathic surgery is a corrective jaw surgery that straightens or realigns your jaw, and corrects related skeletal deformities that a patient may need. This type of surgery, done by an oral and maxillofacial surgeon (OMS) in a hospital setting which involves straightening and realigning the jaws using surgical plates or templates, screws and wires. The procedure aims at improving a person’s ability to speak, chew and breathe. This surgery can bring a dramatic improvement in the patient’s appearance.
Advanced techniques alongwith fully equipped latest medical facilities makes India affordable destination for chin implant surgery. India costs a tenth of the price of comparable treatment in western countries.