The O’Neills All Ireland Gaelic football is not included in the Black Friday Weekend offer.
The following products are also excluded from the the Black Friday Weekend offer: O'Neills Gift Card (email only), Ulster University GAA Fresher Pack (2018/19), Ulster University GAA Senior Mens Pack (2018/19), Ulster University GAA Kids Pack 2018/19.
The Black Friday Weekend discount runs from 00:00 Friday 23rd November 2018 until 23:59 Monday 26th November 2018.
The discount of 20% off for total cart is applied automatically at checkout.
Black Friday promotion cannot be applied with any other discounts. For example products already discounted in our Sale or Outlet section.
Offer is used in promotion of full-priced items only and not in conjunction with any other offer.
Jerseys in the following sections USA, Europe, Canada, Australasia, Asia, Africa, and Middle East of the site are only included in our International jersey offer.
County jerseys are subject to change at anytime and if a county jersey changes style after the 3 for 2 promotion we will be unable to exchange or refund this order.
Orders can't be changed or altered after they have been placed.
The free personalisation offer will discount up to a maximum of £10 only.
Offers promoted via the website and social media apply to online purchases made via the O’Neills.com website. Any offers that are applicable in our retail stores will be clearly identified as redeemable in-store at one of our retail outlets.
The O’Neills All Ireland Gaelic football is not included in any of our offers.
All offers apply while stock lasts.
O’Neills loyalty points cannot be used as part of any customer offer.
Due to timing and postal constraints, prizes will only be posted to addresses inside IE and the UK. Entrants from further afield must organise collection.
Closing date will be specified in the post or on competition entry page.
RT to Win competitions – Unless otherwise stated, ONE winner will be selected at random from all those who have retweeted our competition post.
Employees (and their families) of O’Neills and all 3rd party agencies connected to this competition are not eligible to win any of the competition prizes.
The winner will be notified by email/telephone.
O’Neills loyalty points cannot be used when claiming/ using any prize.
O’Neill’s decision is final and no correspondence will be entered into. Entries that do not comply in full with these rules will be disqualified.
If for any reason a prize becomes unavailable O’Neills reserves the right, at its absolute discretion, to substitute a similar prize of equivalent value.
O’Neills and their agents accept no responsibility for any technical difficulties experienced in submitting an entry to this competition.
This promotion is in no way sponsored, endorsed, administered by, or associated with Facebook. You understand that you are providing your information to O’Neills and not to Facebook. The information you provide will only be used for contacting the winners of this promotion and as per the marketing opt in included in the form.
Persons can also enter competitions via email at competitions@oneills.com or instore; Belfast, Newry, Enniskillen, Strabane and Magherafelt.
The promoter is the O’Neills Irish International Sportswear Company Ltd, Longmile Road , Dublin 12.
Guess/Predict the Score competitions – Unless otherwise stated, ONE winner will be selected. The winner must correctly predict the score of the selected match ahead of throw in/kick off. In an event of a tie break, closest prediction wins. If needs must i.e. entrants predicting the same score or more than one entrant is deemed ‘closest’ to the final score, a random draw will take place among qualifying entries.
All content included on this site including but not limited to web site design, text, graphics, audio clips, visual clips, logos, button icons and the selection and arrangement thereof are either the property of O’Neills or its contents suppliers and are protected by UK, Irish and international copyright laws. All software used on this site is the property of O’Neills and is protected by UK, Irish and international copyright laws ALL RIGHTS ARE RESERVED. Permission is granted to electronically copy and to print in hard copy portions of this Web site for the purposes of placing an order with O’Neills and using this website as a shopping resource only. Any other use of materials on this Web Site including reproduction for purposes other than those noted above, modification, distribution, transmission, broadcasting republication, downloading or uploading without the prior written permission of O’Neills is strictly prohibited.
O’Neills Irish International Sports Company Limited, Unit 45/46 Kennedy Centre, Belfast, BT11 9AE.
O’Neills and all page headers, custom graphics and button icons are service marks, trademarks, and/or trade dress of O’Neills. All other trademarks, product names and company names or logos cited herein are the property of their respective owners ("Third Party Trade Marks"). You are not permitted to use the O’Neills Trademarks or Third Party Trademarks without the prior written consent of O’Neills or such third parties that may own the Trademarks.
O’Neills may add to, change or remove any part of these Terms and Conditions of Use at any time, without notice. Any changes to these Terms and Conditions of Use or any terms shown on this website or any subsite hereof, apply as soon as they are shown. By continuing to use this website after any changes are posted, you are indicating your acceptance of those changes. O’Neills may add, change, discontinue, remove or suspend any other content displayed on this website, including features and specifications of products and services described or depicted on the website, temporarily or permanently, at any time, without notice and without liability.
In order to place an order with O’Neills you will need to register to use the site.
In return for allowing you to use the O’Neills web site and benefiting from our services, you agree that any information you provide us about yourself at any time will be true, accurate, current and complete and that you will ensure that this information is kept accurate and up to date. If incorrect information is supplied any contractual obligation O’Neills has is immediately null and void.
If you send communications or materials to this website by electronic mail or otherwise, concerning any comments, questions, suggestions or the like, all such communications are, and will be treated as, non-confidential and non-proprietary. Thus, you give up any claim that any use of such material infringes any of your rights including moral rights, proprietary, or any other right, including the right to approve the way in which O’Neills uses such material.
In the event of these circumstances we will refund you the price you’ve paid to us. Please note that we reserve the right not to accept an order for any reason and we won’t be liable to you or anyone else in these circumstances. The Customer Service section at the bottom of our website, tells you how to order and pay for products. It also addresses any questions you might have about delivery of your products, your right to cancel orders or return faulty products to us and our quality assurance.
O’Neills may choose to provide links to sites owned by O’Neills and associated companies from time to time and may also choose to provide links to sites that are owned by third parties that are not connected with O’Neills. All links are provided for your convenience only. Access to sites that are owned by third parties is at your own risk and O’Neills has no responsibility or liability for these third-party sites.
O’Neills will use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that this web site is fully operational at all times. However we cannot guarantee that the web site will be fault free. In particular access to this web site may be interrupted or restricted to allow for emergency or routine repairs or maintenance to be carried out or the introduction of new facilities or services.
Further, by using this website and any subsite, you acknowledge and agree that the Internet uses elements and relies upon services, input and facilities which are not within the control of O’Neills and if O’Neills is totally or partially prevented or delayed in the performance of any of its obligations in providing a particular service, such a situation will constitute a 'force majeure' and O’Neills shall be excused the performance for so long as such a situation endures.
For the purposes of these Terms and Conditions, the term 'force majeure' shall be deemed to include any cause affecting the performance by O’Neills of its obligations arising from or attributable to acts, events, omissions or accidents beyond the reasonable control of O’Neills and in particular, but not by way of limitation, shall include strikes, lock-outs, other industrial action, actual or threatened terrorist action, civil commotion, riot, crowd disorder, invasion, war, threat or preparation for war, fire, technical or power failure, software, hardware or telecommunication or other network failures, interruptions, disruptions or malfunctions, explosions, storm, flood, earthquake, subsidence, structural damage, epidemic or other natural or physical disaster, any legislation, regulation, rule or ruling of government, court or any competent authority. O’Neills reserves its right to restrict, suspend or terminate your use of this web site or any of our services at any time if we believe, in our absolute discretion, that you have breached these terms and conditions.
You agree to indemnify, defend and hold O’Neills and, all of its associate companies, their directors, employees, information providers, licensors and licensees, officers and partners, (collectively, "Indemnified Parties") harmless from and against any and all liability and costs (including, without limitation, legal fees and costs), in