SAMD12 has 3,154 functional associations with biological entities spanning 8 categories (molecular profile, organism, functional term, phrase or reference, chemical, disease, phenotype or trait, structural feature, cell line, cell type or tissue, gene, protein or microRNA) extracted from 59 datasets.
Click the + buttons to view associations for SAMD12 from the datasets below.
Allen Brain Atlas Adult Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles tissues with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissues from the Allen Brain Atlas Adult Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
Allen Brain Atlas Adult Mouse Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles tissues with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissues from the Allen Brain Atlas Adult Mouse Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
Allen Brain Atlas Developing Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles by Microarray tissue samples with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissue samples from the Allen Brain Atlas Developing Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles by Microarray dataset.
Allen Brain Atlas Developing Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles by RNA-seq tissue samples with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissue samples from the Allen Brain Atlas Developing Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles by RNA-seq dataset.
Allen Brain Atlas Prenatal Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles tissues with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissues from the Allen Brain Atlas Prenatal Human Brain Tissue Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
BioGPS Human Cell Type and Tissue Gene Expression Profiles cell types and tissues with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell types and tissues from the BioGPS Human Cell Type and Tissue Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
CCLE Cell Line Gene CNV Profiles cell lines with high or low copy number of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell lines from the CCLE Cell Line Gene CNV Profiles dataset.
CCLE Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles cell lines with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell lines from the CCLE Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
CHEA Transcription Factor Binding Site Profiles transcription factor binding site profiles with transcription factor binding evidence at the promoter of SAMD12 gene from the CHEA Transcription Factor Binding Site Profiles dataset.
CHEA Transcription Factor Targets transcription factors binding the promoter of SAMD12 gene in low- or high-throughput transcription factor functional studies from the CHEA Transcription Factor Targets dataset.
COMPARTMENTS Experimental Protein Localization Evidence Scores cellular components containing SAMD12 protein in low- or high-throughput protein localization assays from the COMPARTMENTS Experimental Protein Localization Evidence Scores dataset.
COSMIC Cell Line Gene CNV Profiles cell lines with high or low copy number of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell lines from the COSMIC Cell Line Gene CNV Profiles dataset.
COSMIC Cell Line Gene Mutation Profiles cell lines with SAMD12 gene mutations from the COSMIC Cell Line Gene Mutation Profiles dataset.
CTD Gene-Chemical Interactions chemicals interacting with SAMD12 gene/protein from the curated CTD Gene-Chemical Interactions dataset.
CTD Gene-Disease Associations diseases associated with SAMD12 gene/protein from the curated CTD Gene-Disease Associations dataset.
dbGAP Gene-Trait Associations traits associated with SAMD12 gene in GWAS and other genetic association datasets from the dbGAP Gene-Trait Associations dataset.
DISEASES Experimental Gene-Disease Assocation Evidence Scores diseases associated with SAMD12 gene in GWAS datasets from the DISEASES Experimental Gene-Disease Assocation Evidence Scores dataset.
DISEASES Text-mining Gene-Disease Assocation Evidence Scores diseases co-occuring with SAMD12 gene in abstracts of biomedical publications from the DISEASES Text-mining Gene-Disease Assocation Evidence Scores dataset.
ENCODE Histone Modification Site Profiles histone modification site profiles with high histone modification abundance at SAMD12 gene from the ENCODE Histone Modification Site Profiles dataset.
ENCODE Transcription Factor Binding Site Profiles transcription factor binding site profiles with transcription factor binding evidence at the promoter of SAMD12 gene from the ENCODE Transcription Factor Binding Site Profiles dataset.
ENCODE Transcription Factor Targets transcription factors binding the promoter of SAMD12 gene in ChIP-seq datasets from the ENCODE Transcription Factor Targets dataset.
ESCAPE Omics Signatures of Genes and Proteins for Stem Cells PubMedIDs of publications reporting gene signatures containing SAMD12 from the ESCAPE Omics Signatures of Genes and Proteins for Stem Cells dataset.
GAD Gene-Disease Associations diseases associated with SAMD12 gene in GWAS and other genetic association datasets from the GAD Gene-Disease Associations dataset.
GeneSigDB Published Gene Signatures PubMedIDs of publications reporting gene signatures containing SAMD12 from the GeneSigDB Published Gene Signatures dataset.
GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Gene Perturbations gene perturbations changing expression of SAMD12 gene from the GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Gene Perturbations dataset.
GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Kinase Perturbations kinase perturbations changing expression of SAMD12 gene from the GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Kinase Perturbations dataset.
GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Small Molecules small molecule perturbations changing expression of SAMD12 gene from the GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Small Molecules dataset.
GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Transcription Factor Perturbations transcription factor perturbations changing expression of SAMD12 gene from the GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Transcription Factor Perturbations dataset.
GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Viral Infections virus perturbations changing expression of SAMD12 gene from the GEO Signatures of Differentially Expressed Genes for Viral Infections dataset.
GTEx Tissue Gene Expression Profiles tissues with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissues from the GTEx Tissue Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
GTEx Tissue Sample Gene Expression Profiles tissue samples with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissue samples from the GTEx Tissue Sample Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
GWAS Catalog SNP-Phenotype Associations phenotypes associated with SAMD12 gene in GWAS datasets from the GWAS Catalog SNP-Phenotype Associations dataset.
GWASdb SNP-Disease Associations diseases associated with SAMD12 gene in GWAS and other genetic association datasets from the GWASdb SNP-Disease Associations dataset.
GWASdb SNP-Phenotype Associations phenotypes associated with SAMD12 gene in GWAS datasets from the GWASdb SNP-Phenotype Associations dataset.
Heiser et al., PNAS, 2011 Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles cell lines with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell lines from the Heiser et al., PNAS, 2011 Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
HPA Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles cell lines with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell lines from the HPA Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
HPA Tissue Gene Expression Profiles tissues with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissues from the HPA Tissue Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
HPA Tissue Protein Expression Profiles tissues with high or low expression of SAMD12 protein relative to other tissues from the HPA Tissue Protein Expression Profiles dataset.
HPA Tissue Sample Gene Expression Profiles tissue samples with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other tissue samples from the HPA Tissue Sample Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
HuGE Navigator Gene-Phenotype Associations phenotypes associated with SAMD12 gene by text-mining GWAS publications from the HuGE Navigator Gene-Phenotype Associations dataset.
InterPro Predicted Protein Domain Annotations protein domains predicted for SAMD12 protein from the InterPro Predicted Protein Domain Annotations dataset.
JASPAR Predicted Transcription Factor Targets transcription factors regulating expression of SAMD12 gene predicted using known transcription factor binding site motifs from the JASPAR Predicted Transcription Factor Targets dataset.
Klijn et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 2015 Cell Line Gene CNV Profiles cell lines with high or low copy number of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell lines from the Klijn et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 2015 Cell Line Gene CNV Profiles dataset.
Klijn et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 2015 Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles cell lines with high or low expression of SAMD12 gene relative to other cell lines from the Klijn et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 2015 Cell Line Gene Expression Profiles dataset.
Klijn et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 2015 Cell Line Gene Mutation Profiles cell lines with SAMD12 gene mutations from the Klijn et al., Nat. Biotechnol., 2015 Cell Line Gene Mutation Profiles dataset.
LOCATE Curated Protein Localization Annotations cellular components containing SAMD12 protein in low- or high-throughput protein localization assays from the LOCATE Curated Protein Localization Annotations dataset.
LOCATE Predicted Protein Localization Annotations cellular components predicted to contain SAMD12 protein from the LOCATE Predicted Protein Localization Annotations dataset.
MiRTarBase microRNA Targets microRNAs targeting SAMD12 gene in low- or high-throughput microRNA targeting studies from the MiRTarBase microRNA Targets dataset.
MotifMap Predicted Transcription Factor Targets transcription factors regulating expression of SAMD12 gene predicted u