Talking to the press people here at the Heliport on Saturday, the National BJP leader, while stating the Naga issue as complicated, said all the stakeholders would taken on board while trying to find a permanent solution to it.
When asked about a series of protests in Manipur against what it called the Center’s reported plan to extend the Article 371A of the Constitution of India in the State in trying to resolve the Naga issue, Madhav said there were talks with many stakeholders, and the Government of India was sincerely trying to find a solution to the longstanding Naga political issue “that is acceptable to all.” Even there were many Naga groups and they had to take them along while trying to find a permanent solution to the issue.
On their party’s announcement that there should be “Election for Solution” while Naga civil societies and other political parties in the State were for “Solution before Election” and also whether there would be any possibility of settling the Naga issue before the next Parliamentary Election, Madhav refused to give any timeframe for the settlement but said there were about seven months to the next Parliamentary Election which is likely to be held in the month of April 2019. He further expressed the hope that since their party, BJP, was in power in Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, besides a major ally in the PDA Government in Nagaland, there would be a resolution to the Naga issue sooner than later.
He also informed that the Central Government was working out to extend all possible helps towards restoring unprecedented damages caused by the recent massive landslides and floods in Nagaland.
The BJP National Secretary was here to meet their party people to discuss about the upcoming Parliamentary Elections. He did not say they would be setting up their own BJP candidate for the upcoming Parliamentary Election in the State. He, however, stated that they would be discussing the matter with their party people in the State as to whether they would be setting up or not.
Earlier on his arrival here at the Heliport, he was received by BJP Ministers - Deputy Chief Minister Y Patton, Minister for Higher and Technical Education and Nagaland BJP Unit President Temjen Imna Along Longkumer, Medical Minister Pangnyu Phom - and other party people.