SpecificityThis assay has high sensitivity and excellent specificity for detection of Human ANGPT2. No significant cross-reactivity or interference between Human ANGPT2 and analogues was observed.
Intended UseHuman ANGPT2 ELISA Kit allows for the in vitro quantitative determination of ANGPT2 , concentrations in serum, Plasma , tissue homogenates and Cell culture supernates and Other biological fluids.
specificalIntroduction: Angiopoietin-2 (Ang-2) is one of the critical regulators of tumor angiogenesis. Human and mouse Ang-2 share 85% amino acid identity and Ang-2 is approximately 60% identical to Ang-1. Ang-2 contains an N-terminal coiled-coil domain and a C-terminal fibrinogen-like domain. Located at the N-terminus are stretches of hydrophobic residues typical of secretory signal sequences. Although likely playing different functional roles, both Ang-1 and Ang-2 are ligands for the endothelial cell receptor tyrosine kinase Tie-2. The regulation of Tie-2 activity by Ang-2 is complex, leading to inhibition in certain cell types or conditions, and activation in others. In vitro studies demonstrated that Ang-1, but not Ang-2, could stimulate Tie-2 tyrosine phosphorylation and suggested that Ang-2 could act as a competitive inhibitor of Ang-1 signaling. Consistent with its role as an Ang-1/Tie-2 inhibitor, transgenic overexpression of Ang-2 leads to disruption of embryonic blood vessel formation, a phenotype similar to that of Tie-2 knockouts. In contrast, altering incubation times or elevating Ang-2 concentrations, can under some circumstances, result in Tie-2 activation in HUVECs. It has also been proposed that Ang-2 may play a pro-angiogenic role by mediating destabilizing interactions between endothelial and perivascular cells, enhancing the effects of pro-angiogenic proteins including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Alone, Ang-2 promotes endothelial cell death and vessel regression, but can act in synergy with VEGF to promote new vessel formation. Ang-2 has been implicated in cancer development due to its role in angiogenesis. Ang-2-mediated destabilization of mature vessel structures accompanied by the presence of VEGF, may contribute to the angiogenesis associated with tumor tissues. Several studies have examined Ang-2 expression in an assortment of human cancers. Ang-2 is elevated in colon carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, glioblastoma, glioma, hepatocellular carcinoma, neuroblastoma and non-small cell lung cancer. Furthermore, Ang-2 levels appear to correlate with advancing tumor stage progression and poor prognosis. Principle of the Assay: The microtiter plate provided in this kit has been pre-coated with an antibody specific to ANG-2. Standards or samples are then added to the appropriate microtiter plate wells with a biotin-conjugated antibody preparation specific for ANG-2 and Avidin conjugated to Horseradish Peroxidase (HRP) is added to each microplate well and incubated. Then a TMB (3,3',5,5' tetramethyl-benzidine) substrate solution is added to each well. Only those wells that contain ANG-2, biotin-conjugated antibody and enzyme-conjugated Avidin will exhibit a change in color. The enzyme-substrate reaction is terminated by the addition of a sulphuric acid solution and the color change is measured spectrophotometrically at a wavelength of 450 nm +/- 2 nm. The concentration of ANG-2 in the samples is then determined by comparing the O.D. of the samples to the standard curve.
Inquiry About Human ANGPT2 ELISA Kit If you hope to order it or contact us directly, please contact us via sales@biobool.com. We will get back to you in 12hrs,Thanks!