ALB is the market leading Practice and Case Management Solution (PCMS) fundamentally changing the way solicitors work in the digital age. ALB integrates all aspects of a modern law firm into one legal software, including; legal accounting, document management, client and matter management and time recording. As well as providing end-to-end management of your law firm, ALB is enhanced with full mobile capabilities for lawyers working on the move, revolutionising the way solicitors work.
ALB provides law firms with cutting edge legal software which drives efficiencies throughout a law firm and provides a platform from which firms can grow and increase revenue in a competitive marketplace. ALB is the legal software of choice for solicitors looking to innovate their practice, work smarter and become a market leader.
Gain complete control over your practice with a solution which manages all aspects of activity.
Help your staff effectively manage clients, cases and documents, record time, process accounts and monitor performance.
The legal software is solid, scalable and usable, built to enable a streamlined approach to practice management though process automation and workflow capability.
Integrates with our market leading legal forms solution, Laserform.
Move forward in the digital age with a PCMS designed to support your law firm now and in the future.
Work smarter using legal software which will enhance productivity and streamline efficiencies.
Using an integrated legal software allows all documents, emails, faxes and scanned items to be added directly to a client’s file at the touch of a button.
ALB’s document management allows you to store all of your documents in one place, resulting in one version of the truth.
The full text search facility ensures users can quickly locate documents, and versioning of documents means that the current draft is apparent.
You have the ability to allow streamlined document comparisons.
Our team is made up of legal experts to ensure your law firm is supported in an age where compliance requirements are increasing.
We offer customers support with GDPR, Making Tax Digital and SRA Transparency regulations.
Our team is made up of experts within the legal and accountancy markets, ensuring we understand the legislative changes you are facing.
We’re a committed software provider, ready to help and adapt our product as rules and regulations evolve.
ALB provides solicitors with an essential set of activities that they can do on the go, as well as ensuring consistent communication with their colleagues when away from the office.
Have solicitors available on the move and responsive to client’s needs. The effective marketing tools within our legal software allows you to easily attract prospective clients and set yourself apart from the competition in the digital era.
Do more with less. Having all aspects of your law firm connected enables you to gain greater visibility of your firm’s performance with up to date information, providing one holistic view of your firm.
ALB’s document management streamlines digital working allowing all documents to be stored in one place results. Innovating your working practices improves efficiency and increases document management.
If you are a forward thinking law firm looking to drive efficiencies and simplify processes by digitising your practice, then attending one of our Roadshows is the perfect opportunity for you to understand how cutting edge software can support your journey.
Hear from law firms already embracing technology and gain knowledge from industry experts on transparency & GDPR compliance.