Bloodshr3d Black Magic Edition is a fat burning supplement with added stimulants that will curb your appetite and boost metabolic rate, alongside various ingredients like carnitine and raspberry ketones that have been shown to mobilise and oxidise stored body fat. It also contains ashwagandha to support mood and offset the chance of an energy crash, as well as bcaas, that help prevent muscle catabolism.
What is in this fat burner that makes it a good supplement?
This fat burner is loaded with stimulant compounds that will give you both an energy boost and will curb down your appetite.
Acetyl L-Carnitine: Helps your body transport stored body fat to your muscles so they can be used for fuel, as well as helps with mental focus.
Sophora Japonica: A flower that is rich in the flavonoid “rutin” which based on clinical studies has been shown to have positive effects on combating obesity through AMPK Activation which stimulates glucose absorption and the degeneration of fat.
Green Coffee: Made from coffee beans that are then extracted with alcohol and water. The main and active ingredient in the Green coffee extract is chlorogenic acid. Chlorogenic Acid aids in lowering the absorption of fat and promotes increased metabolism.
Vanillin: Sourced from the vanilla bean this extract helps to increase metabolism, induce lipolysis and improve mood.
Pro-GBB: Helps to increase carnitine plasma levels in the body helping to transport fat to the mitochondria to be used as energy, leading to significantly more fat being burned and greater energy levels.
Taurine: Works by stabilizing cell membranes in muscle tissue. One of taurine main functions is to transport potassium, sodium, calcium, and magnesium in and out the cells. Taurine Lowers blood pressure and calms the central nervous system.
J. Regia Extract: By boosting dopamine and noradrenaline uptake this ingredient helps to improve focus, energy, and mood like no other.
KSM-66 Ashwagandha: This is the industry-leading form of ashwagandha extract standardized to >5% withanolides. This patented form of Ashwagandha has been shown to combat stress, reduce mental fatigue (which happens to all of us during the week), enhance your cognitive performance & reaction time, AND most recently it's been shown to not only enhance weight loss for those dealing with chronic stress but thyroid function as well.
BCAAs as Vegan Instaminos: Instantly dissolving aminos to aid in recovery, increase workout capacity, and prevent muscle loss while supporting fat loss.
What are the key benefits of Olympus Labs' fat burner?