The D-Link DGS-1210 Series is the latest generation of switches to provide increased Power over Ethernet (PoE) output, a range of physical interface types, multiple management interfaces, and advanced Layer 2 features. With all of these features combined, the DGS-1210 Series provides a cost-efficient and flexible solution for expanding any business network.
The DGS-1210-10MP switch is equipped with 8 10/100/1000Base-T ports and 2 1000Base-X SFP ports. The switch includes support for IEEE 802.3af/at and higher power budget, allowing more PoE devices to be powered by the switch and for devices to be installed in remote locations without immediate access to power outlets.
The DGS-1210-10MP switch comes equipped with a complete lineup of L2 features, including IGMP snooping, port mirroring, Spanning Tree Protocol (STP), and Link Aggregation Control Protocol (LACP). The IEEE 802.3x Flow Control function allows servers to directly connect to the switch for fast, reliable data transfers. The switch also supports advanced features such as static routes, which allow network administrators to divide the network into VLANs, increasing network efficiency. Network maintenance features include loopback detection and cable diagnostics. Loopback detection significantly speeds up troubleshooting by automatically detecting and shutting down switching loops. The cable diagnostics feature, designed primarily for administrators and customer service representatives, determines the cable quality and quickly discovers errors, allowing for hassle-free diagnostics and maintenance.
The DGS-1210-10MP supports Auto Voice VLAN and Surveillance Mode, which allows voice and video traffic to be automatically identified and handled differently to regular network traffic. Auto Voice VLAN detects Voice over IP (VoIP) traffic and automatically segments it from the rest of the network, increasing security and allowing Quality of Service (QoS) to be applied. Surveillance Mode detects compatible ONVIF cameras and places them in a surveillance VLAN, allowing a single switch to be used for voice, video, and data, removing the need for dedicated hardware and reducing maintenance costs. Surveillance Mode also includes its own Web UI, making surveillance features easily accessible and simplifying management of your surveillance network.
The DGS-1210-10MP switch comes with the D-Link Network Assistant (DNA) utility that enables administrators to remotely control their network down to the port level. The D-Link Network Assistant utility furthermore allows customers to easily discover multiple D-Link Smart Managed Switches within the same L2 network segment and display them on-screen for instant access. With this utility, users do not need to change the IP address of their PC. This allows for simultaneous configuration and basic setup of all discovered devices, including password changes and firmware upgrades. The switch also supports D-View 7.0 and Command Line Interface (CLI) through Telnet. D-View 7.0 is a network management system that allows for the central management of critical network characteristics such as availability, reliability, resilience, and security.