oops..copyright lawsuit against you might be on its way.stupid google returns hell lot of postings for this shayari.i dont think this guy is behind these lines.or may be,who knows.
Nihar dont take it personaly please..but great find.
agar aapne iss shayari ke jariye kisi ko kuch kehane ki koshish ( you know what i mean )ki hai to..i am with you on that table with lots of beers..
Hello Mr. Anonymous/Washington/Puyallup from Comcast Cable….
Even i know that may be this shaayari is not written by Nihar.
But my website is not known for its original shaayari )as i have written in about section right from the start) but is a collective effort by myself and ofcourse with all who read this and want to contribute on this blog.
The name which is written below the poem is a contributers name for my blog,it may be his original collection ,may be not…….
Just enjoy the shaayari buddy!!!!!!
and thank Nihar that wherever he has brought the shaayari from is indeed a good one + whoever the original writer is….
i already said that its a great find and i love u fo r that and we are going to have beers togather..its deal between us.ok.
—> you dont have to do all this. looks like you dont like anonymous commenting.I will disapear now. no more anon coments from me.keep writing.
I do like Anonymous comments and will be more happy 2 c the comment with your name!!!
it is rite that i m not a shayar or na hi mene kisi ko personally khush karne ki koshish ki hai.it is world of good poems and shayari to me bhi iska hissa banna chahta hu bas.
Chill buddy!! koi bahas nahi ho rahi hai..
apne apne point of views hote hai sabke which v shud always respect….
Jab jab bhi hamaara naam hua hai..
Jaane kis baat se khafaa hai ye duniyaa humse..
Naa jaane humse kiskaa katle-aam huaa hai….
Ab is dil ko humne ye keh ke behlaa hi liyaa..
Badnaam hi sahi…Naam to huaa hai….
These are freely available lines dude no copyirghts required for this . nobody will pay for $$$$ for this 4 lines .i am using cont on my 22 sites from all over the internet of course i mention source from wherever i copy ;). its called social sharing in our SEM(search engine marketing) language.
n ye pls keep posting comments here annon hi sahi yaar.
na ha nuts those stats are not always accurate .ull see my location will be delhi but i am posting from hyd india.
hmm..well i agree with you that stats are not always correct.
its 99% correct.even for you its shows all the details!!!!!!
Hum to SHAYAR na they kabhi…..
SHAYARI to unki YAADON ne sikha di hume !!
Hum to ASHIQ na they kabhi…..
ASHIQUI to unki BAATON ne sikha di hume !!
DEEWANGI to unke PYAR ne sikha di hume !!
Hum to ROTE na they kabhi….
RONA to unki TANHAIYO ne sikha diya hume !!
SHABDO KO PYAR BHARE ALFAZO mein bolne wale to hum na they….
IS TARAH bolna unki MOHABBAT ne sikha diya hume !!
APNE PYAR KA ISHAAR karne wale to hum na they….
lekin unke IKRAAR ne ISHAAR karna bhi sikha diya hume !!
Nihar– ab to tum khud kaa ek website banaa lo!!!
Himanshu– aapne aapka email id hi nahi diyaa..for me to reply back.Thanks for your compliments,keep visiting…and complimenting!!!!!
hey Nihar ur last one was tooo good!!!
JISE DIL ME BASA RAKHA HAI.
tumhe na ho yakin ye aur bat hai….
Apko bhul jaye wo nazar kaha se laye….
Kisi aur ko chah Le who jigar kaha se laye….
Nahi reh sakte app ke bina….
Uff bhi na nikle wo Zeher kaha se laye……..
Tere hotho ki hasi banane ka khawab hai…..
Teri agos mein simat jane ka khawab hai..
Ajmaish u to achi nahi hoti ishq ki….
Tu chahe to teri takdir banane ka khawab hai….
Woh maut bhi laut jaye tere darwaje pe ake..
Tuj ko aisi jandgi dene ka khawab hai..
Ji bhi lenge agar jina pade tere bina….
Hi nuts hw r u?