A few days before Christmas 2018 I travelled up to Buckinghamshire and the lovely little town of Amersham for Sarah & Neil's wedding at the quaint Kings Chapel, set in the grounds of the larger Kings Arms on the High St. Despite the drizzle and cloud, the couple and their guests were in fine spirits! The main room was decked out with fairy lights and a nice big Christmas tree in the corner, and after the ceremony and confetti throw the staff quickly changed it all around for the speeches and cake cut. Sarah & Neil's first dance was one of the most creative I've seen this year - they had a whole routine worked out and put on quite the show for their guests! Before I left I took the couple back outside for some creative photos in front of the chapel and amongst the fairy lights in the trees. What a fab way to end 2018!
One of the great things about being a wedding photographer is it can take you all over the country, and even further afield sometimes! I've been to Buckinghamshire a few times for weddings in the past, and oddly it's always in the colder months of the year. Knowing that the roads would likely be packed with people travelling just before Christmas, I allowed extra time for the 2 hour journey. Sadly as usual the M25 was horrendous and despite the extra time I finally arrived at Kings Chapel in Amersham half an hour after I planned.
I still had plenty of time before the 4pm ceremony, but I wanted to make the most of the fading natural light and get as much done as possible - even with a bit of drizzle coming down. The ceremony itself was lovely and the room had a nice clean feel - made all the most Christmassy by the big tree in the corner! The confetti tunnel afterwards was great fun and we went straight into the formal photos up on the mezzanine style balcony, along with some of the newlyweds amongst the warm glow of the fairylights.
The staff at Kings Chapel quickly turned the ceremony room around, and it really did look beautiful. The speeches were, as always, a bit of an event. Lots of great little stories and anecdotes, and a few tears too. But it was the first dane that really blew my mind! Sarah & Neil kept this a secret but I managed to get it out of Neil with just enough time to set up lights. It was going to be dramatic and I wanted to capture it all in the best way!
They launched into a great choreographed number and everyone was in fits of laughter, cheering them both on, before they dragged their children onto the dance floor to join them, as everyone else got involved too. It made for some great photographs, some of my favourites from the day - especially Neil lifting Sarah up into the air and spinning her around!
Just before I left I wanted to get some more outdoor photos of the two of them, something I don't always get the chance to do at summer weddings as it's often still light outside. The perfect round off to their special day as I headed home to enjoy the festive break. If you've booked Kings Chapel for your wedding in Buckinghamshire, or indeed another venue in the Home Counties or the Southeast in general, I'd love to talk more about your photography plans! Head over to my collections and pricing and if you like my style, get in touch for more information.