#1 SAF Instant Yeast, Gold Label – is The World’s Best-Selling Instant Yeast. A professional-grade yeast designed to give a strong and steady rise to sweet doughs and breads with high sugar content. It is a perfect partner for bakers who want to improve Filipino favorites, such as Pandesal, Ensaymada, Siopao and Donuts.
#2 Superb Cocoa Powder – is 100% Bensdorp DSR Cocoa Powder a Dutch treated cocoa powder from Holland. It offers a rich chocolate taste and brings a darker color to your baked treats. Bensdorp cocoa powder makes the best chocolate cakes, cupcakes and brownies that your loved ones will surely enjoy. Get one now and taste the World’s finest cocoa.
The Premium Brand SAF-Instant Gold is for sweet dough (above 10% sugar level based on flour weight), for classic Filipino favorites, such as pandesal, siopao, ensaymada and donuts.
Suitable for all kinds of bread making processes. Instant Success Gold does not need to be rehydrated like active dry yeast and offers a fast and uniformed absorption within the dough. Calcium Propionate resistant. Its high fermentation power remains stable during its 2 years shelf-life.
Suitable for all kinds of bread making processes. Instant Success Silver does not need to be rehydrated like active dry yeast and offers a fast and uniformed absorption within the dough. Its high fermentation power remains stable during its 2 years shelf-life.
A bread softener and volume enhancer that also helps retain the softness and moisture of bread. Perfect for individual soft breads and sweet dough.
A do-it-all bread improver. It specializes in basic breads like sandwich breads, hamburger buns and monay by giving it a better mixing tolerance (dough), extra softness, increased volume and good structure.
Mainly increases volume of bread, while also improving the bread’s softness and crumb texture.
Use for better pan flow for a simplify production, enabling bakers to prepare quality, standardized end products.
Taste the world’s finest cocoa powder popular among all kinds of chefs and confectioners. Experience the rich flavour, colour and aroma of cocoa on bread, cakes and fillings.
Superb Cocoa Powder is 100% Bensdorp DSR Cocoa Powder, a Dutch treated alkalized cocoa powder which has a 10/12% fat content from Holland.
A moisture-resistant decorative powder. Stays on the product for a long period and does not easily melt on moist products.
Vanilla-flavoured instant pastry cream powder. Mainly used for filling breads, doughnuts and éclairs.
Premium Hazelnut paste perfect for Italian gelato and pastries.
Premium Pistachio paste perfect for Italian gelato and pastries.
Powdered instant chocolate mousse mix perfect for filling and decorating delightful desserts. Premier product of Martin Braun.
Powdered instant white chocolate mousse mix. Your perfect partner for filling and decorating lovely desserts.
Mohrenglanz Vanilla is a block of solid vanilla chocolate mainly used to coat all kinds of cakes, biscuits, breads, danish pastries, wafers and other various desserts. The delicious flavor of Mohrenglanz is what sets it apart from the others.
Mohrenglanz Dark is a block of solid chocolate mainly used to coat all kinds of cakes, biscuits, breads, danish pastries, wafers and other various desserts. The delicious chocolate flavor of Mohrenglanz is what sets it apart from the others.
White glossy icing for mousses, parfaits and semifreddo. Very shiny appearance, perfect even for vertical use, without palm oil or gelatin.
Glossy dark chocolate icing for mousses, parfaits and semifreddo. Very shiny appearance, perfect even for vertical use, without palm oil or gelatin.
A smooth white chocolate flavoured cream. Commonly used to coat tortes, cakes, biscuits, or as an edible dessert decoration. Can be also used as filling in slices, biscuits, desserts, and chocolates.
A smooth chocolate flavoured cream similar to chocolate ganache. Commonly used as coating for cakes, biscuits, tortes or as an edible dessert decoration. Can be also used as filling in slices, biscuits, chocolates and other various desserts.
A smooth, cream based nut-nougat. It is good for coating tortes and can be flavoured with dessert pastes, whipped with butter or margarine, and re-whipped. Used for filling and decorating tortes, slices, Swiss rolls, desserts, chocolates, and biscuits.
Bianka MB is a basic cream with has a neutral flavour, long shelf life, and is quick and easy to use. Bianka MB is used in the production of fat cream fillings, including light and fluffy butter or fat creams.
Frio is a powdered baking mix with fine custard flavour. It is cold soluble and freeze-stable. Mainly used as a filling, but also can be used in tortes, desserts, puff, choux, and Danish pastries.
Bon Caramel is a sticky soft caramel filling with a fine caramel flavour. Good for piping, bake-proof, freeze-stable and has no added preservatives. Bon Caramel is used in the production of various baking applications, mainly used as a filling or topping in pastries and other desserts.
Ready-to-use crunchy filling with 4% chocolate, roasted hazelnuts and almonds and 20% biscuits in flakes to fill truffles and pralines, put a crunchy layer on sponges and pound cakes, create special desserts and mousses, fill everything else.
Ready-to-use crunchy filling with 12% roasted pistachios and 20% biscuits in flakes to fill truffles and pralines, put a crunchy layer on sponges and pound cakes, create special desserts and mousses, fill everything else.
Pasteurized egg white powder used for preparing special meringues, macarrons, vanilla cream and other dishes that require egg white.
J-Forte Vanilla Seeds Paste is a bake stable, highly concentrated dessert paste with rich vanilla taste and real vanilla seeds.
High quality green tea powder with strong aroma that contains Kyoto-Uji Maccha—the most historic maccha origin in Japan. The Uji Maccha Mix Powder contains 15% chlorella to prevent loss of color. Suitable for baking sweets.
Powdered whipped topping used for piping on top of cakes and desserts. Produces a light and fluffy cream which has a good flavour to complement cakes and desserts.
S-Mix Cake Emulsifier is a premium cake stabilizer from a blend of high quality emulsifier and other functional ingredients. It provides an all-in-one mixing method, making the process more convenient. It is ideal for cake products like chiffon, sponge, rolls, taisan and cupcake.
Superior Vegetable Shortening is a specialty prepared from a blend of specially processed vegetable oils. It maintains an excellent plasticity and good creaming performance which ensures optimum product quality and higher consumer acceptance. It is best for breads, biscuits and other baked goods.
FreshFields Diced Apple in a pouch contains fresh 100% New Zealand apples, offering a versatile, nutritious ingredient for a wide range of catering applications. No added preservatives, sugar or water.
Powdered fine baking ingredient for production of Muffins, Cupcakes, pound cakes etc.
Enjoy the combination of ube flavour and colouring in one package. Simple and economical combination of ube flavouring and colouring.
Enjoy the flavour and colour of Buko Pandan in one package. Simple and economical combination of flavouring and colouring.
Enjoy the rich mocha flavour and colour in one package. Simple and economical combination of mocha flavouring and colouring.
Enjoy the delicious flavour and colour of Chocolate in one package. Simple and economical combination of chocolate flavouring and colouring.
Concentrated crystals with strong citrus flavour (lemon). Mainly used for flavouring yeast dough, cakes, creams, biscuits and other various pastries.
Concentrated crystals with strong citrus and natural orange flavour. Mainly used for flavouring yeast dough, cakes, creams, biscuits and other various pastries.
Dessert Paste Mocca is a concentrated dessert paste flavouring compound with a rich mocha flavour. It is easy to use, bake proof, and retains it’s full taste even after freezing. Mainly used to flavour fresh cream, butter cream, ice cream, milk shakes, fillings, pound cakes, sponges, coatings, toppings, and other various desserts.
Dessert Paste Strawberry is a concentrated dessert paste flavouring compound with a rich strawberry flavour and colour. It is easy to use, bake proof and retains it’s taste even after freezing. Mainly used to flavour fresh cream, butter cream, ice cream, milk shakes, fillings, pound cakes, sponges, coatings, toppings, and other various desserts.
Combani Vanilla Essence is a thick liquid flavouring compound with real bourbon-vanilla flavour. It is bake proof, freeze stable, and is suitable to use for diabetics. Mainly used to flavour cake batters, biscuits, cookies, sponges, fresh creams, butter cream, sweet doughs, yeast doughs, and other various desserts.
Powdered fresh cream stabilizer with freeze-dried mascarpone powder for the production of typical Italian cream tortes, slices, desserts, Swiss rolls, omelettes etc.
Martin Braun’s signature cream stabilizer. Mainly used for the production of mousse cakes and glass desserts. Gives whipped topping needed stability.
Powdered fresh cream stabilizer with freeze-dried strawberry fruit pieces. For cream tortes, slices, desserts, Swiss rolls, omelettes etc.
Bring out your creative side with the rose patterned dessert baking mats brought to you by Demarle Flexipan (for use on baking trays).
Your hidden talent in baking will surely be found when you use Demarle’s Labyrinth patterned baking trays. Make baking more enjoyable with Demarle Flexipan.
Express your creativity with Venetian Cane patterned baking trays brought to you by Demarle Flexipan. Make baking more fun with Demarle.
Silpain mats are the perforated version of the Silpat. Heat gets transferred more efficiently with the mat’s perforation making it the ideal choice for baking breads, choux, tarts and other products. Highly durable (with over 3000 baking times or 10 years).
Silpat non-st