that can be applied over a lifetime in the public policy arena.
The faculty are leaders in their public policy fields.
where students can make a difference.
common ground to complex problems.
Dedicated alumni who are public service leaders and innovators.
provides first-hand knowledge of the world around us.
With so many important issues challenging the world today sometimes the most difficult step is deciding where to start. Pursuing an undergraduate or graduate degree from the John Glenn College of Public Affairs launches a lifetime of making positive change in the world. Whether you see yourself tackling homelessness in your community, taming the growing national debt or creating educational opportunities for impoverished women around the globe the Glenn College’s degree programs will prepare you with the skills, knowledge and experiences to get things done.
The Glenn College is committed to inspiring and developing you to become a leader of a new generation of public and nonprofit professionals who can handle complex issues and make change a reality in civic life.
This is not textbook policy. We show you how governments, nonprofits and private firms can work together to serve the public and get results. Through internships, service opportunities and collaborations with community partners, you will go beyond the classroom to tackle real-world issues that demand new approaches. The Glenn College emphasizes bringing people and communities together to find a common ground across diverse perspectives and experiences. We offer more than an education. We offer a lifetime of relationships and collaborative environments to build the communities of the future.
What separates the students at the Glenn College from everyone else? Our graduates have the tools to make their passion their life’s work. How would you make the world a better place? We will teach you how to turn your passion into policy. Helping you make a change in the issues that matter most to you drives the Glenn College experience.
The Glenn College is ranked in the top 5 percent of Public Affairs graduate schools by U.S. News & World Report.
Percentage Glenn College undergraduates who are employed or are obtaining further education.
Percentage of Glenn College MPA, In-Career MA and Dual degree students who are employed or are pursuing an additional degree.
Click here to learn more about the Glenn College and the makeup of the student body.
A traditional, two-year full-time residential Master of Public Administration (MPA).
An "in-career" Master of Arts in Public Policy and Management (MA) that is designed for working professionals.
An online Master of Public Administration and Leadership (MPAL) degree.
Ten dual/joint degree partnerships across campus.
A full-time, cohort-based doctoral program.
The Glenn College graduate certificate programs allow you to develop and highlight your skills in a specific area of expertise. We offer two certificates that can stand alone or be added on to a graduate degree program.
If you are a working professional looking to develop and enhance management and leadership skills the Glenn College’s Certificate in Public & Nonprofit Leadership will provide you the knowledge to excel in your career.
Policy Public affairs majors can also pursue a Global Option and a variety of specializations.
Guy Worley, MA '91, President & CEO, Columbus Downtown Development Corp. and Capitol South Community Urban Redevelopment Corp.
The John Glenn College of Public Affairs at The Ohio State University is committed to inspiring and developing the next generation of public and nonprofit professionals who can handle complex issues and make change a reality in civic life.
Ranked as the best in Ohio and 14th nationally among the 290 Public Affairs graduate schools in the 2020 U.S. News & World Report ratings, the Glenn Colleges teaches its students how governments, nonprofits, and private firms can work together to serve the public and get results. Through internships, service opportunities, and collaborations with community partners, Glenn College students go beyond the classroom to tackle real-world issues that demand new approaches.
The Glenn College’s curricular offerings include the NASPAA-accredited Master of Public Administration and In-Career Master of Arts in Public Policy and Management; dual master’s degrees with Law, City and Regional Planning, Public Health, Environment and Natural Resources, Social Work, Business Administration, Agricultural, Environmental and Development Economics, Slavic and East European Studies, and Latin American Studies; a joint degree in Arts Policy and Administration; a Ph.D. in Public Policy and Management; a B.A. in Public Management, Leadership, and Policy; a B.S. in Public Policy Analysis, and a variety of undergraduate and graduate minors.
The Glenn College’s faculty has practical, real-world knowledge that keeps Glenn College innovative research current with the complex realities of a fluid world. Providing technical assistance and consulting to local, state and federal government agencies as well as nonprofit and private organizations is one of the many ways the Glenn College improves public policy making and management through research and analysis.
For those looking to advance your career or gain new management and leadership skills the Glenn College’s Management Advancement for the Public Service (MAPS) Program offers a wide array of non-degree management and leadership training seminars, programs, and certificates, serving over 2,000 mid-career professionals each year.
The Ohio State University, the flagship public university of Ohio, is located in the state’s capital, Columbus, providing direct access to public sector organizations and practitioners from all levels of government, as well as a large and vibrant nonprofit and philanthropic community. The Glenn College is housed in a state-of-the-art building in the center of the University campus. Columbus is the 15th largest city in the United States and offers many cultural and recreational amenities. It was recently rated by Forbes as the #1 opportunity city in the country and #7 in best cities for young professionals. Money Magazine rated it #3 for best cities for millennials. Ohio ranks #5 for states with the most Fortune 500 headquarters.
The Glenn College is committed to nurturing a diverse and inclusive environment for our students, faculty, staff, and guests that celebrates the fundamental value and dignity of everyone by recognizing differences and supporting individuality. We are dedicated to creating a safe space and promoting civil discourse that acknowledges and embraces diverse perspectives on issues and challenges that affect our community.