Amber Lilyestrom, an amazing branding and business strategist, dreamed of being a stay at home mama well before having a child. At 8 months after her daughter was born, Amber took a leap of faith, quitting her job with only ONE CLIENT! Amber knew that focusing her time and energy on her business was the only way it would grow, and quitting her 9-5 turned out to be the best decision because it led her to her KILLER business. She is passionate about branding and business strategy and hosts her own podcast, and a two-day conference for women who want to take their life and career to the next level.
We were so inspired by her fierce work ethic, and wanted to create a website that reflected her passion. Amber wanted her site design to be bold, elegant, and CLEAR to visitors on exactly who she is. Amber had strong content and we loved getting to design a gorgeous website around it. Go Live did not design her main logo, but we designed the Ignite Your Soul logo (pictured above!) for an upcoming event and had so much fun with it. Here's a HUGE CONGRATS to Amber on the launch of her new website, and for turning her dream into a reality.
"My entire life has transformed as a result of the choice to pursue my dream and make the leap to launch my business."
Amber's story of courage and passion will inspire and encourage you in your own journey!
Amber: I have always been fascinated with human behavior, psychology and really understanding why people do what they do. I have been equally obsessed with helping people breakthrough their fears and roadblocks to live a more fulfilling and joyful life. I grew up witnessing the people I love struggle and made it my goal early on to create a different way of life for myself so I could make a positive impact on the lives of others by showing them what I learned. What better way to take ownership of your life than to match your work with the sacred mission?
Amber: I worked in collegiate athletics marketing for a decade and had the gift of contributing to the growth of a Division I athletics brand on a national scale. My career path there was incredibly entrepreneurial and I taught myself how to write sales copy, design websites and graphics and basically everything in between. I was also asked to teach at the university and mentor students throughout my career, both of these roles allowed me to hone and develop my craft as a coach.
Amber: The answers do not live out there, they come from within. I've spent thousands of dollars on coaches and programs and live events only to be guided on back to my own truth. I do not regret one penny spent or mile walked on this path, though, as it has helped me to become even better at what I do and more committed to the bigger mission of my life.
Amber: The funny thing about this question is that so many people DID tell me that "Everything I need is already within me." But, I didn't listen because I had to go on my own quest to find my way home to myself. I am so grateful for all of the people who patiently and lovingly stood by me on this journey, I am certain I will need them to continue to remind me of this message, once again, down the path.
GO LIVE: WHAT WAS THE MOMENT YOU HAD WHEN YOU SAID "I SHOULD DO THIS" OR WHAT MADE YOU TAKE THE LEAP INTO WORKING FOR YOURSELF?
Amber: I had known that I wanted to be a work from home mama well before I was pregnant, only I didn't know HOW it was going to happen. After my own near-death experience (aka wakeup call) during our daughter's birth, I knew that it was time to get serious about making this dream come true. I launched my business 8 months after she was born and quit my job with just one client on the books (crazy!?), but I knew that if I could welcome in one client, more would come and focusing my time/energy on my business was the only way to help it grow. Four years later, I am so grateful for that courageous former version of me.
GO LIVE: WHAT THINGS HAVE YOU GAINED, OR DO YOU HOPE TO GAIN, IN YOUR LIFE FROM FOLLOWING THIS DREAM?
Amber: I have my life, my health, my husband (we retired him from his police career in 2017), the memories with our daughter that I haven't had to miss a minute of, sacred friendships with people I would have never met, time with the people I love the most and a deep sense of fulfillment and personal growth that comes with it. My entire life has transformed as a result of the choice to pursue my dream and make the leap to launch my business.
Amber: I absolutely love your design work and the way you approach supporting visionaries like me in sharing our message and mission with the world. I so appreciate how you tend to the finite details while honoring the big vision and delivering a finished product that will make a massive impact. Our websites create a powerful experience for our future clients to feel fully witnessed as they take the next step on their journey. I am so thrilled with what we've created together.