here some maps we find super nice and inspirational!
> how people live: spanish source, but international visuals!
> 14 literary maps to explore: when words become drawings, that’s magic!
> stop-motion made using paper maps by piers faccini: so cool!
> geological maps, planets and our solar system: colorful!
> hand drawn map association: a lot of drawers for a lot of maps!
> radicalcartography: a huge collection!
if you want discover more you can check our own repository of maps on pinterest with a lot of nice and amazing maps!
Comments Off on maps, maps and maps!
here, a list of some image sources we found for you.
if you know any other good ones, please share them with us in the arena “tagging” Miri Esther, our responsible for keeping this list up-to-date!
> the commons (on flickr): from the world’s public photography archives.
> retronaut’s time capsules: see the past like you wouldn’t believe.
> the new york public library: digitalized original images from books, magazines and newspapers, mostly created before 1923.
> medieval and renaissance material culture: occupations, clothing, animals, tools, utensils, games, pastimes, crime, punishment… from the middle ages + renaissance!
> google art project: artworks, high-res + walk-through museums feature!
> world wonders project: explore historic sites as if you were there.
> historic moments: stories behind significant moments in human history.
> pixabay.com: free high res images, free videos as well!
> morguefile.com: high res stock photos by creatives for creatives!
> foter.com: free for non commercial use. “buildings” section is great.
> everystockphoto.com: a serch engine for free images or wirth a specific licence.
> im creator: some free, some not, but worth it!
#arc1o1exhibition goes to ural industrial biennial of contemporary art!
curator yana novoslugina for welcoming our matchboxes in such a beautifully curated way.
another very special thank you to our crew member dina neri for organizing the collaboration with okno gallery.
Comments Off on #arc1o1exhibition goes to ural industrial biennial of contemporary art!
we publish some as well!
in collages we really trust!
you like to write ?