NMMC Recruitment 2016 – Walk-in Interview for Various Medical Posts. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has planned to organize a Walk-in Interview for post graduates in concerned Medical disciplines, to fulfill the openings available for following posts. Senior citizens can also avail this opportunity, if they satisfies the below mentioned eligibility conditions. Experienced and adroit candidates shall get first priority, because the NMMC Recruitment Authorities are looking ahead for candidates those who can impress them with smart answers and having presence of mind in all points of view, to fill the 63 Medical vacancies. Posting shall be in Navi Mumbai or any other location, where the units of NMMC exists. The information about salary scale and application format are detailed in below section.
Aspirants holding MD/ MS/ MBBS or any other equivalent qualification (satisfying the aforementioned Medical posts) are eligible to apply for NMMC’s current recruitment.
The upper age for NMMC’s various Medical posts has been constraint as 60 years. It is notable that, candidates having an age more than 60 years are not eligible for this recruitment. But if they belong to SC/ ST/ OBC categories, they will get relaxations in upper age as per organization rules and would be considered for these Medical jobs.
As notified on advertisement, Walk-in Interview will be organized on schedule date. Initially, the original certificates submitted by contestants shall be verified by NMMC Selection Authorities and if the documents produced by competitors were found valid & eligible for these Medical posts, then they will get a chance to prove their skills in Interview round.
Finally, selection team will analyze the performance level of each participant and list them based on merit marks. Top scorers shall get appointed to respective posts under NMMC.
A Pay Band – 3 salary of Rs.15600 – 39100/- would be provided to all appointees of aforesaid Medical Posts. Along with this basic pay, the selected candidates will also get a Grade Pay of Rs.5400/- per month.
The Medical posts in NMMC are going to be filled in a way of walk-in interview. The application form for this recruitment can be downloaded from NMMC’s internet site. The steps for downloading application form are given below.
Clicking on the “Jobs at NMMC” option available in Jobs tab at menu bar.
Select “Walk-in Interview for Advt. No. EST-1/CR-454/2016-17…” link.
Choose the downloading application format option in that notification.
Those who wish to participate in this interview should bring the duly filled application form and original & self signed copies of Educational Qualification, Experience (if any), Date of Birth, Caste, etc. with them, on interview date.
All Medical Posts 25-08-2016 Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, Janvikas Kendra, Plot No.1, Sector-15, CBD Belapur Navi Mumbai.