The term “Goldsmith & Cooper” or “us” or “we” refers to the owner of the website whose registered office is Goldsmith & Cooper, Unit 11, Caston Industrial Estate, Salhouse Road, Norwich, Norfolk NR7 9AG. The term “you” refers to the user or viewer of our website.
You may not create a link to this website from another website or document without Goldsmith & Cooper prior written consent.
The information contained in this website is for general information purposes only. The information is provided by Goldsmith & Cooper and whilst we endeavour to keep the information up-to-date and correct, we make no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the website or the information, products, services, or related graphics contained on the website for any purpose. Any reliance you place on such information is therefore strictly at your own risk.
In no event will we be liable for any loss or damage including, without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising from loss of data or profits arising out of or in connection with the use of this website. We do not guarantee that our site will be secure or free from bugs or viruses. You are responsible for configuring your information technology, computer programmes and platform to access our site. You should use your own virus protection software.
Through this website you are able to link to other websites which are not under the control of Goldsmith & Cooper. We have no control over the nature, content and availability of those sites. The inclusion of any links does not necessarily imply a recommendation or endorse the views expressed within them.
Every effort is made to keep the website up and running smoothly. However, Goldsmith & Cooper takes no responsibility for and will not be liable for the website being temporarily unavailable due to technical issues beyond our control.
Goldsmith & Cooper collects certain information or data about you when you use goldsmithandcooper.com.
We store your data on secure servers in the European Economic Area (EEA) via our secure hosting provider.
We have installed an SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) Certificate on our website to establish an encrypted link between our web server and your browser and we have procedures and security features in place to keep your data secure once we receive it.
We may pass on your personal information if we have a legal obligation to do so. This includes exchanging information with government organisations for legal reasons.
You can find out what information we hold about you, and ask us not to use any of the information we collect. Simply get in contact with us by email or by post to make this request.
If you’ve signed up for email alerts, you can unsubscribe or change your settings at any time by selecting the ‘unsubscribe’ link that appears in every email.
goldsmithandcooper.com may contain links to other websites.
goldsmithandcooper.com puts small files (known as ‘cookies’) onto your computer to collect information about how you browse the site.
We use Google Analytics software to collect information about how you use goldsmithandcooper.com. We do this to help make sure the site is meeting the needs of its users and to help us make improvements, for example improving site search.
We don’t collect or store your personal information (for example your name or address) so this information can’t be used to identify who you are.
We don’t allow Google to use or share our analytics data. Data is stored indefinitely on Google Analytics and this data is used to measure the performance of goldsmithandcooper.com and to provide useful insights to improve user experience.