Experiment with powered flight using simplerubber band motored model aircraft. Ideal for extending flying times and simple aerobatics.
There are 8 styles of high performance rubber band powered planes in this series,they are made of wood, engineering plastics, stickers, metal,GPPS foamed plastics, rubber band. Simple to construct, no glue or paints required.
The styles of plane in this Series include light planes, trainers, and agricultural planes, they are made of wood, engineering plastics, stickers, metal, GPPS foamed plastics, and rubber band. Simple to construct, no glue or paints required.
Length 240mm, Wing span 290mm.
There are eight styles of high performance rubber band powered planes in this series,they are made of wood, engineering plastics, stickers, metal,GPPS foamed plastics, rubber band. Simple to construct, no glue or paints required.
The Bulldogs were based on the Essex Class aircraft carrier USS Wasp before taking part in the Battle of Iwo Jima in early 1945. The kit includes the materials (other than paints) to complete the suggested authentic scheme. This is a simple striking scheme, but you can decide to do your own favourite or more complicated scheme if you wish.
Typically for a small model and in the spirit of the traditional kits, profiles are simplified and adjusted from the original and a relatively large propeller is used. This is done so that the model is light and stable enough to fly on its own, is simple in construction and can work with the rubber motor. These adjustments have been done with care and sensitivity so that the shape and spirit of the original aircraft is preserved as much as possible. Also in the spirit of the traditional kits, additional items required to build the model are things that can be found in the kitchen drawer or are easily available on the high street.
A new series of rubber-band powered flying models from Lyonaeec featuring a range of historic aircraft and aircraft designs.
This model is modelled from the outline of the North American Aviation P-51 Mustang, a design which broke new ground in aerodynamic efficiency of wing design in addition to its' outstanding success as a fighter aircraft.
Manufactured from modern light-weight foam materials the design follows traditional balsa glider design with a flat main fuselage with a lengthwise for the rubber band connecting to the prop and slot mountings for the main and tail wings.
This kit is designed for you to build a traditionally constructed, rubber powered, free flight model of a Daimler Benz powered ME109E (Emil). ME109Es were painted in a myriad of schemes, most of which were complicated and not in block colours and would be difficult to achieve with a rubber powered scale model such as this. Therefore, the kit is provided with the materials (other than paints) to complete a simple block colour scheme to capture the spirit of the aircraft as would have fought in The Battle of Britain. Alternatively, you can decide to do your own favourite or more complicated scheme if you wish.
Power is provided by rubber strip motor that is wound up before flight. Free flight means just that - once the model is launched, it is on its own. It must follow a predetermined flight path established when the model is initially adjusted for flight or "trimmed". This type of traditional building technique and flying requires a degree of patience and skill, but is extremely rewarding.
This type of traditional building technique and flying requires a degree of patience and skill ñ but is extremely rewarding. Although not a "serious" sports glider model, if built correctly and in the right hands, the Osprey is capable of surprisingly long flights. In the spirit of the old kits additional items required to build the model are things that can be found in the kitchen drawer or are easily available on the high street.
A modern recreation of a classic design this kit includes glue to get you going.
This kit is designed for you to build a traditionally constructed, rubber powered, free flight model of a P-51D Mustang factory serial number 44-13557 as delivered to 355th fighter group based at Steeple Morden, England circa July 1944.
The kit includes the materials (other than paints) to complete the suggested authentic scheme. This is a simple but striking scheme, but you can decide to do your own favourite or more complicated scheme if you wish. There are plenty to choose from - USAAF Mustangs were often brightly painted and highly individual to the pilot.
This kit is designed for you to build a traditionally constructed, rubber-powered, free-flight model of a 1917 Triplane of No.1 Squadron RNAS. This is a simple but striking scheme, but you can decide to do your own favourite or more complicated scheme if you wish as there are many triplane schemes to choose from. The No.1 Squadron RNAS (latterly 201 Squadron RAF) flew Triplanes between December 1916 and December 1917 over the Western Front before being belatedly re-equipped with Sopwith Camels.
The Sopwith Triplane is just one of a series of kits designed and manufactured by the Vintage Model Company. Aeromodelling was very popular from the 1950s until the 1980s and following a decline and the loss of UK manufacturers such as FROG, KeilKraft and Veron, a revival is now underway. The advent of modern technology such as laser cutting of parts and the growth of the internet giving access to information on the skills and techniques required to successfully build and fly these models, means new enthusiasts are discovering the joys of aeromodelling every day.
There are 6 styles of historical biplane and triplane in this Series, they are made of wood,engineering plastics, stickers, metal,GPPS foamed plastics,and rubber band. Simple to construct, no glue or paints required.
Length 420 mm, Wing span 450 mm.
Length 420 mm, Wing span 450mm.
There are 2 styles of seaplane in this Series, they are made of wood, engineering plastics, stickers, metal, GPPS foamed plastics, EPS foamed plastics, and rubber band. Simple to construct, no glue or paints required. They can land on water or ground.
Length 430mm, Wing span 470mm.
This is the first two propellers model plane with rubber band powered in all of world;it uses one set of rubber band powered double propeller as its propulsion.This wonderful invention provides powerful propulsive force for rubber band powered planes,and it is made of wood,engineering plastics, metal,GPPS foamed plastics, and rubber band. Simple to construct, no glue or paints required. Length: 520mm, Wing span: 500mm.
This kit is designed for you to build a traditionally constructed, rubber powered, free flight model of a Cessna 140.
The kit is provided with the materials (other than paints) to complete the suggested authentic scheme of a red Cessna 140 that is registered in Uruguay. This is a simple but your own favourite or more complicated scheme can be applied if you wish.
o Flies up to 100 m.
o Ready to fly in no time at all!
o Free-wheeling propeller for longer flights!
The wings and tail assemblies are made of a strong spring steel wire frame covered with resistant PE foil. They can be retrimmed very easily by bending and any tears in the foil can be quickly repaired with Sellotape.
Airplane with rubber-powered motor. Span: XXL Size. Foil-covered spring steel wire frame.
This model is modelled from Charles Lindberghs' Spirit of St Louis, the first aircraft to complete a non-stop crossing of the Atlantic in 1927.
The kit includes the materials (other than paints) to complete the suggested authentic scheme of a red Hurricane that served in the 527 Calibration Squadron, which flew from Castle Camps, Cambridgeshire in 1943.This is a simple but striking scheme, but you can decide to do your own favourite or more complicated scheme if you wish.
This kit is for building a traditionally constructed, rubber powered, free flight model of a Jodel D18. The kit is provided with the materials (other than paints) to complete the suggested authentic scheme of a yellow Jodel D18 that is registered in the UK. This is a simple but striking scheme, but alternatively you can decide to do your own favourite or more complicated scheme if you wish.
covered with a tissue skin. The balsa frameworks are built over a plan that is printed at the exact scale of the model, which is in essence a real engineering drawing. Power is provided by rubber strip motor that is wound up before flight. Free flight means just that - once the model is launched, it is on its own. It must follow a predetermined flight path established when the model is initially adjusted for flight or "trimmed".
This type of traditional building technique and flying requires a degree of patience and skill, but is extremely rewarding. Typically for a small model and in the spirit of the traditional kits, profiles are simplified and adjusted from the original and a relatively large propeller is used. This is done so that the model is light and stable enough to fly on its own, is simple in construction and can work with the rubber motor. These adjustments have been done with care and sensitivity so that the shape and spirit of the original aircraft is preserved as much as possible. Also in the spirit of the traditional kits, additional items required to build the model are things that can be found in the kitchen drawer or are easily available on the high street.