When we went to the beach a few weeks ago, Kate and Lexi had their first surf lesson.
They have been interested in surfing for a long time and dreamed of having a chance to try it for themselves. Most people in Memphis and Birmingham go to the Gulf when they go to the beach, but we always go to the Atlantic with my family. I figured we should take advantage of the upside of the longer drive and give them a little something to remember. It started with a long walk to the beach, carrying their boards.
They patiently learned all the things you need to learn on the beach. They did safety exercises and practiced good posture. They tried a few things from just a few yards out, getting a feel for the board under their feet. Then we watched as the instructor led them out far from the shore.
Then there are the few seconds you have to find your balance as you try to get on your feet. I wish you could see the delight on Kate’s face when she realized she was really surfing.
Trying new things is not easy. Watching Kate and Lexi learn to surf was thrilling and frightening and humbling all at once.
The whole experience made me start thinking about this latest round of job hunting. It’s hard to put myself out there and be willing to fail. But like a child who dreams of catching a wave and popping up onto her feet, I must be prepared to fall and to let the waves beat me. Only then will I know the true delight of doing what I only hoped I could. Thankful for these two, parenting them is a constant education.
Happy Birthday to Lexi who is SEVEN today! She is full of life and navigates all kinds of situations with ease: diligent in the classroom, tenacious on the soccer field, fun with friends. I am proud to be her mom.
What was the best thing about being 6? Starting first grade.
What are you most proud of learning? How to do cartwheels.
What was the best book you read? The one I am reading right now, Absolutely Lucy by Ilene Cooper.
What is your favorite song? I like too many to choose.
What is your favorite tv show? Shake it Up!
What are you looking forward to about being 7? Going to the beach on vacation.
What college do you want to go to? I’m only seven, Mom.
Do you think you’ll get married when you grow up? Have any kids? Yes, I think I’ll get married and have one kid.
What do you want to be when you grow up? A rockstar when I am a teenager and a veterinarian when I am an adult.
I’ve been applying for jobs for a while. Applying for jobs is one of the anxiety-producing, dehumanizing and frustrating things I have ever encountered. Every single job application is an opportunity to feel like fourth grade kickball — never picked first.
I woke up this morning, ate a bowl of cereal, drank some coffee and culled through emails. Then I started through my list of job seeking websites. All of the sudden, I had a feeling deep in my bones. If I don’t try, I am already rejected. I’m on a roller coaster that only goes up. Instead of feeling like I was opening myself up for rejection, I felt like I was opening myself up to new opportunities.
It has been refreshing and lovely. Hoping this feeling sticks around for a little while.