Indian (northern states): Hindu (Kayasth) name from one of the subgroups of the Kayasth community. According to Saxena tradition, their name is from Sanskrit sakhisena ‘friend of the army’, a title awarded to them by the kings of Srinagar.
Where is the Saxena family from?
Sorry, we couldn't find geographic disribution information for Saxena.
Use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Saxena surname lived. Within census records, you can often find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, and occupations.
What did your Saxena ancestors do for a living?
Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Saxena ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestor's social and economic status.
What Saxena family records will you find?
There are 3,000 census records available for the last name Saxena. Like a window into their day-to-day life, Saxena census records can tell you where and how your ancestors worked, their level of education, veteran status, and more.
There are 642 immigration records available for the last name Saxena. Passenger lists are your ticket to knowing when your ancestors arrived in the USA, and how they made the journey - from the ship name to ports of arrival and departure.
There are 1,000 military records available for the last name Saxena. For the veterans among your Saxena ancestors, military collections provide insights into where and when they served, and even physical descriptions.
You've only scratched the surface of Saxena family history.
What is the average Saxena lifespan?
Between 1985 and 2004, in the United States, Saxena life expectancy was at its lowest point in 2001, and highest in 1988. The average life expectancy for Saxena in 1985 was 53, and 71 in 2004.
An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your Saxena ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.