Transaction Tax works with clients of all sizes in all industries, working closely with the incredibly strong network of Transaction Tax teams around the world. In this dynamic and fast-moving environment, youll apply your skills to a variety of transactions. With a truly entrepreneurial spirit there is the flexibility to shape your career in particular sectors or areas of the M&A landscape or to get experience across the spectrum.
The Core Transaction Tax team deals with the worlds largest corporate and private equity clients as well as specifically focussing on the areas of the M&A market that are developing the quickest. Our flexibility and speed to market means that we have grown each year throughout the downturn - in order to take advantage of the current opportunities in the market we need to continue to recruit the best talent.
In this team you will get wide-ranging experience in all the core areas of transactional work including corporate deals, private equity, infrastructure and clean-tech, distressed debt and turnaround transactions and restructuring.
As deal advisers, Transaction Tax team members not only get good UK tax technical experience but also get a commercial understanding of what is important to our clients in a deal context. As a large part of TT work is cross-border, you will also have an early introduction to international structuring techniques and overseas tax regimes.
We are currently looking to expand our Transaction Tax team and are keen to speak with experienced Tax Manager looking for their next move.
Assist in winning work by proactively managing existing clients and contribute to winning new clients.
Contribute to successfully extracting maximum value for both EY and clients from the tax services delivered whilst managing risk appropriately for both client and the firm.
Youll proactively maintain your technical knowledge by keeping abreast of global developments in UK and international tax concepts and issues so that you can better advise our clients. In return well provide investment in the right sort of training and offer you the opportunities on projects and assignments that will develop and challenge you so that youre in the best place to develop you tax career.