We would like to take this opportunity to thank you for being a valued customer, we appreciate your continued support. We hope 2019 will be a successful year for you and we look forward to delivering our best photo tours, workshops and seminars ever!
World Photo Adventures commenced in 1989 as a project to combine the experience of a holiday and the education of photography. The camera is an essential item that we all bring away with us on holiday. We want to offer an experience, where you can learn about photography and a destination, whilst making photographs in the field with a small group. What we are continually striving towards, is the chance to turn those holiday photographs into something a little more.
” to offer personalised service and treat our customers the way we would like to be treated”.
Our guides put your photo interests before their own.
You only have a few days left, to take advantage of our 30th-year celebration discount of $500.00 which applies to some of our extended adventures – ask Julia.
* Bookings must be made before January 31 2019. This discount can not be added to any other current discounts or used on our workshops, or cruises. Offer applies to specific events only.
CLICK HERE – $500 DISCOUNT OFFER ENDS JANUARY 31 – conditions apply.
Did you know, that we have a policy not to cancel an event within a year of departure?
We only take small groups anyway, so many of our trips are 6-8 participants, plus your professional WPA guide. This combination of small groups and professional services has led to life long friends and even marriages, (three to our knowledge.) We take pride in this fact and how many adventurers return again and again. Yes, Bill is soon to join us on his 66th event and Fran on her 45th, the Gow’s have been on over 40 trips combined, while many others are in the 20s and still more into double figures.
We thank you all for your continued loyalty in 2019, and we remain committed to delivering further improvements to our services and adventures.
We love to know what you think of our business and the new places you are keen to explore.
CLICK HERE FOR THE ULTIMATE ITINERARY – Only a few places left!
We highly recommend their website – explore every episode and enjoy the new episodes that feature the World Photo Adventures team.
45 Ocean Outlook, River Heads, Queensland, 4655, Australia.