(1) The scope of the individual services is based on the current service description in force at the time of placing the order.
(2) If no other agreement has been expressly reached, the provider shall also be entitled to instruct expert staff or third parties to provide the services incumbent upon him. If active co-operation is required on the customer’s part on another server, e.g. during the transfer of a web space package or other data stored on the provider’s servers, the customer shall provide such co-operation in accordance with the provider’s instructions and within the stipulated time.
(3) If no other agreement has been reached the provider shall be entitled to demand payment in advance for all services ordered by the customer for the respective period.
All webhosting packages (“virtual servers”) offered by the provider (Tomattos) assume a minimum service period of twelve months with an automatic extension of the agreement and the corresponding domains/servers for twelve months.
All server packages (dedicated servers, colocated servers, VPS, game servers) offered by the provider (Tomattos) assume a minimum service period selected by the customer when placing the order with an automatic extension of the contract and the corresponding domains/servers for the minium service period chosen by the customer.
(4) Once the payment which had been made by the customer in advance for the agreed term has expired the contract is automatically terminated.
The domains associated with the packages/servers however, are charged for the complete contract period (this is dependent upon the domain extension and can be seen here) and must be terminated at least 4 weeks before expiry of the contract period in order to prevent automatic extension of the agreement (an extension is equivalent to renewed registration in respect of the contract period). If the package/server is terminated before the end of the contract for the relevant domain(s) or if the contract has not yet ended or has not yet been renewed, you will be charged separately to cover the remaining months of the domain service. The amount charged depends on the extension of the domain (for a complete list, please click here).
(5) Given that the customer is placing the order as a private customer (as defined by § 13 BGB), the following applies: The customer has to pay the provider an appropriate fee which equals the the ratio of the services already rendered in relation to the total services intially intended for the contract, up to the point when the customer informed the provider about the enactment of his right of revocation regarding the contract. This is true in particular for yearly costs of ordering Internet domains. The reason for this is that these Internet domains are ordered individually according to the customer’s wish from the responsible registry and such orders have to be paid by the provider for one year in advance. This is why advances rendered by the customer will be withheld, in general. Due to the installation and start of operation of the hosting services ordered by the customer (setup and configuration of the web space or server, the domain or the colocation space as well as the Internet uplink required, setup of upgrades, etc.), which the provider is contractually obligated to perform, the provider explicitly reserves the right to demand appropriate compensation for lost value if the costs for the services rendered by the provider in relation to the total services intended for the contract are not covered by advances made by the customer.
(6) Should the provider be commissioned by the customer to provide services that are over and above the duties and responsibilities detailed in these General Terms and Conditions and in the service description (e.g. software-configuration, correction of errors or problems etc., that were not caused by the provider) the provider shall be entitled to demand adequate remuneration. In this case, a standard payment of € 25.00 per 15 minute unit of work shall be agreed. The provider may vary from this payment for the benefit of the customer as he sees fit.
(7) The responsibility for backups of his data lies with the customer, not the provider.
(8) The provider shall be entitled to to increase fees up to once per quarter. Such an increase requires the agreement of the customer. The agreement of the customer shall be given if he does not dissent within 4 weeks after receipt of the message informing him about the change. The provider is obliged to inform the customer about the repercussions of not dissenting within 4 weeks. As long as the main obligation, i.e. the obligation of payment of the basic usage-independent monthly remuneration, is not concerned, the provider determins the remuneration according to equitable discretion.
(9) In case the value-added tax is increased, the provider shall be entitled to adjust the remuneration for goods and services, which are adduced or delivered within a continuing obligation, accordingly, starting at the point of time the value-added tax-change comes into effect.
(10) It is agreed that payments made by the customer will not be refunded regardless of their original purpose – except in the case of an effective revocation, but then by inclusion of § 1(5). In case the customer made a payment higher than the amount of fees being required until the end of the contract and the fees for ordered services until then, it is agreed that the balance will not forfeit. Instead of a refund, the balance will be used for the provision of other / new services which the customer can order from the provider at any time.
(1) The customer expressly assures that the provision and publication of web page content created either by himself and/or web pages created for him by the provider based on information provided by the customer neither infringes Bangladeshi law nor any other law applicable in the customer’s country of residence, in particular copyright, data protection and competition law. The provider reserves the right to remove any pages from storage on his server that appear to be of dubious content. The provider shall immediately inform the supplier about any intended deletion of pages. The same shall apply if the provider is requested by third parties to change or delete contents of web pages because they allegedly violate third party rights.
(2) The provider shall be entitled to delete any such web pages from hard disk storage on his web server if such pages are likely to infringe third party rights. He shall also be entitled to prevent access by third parties by taking any appropriate action. The provider undertakes to notify the customer immediately about any such measure. Should the customer be able to provide proof that there are no concerns regarding infringement of third party rights the provider shall make the web pages concerned available again to third parties. The customer hereby agrees to hold the provider harmless from any claims by third parties resulting from the content of materials on the customer’s website(s).
(3) The clauses 1 and 2 are also applicable for all other products offered by the provider which are suitable for publishing data, such as VPS or colocated servers.
(1) Should domain registration or domain hosting form part of the services offered to the customer, the provider shall act only in the capacity of mediator between the customer, DENIC, InterNIC or other domain registration authority. Agreements with such organisations have the sole purpose of governing the customer’s rights and obligations.
(2) The provider has no influence on the delegation of domain names. He therefore cannot warrant that the registered domain names are not subject to claims by third parties or that they are unique or permanent. This also applies to sub-domains allocated within the provider’s domain.
(3) If the customer should be requested by a third party to surrender a domain because it may infringe third party rights, he shall inform the provider immediately. In such cases the provider shall be entitled to surrender the Internet domain on behalf of the customer. The customer hereby agrees to hold the provider harmless from any claims by third parties resulting from disputes regarding inadmissible use of domain names.
(4) The customer hereby warrants to the provider that the address information (consisting of at least his name, address, telephone number and e-mail address) provided during registration or setting up a new account is correct and complete. Should this information change then the provider must be notified immediately in writing (letter, e-mail, fax). This and under certain conditions further information, will also be used for domains ordered by the customer from the provider.
(1) If the provision of e-mail addresses or e-mail services forms part of the services offered by the provider, the limitations set out in § 3 shall apply analogously to e-mail addresses provided for the customer. The provider reserves the right to delete the customers e-mail messages if they are not retrieved from the mail server within 4 weeks of receipt.
(2) If provision of access to public discussion forums (newsgroups) forms part of the services offered by the provider the time period over which public news is stored shall depend upon operational considerations of the provider.
(3) The provider shall not be responsible for the e-mail addresses he provides; their use and management is outside the control of the provider. In the case of misuse, the provider shall be entitled to suspend all or individual e-mail addresses. The customer shall be informed immediately about such measures.
(1) For webspace-packages, the following applies: The customer must ensure that his web site is designed such that the server is not excessively loaded, e.g. caused by CGI/PHP scripts requiring considerable computing power or above average memory usage. Excessive loading shall be defined as such usage of the aforemention