Book of Abstracts and Programme. Polymer Networks and Gels 2018 - Prague Meeting on Macromolecules /82./, Polymer Networks Group Meeting /24.
2018 - English The Book of abstracts and programme contains the summaries of all the contributions to the international conference “Polymer Networks and Gels”. The participants presented 95 lectures and 75 posters. Main conference topics were: Preparation and chemical design of networks and gels - Gelation, network formation, and properties - Polymer networks and gels at work/service. Keywords: polymer networks; polymer gels; hydrogels Available at various institutes of the ASCR Book of Abstracts and Programme. Polymer Networks and Gels 2018 - Prague Meeting on Macromolecules /82./, Polymer Networks Group Meeting /24.
Booklet. Workshop on Solid-State NMR & Computational Methods /11.
2017 - Czech 11th Workshop on Solid-State NMR & Computational Methods with the subtitle „Why structural information are important for industrial applications”. 11th Workshop on Solid-State NMR & Computational Methods s podtitulem „Proč jsou strukturní informace důležité pro průmyslové aplikace”. Keywords: solid-state NMR; computational methods; structure Available at various institutes of the ASCR Booklet. Workshop on Solid-State NMR & Computational Methods /11.
Book of Abstracts and Programme. Polymers and Organic Materials for Electronics and Photonics: Science for Applications. Prague Meeting on Macromolecules /81.
2017 - English The book of abstracts contains the summary of 8 plenary and 24 invited lectures, accompanied by 38 oral contributions and 88 posters presented at the conference. The main areas covered were the design, synthesis, processing and characterization of novel functional organic materials and polymers, electrical, photoelectrical, optical and nonlinear optical phenomena, organic and hybrid electronic and photonic devices, and advanced materials and composites for biosensors, bioelectronics, and biophotonics. Particular session was dedicated to applications in flexible and wearable organic electronics and smart packaging. Due to big expectations in the application field of large area printed electronics, wearable devices, printed RFIDs, displays, solar cells and sensors there is a growing demand to prepare polymers with better defined morphology and chemical and structural stability. Hence, improvement in the molecular design and new synthetic and processing routes is strongly required. A special emphasis was given to attract the scientists from the application field of printed electronics to provide a necessary feedback for further development of new materials with desired properties. Keywords: organic electronics; photonics; conducting polymers; organic semiconductors; organic sensors Available at various institutes of the ASCR Book of Abstracts and Programme. Polymers and Organic Materials for Electronics and Photonics: Science for Applications. Prague Meeting on Macromolecules /81.
Book of Abstracts and Programme. Self-assembly in the World of Polymers. Prague Meeting on Macromolecules /80.
2016 - English The Book of abstracts and programme contains the summaries of all the contributions to the international conference "Self-assembly in the World of Polymers". The participants presented 45 lectures and 100 posters. Keywords: self-assembly; polymer; macromolecular systems Available at various institutes of the ASCR Book of Abstracts and Programme. Self-assembly in the World of Polymers. Prague Meeting on Macromolecules /80.