Maureen Hancock is an internationally renowned Spirit Medium, intuitive, teacher, lecturer, Holistic Healer, and author of the bestselling book, “The Medium Next Door: Adventures of a Real-Life Ghost Whisperer.” She is the star of the Style Network documentary, Psychic in Suburbia.
Hancock has been interviewed by national television, radio, and print publications, including CNN, Associated Press, VH1, Martha Stewart Living magazine & radio, The Boston Globe, Coast-to-Coast radio, ABC, NBC, CBS, and FOX Television programs all over the country.
She has spent decades demystifying the overwhelming subject matter of death, and helping individuals to flex their intuitive muscle, and tap into messages from spirit. Maureen’s work has brought comfort, hope and healing to the masses. She has taught workshops on intuition building to law enforcement, medical professionals, financial experts, and the “Average Joe.” She spends much of her time giving back by assisting those with terminal illness, sitting with newly bereaved parents, aiding law enforcement- including the FBI, and motivational speaking about life after death, stress management, intuition, and perspective building.
Maureen was a reoccurring guest on the Ricki Lake Show, and recently filmed a Television pilot for a major network with the hopes of having a nationally syndicated talk show in the near future.
She sent us her newest predictions for our readers to ponder.
Trump will stay in office, despite Mueller’s thorough, and fact-filled investigation, proving beyond a shadow of a doubt that the President was involved in a number of illegal activities, including campaign finance violations, back deals with Russia, The Saudi Prince, and more. February is a volatile time politically. Trump will NOT be reelected. Multiple indictments will be issued within days of the end of his term.
–Joe Biden will win the Democratic nomination for President. He will ask Beto O’Rourke to be his Vice President on the ticket.
Joe Biden and Beto O’Rourke will be ever so close in the bid for the Democratic nomination. Joe Biden will win the nomination. Trump supporters will slide over to Biden with his “knock-him-out” old fashioned style tough talk. O’Rourke, with his Kennedy look-a-like persona will take the country by storm. However, his lackluster policy ideas, and not signing the bill for Social Security, as well as non-support of the bill for Medicare for All, will hurt him.
Trump will go neck-and-neck with Romney for the Republican nomination. I feel Trump will win the nomination.
I predict Joe Biden will be the next President of the United States.
The stock market takes another serious dive in February around the 14/15th. March shows improvement as a new deal with China is reached. Stocks soar to an all-time high with the China trade deal by April 1st.
The housing market: Mortgage rates will rise to 5.5% by June. Home prices will increase slowly, and inventory for new home buyers will go down. New construction will be at an all-time low by spring. June is peak time for the market to show these changes. This spring is a Seller’s market.
The end of 2019 shows signs of a recession.
Tensions remain high with Russia. March brings increased tensions with Putin due to a devastating military action in the Ukraine.
North Korea launches a missile test around May/June, causing increased tensions with the US (South Korea & Japan).
More troops will be deployed to Afghanistan by May/June due to increased tensions and military actions.
Trump will pull troops out of Syria beginning in March, and by summer he will have to order troops back, in larger numbers, due to an overwhelming attack on the Kurds.
–The winter will bring unexpected amounts of snow and Nor’easters to the whole East Coast, with the biggest surprise impact in February from Maryland to the Carolinas. Over 2 ft. of snow will fall on the Boston area around Feb. 6th, and the whole North East will be crippled by an even larger storm around Feb. 14/15th.
June brings a trifecta to California. an Earthquake, 6.2 scale or greater, followed by mudslides, and devastating drought brings wildfires the end of June.
A natural disaster in the form of an earthquake and volcano eruption for Italy around August.
Prince Harry & Duchess Meghan will give birth to a baby girl, with an “A” name (like Amelia) the end of February/beginning of March (not late March April as announced).
Prince Philip’s health declines significantly with a heavy gloomy feeling on November/December.
Taylor Swift will announce her engagement to Joe Alwyn around April.
Selena Gomez will undergo a serious medical procedure (possible stem cell transplant) by the summer.
Miley Cyrus will announce her pregnancy in June.
Jennifer Anniston adopts a baby by the fall.
Brad & Angelina talk reconciliation come summer.
Sofia Richie & Scott Disick announce their engagement this spring! Sofia will be pregnant by summer.
Bill Cosby has renal failure in prison. He might not make it through the treatment.
Venus Williams announces engagement to Nicholas Hammond by the summer. She will be pregnant soon after the quick wedding!
What are the Top Five Action Games?