Glasgow tower block on fire: Eight people injured during the huge blaze-one year after the Grenfell tour tragedy.
A commercial court’s flat at Gorbals in Glasgow was damaged by a massive fire this morning. More than 12 fire engine and three accident response teams scrambled to the scene just before 8 am.
The fire is believed to have started in the kitchen of a 14th floor flat. Smoke was seen billowing across the city out of the top floors of the flats in the Gorbals area.
The Scottish Fire and Rescue officer in charge of the incident, Alan Fairbairn, said that firefighters were alerted at 07:58 this June 14 to reports of a fire within a flat in Glasgow.
Crews were relocated at the leisure centre, a few steps away from the damaged flat.
“A total of eight casualties were passed into the care of the Scottish Ambulance Service and transported to the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital,” a firefighter spokesman said.
One tenant of the damaged flat, Mrs Diane Zeufack, was trapped on the fifth floor where she lives with her family.
Mr Zeufack, a resident of the damaged flat.
Mr Zeufack was getting the kids ready for school when she received a call from her husband asking her to remain in the flat. She said: “It was terrifying,” but she had to be strong to reassure the kids.
They later managed to escape by the stairs. “The journey to the ground floor was the longest ever,” the mum of three said as all this was reminding her of the Grenfell Tour’s tragedy, she added. More shaken than injured, they all got out safe. However, the trauma remains.
The First Minister Nicola Sturgeon, who is the local MSP for the Gorbals, tweeted that Gorbals fire was entirely under control. She also thanked the firefighters. The firemen remain on the scene as a precaution against any further risk, the First Minister said.
The Gorbals’ fire occurred one year exactly after the horrific blaze in Grenfell Tower; west London where 72 people died.
A minute’s silence has been observed across the country today at midday following the London’s tower block disaster.