Dr. John Crawford is the director of pediatric neuro-oncology and the director of the pediatric neurology fellowship program at Rady Children's Hospital-San Diego as well as an associate clinical professor of clinical neurosciences and pediatrics at UC San Diego School of Medicine.
He graduated from the University of Massachusetts with a Master's of Science in biochemistry and molecular biology before earning his medical degree from the same institution. He went on to complete a residency in pediatrics at the University of Southern California/Los Angeles County Hospital. He continued his medical education with a pediatric neurology fellowship at Children's National Medical Center at George Washington University. During this time, he was awarded the NIH K12 Neurological Sciences Academic Development Award and completed three years of clinical and basic science training in neuro-oncology.
Dr. Crawford is certified by the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology in neurology with special qualification in child neurology and by the United Council for Neurologic Subspecialties in neuro-oncology.
He is member of the American Academy of Neurology, Child Neurology Society, American Association of Cancer Research and an associate member of Children's Oncology Group, Society for Neuro-Oncology and Professors of Child Neurology.
Dr. Crawford's research interest is neuroimmunological and neurovirological mechanisms of tumor development, progression and potential treatment.
Unusual KRAS missense mutation (p.E63K) in patient with juvenile pilocytic astrocytoma of the tectum.
Levator palpebrae superioris nuclear palsy in a child with artery of Percheron infarction.
Use of hyperbaric oxygen therapy in pediatric neuro-oncology: a single institutional experience.
Novel KRIT1/CCM1 heterozygous nonsense mutation (c.715 C&gt;T) associated with cerebral and cerebellar cavernous malformations in a paediatric patient.
Unilateral facial nerve palsy as an early presenting symptom of relapse in a paediatric patient with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.
Spontaneous aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage in a child with multiply recurrent posterior fossa juvenile pilocytic astrocytoma.
Disseminated pilomyxoid astrocytoma in infancy with novel MUTYH mutation.
Acute brainstem haemorrhage as a presenting feature of high-grade glioma.
Benign pineal cyst lined with normal choroid plexus mimicking tumour in a young girl with exotropia.
Medulloblastoma with myogenic differentiation: a rare medulloblastoma variant in a young child.
Hodgkin's lymphoma in an adolescent previously treated with surgical resection of third ventricular juvenile pilocytic astrocytoma.
Giant pericallosal lipoma associated with intractable epilepsy in a child.
Giant suprasellar arachnoid cyst presenting with precocious puberty.
Extensive subdural spinal enhancement mimicking leptomeningeal disease in a young child with posterior fossa tumour following lumbar puncture and surgery.
Giant cerebellopontine angle schwannoma in a child.