Applications are invited for the post mentioned below in Reserve Bank of India (RBI/Bank) from Indian citizens, citizens of Nepal and subjects of Bhutan, persons of Indian origin who have migrated from Myanmar and Sri Lanka with the intention of permanently settling in India and in whose favour Eligibility Certificates have been issued by Government of India.
Age: Between 21 and 30 years (candidates must have been born not earlier than 02/10/1985 and not later than 01/10/1994). For candidates possessing M.Phil. and Ph.D. qualification, upper age limit will be 32 and 34 years respectively. For candidates having experience as an officer in Commercial Bank/ Financial Institution in Public Sector as also prior experience in Reserve Bank of India, upper age limit is relaxed to the extent of number of years of such experience, subject to a maximum of three years. For such candidates, upper age limit should not exceed 33 years including experience. For experience, probationary period will not be reckoned. Refer item 8 below for relaxation in upper age limit for specified categories.
Educational Qualifications (as on 01/10/2015): A minimum of 60% marks (50% in case of SC/ST/PWD) or an equivalent grade in Bachelor’s degree as well as in 12th and 10th standard examinations. The minimum qualifying percentage or an equivalent grade for the Bachelor’s Degree will be in aggregate for all semesters/years.
Candidates have to apply only online through the Bank’s website i.e. www.rbi.org.in from 05/10/2015 to 23/10/2015. No other means/mode of applications will be accepted. Detailed instructions for applying online are available on the website.
(i)Scan their photograph and signature as detailed under guidelines for scanningÂ the photograph and signature in item 12 of the advertisement.
(ii)Keep the necessary details/documents ready to make online payment of the requisite application fee/intimation charges. The candidate is required to keep details about bio-data/necessary details ready to enable him/her to fill up the application form correctly and to make online payment of fees/intimation charges. The name of the candidate or his/her father/mother/husband, etc. should be spelt correctly in the application as it appears in the certificates/mark sheets.
(iii)Candidates should have a valid E-mail ID which should be kept active till the declaration of final result. This is essential for him/her in getting communication/ interview advice, etc. by E-mail. No change in E-mail ID will be entertained during the entire process of the recruitment.
(i)Candidates satisfying the conditions of eligibility as on October 01, 2015 are first required to visit the URL “Recruitment for the post of “Officers in Gr.‘B’ (DR) General” on Bank’s website i.e. www.rbi.org.in >Opportunities@RBI >Current Vacancies > Vacancies and click on the hyperlink “Applications (Apps)” in the Advertisement page for filling the ‘Online Application’. It redirects the candidates to the online registration page.
(ii)Candidates will have to enter their basic details and upload the photograph and signature in the online application form as per the specifications given in item 12 of the advertisement.
(iii)To register application, choose the tab “Click here for New Registration” and enter Name, Contact details and Email-id. A Provisional Registration Number and Password will be generated by the system and displayed on the screen. Candidate should note down the Provisional Registration Number and Password. An Email & SMS indicating the Provisional Registration number and Password will also be sent.
(iv)In case the candidate is unable to complete the application form in one go, he/she can save the data already entered by choosing “SAVE AND NEXT” tab. Prior to submission of the online application candidates are advised to use the “SAVE AND NEXT” facility to verify the details in the online application form and modify the same if required. Visually Impaired candidates should fill the application form carefully and verify/get the details verified to ensure that the same are correct prior to final submission.
(v)Candidates are advised to carefully fill and verify the details filled in the online application themselves as no change will be possible/entertained after clicking the FINAL SUBMIT BUTTON.
(vi)The Name of the candidate or his/her Father/Husband etc. should be spelt correctly in the application as it appears in the Certificates/Mark sheets. Any change/ alteration found may disqualify the candidature.
(vii)Validate your details and Save your application by clicking the ‘Validate your details’ and ‘Save & Next’ button.
(viii)Candidates can proceed to upload Photo & Signature as per the specifications given in the Guidelines for Scanning and Upload of Photograph and Signature detailed as given in item 12 of the advertisement.
(ix)Candidates can proceed to fill other details of the Application Form.
(x)Click on the Preview Tab to preview and verify the entire application form before FINAL SUBMIT.
(xi)Modify details, if required, and click on ‘FINAL SUBMIT’ ONLY after verifying and ensuring that the photograph, signature uploaded and other details filled by you are correct.
(xii)Click on ‘Payment’ Tab and proceed for payment.
(xiv)Candidates shall be solely responsible for filling up the online applications correctly. In case of invalid applications due to errors committed by the applicant no claims for refund of application fees/intimation charges so collected shall be entertained by the Board.
(xv)To avoid last minute rush, candidates are advised to pay the application fees/ intimation charges and register online at the earliest.
(xvi)Board does not assume any responsibility for the candidates not being able to submit their applications within the last day on account of aforesaid reasons or any other reason.
(iii)After submitting your payment information in the online application form, PLEASE WAIT FOR THE INTIMATION FROM THE SERVER. DO NOT PRESS BACK OR REFRESH BUTTON IN ORDER TO AVOID DOUBLE CHARGE.
(iv)On successful completion of the transaction, an e-Receipt will be generated.
(v)Non-generation of ‘e-Receipt’ indicates PAYMENT FAILURE. On failure of payment, Candidates are advised to login again using their Provisional Registration Number and Password and repeat the process of payment.
(vi)Candidates are required to take a printout of the e-Receipt and online Application Form. Please note that if the same cannot be generated, online transaction may not have been successful.
(vii)For Credit Card users: All charges are listed in Indian Rupee. If you use a non-Indian credit card, your bank will convert to your local currency based on prevailing exchange rates.
(viii)To ensure the security of your data, please close the browser window once your transaction is completed.
(ix)There is facility to print application form containing fee details after payment of fees upto 7/11/2015.