Rhubarb Month on October, 2019: Can I freeze rhubarb?
October, 2019 is Rhubarb Month 2019. Burpee® Rhubarb Plants‎ Order Direct Sow Plants Today. Spring is Here - Shop Now & Save!
* Be sure to use only fresh, good quality rhubarb. They should be fresh looking, crisp and blemish free. If the stalks are fibrous, be sure to remove the stringy fibers.
* Clean the rhubarb thoroughly and cut into the size pieces you desire for the end product.
* Be sure to use airtight freezer safe containers. If using freezer bags, be sure to remove as much air from the bag as possible before sealing.
* Allow enough headspace in the freezing containers or bags before sealing to allow for expansion when the rhubarb freezes. Allow approximately 1/2 inch for pint size containers and 3/4 to 1 inch for quart size containers.
* Place the rhubarb in the coldest part of the freezer so that they will freeze as quickly as possible. Store for up to 9 months.
Rhubarb and Strawberry Pie -- not enough flour is why.
2.In a large bowl, mix flour and sugar. Add strawberries and chopped rhubarb. Toss with sugar and flour and let stand for 30 minutes.
3.Pour filling into pie crust. Dot top with butter, and cover with top crust. Seal edges of top and bottom crust with water.
4.Apply yolk to top of pie, using a pastry brush. Sprinkle with sugar. Cut small holes in top to let steam escape.
5.Bake at 400 degrees F (200 degrees C), for 35 to 40 minutes, or until bubbly and brown. Cool on rack.
is rhubarb poison to eat with an R in the month,like september etc.?
You can eat rhubarb stalks at any time. And not all rhubarb stalks turn red, so you don't need to be concerned about the color of the stalks, either.
You shouldn't eat the leaves because of the potential for oxalic acid poisoning. You'd have to eat a lot of rhubarb leaves to do serious harm to yourself, however. Cabbage, spinach, potatoes and peas all contain oxalic acid and most people never ingest enough to harm themselves.
Right Brainers Rule Month - is there any books that have all holidays?
Christmas Seal Campaign - do you think that the Neo-Cons would be low enough to set it up so it looks as though McCain~?
Employee Ownership Month - Employee Involvement Program.?