Kyle Schwarber may be out for the season, but the home run ball he hit during the Cubs-Cardinals National League Division Series has been returned to the top of Wrigley Field's right field video board.
On Monday morning's "Mully and Hanley" show on WSCR-AM 670, Cubs president of business operations Crane Kenney said the ball is back to where it originally landed after it was taken down after the 2015 season.
Kenney said the ball was taken down in part to prevent anyone from getting the idea of climbing up the board and stealing it.
Meanwhile, the metal detectors are all in place and finishing touches were being put on the outside walls of Wrigley Field in anticipation of tonight’s home opener. Fans are being asked to arrive early since it will be the first game with the metal detectors at entrances, a security measure mandated by Major League Baseball.
After landing from Phoenix last night, the Cubs took a bus to Wrigley Field to sneak a look at their new, 30,000-square-foot clubhouse.
The brick pavers that were removed during construction have been moved to the sidewalks on Waveland and Sheffield Avenues, with each section surrounding the name of a former Cubs player or employee, ranging from Sammy Sosa to former clubhouse man Yosh Kawano.
The Cubs players arrived at Wrigley from their opening road trip before midnight on Sunday and got a tour of the new, expanded clubhouse. The Cubs denied all media requests to photograph or videotape the clubhouse because president Theo Epstein wanted his team to be the first ones to see it.
One fan was already camped out at the bleacher entrance at 7 a.m., waiting for the gates to open this afternoon. Veteran bleacher bum Ron Hayden said he arrived early to make sure he got his customary seat in left field.
A sign outside the bleachers lists prohibited items, which includes laser pointers, noise makers and unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones. Cleveland pitcher Trevor Bauer flew a drone at U.S. Cellular Field over the weekend and crashed it in front of the new video board.
Photos from Wrigley Field for the Cubs home opener on April 11, 2016.
Cubs fans in the left field bleachers celebrate the 5-3 win over the Reds in the Cubs' home opener on Monday, April 11, 2016, at Wrigley Field.
Cubs players celebrate the 5-3 win over the Reds in the Cubs' home opener on Monday, April 11, 2016, at Wrigley Field.