February 7 – 10 Visiology will present its Data Visualization module for Polywall software at upcoming ISE 2017, held at the RAI in Amsterdam. The demonstration will take place at the Visiology booth 14-M285.
At the show, Visiology will launch the latest versions of Flipbox Software Suite and Polywall.
The Polywall solution will be demonstrated by its experts and support engineers, providing an opportunity to gain hands-on experience with the latest video wall control technology. Beside the integration with SQX Datapath cards the software includes now a compatibility with Matrox C-Series and IPX cards. Both Datapath and Matrox systems will be presented live at the Visiology booth.
Polywall Data Visualization module creates a new interaction pattern between video wall management software and user’s data. It can be seamlessly connected to the Enterprise database or Hadoop cluster at raw data level and generates data visualization without the necessity of third-party Business Intelligence tools.
Polywall solution is able to cover a wide range of tasks: from display and control of various sources to real-time analytics and Big Data visualization. Due to its high performance and cost-effectiveness Polywall is one of the fastest developing AV products at the international market.
Register with a VIP code 389488 and get a Free Exhibit Pass from Visiology.
"Since the last year we have significantly increased the number of companies in our global partner network. Now we have more than 150 partners and for 3 years on the international market, we have implemented more than 200 projects. Polywall has references all over the world: in Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, Middle East and Africa, North America and Canada, Russia and CIS countries. Such a successful start gives us a confidence in growth and many interesting projects this year for our products on the professional AV market", says Ivan Vakhmyanin, CEO of Visiology.
"Every year we participate in the ISE, because it’s one of the few meeting points in AV industry for the international community of manufacturers, distributors, integrators, service providers and end-users, most of whom have long been for us not only partners but also friends. Furthermore Polymedia considers ISE as some measure of its business’ development - we used to be attendees, then – the exhibitors (and, only in Russian), now we become market players in the international ProAV market, whose products are in demand and competitive", says the founder of Visiology, CEO of Polymedia Elena Novikova.
Looking forward to meet you at the show!