How Do You Remove Calcium From Your Swimming Pool?
If you have a swimming pool in the Las Vegas area you are going to have to remove calcium from it. Even though calcium is great for strong bones and teeth, the same can’t be said about your swimming pool. If you live in our area you should be familiar with the fact that our fill water is loaded with calcium and other hardness minerals which can destroy numerous different things in your household. Over time, calcium scales your decorative faucets, plugs up shower heads and causes stains/water spots on the sinks and surfaces of your house. It can be extremely difficult to get rid of and ultimately extremely expensive when you need to replace them around your house. But, with all that said, have you thought about what this calcium will do to your swimming pool?
In the southwest, our water comes from the Colorado River which winds its way through the Grand Canyon. This area is loaded with calcium, magnesium and any other hardness minerals (limestone) you can think of which means that over time you will have to deal with hard water in your swimming pool too. As you fill your swimming pool with this hard water (typically 400 parts per million and higher) it will build up in concentration. Please note, as water evaporates the hardness minerals remain in solution and increase in concentration. When this happens, the scale will come visible on the tile, interior finish of the pool and filtration equipment. As the calcium continues to plate itself on the surfaces of the swimming pool it will inevitably cause more and more damages, not to mention, destroys the lifespan of your investment. That’s why at Clark County Pool & Lawn we recommend changing out the water in your swimming pool every two years!
By using our filtration it is a service that can be performed 365 days a year because the interior finish of the swimming pool isn’t exposed. In fact, you can even swim in the pool during filtration. What you and your family are left with is drinking quality water which is extremely safe to swim in. With all the issues of water quality in the news wouldn’t you prefer to swim in a pool that won’t make your eyes red or your skin itch? If you’re interested in learning more, please contact us today!