Although New Jersey is the fourth smallest state in the United States, it is the 11th most populous state in the country with over an estimated 8,900,000 people residing there. It is also statistically deemed the second wealthiest.
New Jersey is bordered north and east by New York, and lies within the combined statistical areas of New York City and Philadelphia. Known as “The Garden State” in addition to having a relatively high population, New Jersey is a major tourist attraction with seaside resorts and other charms drawing in more than 80 million tourist visits each year. The state’s location enables an extensive transportation network, putting more than one third of residents in the U.S. and many in Canada within overnight traveling distance of New Jersey via land.
With so much travel in and around New Jersey, traffic accidents occur with a relatively higher frequency than in surrounding areas. In the state hundreds of people are injured and killed each year in motor vehicle crashes. Related costs add up to more than $9 million in medical expenses and $680 million in work loss annually.
Many New Jersey accidents are linked to the negligence or wrongful actions of drivers. When innocent victims are hurt in these cases, they need an aggressive attorney to help get the maximum compensation for their medical expenses, lost income, and other damages they have incurred.
New Jersey accident attorney Rand Spear is available night or day to help those who have been involved in a serious traffic crash in New Jersey recover compensation from drivers or companies responsible for their injuries. New Jersey law allows for pursuit of compensatory damages for accident injuries; however, without a legal advocate on your side who understands your needs and puts them first it can be difficult getting what is fair. Insurance companies fight hard to give victims who may be due compensation the least amount possible. That’s why you need someone who has the power, knowledge and resources to give you the best representation possible in the fight for justice.
If you or a loved one has been hurt in a traffic accident in New Jersey, contact Rand Spear right now for help.