Young Lions skipper Brad Galvin isn’t afraid of taking his side’s ‘scrappy’ style of play into Sunday’s semi final clash with Henwood Park. Galvin has headlined the Lions’ defensive unit from centre back this season, putting together a string of solid performances to contain rival sides to just 28 goals in their 19 games to date. Now, the 27-year-old is relishing the lead-up to a shot at grand final glory and says there’s no reason why his team mates can’t tough out another gritty win against the favoured Hawks. “We really toughed it out against Leeton last weekend but we’ve been doing that all year,” Galvin said. “It was a pretty scrappy win and we defended like our lives depended on it when they threw everything at us in the last few minutes.” Having only just taken over the captaincy from the unavailable Duncan Cameron, Galvin is facing the unusual prospect of being one of the side’s most senior players in just his second season at Hall Bros Oval. The defender also admitted his surprise at Young’s run to the finals but credited the injection of youth into the side. “We were really in a building phase last year and we copped a few floggings with all those juniors blokes coming in,” Galvin said. “Now, we’ve kept that core group together for two years and I think we’ve come along quicker than we anticipated. “That comes down to those younger boys in the side having an impact and guys like Alex Mitchell, who I’d say is one of the fastest blokes in the competition, and Pat Hislop have been real standouts all year.” All eyes are now fixed upon the task ahead - toppling the defending premiers. Galvin knows it’s no easy task but says the result will be vastly different from their 6-0 loss to Henwood Park in July. “We were missing a few players from our back line that game, so I think that probably affected us a fair bit,” Galvin said. “Still, we know they’ll be hard to get on top of and they’ll throw everything at us in attack. “We’ll just have to hold them out and look to hit them through counterattack.” While you’re with us, did you know that The Daily Advertiser is now offering sports and local events as part of its growing email newsletter service? Our sports email will keep the sports-mad up-to-date with a round-up of all the weekend’s sports action - sign up here.
LEADER OF THE PRIDE: Young Lions skipper Brad Galvin (right, pictured tackling Lake Albert's Henri Gardner in 2017) says his side won't shirk away from the tough stuff against Henwood Park in this weekend's semi final.
Young Lions skipper Brad Galvin isn’t afraid of taking his side’s ‘scrappy’ style of play into Sunday’s semi final clash with Henwood Park.
Galvin has headlined the Lions’ defensive unit from centre back this season, putting together a string of solid performances to contain rival sides to just 28 goals in their 19 games to date.
Now, the 27-year-old is relishing the lead-up to a shot at grand final glory and says there’s no reason why his team mates can’t tough out another gritty win against the favoured Hawks.
“We really toughed it out against Leeton last weekend but we’ve been doing that all year,” Galvin said.
But honestly, we don’t mind scrappy games like that - I’d be happy to grind out a 1-0 win every week if that’s what it takes.
Having only just taken over the captaincy from the unavailable Duncan Cameron, Galvin is facing the unusual prospect of being one of the side’s most senior players in just his second season at Hall Bros Oval.
The defender also admitted his surprise at Young’s run to the finals but credited the injection of youth into the side.
“We were really in a building phase last year and we copped a few floggings with all those juniors blokes coming in,” Galvin said.
“Now, we’ve kept that core group together for two years and I think we’ve come along quicker than we anticipated.
ROCK IN DEFENCE: Galvin clears the ball under pressure from Tolland's Ramon Atayde during a Pascoe Cup clash in 2018.
All eyes are now fixed upon the task ahead - toppling the defending premiers.
Galvin knows it’s no easy task but says the result will be vastly different from their 6-0 loss to Henwood Park in July.
“We were missing a few players from our back line that game, so I think that probably affected us a fair bit,” Galvin said.
“Still, we know they’ll be hard to get on top of and they’ll throw everything at us in attack.