The following weekly markets are held in the Region of Murcia on Thursdays.
The listing was updated in May 2018.
Markets may be cancelled or altered due to bad weather and local or regional holidays: if in doubt, check with the local tourist office.
Street markets are always popular with both locals and visitors to the region, selling a vast range of products including fresh produce, bargain clothes and footwear, plants and flowers and household goods: the larger the market, the more variety on offer!
Watch out for pickpockets, and be careful with purses and wallets, particularly those stowed in handbags which can disappear in a flash when rummaging through a pile of vegetables.
Take old plastic bags to recycle rather than using new and consider buying a shopping trolley if intending to fresh produce regularly as it is considerably easier than carrying heavy bags.
La Aljorra (Cartagena) - see map, Calle San Antonio.
Balsicas in the municipality of Torre Pacheco. This is a small weekly market and is unusual in that it takes place on a Thursday afternoon, rather than in the morning (see map).
Lorca - the main weekly market is held at the Huerto de la Rueda next to the Santa Quiteria fairground and conference centre, except during the Feria de Lorca in September when it temporarily moves to Calle Tomás Arderius. The fair contains some 240 or so stalls, most of them offering clothes, food and footwear, although it is also possible to buy leather goods, jewelry and various sundry items. Click for map.
The two main weekly street markets in the city of Murcia are both held on Thursday morning, in Avenida La Fama and the district of Santa María de Gracia (mainly in Calle Auditórium, behind the Hospital de la Vega and the Parque de Fofó).
Both are extremely popular, and anyone visiting should certainly not expect to complete their shopping in a hurry! However, if they are popular it is not because shoppers expect to be able to make speedy purchases, but due to the huge range of fresh food available at attractive prices, and to the very wide range of other goods offered at the hundreds of stalls (650 in La Fama and almost 200 in Santa María de Gracia).
Click for locations, Avenida de La Fama and Calle Auditórium.
Blanca - in the town centre, between the main road and the River Segura on Calle Doctor Marañón (click for location).
Mexican Mariachi band every Wednesday at the Hotel La Encarnacion..
Tuesday weekly markets in the..
Street markets all over the Region from Los Belones to Jumilla The following weekly markets are held in the Region of..
Every Monday HAH Help at Home..
At La Zona Bar from 10:00 to 13:00 Join the Mar Menor group on Facebook for info about Los Alcazares, San Javier..