bronxapostle wrote: Again, if we see a video, we might know a bit more certainly.
Upon review, it sounds like the same guy who screamed "Two Little Hitlers" about 1 second prior to the start of Almost Blue. Wildly inappropriate and not a plant IMO.
Thanks doc. I always trust my instinct. I knew it was split second decision that he started to play it.
I say all those dorks should shut the heck up and enjoy what gets played.
I don't mind the requests, but sometimes the timing is awful, like the Two Little Hitlers moment.
docinwestchester wrote: I don't mind the requests, but sometimes the timing is awful, like the Two Little Hitlers moment.
Yeah, well, NOTHING went wrong that night. A superb top ten show....for the ages, night two Carnegie!!
The "Two Little Hitlers" guy was the balcony, or maybe way in the back on the floor. The "Welcome to the Working Week" was in row CC, maybe seat 110. I saw him. I could probably pick him out of a line-up.
I wasn't suggesting the guy was plant. Just that his convoluted shout-out wasn't the first or only way his request was communicated to EC. He actually said something like, "It's Sunday, Elvis, so welcome us to the working week." I didn't really understand what he'd said until EC started playing the song. I can't believe EC would have been able to parse it, cold, from 20 feet away, over the rest of the crowd noise. But he went right into the song without so much as a "Huh?"
Interesting. You were definitely closer to the source than me.
Lisa's face lit up just now when I played this, with goose bumps ensuing. Good times.
Paraphrasing W.C. Fields in A Fatal Glass of Beer, last Wednesday night (March 7) in Brooklyn and much of the nor’easter-wracked Eastern seaboard wasn’t a fit night out for man or beast. But Elvis Costello & The Imposters rose to the occasion for the many hearty souls who still braved the elements for the first of four New York area shows (Port Chester’s Capitol Theatre hosted the next three, last Thursday, Friday and Sunday nights).
Taking the stage to the perfect choice of Rosemary Clooney’s “Snow,” Elvis & Co.. were on fire from the get-go, rattling off an initial volley of front-loaded favorites (“Wonder Woman,” “Girls Talk,” “Big Tears,” “Miracle Man,” Radio Radio” and “This is Hell”) with such blazing abandon that drummer Pete Thomas seemed on the verge of spontaneously combusting at any moment.
But it wasn’t just the band that was scorching. For his last few tours Costello has brought along two terrific backup vocalists in Briana Lee and Kitten Kuroi, and in these shows he’s really integrated them into the set masterfully, particularly the second half, following the band’s departure after “I Want You.” The gals stayed on and stepped over with Costello to a single microphone set up at the front of the stage, crowding him from both sides as they all sang “Alison” to his acoustic guitar accompaniment, the inspired trio turning into a three-way love fest by song’s end.
From there they followed Costello to keyboardist Steve “The Professor” Nieve’s vacant grand piano, maestro himself tickling the ivories as he sang “A Face in the Crowd,” Lee and Kuroi backing him on the title song of his hoped-for Broadway musical based on Elia Kazan’s 1957 film classic starring Andy Griffith and Patricia Neal.
Rather than coming off corny, it was truly affecting, so much so that a good many in the crowd responded in kind. And to top it all off, Costello announced that despite the declining consumer interest in the album format, he and The Imposters have in fact completed a new one for release later this year.
That reminds me of the Brodsky Quartet show at Town Hall in New York back in 93. Elvis announced the last number and my buddy yelled out "Jacksons Monk and Rowe" really loudly and they played the song again. So much fun.