Discussion in 'SUS VENATOR CLUB' started by Bama, Mar 7, 2018.
Did some stalk hunting going from field to field. This field usually has a bunch of hogs at the feeder and is accessible without spooking the hogs if at feeder. I estimate a dozen hogs in field with this big boar watching them feed. He was standing about 20 yds from feeder just watching the other hogs eat or sizing up which sow he wanted a date with?
Walked far enough in to clear shooting house and set up sticks. Shooting a 300 BO with Barnes Bullets 110 gr TAC-TX hand load. I shot drop right there. Gun jammed after third shot. May have hit another hog running but did not have too much time to look.
This was about a 75 yard shot using a Pulsar Trail XP 50 with DLOC mount. I'll post video in hunting section.
lonepunman, Juanthelawnmowerthief, Duffy and 7 others like this.
Looks like a set of double tusks on that boar.. Congrats on the Sus boar - and trophy choppers too!
30 Herrett - The best all out terminal performance on hogs and deer out to 300yds the 30 Herrett is it. The round hits like Thor's hammer, DRT. A perfect match for Texas hog hunters.
The 6.8 SPC is the fastest growing and #1 choice for hunting deer and hogs with an AR15.
War Eagle or Roll Tide? Figure it's the latter with 'Bama'.
Nice beast dang I can smell the stench from here big ol feller.
FYI not sure if the malfunction is a rarity with your 300, but if it's a regular thing I have about 250 rounds through the RNZ Unimag and it's fantastic so far. The anti-tilt follower is quite ingenious....I think...so far. Tilts to the rear so the front of the follower can't dip down. 1st round to last loads like a dream. Anyway thought I'd bring it up my buddy found them researching for CProducts mags. Took a chance...liking them so far. They take 300bo, 6.5, both flavors of x39, 450, .223...all in one.
Congrats on that big ol' boy.
Many thanks 437! I'll give that a try. I went back to the lodge and cleaned the 300 BO real well thinking that might be a problem. I've been shooting it quite a bit in last couple weeks and kinda lost track of cleaning. Also, I filed down the rail on inside of .223 mag. Saw on Utube that helps line them up better. Thanks for the heads up and I'll give RNZ Unimag a try.
It looked like the ground shook when he fell.
Yea it may have just been gunked up. Went out last night and got SKUNKED.....I mean total. I did not see a deer, possum, raccoon, squirrel, armadillo....nada...obviously no yotes or hogs. What a bizarre ghost town.
Thanks! Need to get back out there and let some lead fly! Just got a 6.8 SPC upper from Eric at Blackstone Arms and some 120 gr Cavity Back bullets.
Very nice boar! Good going. I like the way you marked the 300 mag. I am going to do the same, don't want no problems!
I have an upper from Eric too. I don't reload but would love to try those cavity backs.
He is working on adding the sale of loaded rounds in SPCII potency. Keep your ear to the ground.
JoeBano - Magazine - Spray Painted with brown paint , let dry then white paint pen and stencil sheet from Hobby Lobby. I too don't want a mishap! Thanks and enjoy!
Big nasty ugly muggly down! Congrats.
In the ecosystem thanks you… he pirated a lot of resources to get that big.
Good photos as well - they can be tough to get.