Valerie had a big horse that was a difficult traveller, which is unfortunately an all too common problem.
He’s nervous and often panics, so we custom designed a wide bodied straight load horse float with large drop down windows and a light and bright interior to give him the maximum possible sense of space. Plus our exclusive easy to use emergency drop down chest bars for total peace of mind.
Now Valerie and her horse always travel stress free from A to B!
April was looking at all sorts of horse floats for sale VIC but the off the shelf builds came nowhere near close to meeting her horses’ and family’s needs.
People and horses both have differing needs and that’s why the one size fits all approach rarely suits anyone. What’s most important is that horse floats are designed by a horse person in collaboration with the owner who knows their hors e’s and own needs best.
"My pony has never traveller better"
"by far the best quality"
We chose Equiluxe for a number of different reasons: 1- We did a bit of research before we brought a new float and saw that Equiluxe had no bad reviews, all great comments! 2- Equiluxe were by far the best quality of all the floats we looked at. All finished very nicely and extremely well built. 3- They had great safety features, the inbuilt camera for one and now the new drop-down chest bars! Fantastic! 4- The Equiluxe was the only float with everything that we needed and wanted all in a standard float! Also this was the best priced float for what it contains!! Your service was impeccable, very friendly and helpful people!
"every person that looked at it says the same thing - it really is well finished and has great workmanship"
"I love your customer service"
"Everything we asked for was done, the service you have provided was excellent"
—Excellent Service – Everything We Asked for Was Done!
"It would probably be one of the most used floats that you have sold and its standing up to the use with flying colours. Thank you!"
—Another client who loves her float!