WASHINGTON (August 2, 2011) — President Barack Obama on Tuesday nominated Miranda Mai Du to serve on the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada. If confirmed, Ms. Du would be only the third Asian Pacific American in U.S. history to serve as an Article III judge outside of the east and west coasts. She would also become the first-ever Asian Pacific American to serve as an Article III judge in Nevada.
The National Asian Pacific American Bar Association, the national association of Asian Pacific American attorneys, judges, law professors and law students, representing the interests of over 40,000 attorneys and 62 local Asian Pacific American bar associations, applauded the president for his selection of Du.
The U.S. Census reports a growing Asian Pacific American population in Nevada. In 2010, the Asian Pacific American community in Nevada had grown to approximately nine percent of the population. Of the 139 active Article III judgeships in the Ninth Circuit, of which Nevada is a member, only 10 are currently Asian Pacific Americans and none serve in Nevada.
Since 1994, Ms. Du has practiced with the firm of McDonald Carano Wilson LLP in Reno, Nevada, where she is a partner. She is the Chair of the Employment & Labor Law group, and her practice focuses on litigating employment and complex civil cases.
She was included in Mountain States Rising Stars, Super Lawyers in 2009, selected as a “Top 20 under 40” Young Professionals in the Reno-Tahoe Area in 2008, and nominated as a Woman of Achievement by the Nevada Women’s Fund in 2007.
Ms. Du has also served as a Commissioner on the Nevada Commission on Economic Development since 2008. She graduated from the University of California-Berkeley (Boalt Hall) in 1994, and from the University of California-Davis with Honors in 1991.
Ms. Du left Vietnam with her family by boat when she was eight years old, and immigrated to Alabama after spending a year in refugee camps in Malaysia.
NAPABA and AAJC join in thanking President Obama for nominating Ms. Du and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid for recommending her to the President.
As of recent events , I can only believe you got your position to show equal rights .Or you would not turn a deaf ear to the Mustangs again !Perhaps you are I’ll informed too young ,or have no heart , ears &eyes .Some feel you are being bribed .Not expected ,am sure ! I truly believe that you should stop these auctions ,, or GO LOOK AT THE PROCESS AUCTION -TRANSPORT, BRUTALLY , AND THE SLAUGHTER START TO FINISH .BEFORE YOU ALLOW THIS TO HAPPEN AGAIN !!!!Some of us were able to save some but not all.SHAMEFUL PLEASE LISTEN !!!!
After events of recent, concerning mustangs , I feel you must of got your position as a part of equal rights , thus leaving you too inexperienced.Please let it not be that you have no heart , eyes or ears for this subject .Many think you are being bribed ! Bet you never thought that would happen .Well , before you keep letting horses be sold , YOU SHOULD GO DOWN , LOOK WITNESS FROM AUCTION TO SLAUGHTER AND ACTUAL SLAUGHTER , until then I believe you won’t bother yourself to get properly informed !!!
I believe it is sad and shameful that Judge Miranda Du lifted the ban to round up wild horses. How can she do this, has she seen what they do to these horses? The mother horses being seperated from their babies? It’s unbelievable that a woman could allow this to happen. Unconscionable. Shameful.