Having recognized some of our childhood experiences and mistaken conclusions in parts 1 &2, here we continue to investigate the messages we received as children through people?s words, behaviors or attitudes.
If this process causes you to feel disturbed, seek the help of an experienced professional. If possible find an practitioner trained in TFT, EFT or EMDR.
1. As a child, I heard that my most significant faults were…..
2. As a child, I felt guilt for /when ….
This can be done daily as an exercise in itself or as a prelude to meditation or prayer.
2. Relax the entire body and mind with any relaxing or concentration technique.
3. Now imagine or feel your inner child and communicate with it.
c. Express to the child your needs and goals as an adult.
4. Give it the positive reinforcement it needs to hear about love, security and worth.
5. Embrace the child mentally with tenderness and love.
1. Write the story of your childhood years.
b. It doesn?t need to be in chronological order.
c. You can write in the third or first person.
e. Look at old pictures and seek to remember how you felt then.
Having done so, we now move on to the following process.
c. What thoughts or to what conclusions did you arrive as a child because of this experience or situation?
e. What effect did this experience have upon you later in your life or even today?
1. What did you feel then as a child?
2. What were your needs and desires?
3. What did you want them to do or not do?
(Write the answer in the second person to your parents and / or to others as if you were speaking to them or writing them a letter).
3. Write letters to the people who played an important role in the unpleasant experiences of your childhood (parents, teachers, uncles, aunts, siblings, grandparents & others).
Note: It is not necessary to give these letters to the people you are writing them to, only to have expressed them yourself. In some cases, however, once you are clear about this, and have released the emotional charge concerning theses issues, you may want to communicate verbally or in writing with those concerned ? whether they are living or not.
Remember however that life has given you the experiences you need to proceed in your evolutionary process and that you have probably gained much internally from all this.
4. Read the letters to someone who is experienced in active listening.
a. If you find that the reading causes strong feelings, express and release them, before you continue reading. Don?t hold these emotions locked inside you.
b. You may need to read these letters additional times until the emotional charge is released.