filmed, videoed and photographed thousands of times by professionals. On completion proceed to hotel.
After breakfast climb the 5th century Sigiriya rock fortress which is a world heritage site, built by King Kashyapa (477-495 AD). The 'Lion Rock' is a citadel of unusual beauty rising 200 meters from the scrub jungle. The rock was the innermost stronghold of the 70 hectare fortified town. Visit the world-renowned frescoes of the 'Heavenly Maidens' of Sigiriya, which are in a sheltered pocket of the rock approached by a spiral stairway. These frescoes are painted in earth pigments on plaster.
Day 4: Kandy After breakfast proceed to Kandy enroute visiting a spice garden in Matale to see different spices for which Sri Lanka is famous for. Here, clients could see different spices and how some of these spices are grown and processed. Witness a Cookery demonstration. Check in Hotel. Afternoon do a city tour of Kandy. Kandy was the last capital of the Sri Lankan kings which is a World Heritage Site. The name "Kandy" conjures visions of splendor and magnificence. Drive around the Kandy Lake built by the last Sinhala king, Sri Wickrama Rajasinghe in 1798. Visit the Kandy town and Bazaar, the arts and crafts center, a gem museum and a lapidary. Also visit the Temple of the Tooth Relic in Kandy. Thereafter witness a Cultural show.
After breakfast proceed to Peradeniya Botanical Gardens. This Botanical Garden was first built as a pleasure garden by a Sinhala king and was expanded by the British. It is 147 acres in extent and provides an amazing variety of trees, plants and flowers. Proceed to Nuwara Eliya enroute visiting a tea plantation and a tea factory, where the best tea in the world is produced. Here you could observe all about the process of manufacturing tea. You can also see how tea is graded. Taste a cup of pure Ceylon tea in the factory. Thereafter continue to Nuwara Eliya, because of its invigorating mountain climate and scenery, is Sri Lanka s most popular hill resort. Nuwara Eliya is also the heart of Sri Lanka s tea country producing a significant share of the world’s best tea. Sri Lanka s highest mountain Pidurutalagala (8282 feet) is located here. Nuwara-Eliya also has one of the finest 18 hole golf courses in South Asia.
After breakfast proceed to Colombo via Kitulgala. Check in Hotel in Colombo. Afternoon do a city tour of Colombo, like many capital cities in developing countries is fast changing its face. Almost overnight, skyscrapers arise from where old buildings once stood. Yet in some parts, the old world charm is retained. Other places of interest are the Pettah bazaar, a Hindu and a Buddhist temple, residential areas where you find the stately homes of the affluent, the Colombo museum, the Bandaranaike Memorial International Conference Hall (BMICH)- an outright gift to Sri Lanka from the People's Republic of China, and the Dutch Museum.
Return Economy class ticket on Qatar Airways on “W” booking Class: Beirut / Doha / Colombo / Doha / Beirut.