In the spirit of giving during the holiday season, The Cowan Foundation helped kids get active with a $50,000 donation to the YMCA through their annual Holiday Card Program.
Jim Chaplin, YMCA Fellowship of Honour member and President of the Cambridge YMCA from 1964-1974, passed away peacefully at his home in North Dumfries, Ontario on November 15.
BMO NBA All-Star KidsFest events at the YMCA have begun!
2016 marks the 125th anniversary of the invention of basketball by Dr. James Naismith in 1891, working at the YMCA International Training School.
Carlos Soldi-Macdougall was recently profiled in the Hamilton Spectator, with his inspiring story of hard work and perseverance.
In late August, approximately 100-150 children from all the Edmonton branches of the YMCA of Northern Alberta had a thrill they’re not likely to forget.
Kat Clewley, a Health and Wellness Supervisor with the YMCA of Hamilton/Burlington/Brantford has an unusual sport of choice.
Yoga for peace. Candlelight walks. Be Kind bells. Random acts of kindness. Once again, November marked YMCA Peace Week across the country.
Scott Haldane, YMCA Canada’s President and CEO, has announced that he will retire at the end of this year.
“No matter who you are, everyone should have a fitness goal,” says Lizzie Bergman, fitness instructor at the Flamborough Family YMCA.
On October 7, 2015 the YMCA of Wood Buffalo cut the ribbon on the new Eagle Ridge Community Centre.
A recent article by CBC News in Montreal focuses on the experience of Kiara, a 14-year-old member of the West Island YMCA in Montreal.
On October 22, the Town of Marystown and the YMCA of Newfoundland and Labrador announced that they had signed a 20-year renewable agreement for the YMCA to deliver programs at the new Marystown Recreation Centre.
On October 20, the official ground-breaking ceremony took place for the YMCA of Greater Toronto’s Kingston Road YMCA.
Ontario shoppers at Zehrs Markets helped send more than 540 children across Ontario to summer camp by choosing to add $2 to their grocery bill during the Zehrs "Give a Little, Help a Lot" campaign.