PyratineXR Intensive Anti-Redness & Healing Ointment has been specially formulated for helping to reduce the facial redness associated with rosacea, eczema and acne. This clinically proven formulation also acts as an excellent skin conditioner and moisturizer for soothing dry and sensitive skin.
PyratineXR Intensive Ointment is a multi-purpose skin care product that can be used as a spot treatment as well as a facial moisturizer. You can also use it to promote healing of redness and inflammation from procedures such as laser, dermabrasion and chemical peels.
What is PyratineXR Intensive Anti-Redness & Healing Ointment?
The Intensive Anti-Redness & Healing Ointment from PyratineXR aims to reduce facial redness, improve skin barrier function and restore moisture to the skin. This intensive healing ointment is ideal for people with conditions such as eczema, rosacea and atopic dermatitis. It is a multi-functional product that can be used as a moisturizer, an anti-inflammatory agent as well as an anti-aging product.
to help improve skin texture and ease redness and skin irritation. Clinical Study in rosacea patients showed that after 12 weeks of consistent use this treatment improved facial redness by 67%. Unlike other products that sit on the surface of the skin, this intensive ointment penetrates the skin quickly and protects skin by improving skin’s barrier function.
Advanced cytokinins: Derived from plants, cytokinins are clinically proven to increase the life of cells while minimizing free radicals. It has also been known to help slow down the aging process and reduce signs of ageing such as fine lines, wrinkles, hyperpigmentation and skin roughness.
Derived from olives, Oli-C provides skin conditioning and moisture on a level that no other natural ingredients can offer. The natural monosaturated omega 9 fatty acid occurs naturally in many animals and plants showing its divine calling in a lot of natures eco systems. This special ingredient helps to provide several beneficial properties to the skin including soothing skin conditions like eczema, anti- ageing properties that aim to help slow down the signs of ageing.
Rich in antioxidants and vitamins, this potent moisturiser helps improve skin tone and texture. This natural ingredients offers the skin a perfect base to be healthy and enables the collagen inducing ingredients to be more efficient. The molecular structure of this ingredient is unique due to the fact its molecular formation is different to most other plants aiding the effectiveness of the collagen inducing ingredients.
Also known as coconut oil, it helps prevent water loss to keep skin hydrated and supple. Coconut oil offers a number of beneficial skin properties such as anti fungal and antioxidant properties enabling a clean and efficient base for the skin to develop and increase its barrier to free radicals.
Other ingredients in PyratineXR Intensive Anti-Redness & Healing Ointment include Ricinus, Communis 9 (Castor) Seed oil, Carthamus Tinctorius(safflower) Seed Oil, Cetyl Palmitate, Sorbitan Palmitate, Sorbitan Olivate, Propylene Glycol, Hydrogenated Castor Oil, Cera alba (Beeswax), Furturyl Tetrahydropyranyladenine, Cramble Abyssinica Seed Oil, Copernicia Cerifera (Carnuba) Wax.
You can use PyratineXR Intensive Anti-Redness & Healing Ointment to reduce redness or skin roughness. It can also be used as your daily facial moisturizer. Before applying the ointment, clean the area thoroughly and pat dry.
Placing your order for PyratineXR Intensive Anti-Redness Ointment with us is easy and secure. Simply click on ‘Add to Basket’ and proceed to payment page. For your convenience, we offer various payment and delivery options. Our UK customers can benefit from our free next day delivery, if they place their order before 4 pm on any working day.