UNStudio has joined forces with HPP Architects to create a consortium (UNS + HPP) to carry out the next phases of their winning project at the architectural design competition for FOUR Frankfurt. Take a look at the complete story after the jump.
From the architects: The centrally located 16,000 square meter site was purchased by Groß & Partner real estate development company – who will be carrying out the development of the project – back in 2015. Situated in the very core of the city, the site has been completely inaccessible for the last 45 years. Now four new high-rise towers will change Frankfurt’s skyline from the air, while cultivating its liveliness on the ground. The development of these towers, reaching heights of 228 meters, will open up new streets to create a multi-use, vibrant inner-city quarter, bringing together a healthy mix of work, living, relaxation and recreation.
The choice of programmes allows for a smooth transition from Frankfurt’s shopping district to the east of Roßmarkt, to the high-rise office towers clustered around Park Taunusanlage. With a development concept that is unique to Europe, the FOUR Frankfurt project brings together facilities that will establish a lively new neighbourhood for Frankfurt, its visitors, and its (future) residents.
The new high-rise complex will be integrated into the expanding city structure by incorporating the heritage-listed facades of the Junghofstraße into the design and by making a multi-storey base building the connecting element of the entire site.
According to the assessment by the competition jury, the unique quality of the quarter can be found in its public development and amenity value. The new development will therefore create connected spaces, accessible rooftops, pathways and passages. The existing block on the Junghofstraße will be opened up to strengthen the surrounding pathways and ensure a high level of accessibility. This will create a multi-use, diverse quarter comprising 50% office spaces, 30% living accommodation (including subsidized housing), in addition to retail spaces, restaurants and hotels.
Four Frankfurt is expected to be completed in 2023.