Singapore’s Most Amazing Outdoor Experience For Children!
*Program Itinerary will be sent to parents in the confirmation email after registrations.
FREE PLAY @ The Polliwogs before and after program!
Put on your cap, bring along your binoculars and join us to explore the vast biodiversity that our 3 Days Explorer Program offer! Be warned though- as your feet will get wet during our splashing good times! Complete the fun Science-centric adventures with series of indoor skit program at The Polliwogs! Participants will get to have a close interaction with fascinating animals such as Sea Star, Horseshoe Crab, Amphibians and Crawlies, before learning about simple ways to protect our environment.
What’s a more interesting way to learn about Science and animals than being a Young Nature Explorers with The Polliwogs and Young Nautilus! Book your slots before 31st October 2018 with the coupon code “POLLI-EXPLORER18” to enjoy 10% OFF ticket price! Limited slots available, prevailing Terms & Conditions applies.
a journey to Singapore’s very own Changi Beach! The show will also feature LIVE marine animals from The Young Nautilus Marine Touch Tank!
Next, lets go outdoors and embark on an Intertidal Walk at Changi Beach! Join us for a hands-on unique experience with the marine animals of the Changi sandy shore! Get your feet wet and learn about hermit crabs, sea cucumbers, swimmer crabs, sand dollars and many other amazing animals!
Value in Action – Wonders of Rainforest!
Welcome to the beautiful world of the rainforest habitat! Learn about her wonders, unique climate and weather that enables her to grow in such vast biodiversity! Come join us as we observe the various layers that makes up the rainforest and how each level’s own unique characteristics allow plants and animals to live together!
Caterpillars and Stick insects) that live among the plants!
Value in Action – Conservation Fun!
We bring you to the Mangrove forest of Sungei Buloh Wetland Reserves, where you will get up close to the biodiversity of the animals and plants of the Mangrove ecosystem! You may get to see animals such as mudskippers, monitor lizards, tree climbing crabs, kingfishers, crocodiles and many more mangrove inhabitants!
Lastly, we present live amphibians (Frogs & Tadpoles) to the children! They will get to see the different stages of the Frog’s life cycle, and why frogs are so important to the environment and ecosystem because of their place in the food chain. Children will have a hands-on feeding session with the animals after!
*Indoor Programs will be conducted in The Polliwogs @ Suntec City.
*All start and end locations will be in The Polliwogs @ Suntec City.
*Meals / Picnic Packs will be provided in between the programs.
*Enjoy free play @ The Polliwogs before and after program.