If you’re like me, Math is something, unless you do it daily for work, that you possessed only long enough to pass the test. Although it was my highest score on my ACTs (how?), Math, for the most part, is preferably in my past. We memorized multiplication, were plagued by pesky word problems, gritted our teeth while we graphed. I retained and can recite a few formulas from class – The Pythagorean Theorem = A squared + B squared = C squared, and although I’d like to think that Geometry has helped me while playing pool, Math doesn’t mix with my mindset. In the case of Pittsburgh professional Xander Demos, though, I see numbers with new knowledge!
When it comes to Xander Demos, the numbers are very clear to calculate. His last two singles made their way to number 1 on Myspace’s Metal and Progressive chart. He will be featured on two future compilations, Liberty N Justice’s “Cigar Chronicles” and Raging Storm Records’ “Night Of the Living Shred,” and also will appear on Ged Ryland’s solo CD, due out soon. Xander has innumerable endorsements and has been featured on no fewer than 5 shows and sites, including The Real Radio Show with AJ Pero of Twisted Sister, Steve Vai’s GuitarTV.com, GuitarWorld.com, Hair Metal Mansion and Iron City Rocks.
Mixed by CJ Snare of Firehouse, it contains 10 tracks of combustible guitar content. Mr. Demos will also be delivering an instructional DVD and sharing his skills to interested students. A collection of his endorsements include EMG Pickups, Conklin Guitars, ISP Technologies, David Thomas McNaught Guitars, GraphTech, V-Picks, Jim Dunlop Strings and Accessories, Hughes and Kettner, Tremol-No, FloydUpgrades.com, Scott Dixon Cases and Suhr Guitars, Amps & Effects. Xander exclusively uses the FloydUpgrades tremolos or the GraphTech LB-63 piezo-equipped Floyd tremolo and has Xander Demos signature series guitars both 6-string and 7-string models. However, you don’t need to know extensive knowledge about guitars to enjoy his efforts.
What Mr. Demos delivers is a really diverse range that is both nostalgic and new. You can head-bang without the head ache, as he comes through clean and clear, cutting like a capable musical carver. Also an avid animal aid, Xander donated some of his EP sales to various animal charities. When you add it all up, Xander Demos is the correct answer to the mathematical musical equation, and that’s always a lesson I look forward to learning!
Sara Fincham: Talk about the importance of Pittsburgh in your work. How did you get your start there, how is the response, and how has it allowed you to expand not just withing the city the city, but outside it as well?
that people are starting to catch on – slow but sure.
SF: Tell us more about your product endorsements. How did that happen and how does that help you, and in return, how do you help them?
I am associated with at this point.
SF: Did you foresee your last singles soaring to number one? What was that like and what doors have that unlocked for you, to have video success?
that people WANT to hear. It’s a great feeling!
SF: You’re involved in a few different projects. Any updates on the east coast tour with the Sabbath Judas Sabbath tribute band? How often do you play in Pittsburgh?
in Pittsburgh yet so stay tuned to my website for details.
SF: How did the compilation cds and your involvement with Ged Ryland’s solo CD come about? Are you approached for projects like that or do you still solicit some?
I am just working with the ones that have contacted me.
SF: You play a lot of shows, and have been fortunately featured on so many sites – what’s the next step? How do you keep building on that?
SF: I would love to see a show sometime! What have you got coming up?