I will clean the coils on my refrigerator at least twice this year.
I will leave the door on my washer open after use to prevent mildew and odors.
I will check and refill my dishwashers rinse aid dispenser every three months for better drying.
I will have my dryer vent line cleaned this year to provide better airflow.
I will change the water filter in my refrigerator to keep the water flowing properly and so it will be pure and clean.
I will clean out the old food from my freezer to provide for better airflow.
I will clean or replace the grease filters in my range hood to prevent fires.
I will clean the inside of my microwave oven to prevent damage.
I will clean spills inside my oven and on the cooktop as they happen.
I will not slam the doors or lids on any of my appliances so they don’t break.
I will use the proper amount of detergent in my washer and dishwasher to get the job done.
I will replace the water hoses on my washer to prevent water damage from a leak.
I will hope these tips help all my appliances to work better and longer but if they don’t, I will call Maslyn & Sons Appliance if I have any appliance repair needs!
H A P P Y N E W Y E A R S!!!!!
Happy birthday to the mom of the Maslyn Sons (and daughter)… we are grateful for you providing our work force! Thanks for all you do. We love you!
A very Merry Christmas from our house to yours.
The Maslyn Mrs. is not know for her love of cooking or cleaning, but one recipe she thinks every cook should know is this brunch family favorite. She though you might like to have it for Christmas morning! It is not low-fat, but hey, it’s a holiday.
Cut up bread in cubes & spread in 1/2 in greased casserole dish.
Mix the rest of the ingredients together & pour over bread.
Use a flat spatula to press down bread so it is fully saturated.
Cover with plastic wrap & let it sit in the fridge over night.
Cook all ingredients except the butter for 2 minutes in a small saucepan on the stove until it is bubbly.
Remove from stove & stir in butter.
Pour over baked strata right before you serve it.
We wish for you a working oven all holiday season long, but if you do happen to need an oven repair, call Maslyn & Sons Appliance and we will be there to help so you can make this tasty recipe for your family. (And remember not to clean your oven right before a big holiday as that is the #1 time ovens tend to go out.
To keep the oven, garbage disposal and kitchen sink drain in good working condition this holiday season, take some precautions. Oven problems usually go unnoticed until the big meal is already inside the oven, so a few minutes spent checking your kitchen appliances could save your holiday season.
Also, as we mentioned at Thanksgiving, avoid running the self-cleaning cycle RIGHT before a big holiday dinner (because this might cause something to go wrong with your oven… do it WELL in advance so if something breaks, you have plenty of time to call Maslyn & Sons Appliance out).
Replace gaskets at the first sign of a leak or if moisture appears on outside of oven.
Avoid pouring grease down your drain into your garbage disposal.
Throw leftovers in the trash or compost pile instead of putting down the garbage disposal.
Ensure there is enough space around appliances to allow heat to escape.
So pleased to welcome a new “daughter-in-love” to our family!
*Replace charcoal filter on your VENT HOOD (1x every 12 months).
*Swap out rubber drain hoses for braided stainless steel on your WASHER to prevent floods and leaks.
Maslyn & Sons Appliance repair does appliance maintenance as well as appliance repair!
Preheat oven to 400 degrees. In a small bowl, mix together mustard, syrup, and vinegar. Place chicken breasts into 9×13 baking dish. Season with salt and pepper.
Pour mustard mixture over chicken. No need to marinate.
Bake for about 30-40 minutes or until meat thermometer reads 165 degrees. Season with rosemary. Prepare for people to ask you to make it again.
“Thanksgiving. It’s like we didn’t even TRY to come up with a tradition. The tradition is, we overeat.
Get your microwave squeaky clean before you have guests for the holiday. It will work better AND be less embarrassing!
Fill a microwave-safe glass or bowl half full of water. Add a tablespoon of white vinegar.
Turn on for 5 minutes. You may need less time in a high-powered microwave oven; keep an eye on it the first time you try this. This will steam up the walls of the microwave and loosen the dried-on gunk.
Remove the glass container (with hot pads). Wipe down the inside of the microwave with a clean rag or paper towel while it is still steamy and the gunk is still softened.
The loose gunk should come off easily now.
Take out the glass tray or turntable and wash it like a dish. You could even run it through the dishwasher if you have time.
We hope your appliances stay in tip-top working order as you enter this busy holiday season, but if they don’t, call Maslyn and Sons Appliance and we will come out and do your microwave repair in a jiffy!