Colette has extensive experience in the beauty industry and her passion and dedication ensure an exceptional service to each and every customer. Colette has the expertise to skillfully create a truly stunning look for you for your big day, prom or any special event where you really want to look a million dollars!
Colette recognises that every bride has a vision of how they would like to look on their big day, and so offers a bespoke service to really understand and create that look with each and every bride.
Available for: Bridal Hair and Makeup throughout the UK and overseas.
From then on getting up close and personal photographing some of the biggest bands in the world; followed on by a three year study of Photography in College and 12 years on the road with a “Travelling Family Portrait Studio extending the width and breadth of Canada to finally moving to the UK and becoming a celebrity photographer including shooting Spandau Ballet’s Tony Hadley’s wedding and marriage to Alison Evers at Cliveden House Hotel.
Toni is one of our makeup artists and hair stylists and is loved for her approachability and caring nature. Toni is also one of our Blow Dry specialists within the team, and our Bridal Hair Accessory Designer!
Toni comes from a fashion background which is demonstrated with her incredible creativity and attention to detail, and makes her in high demand for photoshoots.
As the Bridal Hair Accessory Designer for the Pro Team, Toni can create hair accessories and floral hair pieces with our brides-to-be to fit around their theme, and hair style.
"I absolutely adore being creative and I have a massive passion for all things Makeup and Fashion, so being able to combine them both is just fab! Finally...my Dream Job! There is nothing better than making someone feel amazing, whether its for a Special Occasion or for a Photoshoot"
Salinla has vast experience working with all skin tones and is loved for her creative eye make up.
Salinla is available for weddings, hen parties, photoshoots and other special occasions.
"I'm incredibly excited to be a part of the Pro Team! This is my chance to live my dream life as a makeup artist!
I love makeup! Makeup is my passion! and nothing makes me happier than to make a bride feel beautiful on their big day"
Lilly joined us after completing 2 years training at the Brushstroke Makeup and Hair School. She has a particular interest in Fashion and Editorial looks, and has worked as a Makeup Artist at the Pride of London Event, Toni & Guy Catwalk Show and Photoshoot and has also worked on various Theatre Productions.
Lilly is also one of our Airbrush makeup specialists.
“I love being a part of the CJ Beauty Pro Team! Makeup has been a passion of mine for such a long time and using my creative skills within my favourite areas, Fashion, Editorial and Wedding is my dream. I love working with different brands, a few favourites of mine being, Morphe, Nars, and Laura Mercier."
Zoe is a Trainee Makeup Artist within the Pro Team. Zoe has completed a professional two-day training course with another trainer and has worked alongside another makeup artist for 6-months. Zoe's warm personality, smile and passion for makeup is infectious. Zoe is undergoing an intense training programme and will be mentored by Colette, and will support all of the Pro Team during the coming months.
"‘I am delighted to be joining the team having been an admirer of CJ Beauty & Co's work for a while. I can’t wait to be able to develop my skills and meet CJ's clients in this creative industry"
Special rates are available if you wish to book Zoe to support her training programmes with us.
Which level of service would you like? ----Colette - Director,Makeup Artist, Airbrush specialist and leading hair designerPro Team MemberThe Whole TeamI don’t know, please advise me!