Wonder what the failing of a nonprofit board's duty of loyalty can look like?
One of the best examples I've seen is described in detail in the following Chicago Tribune story. And, as a refresher, the most common failing of the duty of loyalty is conflict of interest -- that is, when board members make decisions that take advantage of their position as a board member and result in personal material gain. If there's a case for failing their conflict of interest, this is it. For shame, for shame, for shame!!!
College of DuPage Trustee Dianne McGuire shows President Robert Breuder a newspaper clip before a special board meeting in January. McGuire has pushed for competitive bidding for college contracts.
Tribune: College of DuPage Foundation's board members have business ties to the school worth $200 million.
Who are top donors to College of DuPage? The official fundraisers who also billed it for $200M in business.
Officials at the College of DuPage have a long list of items to turn over to federal investigators by next week, including a trove of documents related to contracts with companies tied to board members for the school's fundraising foundation.
Here's what those records will show: Nearly half of the College of DuPage Foundation's 22 most recent board members are executives at companies doing business with the publicly funded school, and many of those companies have been awarded jobs without going through a competitive selection process, according to a Tribune investigation.
Those businesses have billed the college for nearly $200 million since July 2010 — while also ranking among the foundation's most generous donors. The Tribune's investigation, examining many of the same documents now being sought by federal authorities, raises questions about the confluence of business dealings and fundraising at the state's largest community college.
The foundation contracts are the latest legal and public relations battle for the Glen Ellyn school, which was served with two grand jury subpoenas this week as part of a federal criminal investigation. Since January, the school has been under fire for giving its president one of the largest buyout packages in state history, lavish spending by top administrators and its lax financial oversight.
A review of board minutes, emails and an audio recording shows that some school trustees raised foundation-related concerns more than a year ago. But President Robert Breuder repeatedly resisted calls for a more open contracting policy.
"I thought here in Illinois especially, even the appearance of pay-to-play or conflict of interest is dangerous," college Trustee Dianne McGuire said in an audio recording of a December 2013 board meeting.
McGuire, the board's liaison to the foundation, pushed for a more competitive selection process and suggested at that meeting that, based on an earlier conversation with Breuder, he agreed.
He didn't, the recording shows.
"I never weighed in," said Breuder, now also a target of the federal investigation. "I didn't go either way. I just sat there."
"I have to assume that at some point you saw there was some validity to what I was saying," McGuire replied.
"No," Breuder answered firmly. "It was an easy way to satisfy an interest that you had."
It's now an interest shared by federal prosecutors. The college has been ordered to provide documents showing all payments, reimbursements, contracts or loans between the college and foundation board members and their businesses, according to grand jury subpoenas obtained by the Tribune. The subpoenas also ask for documentation of any bids the companies submitted, their professional qualifications, and any efforts made to ensure the work was competitively awarded.
Including two members who resigned from the board this month, 10 of the foundation's 22 board members do business with the school, according to documents obtained under the Freedom of Information Act. Of those 10, nine have received non-competitive deals for a variety of business, including construction management, legal representation and political lobbying, the records show.
Nothing more than pay to play the Chicago way.
The businesses, meanwhile, all have donated generously over the years to the college's foundation. In fiscal year 2014, each company — or the foundation board member employed by the company — gave at least $5,000, putting them in the President's Circle, the highest level of annual giving, according to the foundation's annual report. Three companies are also part of the Presidential Society, an honor bestowed upon those who have given $100,000 or more over a lifetime.
College and foundation officials met with the Tribune on Monday, before the revelation of the federal investigation. In a lengthy interview, they defended the relationships because in all but one case, they said, the contracts were awarded before the company employees joined the board. The foundation-connected vendors all joined the board between 2010 and 2014.
Records show, however, companies tied to at least seven board members received contract renewals, extensions or increases, or new business, after their executives joined the board.
Many of the jobs did not have to be competitively bid because they involve professional services, one of the few exemptions under the state's procurement laws, or because the college already had a "satisfactory relationship" with the company, according to the officials.
"These people were contracted long before and became good friends of the college because they became involved in the mission. They are community and business leaders," said Catherine Brod, the foundation's executive director.
Still, critics have said there is at least an appearance of impropriety.
"All of the transactions are completely legal if conducted at arm's length, but the pattern is troubling," said Adam Andrzejewski, founder of the watchdog group For the Good of Illinois and an outspoken critic of the college's spending.
The nonprofit foundation serves as the college's fundraising arm, and while it is legally separate from the college, the school pays foundation employees' salaries and provides them office space. Foundation board members don't get paid.
According to the foundation's annual report, it gave away over $452,000 in scholarship money to more than 600 students last school year. It also awarded more than $130,000 to support faculty and staff projects.
"The people who are on our board are really very involved with their time. They are passionate about the college," said foundation board President Susan Lang Berry.
Board members are asked to donate at least $1,000 a year and make the foundation one of their top three charities, Berry said.
Community colleges nationwide have rules regarding vendor agreements between the schools and foundation board members, from policies prohibiting them to using conflict-of-interest statements to make the business dealings transparent. The College of DuPage Foundation's conflict of interest policy does not address board members' business dealings with the college, but cautions "most conflicts fall into a gray area where ethics and public perception are more relevant than statutes or precedents."
"Loss of public confidence and a damaged reputation are the most likely results of poorly managed conflict of interest," the policy adds.
Taken together, foundation-connected companies have billed the school for nearly $200 million in the past five years, records show. The companies include two construction firms, Chicago-based Power Construction Co. and Minnesota-based Mortenson Construction Co.; two local law firms, Robbins Schwartz and Fuchs & Roselli; lobbyist Scott Marquardt; architectural firm Wight & Co.; project management firm CCS International; and signage company Herricane Graphics.
U.S. Bank, which has a representative on the board, pays $1,500 a month to operate the only bank branch on campus, a noncompetitive deal approved by trustees in October 2012. The bank's Chicago market president, Marsha Cruzan, has served on the school's foundation since July 2010.
St. Charles-based Bison Gear & Engineering also has done a small amount of business with the college, selling $7,550 worth of equipment in the past year. A foundation official said Bison Chairman Ronald Bullock — a foundation member who donated $275,000 for student scholarships last year — would not have been aware of such a minor transaction at his company.
The companies and their foundation-connected representatives either did not return calls seeking comment or deferred most questions to the college.
Amid the Tribune's reporting, college attorneys Kenneth Florey, of Robbins Schwartz, and Steven Ruffalo, of Fuchs & Roselli, stepped down from the foundation board, citing personal and business reasons. Payments to their firms are included in the Tribune's analysis because they were sitting board members until earlier this month.
The college declined to provide contracts signed before July 2010 and didn't release any records until a Tribune attorney intervened. Officials also would not provide records showing proposals from those companies, though the officials contend all went through a competitive process before their first deal with the school. The vast majority of the payments were for construction work as the college has built or significantly renovated a number of buildings since Breuder became president in 2009.
A review of more than 900 pages of invoices, contracts and board minutes shows that the college has paid more than $192 million in the past five years to Mortenson Construction and Power Construction. The two companies have spearheaded projects funded by a successful referendum in fall 2010, when voters approved a $168 million measure to expand the campus' homeland security education center and renovate other buildings.
College officials say the $192 million figure is misleading because it includes payments that passed through the construction com