Leading 2017 Isle of Man TT newcomer Adam McLean will be at this year’s Armoy Road Races.
The big event will take place on Friday and Saturday, July 28-29.
Joining McLean, a previous winner of the Junior Support at Armoy, will be local men William Dunlop, Neil Kernohan, Paul Jordan, Darryl Tweed, Paul Robinson, Gary Dunlop, Hexham rider Dominic Herbertson and Moto3/125 GP race winner Christian Elkin, winner of Moto3/125 GP race in 2016.
With entries yet to close (July 3) and the 2017 TT just finished, many riders are now turning their attention to Armoy and confirming their attendance.
The announcement was made at the official launch of the Roadside Kia ‘Race of Legends’, which was held at Gracehill House, Stranocum yesterday alongside a keynote presentation from David Wallace, the film producer of Road Racers and a local Dunloy man.
This year is the 40th anniversary of the original 1977 documentary, which truly captured the heady mixture of three local men, their families and their passion, drive and love of road racing.
He gave a short presentation on why and how the film was made but having won two BAFTAs for other work.
Some key scenes of the film depict the three riders, Joey Dunlop, Mervyn Robinson and Frank Kennedy, riding through the village of Armoy where they often tested their bikes.
Bill Kennedy MBE, Chairman and Clerk of the Course, AMRRC said: “We are delighted to host, film producer and local man, David Wallace. It is difficult to comprehend that this film, Road Racers, was made 40 years ago, let alone the impact this film would have in years to come, the place it has in people’s hearts and the iconic level that it has reached across the whole road racing community.
“The Armoy Road Races came about as most of you know, after a bit of craic in a local pub. It’s hard to believe come September that we will be in our tenth year and that we continue to celebrate all of our road racers, past and present, including the reputed Armoy Armada.
“It is also hard to be believe how exceptionally fast 2017 is disappearing but we are on target with our planning. With additional monies from the Department of Communities and some work on the roads, courtesy of Transport NI, these races are set to be one of the best.
“William Dunlop was man of the meeting in 2016 and I’ve no doubt he will be keen to revisit his Armoy winning streak. As of yet, brother, Michael Dunlop, who retains the title of Race of Legends winner, having won in six successive years has yet to confirm his entry but the Club is hopeful he will race on his home course come July.
Also in attendance were the Mayor of Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council, Councillor Joan Baird, Terence Brannigan, Chairman of Tourism Northern Ireland, members of the Armoy Club and other guests and sponsors including title &apos;Race of Legends&apos; sponsor, Roadside Kia.
Terence Brannigan, Tourism NI Chairman also commented: “Armoy Road Races are one of Northern Ireland’s prime motorsport gatherings, attracting motorcycle riders and spectators both locally and internationally.
"As the event goes from strength to strength it has an important role to play in tourism, in contributing to the economy and in enhancing our reputation as a destination.
Bill Kennedy concluded: “I’d like to finish by thanking event sponsors Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council and Tourism NI for their very kind support.
"I’d also like to thank our title sponsor Roadside Kia. Without the support and sponsorship from these organisations and other sponsors present here today, the event just wouldn’t be possible.
This year, Bike Week runs from Sunday July 23 until Saturday July 29 with the races taking place on Friday, July 28 and Saturday, July 29 culminating in the Roadside Kia ‘Race of Legends’.
The Armoy Road Races are part funded by Tourism Northern Ireland and the Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council.