If you haven’t heard, SnackSack is a relatively new subscription box that focuses on delivering natural, “junk-free” snacks to your door every month. All of the snacks included will be free of “artificial junk” and offer a mixture of all natural, vegan, organic, non-GMO, gluten-free, and fair trade products. They’ll all be tucked inside a reusable burlap sack, which is shipped in a large box for ultimate snack protection.
Subscriptions are $24.95/month with free shipping. Discounts are also available for multi-month plans. — For a limited time, you can save 10% on your first box with coupon code “ROSE10″!
Let’s see what’s in the January 2016 SnackSack!
As always, the snacks were all shipped in a large box with a green SnackSack logo on top.
The information card listed everything inside, along with a brief description. There are also little symbols next to each one indicating whether it’s vegan, gluten-free, and/or non-GMO.
Oogie’s Gourmet Popcorn – Two different flavors of Oogie’s popcorn were included — Sun-Dried Tomato & Parmesan and Spicy Chipotle & Lime. Both are made in small batches with all natural ingredients and are trans-fat and cholesterol free.
Sensible Foods Roasted Edamame – A crunchy snack with just two ingredients: edamame and salt. 100% natural, non-GMO, vegan, and gluten-free.
Rawxies Banana Nut Bread Cookie – I’ve always wanted to try these! They’re described as a cross between a cookie & a healthy food bar — and they’re heart-shaped! They’re also vegan, gluten-free, and soy-free.
Gorilly Goods Fruit & Nut Snack – Organic clusters of all natural fruit and nuts. Raw, vegan, and gluten-free.
Nibmor Cherry Chocolate Bar – I loved the Nibmor hot cocoa included in last month’s box, so I was excited to see this (vegan!!) chocolate bar featured this month. It’s made with non-GMO ingredients and is both vegan and gluten-free. Can’t wait to try it!
Flyjoy Ancient Grain Energy Bar – Just because this bar has chia, quinoa, and flax doesn’t mean it tastes like a “health food” — cos it most certainly does NOT. It was crispy, peanut buttery, and just plain delicious!
The Real Deal Snacks Veggie Chips – I’m kinda bummed that I got the cheddar flavor, because these chips look super good. (Ah well, my kids’ll enjoy ’em.) They’re made with green peas and each bag contains a full serving of vegetables.
Flamous Spicy Falafel Chips – I’ve had these once before and they’re amazing. Falafel in chip form? You can’t go wrong with that. Oh, and they’re top 8 allergen friendly, gluten-free, and vegan too.
Chosen Foods Chia Bites – These are crunchy little squares made of nuts, seeds, and vanilla. They’re packed with fiber and make for a great afternoon pick-me-up snack.
I Heart Keenwah Chocolate Sea Salt Quinoa Clusters – More squares! These ones are more dessert-y and feature crunchy quinoa, almonds, and a chocolate drizzle. Mmm.
TruJoy Fruit Chews – I am LOVING all of these vegan versions of traditional candies that have been popping up lately. These fruit chews are basically the organic/natural/vegan version of Starburst and they’re fantastic!
If you’d like to try out SnackSack for yourself, you can save 10% on your first purchase with my exclusive coupon code “ROSE10″!
SnackSack just keeps knockin' it out of the park. Awesome box as always!