SearchExpress Medical Document Management is affordable software used by Home Health Care providers to scan paper documents, and workflow and search both paper and digital documents, including patient charts, EOB's, AP invoices, and other records.
If you already have a full EMR system, you still need a way to capture and search your EOB's.
For paper EOB's, patient charts, and other medical records, SearchExpress lets you use a scanner or MFP copier to scan.
In addition to searching from your desktop PC, you can search from your iPad, iPhone or Android. This means you can access your documents wherever you are, including when in patient homes delivering home-health services.
Also, you can search by highlighting a search word or phrase in your EMR system, including Allscripts, Cerner, Epic, GE Centricity, Meditech, Merge, NextGen and SuccessEHS.
Daily you scan your paper EOB's, patient charts, AP invoices and other documents, using a scanner or MFP copier.
SearchExpress can read, write and share data with your Practice Management system and Electronic Medical Records system. For example, while scanning medical records, SearchExpress can read the patient name and DOB from your EMR or Practice Management system.
Daily, SearchExpress imports your emailed, faxed and other electronic EOB's.
For both scanned and electronic EOB's, SearchExpress performs optical character recognition (OCR) of the EOB's, and uses the OCR text as an index to let you search your EOB's.
The documents are stored in a searchable database, at your site.
You search the EOB's and other documents by the patient name, procedure code, date range or any word or phrase in the document.
Or, if you have Electronic Medical Records or Practice Management software, you highlight the patient name or claim number in that software, and press a function key to display the exact page of the document for that patient name or claim number.
And, when viewing a page, the patient name, claim number or other search words are highlighted on the page, so your eyes are drawn directly to what you are looking for.
If you need to email, print or fax EOB information for one patient, you can electronically "black out" or "white out" (redact) the other patients on the page. Yes, you can finally throw away those black markers!
You can route charts, AP invoices, or audio transcriptions from one person to others, for example, to approve AP invoices or for a doctor to approve an audio transcription.
"But at any price, the service and support we have received from SearchExpress has been beyond our wildest dreams. I only have one other vendor that comes close to taking care of us like SearchExpress does.
"Our CEO has said repeatedly that he wishes SearchExpress had more software we could buy."