The original business began not long after the end of World War 2 with the importation of High Performance anchors and ancillary products from predominantly the UK. Stock carrying branches were established in all the main centers of South Africa with competent sales personnel at each branch servicing the construction, mining, utility, petrochemical and general hardware industries in South Africa.
In the early 1980’s the business moved from Isando to its current location in Anderbolt, Boksburg North, where it still has headquarters today.
In 1986 the current shareholders acquired control of the company. Non-core product lines were rapidly shed and, with increased focus and energy, sales grew rapidly and the range of product was steadily expanded to meet the new local and export market demands. The sales staff was expanded with increased emphasis being placed on thorough repeated technical training of all sales personnel to more professionally serve our enlarged customer base. This came at an opportune time with the rapid technical development and advancement in chemical anchoring technology.
From our initial introduction of the IKA brand of anchors, sales have grown well. However sales of the IKA brand of chemical anchors have grown exponentially and have continued to prove their versatility, reliability and high performance throughout the local and export markets.
Fully trained technical sales staff are based at all our branch offices and we offer technical support and advice and stand ready to assist distributors, specifiers and contractors on their anchor selection and installation. Full technical information is available from any of our technical sales team, our branch offices or head office. In situ anchor testing capability is available at short notice to all our customers.
We count as our customers, divisions of all the major construction contractors, including Murray and Roberts, Grinaker LTA, WBHO, Concor, Steffanuti Stocks as well as many Joint Ventures, specialist structural steel contractors and countless sub-contractors in all disciplines from Civils to Ceiling and partitioning, plumbing, electrical, façade and insulation contractors. The company has supplied anchors to most of the major construction projects throughout the Sub continent from Cabora Bassa, Koeberg, all the fossil fuel power stations, Mines, Sasol, De Hoop Dam, many landmark buildings, the World Cup stadiums, Gautrain, Railway construction projects, the recent Johannesburg Road upgrades and countless other less prominent projects. We continue to supply anchors to Medupi and Kusile contractors among other ongoing and new projects.
Our export market has over the years included the Indian Ocean Islands, Botswana, Namibia, Angola, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Mozambique, Zambia, Tanzania and the DRC. Our sales to customers in these territories while satisfactory, is characterised by spiked demand depending on their local project activity and currency availability.
The company has resisted a number of suitors over the years and has retained its identity and independence. The company does have a current B-BBEE status.