“Frankie Peak” (far right; 2375m) and “Larry Mountain” (right of centre; 2375m) from the summit of “Table Top”. Both peaks were unofficially named by Andrew Nugara in honour of his mother and step-father.
Another view of “Frankie Peak” (right of centre) this time from Lys Ridge. We ascended using the ridge that begins in the foreground centre. Our original plan was to make a loop that included “Frankie”, “Larry” (right of “Frankie”), and North Castle (far right – summit not shown). Instead, icy conditions thwarted our trip from “Frankie” to “Larry” and we ended up tagging “Eagle Peak” (centre left) and Whistler Mountain (far left) as an alternate loop.
“Frankie Peak” and its twin, “Larry Mountain” are prominent peaks that are located south of Table Mountain in the Castle Wilderness. I had my first good look at them in May 2014 while hiking what I call, “The Whistler Loop”, a collection of unnamed peaks on the connecting ridge between Table Mountain and Whistler Mountain. Later, I learned that my friend, Brad Wolcott, had ascended them as part of an enjoyable trip from Whistler Mountain to Mount Gladstone. In September 2016, my curiosity was renewed while hiking Lys Ridge with Andrew Nugara and Jollin Charest. Andrew told me that he had unofficially named them, “Frankie Peak” and “Larry Mountain” in honour of his mother and step-father. He had first ascended “Frankie” in May 2009 via Whistler Mountain, and then returned one month later using the same approach to summit “Larry” and then North Castle.
Therefore, with Andrew’s trip reports as my guide, I began to plan my own trip. The major variation that I wanted to make from both Andrew’s trips and Brad’s trip, was to save distance by avoiding Whistler Mountain on my approach. Like Andrew, I wanted to summit “Frankie”, “Larry”, and then North Castle, but I thought that I could make a more compact loop by ascending a ridge that led up from the South Castle Road on the western side of the mountain. This would save quite a bit of walking distance back to my vehicle after descending North Castle.
Joining me for this trip was my middle son, Nathan, who had celebrated his 20th birthday the day before, and was anxious to try out the new backpack that he had received as a gift. Also with us, was Nathan’s (and my other son, Joel’s) friend Keagan, who last joined us on our hike up Morin Peak in the Crowsnest Pass. Keegan basically lives at our house, so I will also count him as one of my mine too. 🙂 I love hiking with my kids!
At first, everything went according to plan, especially the ascent which all three of us agreed was a blast. However, after summiting “Frankie”, we discovered that the exposed ramp that Andrew had used to descend the cliff band on the east side of the mountain was covered in ice. To make matters worse, we had to battle extreme wind gusts which made for miserable conditions. So we quickly changed our plans and made a new loop by heading north where we tagged the summits of “Eagle Peak” (“Whistable II”) and Whistler Mountain before descending back to the road – basically doing everything that I wanted to avoid. Nevertheless, neither Nathan nor Keegan had been to these peaks before and I was happy that they still had the opportunity to record their first ever, three peak day. I will definitely return when conditions allow for a successful descent between “Frankie” and “Larry”.
Our starting point was identical to that of our Lys Ridge trip. To get here, we headed south from the hamlet of Beaver Mines along Highway 774 until we came to the turnoff for Beaver Mines Lake. Here we turned left and followed the gravel road for ~3.7km until we came to the South Castle Road, which was located on our right. We followed the road for ~600m before arriving at a couple of information signs for the Castle Special Management Area. Also in the immediate vicinity were numerous random camping spots.
Here is where things get interesting and unless you have a 4×4 or some type of high clearance vehicle, you will need to park your car and get out your bike. Fortunately, I had my trusty 4Runner so we followed the road across the dry creek bed and proceeded another 6.9km down what at times, was a rough road, until we came to a washed out section just beyond a well marked camping site next to the Castle River. We parked across the road from the campsite. As a side note, almost all of the mud holes that you have to drive through on the road are not too deep, except for the last one immediately prior to the parking area. This is the deepest one (1/2 way up my wheels) and I’ve found that it is the shallowest on the east side – just don’t stop once you’ve started going through!
From our parking spot we walked ~100m further to the south along the road until we came to the washout itself. Here we left the road and followed the creek bed east and then southeast for ~550m until we reached the base of our ascent route. We found it was easier to follow the numerous game trails located on the east side of the creek rather than staying inside the bed. When we reached the base, we crossed the creek using a game trail and a couple of well-positioned boulders.
From the creek, the initial slope is wide open and grassy. Once we reached the first shoulder, the route narrowed into a ridge and became increasingly rocky and treed. From the first shoulder to the second shoulder, we encountered thicker forest cover and frequent bands of rock – which required lots of route finding. Here we donned our helmets as some sections required hands-on scrambling. The ridge walk along the second shoulder to where it abuts against the main ridge to “Frankie” involved some light to moderate scrambling with most obstacles avoided by sticking to climber’s right. However, just prior to the abutment we encountered a small cliff that would prove to be the crux. I found an exposed ledge to climber’s right, but we found an even safer route by retracing our steps and descending to climber’s left which allowed us to bypass it completely. From here it was an easy hike up a packed argillite slope to the main ridge.
The ridge walk to “Frankie” would have been really enjoyable if it weren’t for the extreme wind gusts. To make matters worse, the light dusting of snow on the south side of the mountain had undergone a quick thaw/freeze cycle that made for some slick conditions – nothing that hampered our ascent, but definitely something that we did not want to attempt an exposed downclimb in.
From the summit we descended towards “Larry” and found Andrew’s exposed ramp, which in dry conditions would have been great, but not on this day. We could see that to bypass the cliff band, we would have to lose a significant amount of elevation over icy rocks while enduring extreme wind gusts – not fun! So we nixed our original plan and decided to knock off “Eagle Peak” and Whistler Mountain instead. To avoid the wind along the ridge, we descended the northwest face of Frankie and cut across a hanging valley to the col beneath “Eagle Peak”. The ever-increasing wind ensured that we had a miserable ascent to the summit. From here we had an easy but windy hike to Whistler Mountain before descending down the trail to the South Castle Road and then walking ~1.6km back to our vehicle.
We loved our ascent route to “Frankie Peak” and I will readily use it again when I return. Be aware though, that at some point in the future, this road will be permanently closed to motorized vehicles as part of the new Castle Wildland Provincial Park. There may also be an overnight option, where a party could knock off every summit from Table Mountain to Mount Gladstone and then North Castle. Indeed, the hanging valley between “Eagle Peak” and “Frankie” would be a very nice spot to camp!
Our total distance ended up being 12.5km with total elevation gains of 1323m. From our vehicle to the summit of “Frankie” it was 4.2km. Our total time came in at 6 hours and 41 minutes.
Our parking spot on the east side of the road across from the campsite next to the Castle River. I had turned the vehicle around so that it was facing northwest – or the direction we came from. The washout is located just ~100m further down the road behind my vehicle. This was also the same starting point for our Lys Ridge trip.
Approximately ~100m south of my vehicle, we came to a washed out section of the South Castle Road. Here we would leave the road and follow the creek bed to the left.
Looking down the creek bed from the middle of the road. The first shoulder on our ascent route as well as the main ridge that leads to ‘Frankie”, can be seen in the distance to the right of centre.
We found it was easier to stay on the east side (climber’s left) of the creek bed. Here the bushwhacking was relatively light and we could utilize intermittent game trails.
A few of the game trails wanted to leave the creek bed too early. We followed this one until it began to head up the western slope beneath Whistler Mountain. It did however, give us our first clear view of the lower section of our ascent route.
A telephoto of the previous picture. The Castle is such an amazing place!
Looking south down the valley towards Sage Mountain (centre) and Mount Matkin (right).
Looking west at our Lys Ridge ascent route.
The view to the northwest at “The Amoeba” on Barnaby Ridge (left) and Southfork Mountain (centre).
The terrain became rockier as we gained elevation.
The hiking is pretty straightforward between the base and the first shoulder.
Keegan and Nathan stop to take in the early morning views.
After reaching the first shoulder, we began to encounter frequent rock bands (mostly Finnish death metal groups who had become lost during album cover photo shoots 😉 ) and heavier forest cover.
I couldn’t resist including another shot of the morning sunlight hitting Barnaby Ridge and Southfork Mountain.
We had a blast with all of the route finding on this ascent!
One of many obstacles that we encountered on the way up.
The