If you are thinking of moving to Sandhutton or just want to know a what the area is like, the statistics on this page should give you a good introduction. They cover a range of socio-economic factors so you can compare Sandhutton to figures for North Yorkshire and nationally. These statistics can tell you if Sandhutton is an economically deprived area and how hard it might be to get a job.
The respondents of the 2011 Census were asked to rate their health. These are the results for Sandhutton. The percentage of residents in Sandhutton rating their health as 'very good' is more than the national average. Also the percentage of residents in Sandhutton rating their health as 'very bad' is less than the national average, suggesting that the health of the residents of Sandhutton is generally better than in the average person in England.
These figures on the claiming of benefits in Sandhutton come from the Department for Work & Pensions and are dated . They can often be a good indicator of the prosperity of the town and possible indicator of how hard it would be to get employment in the area. The rate of unemployment in Sandhutton is both lower than the average for North Yorkshire and lower than the national average, suggesting that finding a job in this area maybe easier than most places. The rate of claiming any benefit (which includes in work benefits) is more than 10% lower in Sandhutton than the national average, suggesting higher salaries than the average in the area.
These statistics are for the highest level education obtained by the residents of Sandhutton and are from the UK Census of 2011. Sandhutton has a lower level of residents with either no qualifications or qualifications equal to 1 or more GCSE at grade D or below, than the national average. Sandhutton also has a high level of residents with a higher education qualification (level 4) than the national average, suggesting that the residents of Sandhutton are better educated than the average England citizen.
These figures for Country of Birth for the residents of Sandhutton are from the UK Census of 2011. Since Sandhutton has a higher level of residents born in the UK than the national average and a lower rate of residents either born in other EU countries or outside the EU, it does not have a significant immigrant population.
The population of Sandhutton as a whole, is older than the national average. The population of Sandhutton is also older than the North Yorkshire average, making Sandhutton a older persons location.
Do you live in Sandhutton? Let us know what you think in the comments below.