By entering your details in the fields requested, you enable coolrocks.co.uk and its service providers to provide you with the services you select. Whenever you provide such personal information, we will treat that information in accordance with this policy. Our services are designed to give you the information that you want to receive. coolrocks.co.uk will act in accordance with current legislation and aim to meet current Internet best practice.
Both the cookies and the embedded code provide non-personal statistical information about visits to pages on the site, the duration of individual page view, paths taken by visitors through the site, data on visitors' screen settings and other general information. coolrocks.co.uk use this type of information, as with that obtained from other cookies used on the site, to help it improve the services to its users.
NB: Even if you haven't set your computer to reject cookies you can still browse our site anonymously until such time as you wish to purchase an item using our coolrocks.co.uk services.
When you supply any personal information to coolrocks.co.uk (e.g. when ordering products or services) we have legal obligations towards you in the way we deal with that data. We must collect the information fairly and tell you if we want to pass the information on to anyone else. In general, any information you provide to coolrocks.co.uk will only be used within coolrocks.co.uk. It will never be supplied to anyone outside coolrocks.co.uk without first obtaining your consent, unless we are obliged or permitted by law to disclose it. Also, if you post or send offensive or inappropriate content anywhere on or to coolrocks.co.uk and coolrocks.co.uk considers such behaviour to be serious and/or repeated, coolrocks.co.uk can use whatever information that is available to it about you to stop such behaviour. This may include informing relevant third parties such as your employer, school or e-mail provider about the content and your behaviour.
We will hold your personal information on our systems for as long as you use the service you have requested, and remove it in the event that the purpose has been met, or, in the case of a personalised service, such as online billing, you no longer wish to continue your registration as a personalised user. Where personal information is held for people who are not yet registered but have taken part in other coolrocks.co.uk services (e.g. information requests), that information will be held only as long as necessary to ensure that the service is run smoothly. We will ensure that all personal information supplied is held securely, in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998.
You have the right to request a copy of the personal information coolrocks.co.uk holds about you and to have any inaccuracies corrected.
If you are aged 16 or under, please get your parent/guardian's permission beforehand whenever you provide personal information to coolrocks.co.ukwebsite. Users without this consent are not allowed to provide us with personal information.