The NAMB Foundation was formed in 2017 with an emphasis on providing educational resources and tools for loan originators throughout the country.
Charter Oak Systems, LLC, an NMLS-Approved Course Provider (#1405047), provides online pre-licensing and continuing education provider for the NAMB Foundation.
Featuring Debra Ann Killian, CRMS, CLOES.online offers a variety of online education including the 20 hour Pre-Licensing class.
Course is immediately available to start anytime and only starts when you pay.
Available on PC, MAC, Tablet, iPhone or Android.
Offline viewing for bad or no connections available.
Entertaining education while you learn. Other online classes are read and click.
Additional State PE & CE offered through third party provider.
Retake exams and quizzes up to 3 times.
CLOEs.online offers a 100% Satisfaction Guarantee - if they fail to meet your expectation for the course, they will gladly refund your course fee any time before the end of your 2-week session.
In addition to online pre-licensing and continuing education courses, they offer custom designed courses for specific niches and consult with origination companies regarding education and training.
Discounts are exclusively available to NAMB members! For more information and to receive the discount code to save up to $50, please contact our office at (202) 434-8250 or use the chat box in the lower right-hand corner of the home page.
After 31 years and educating over 1.4 million professionals, Lorman knows that continuing education does not always happen Monday-Friday from 8:00am-5:00pm. They understand your need for concise, accurate and timely information that impacts your business and clients. Lorman Education Services accommodates your needs by offering live webinars and on-demand products on regulations, laws and business changes.
Through the NAMB Foundation's Affiliate Partnership with Lorman, members of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers will receive a 20% discount.
In addition, NAMB members have access to the Lorman All-Access Pass. All-Access Pass holders have unlimited access to all that Lorman offers for 12 months at the low price of $699.
Contact Valerie Saunders, Executive Director of NAMB, at valsaun@namb.org or via phone at (202) 434-8250 for information on how to take advantage of these great offers!