Be a part of the Robertson valley’s biggest adrenalin rush, the Java MTB Challenge (Enter Here). Head over to Van Loveren Family Vineyards in the picturesque Robertson Valley on 13 October for the Java MTB Challenge to enjoy a fun-filled sporting day for the entire family and breath-taking vineyard views, all while supporting a very worthy cause.
The event has built up a loyal following over the years and regulars at the Java MTB Challenge use the race to train for the upcoming Wines2Whales and To Hell and Back. Apart from thrilling MTB and trail running across scenic farmland and mountains, the Java MTB Challenge also offers enticing food stalls, good music, wine tasting, lucky draws, prizes to the value of R40,000.00 and a great vibe!
Routes range from a non-technical fun ride which is perfect for families to do together all the way up to gruelling routes for top riders only. For safety reasons, no kids under 16 years will be allowed on the 45km and 80km tracks. All participants will be rewarded with medals and goodie-bags upon crossing that finish line.
The 6km MTB route is an easy, non-technical fun ride suitable for small children (parents welcome to ride with).
The 20km route is ideal for beginners. It consists mostly of jeep tracks with some single tracks, and is not very technical, with only 250m elevation. Take note that no children under 10 years will be allowed the 20 km track and kids younger than 12 years must be accompanied by an adult rider.
The 45km route is suitable for intermediate riders with an elevation of about 850m.
The 80km is a gruelling route for the adrenalin seekers. It includes many sections of the 2018 ABSA Cape Epic route as well as virgin territory and custom-built single tracks. The 1600m elevation will thrill even the most seasoned rider.
Runners can look forward to a 10km vineyard trail run over rugged terrain and crossing the confluence of two rivers. The 276m elevation and rocky terrain will be an exciting challenge for novice and experienced runners alike.
MTB entrants are reminded to bring and wear their PPA MTB timing boards. R25 can be added for a permanent timing board for participants who do not already have one. PPA members receive their first MTB timing board for free. Replacement boards are R50. The trail run is a self-timed event, so no PPA timing board is required.
The Java MTB Challenge is a fundraising platform for local schools and charitable organisations and has raised over R500,000.00 in cash for its local community to date.
Robertson Primary School, Robertson Preparatory School, Wakkerstroom-Wes Rural School, Jakes Gerwel Educational Trust School, Herberg Children’s Home, Bonnievale Vrybrugers.
The main sponsors of the day are Van Loveren and Pick n Pay (Robertson), with additional sponsorships from Monsanto, Môreson Grondverskuiwers, Ford Rola Motor Group, Lelienfontein Vine Growers and Tekco Packaging.
right (GPS Coordinates: S33 ̊52’31.3” E 020 ̊ 0’ 9.1”).
@vl_java_mtb (Facebook) and @vl_java_mtb (Instagram).