Saturday 4 May, Bucklands Beach Bowling club.
Tuesday 14 May, Arataki Visitors Centre.
A Kauri Die Back talk and walk (Talk in Mandarin) opposite the Visitors Centre after the workshop provided by Chinese Conservation Education Trust.
地点：346 Pakuranga Road, Pakuranga Community Hall.
Farewell the migrant birds and see them at their best shape.
Why did we call San Francisco “Old Gold Mine” and NZ “New Gold Mine” ? We’ll look at the Gold Rush history.
The bar tail Godwit, champion of Long haul flight. They can fly seven and a half day non stop to Yalu Jiang. Then to Alaska to breed. At the end of August will fly eight and a half day non stop back to NZ. It is time to farewell the birds. They are leaving for Yalu Jiang in March. They are in their best shape and the male birds are in their pretty breeding feather. Let’s go to Miranda to farewell the migrant birds and hear their amazing stories.
Thames is a peaceful quiet town now. During the Gold Rush era, it was a very busy place with Banks, stock market, hotels and a lot of people. A certificate from the Mineral School guaranteed a job in other countries. Let’s review the history of Thames.
8:00am Pick up Poenamo Hotel, 31, Northcote Road, Northcote.
What to bring : lunch, drink, wind breaker, sun glasses, hat, rainy gear.
1. Someone from CCET will call to confirm vacancy available.
2. Do not pay if you have not got our call to confirm there is vacancy.
3. If there’s vacancy, then please pay as shown below.
5. Wait for our call to confirm receipt of your money & your seats.
6. On the day, please be at the departure point 15 minutes earlier.
8. All other queries, please call 3030633 & leave a message. Please allow 3 to 4 days for us to respond to your enquiry.
9. If you have called to register or paid in the money, you still cannot get our call after 5 days, please call 3030633 & leave a message again.
10. Cancelation must be made 7 days before departure and you must try your best to find a person to take your place, otherwise there is no guarantee of a full refund.