Adam Hirst is a Colorado native and twenty-five year veteran of the mortgage industry. He founded Colorado Lending Inc. in 1994 with the intent of providing comprehensive mortgage solutions with the highest degree of trust, knowledge, convenience, and respect for everyone he serves. Adam has earned the business of thousands of Colorado families, not only because of the exceptional interest rates he offers, but also because of his integrity and the first-class service he consistently provides. His business has grown based primarily on referrals from very happy clients. Richard O., a physician from Castle Rock, has said “I have done six loans through Adam over the years. He is hands-down the most knowledgeable and efficient lender I have ever worked with. Not only does he give me the lowest rates and costs, but he also makes the process simple and has been at every one of my closings. I’m more than happy to refer my friends, family, and patients to Adam whenever I can, because I know he’ll take excellent care of them!”.
On a more personal note, Adam has been happily married to his better half since 1989. God has blessed them with an energetic son, who is currently in middle school and enjoying various sports, and an artistic daughter, who is finishing high school and mastering her social skills (no need to remind Adam of that though). When he’s not working, spending time with his family, or enjoying the company of good friends, Adam would like to say you could find him on the golf course. However, with the time constraints of family, and a deep commitment to his business, Adam knows his golf handicap will never be somethgin to brag about. His other interests include cooking (Adam’s wife says he’s a God-send and friends have demanded he open a restaurant when he eventually retires), music (although he can’t play an instrument and his kids frequently ask him not to sing), classic cars (he does own a 1969 Mustang he tinkers with), and various sports (Go Broncos, Avs, and Rockies!).
Adam would be honored to have the opportunity to earn your business and personally show you the advantage he will offer to your purchase or refinance transaction.
Adam Hirst is a registered agent on the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System #206035, as well as a Licensed Active Mortgage Broker registered at DORA #LM100011622.