Build your skills in automotive servicing with this entry-level course. This qualification will set you on the path to finding an apprenticeship in a range of automotive occupations. If you already have an employer, you may also complete this course as a traineeship. The automotive industry offers the opportunity to get involved in a broad-based skills area driven by new technologies. Exciting new opportunities are emerging in more specialised diagnostic, servicing, repair and maintenance roles in the automotive industry.
In this course you will develop the skills and knowledge required to perform a range of servicing operations on light or heavy vehicles. You will learn the basic skills required to safely and effectively carry out minor inspections and servicing on automotive systems such as engines, braking, clutch and cooling systems. Industry experienced teachers will provide all the support you need to succeed.
This course will set you on the path to finding an apprenticeship in a wide range of automotive occupations including as a light or heavy vehicle mechanic, an automotive electrician, a diesel fitter, or an outdoor power equipment technician. You may also seek employment as a vehicle service assistant or an automotive parts interpreter in an automotive service or repair business.
Unit description: This unit describes the performance outcomes required to use and maintain basic mechanical measuring devices. It involves selecting, using and maintaining basic measuring devices, and completing workplace processes and documentation. It applies to those undertaking a Vocational Education and Training in Schools (VETiS) or pre-vocational qualification as preparation to entering the automotive service and repair or automotive manufacturing industry. The unit is designed for use in a highly supervised context and is not suitable for use in a vocational qualification. No licensing, legislative, regulatory or certification requirements apply to this unit at the time of publication.
Unit description: This unit describes the performance outcomes required to read automotive workplace documentation in order to perform routine inspection, service and repair tasks. It involves reading texts and manuals, and identifying and applying key information. It applies to those working in an automotive workplace required to apply entry-level proficiency in reading inspection, service and repair texts and related manuals. No licensing, legislative, regulatory or certification requirements apply to this unit at the time of publication.