Hand of Hope’s short-term medical and dental outreaches began with one trip to Cambodia in 2007. What started out small has now led to several yearly trips to countries around the world. Recently, our team was able to complete the 100th short-term medical and dental outreach in Zambia. Here are some of the lives you were able to impact in the span of just one day!
Oscar came to our medical tent reporting that he was randomly falling down every month. Just the night before, he had fallen down and sustained a traumatic injury to his right arm. The doctor said that it was the type of fracture that could have very easily severed his main artery in his arm. After Oscar’s examination, it was determined that he had a seizure disorder. Unfortunately, he had no way of getting to the hospital for treatment, so we paid for his transport. By diagnosing his disorder, our team hoped he could avoid future injuries to his body.
Sweet Grace came to our outreach hunched over and suffering for aches that most 89-year-olds would experience. However, she did not have the simple medicines available to help. Our team was able to give her aspirin, blood pressure medicine and pills for her muscles; such simple solutions to the pain she was feeling. Our team was also happy to pray with Grace before she left; “Now after prayer, I feel that my body has become normal. It doesn’t feel as badly as before.” She left standing much straighter!
67-year-old Alex had been having trouble with his eyes for at least two years. He was not able to see clearly, and which caused him difficulty when reading. After meeting with one of our volunteers, he received a pair of glasses and was so ecstatic to be able to read again. What was the first book he picked up? One of Joyce’s from the prayer tent!
We’ve been able to treat 297,923 patients and see 106,056 salvations over the course of 100 trips, but there are so many more lives to reach! You can find out more about our upcoming trips at joycemeyer.org/MedicalMissions. So, whether you’ve been a volunteer in the past, or you’ve been financially supporting Joyce Meyer Ministries, you’re a part of this…thank you!