Today I have a post for you on making lovely homemade bubble wands.
We used the new and improved Artterro bubble wand kit, sent to us for review (and which also contains materials and instructions for making some fun garden art!), but if you’re feeling crafty and resourceful you could make bubble wands without a kit.
If you’re a craft store junkie (who, me?) with more time than money or just like working things out, then go the DIY route.
But even hard-core DIYers like me enjoy a good kit now and again.
The Artterro Eco Art Kits are my kind of art kit.
They contain beautiful, high quality materials, are accompanied by inspirational idea-filled brochures, and are made and packaged with the Earth in mind. But the real kicker for me is that while they are KITS, they are still wonderfully open-ended. There is no right or wrong way to create bubble wands or garden art or any other art or craft in the Artterro kits (and we’ve tried just about all of their art kits at this point).
We were excited to try out Artterro’s bubble wand kit, partly because who doesn’t love a bubble wand?
And an even more sustainable focus.
Among other changes, the packaging is now made from 100% recycled cardboard.
Maia, Daphne, and I got to work on making bubble wands with the kit.
Each kit has two painted wooden dowels so can officially be used to make 2 bubble wands. However, if you have a few sticks or dowels around, you could easily make several more with the amount of wire and glass beads included.
Maia and I poked wire through the holes at the tops of the wooden dowels, bent it into our desired bubble wand shapes, then looped it back down and wrapped it around the dowels to secure it.
Maia made a simple heart-shaped bubble wand (above).
Daphne and I collaborated to make a flower-shaped bubble wand.
The bubble wand kit says it’s for ages 8 and up, but Daphne, at 4, was able to participate at her own level.
I did the wire bending and cutting on our wand and she did the bead stringing (one of her favorite activities).
Here’s our finished flower bubble wand.
The kit doubles as a garden art kit, with thicker wire and bigger beads and marbles for the garden art.
But then decided they were too awesome as silly dress up glasses.
So she created a spiral for the garden instead. The beads are meant to be attached by wrapping the thinner wire around them, but Maia had a bit of trouble with that, and decided to use scotch tape instead.
Have you made homemade bubble wands? Or garden art?
P.S. Tomorrow I’ll share photos from our afternoon of bubble blowing with our new homemade bubble wands!
If you’d like to try out this or other art kits, check out the new and improved arts and crafts kits in the Artterro shop or read on for an Artterro art kit giveaway.
To enter the giveaway for a chance to win both Artterro’s Deluxe Bubble Wand Kit as well as their Needle Felting Kit, leave a comment to this post by Friday, April 25th at 11:59 pm EST. After you leave your comment, make sure to tell the Rafflecopter widget that you commented and would like to enter the giveaway! Giveaway open to readers in the US.
This Artterro Eco Art Kit was sent to us for free to try out and review, by Artterro, an Artful Parent sponsor. All opinions expressed are my own.
I love Artterro kits, and the idea of a bubble wand-making kit is too fabulous.
My kiddos are obsessed with bubbles and would be over the moon if we made our own bubble wands!
I have been making bubble wands since I was a little girl I make my own glass beads also. I use vynal covered close line wire .it comes in different shiney colors . Have lots of fun sell lots .I put up a tea cart a bowl of water or bucket on the ground. A wand to use and God bless you and yours .if you’re interested in calling me for more tips call 443-296-7699 ..ask for hummer take me over the moon with you please and lots of ♡ .
What beautiful bubble wands! I never would have thought to add beads!
These are fun and I love the idea of garden art, I’ll have to try this with my kiddos. Thank you!
I need a bubble recipe…looking forward to to tomorrows post! My kids go through bubbles like crazy.
I just learned needle felting. It’s such fun!
Oh so fun! Nothing is better than bubble making :) Thanks for the giveaway!!
The perfect time of year for garden art. Ours is mostly dirt right now and needs some cheer.
Looks like a fun project for several different age groups and abilities!
Looks like some very cool crafts, fun for everyone!
We would be absolutely thrille to win those kits. Trying to save up for one now. Thank you for this chance to win them.
I had to hop over and check out the other Arttero kits available – these are just too cool! Thank you for the great opportunity to win one!
Love Artterro! And I love the bubble wand idea! My kids are bubble-makers all summer long, so I know they’d love this craft.
What great kits! They leave a lot of room for kids own creativity. Thanks for review and giveaway!
This bubble wand kit looks like great fun!
We love both bubbles and beads!
My niece will love this. She will have so much fun.
I love the idea of making your own Bubble Wands.
More fun in the garden with a creative bubble wand! We would love this!
These would be so great camping!
We’d love to make some!
We would LOVE this! My 7 year old is always begging for more arts and crafts.
What a fun project!!! Bubbles are in high demand at my house!!
looks like a lot of fun. my son would be in heaven making his own bubble wand! thanks for the chance!
Well, I love these kits, I teach a textile class and girls just love these kind of projects!
Those are really cool. My child loves bubbles!
Looks like tons of fun, my boys would love it!
We haven’t tried the Artterro kits yet, but they look fantastic! And my daughter loves both blowing bubbles and making things, so I’m sure she’d love the bubble wand kit.
We were just outside with bubbles yesterday….great outdoor activity for all ages!
We have been looking for garden art ideas… Love this!
This looks like a lot of fun! Thanks for posting about it!
Those kits look wonderful. Haven’t seen them around here.
Both my daughters love bubbles (9 and 4) so this would be awesome to win!
I love these ideas can’t wait to make some with my son.
Love this idea! Hope I win the kits!
The kits do look wonderful.
Love the bubble kit. Maybe it could be used to make some magic!!
That bubble wand kit looks so fun! Love this company and the fact that it is made in the USA!
Very cool! I’d love to win! Thanks!
I was not familiar with Artterro kits until I read this post. But I love the idea of the bubble wands, and as a needlefelter myself, I can’t wait to check out the needlefelting and whatever other kits they have. I love the sustainable focus. Thanks for posting!
That’s really amazing. Thanks ! Love from France.
Very inspiring! Great kit ideas! We love bubbles so this just makes it even more fun!
Looks like so much fun and good for motor coordination too.
I never thought of this! I would love a kit to help me get started, and hopefully after that we could use leftover bits that I have collected.
Their kits gave always looked fantastic. I’d love to try.
What a neat kit! My little artist would love it!
This would make my daughters very happy!!
I’d not heard of this company before. Thanks for the introduction! I’ll have to check out more of their merchandise and ideas. :-D My daughter LOVES blowing bubbles. I believe she was at it for about 3 hours the other day!
I’m always looking for some sort of organized project for my son, which I why I like kits like these. We have a clear goal, and everyone right at our fingertips. I’m so grateful for people more creative than I am!
What fun!!! Thanks for such great ideas!
Wow! There are so many possibilities with these. We’d really like to try!
SOOOOO FUN!!!!!!!! Thanks for the chance to win!
What a great craft! My boys LOVE bubbles and they will love this, thanks for sharing!
We’ve been working on some bubble projects recently, and that kit looks amazing!
What a great project for this perfect spring weather! My boys are helping set up a garden and these decorations and bubble wands would be a perfect addition to our outside play time!
I have always wanted to try these kits and my girls love bubbles. Thank you!
I’d love to win one of these for my kiddos! We love doing arts and crafts together.
Too cute! My kids would love this.
Great kit…..my 4 year old would love them……may be we will have a bubble party with her friends.
Oh, what fun! Who doesn’t love blowing bubbles. I can’t wait to see your pics.
These kits look amazing!!!!! Would love to win these for my daughter!!!
Thank you for all the wonderful ideas!!!!!
Love these kits! Thanks for the giveaway!
Love this! I’ve never seen a kit like this, and I think my toddler and I would have fun making some garden art together. Thanks!
Great idea! I would love it for my daughters.
Looks like a lot of fun!! Thanks.
Oh how fun! My kiddos will love this.
Looks like a great kit and my daughter loves bubbles!
Wow, those look wonderful! I have been wanting to try their kits…..crossing my fingers!
I would LOVE some garden art to make with my kids!
The bubble wand kit looks so awesome!
Love this idea, and the kit looks wonderful! Can’t wait to try.
My little one NEEDS art. She isn’t happy without it. We would love these crafty kits!
Looking forward to making our own bubble wands-the Arterra kits would be great additions to our craft area.
The bubble ward kit looks so fun!
The kits look like fun. I think my son would really have fun with this!
This looks like so much fun! I think my daughter would enjoy this.
This is right uo my alley!
The bubble wand kit looks like so much fun!
They have some very nice kits.
My kids love these kits. They would like canvas book kit.
Love it!! So fun. Thank you!
This would be a fun activity! Thanks for the opportunity!
If it’s even remotely nice outside, my girls want to blow bubbles. The cheap, plastic wands that