Our Learn Forward approach asks and invites children to master much more than just content.
Our Learn Forward approach asks and invites children to master much more than just content, its really a lot more about relationships and interpersonal connections and its much more about the journey that you’re on and how you’re building your character and those personality traits that will carry you into your future with success.
Wholeheartedly inviting children to embrace the unconditional love leading to a sense of worthiness, confidence, and delight.
Our learning culture cultivates a child’s unique identity balanced with a sense of community.
Over time our explorers become confident agents of goodness and change on the playground and across the globe.
Collaboration is so critical for a future leader’s success because iron sharpens iron. Our students need to know how they can create a grace filled community, one that’s flexible, innovative, creative, curious, where they can collaborate together.
The climb towards selfhood and belonging can be a difficult one. Students need to be prepared uniquely and in a very personalized way for the future. Their individuality really needs to shine forward and from that place of knowing themselves they can become leaders and changemakers.
We facilitate personal learning plans including individual inquiries, meaning-making, and making learning visible. Because, every student learns at their own pace, they have different gifts, abilities and talents.
Our teachers provide handholds for the students along their journey, so for some students it may be the handholds of encouragement, for others it may mean extra support in specific skills. For some it might be extra practice. It might be challenging them to reach their full potential.
One of the ways that we highlight what the children are learning is through a portfolio celebration is a time for a child to with their parents look at the goals they have set and show off and celebrate their achievements.
As their confidence develops, as their competence develops we celebrate each success and advancement that they have.
We instill the habits of mind and practices of creative and critical thought.
Through a variety of creative opportunities at each developmental stage, Willowstone Academy is actively developing a creativity model that supports the intentional and individual understanding of creativity in each child.
Critical thinking is a fabulous way for children to stretch their thinking. They have an opportunity to come up with their answer, it’s not about being the right answer, it is about making a reasoned judgment based on criteria.
We embed critical thinking across the curriculum so there are critical challenges in every subject we teach.