Love is the feeling of natural soul. It is nature that becomes one of human nature. It exists when the heart is attracted to his love is full of emotion and joy because of it.
In fulfilling the need for contentment in love, humans face the value crisis.
The person who is in love will earnestly earnestly achieve the satisfaction of the love.
Some are blind and blurred in value due to love.
But for the wise they crave a proper and noble way to fulfill their love.
Perhaps the following love quotes for her group can represent your feelings.
Loving Her Quotes: Oh, you little girl, you stole my heart. To make it even, I will steal a kiss from you.
My gratitude for having met you is surpassed only by my amazement at the joy you bring to my life.
Your Lips? I kiss that. Your body? I hug that. My smile? You cause that. Your heart? I want that.
True love is a glimpse of heaven. It is inspiring and uplifting just like you.
I’ve fallen in love many times… but always with you.
Love Qoutes for Her: Live, love, laugh…all three are important, and I get to do them all with you!
I’d rather spend one moment holding you than a lifetime knowing I never could.
Loving Quotes for Her. You are the inspiration behind all that I do, and the source of all that is good in my life.
Loving Quotes for Her: I wanna be the reason behind your smile because surely you are the reason behind mine.
Roses are red; violets are blue, I am truly, madly, deeply in love with you.
Quotes to Her: Someone up there must be watching out for me, because they sent Heaven’s most beautiful angel into my life.
Love You Quote for Her: Dreaming of you keeps me asleep. Being with you keeps me alive.
Quotes about loving her: I don’t want to be your favorite or your best. I want to be your only and forget the rest.
Sometimes my eyes get jealous of my heart. Because you always remain close to my heart and far from my eyes.
When the sun came up… I couldn’t tell where heaven stopped and the Earth began.
Between us is one thread: it tied our hearts so we walk close to each other always.
Loving quotes for her: I swear I couldn’t love you more than I do right now, and yet I know I will tomorrow.
In my hands is this heart. I want you to have it, because I’m so clumsy, so I’m afraid I’ll lose it or easily give it to someone else.
Quotes about love for her: When you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible.
All of the little things you do warm my heart. You are a constant source of joy in my life.
Quotes about love for her: I realized I was thinking of you, and I began to wonder how long you’d been on my mind. Then it occurred to me: Since I met you, you’ve never left.
When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive—to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love—then make that day count!
It never fails. When I am overwhelmed with stress and dark clouds threaten my very being, you walk in, and blast it all away. I don’t know how you do it, but I’ll take it, my love.
Meaningful quotes for her: You are my today and all of my tomorrows.
As I open my eyes each day, all I want to see is you. Good morning, my dear, I sent you hugs and kisses in my thoughts.
The hours I spend with you I look upon as sort of a perfumed garden, a dim twilight, and a fountain singing to it. You and you alone make me feel that I am alive. Other men, it is said have seen angels, but I have seen thee and thou art enough.
Your love quote: So fine was the morning except for a streak of wind here and there that the sea and sky looked all one fabric, as if sails were stuck high up in the sky, or the clouds had dropped down into the sea.
I wake in the morning thinking about you, and lay down at night with the same beautiful thought on my mind.
I am always excited to wake up each day because I know there’s someone worth waking up for. Good morning to the sweetest person I’ve ever known.
When I saw you, I was afraid to meet you. When I met you I was afraid to kiss you. When I kissed you, I was afraid to love you. Now that I love you, I am afraid to lose you.
Sometimes, I knock on the doors of your heart, just to make sure I still live there.
It doesn’t matter what day of the week it is. As long as we are together, it will always be a beautiful day.
Love her quotes: You’re still a little kitten that looks at my eyes, wanting love in this cold world.
Quotes about loving her: To love is nothing. To be loved is something. But to love and be loved, that’s everything.
one of the joys in life is waking up each morning with the thought that somewhere, someone cares enough to send you a warm morning greeting. Good morning, my dear.
Love qoutes for her: Kiss me. Hug me. Love me. The same quantity of those sweetest things I will return as soon as possible.
I love you because I know no matter what happens, you’ll always love me back.
Quotes about love for her: For once in my life, I don’t have to try to be happy. When I’m with you, it just happens.
The first time I saw you, my heart whispered: that’s the one.
If you dare, take my hand and take me to where your heart is. I want to feel what it’s like to love like you.
I hope you know that every time I tell you to get home safe, stay warm, have a good day, or sleep well what I am really saying is I love you. I love you so damn much that it is starting to steal other words’ meanings.
I may not get to see you as often as I like. I may not get to hold you in my arms all through the night. But deep in my heart I truly know, you’re the one that I love, and I can’t let you go.
You are my princess and I am your prince. Our hearts are our castle and our deep love is our happily ever after.
The only person I can tell everything to, all that has unfolded during my day, and every silly things and mistakes that I had committed in the past is you – only you!
Deep love is liberating to the frightened heart. It sets free all the inhibitions of fear weighing down the soul.
Your love has thought me how to be giving. It taught me how to brave and keep on living. More importantly, it showed me how beautiful this world is.
Judgement is never needed when it comes to loving.
At first I was afraid to meet you, then I was afraid to kiss you, then I was afraid to love you, now I’m afraid to lose you.
The kind of love that is so deep sets the soul afire and gives the heart wings to soar across the sky.
Behind my smile is everything youll never understand.
Touch my heart and you will feel, listen to my heart and you will hear, look into my heart and you will see, you will always be a special part of me.
It’s more than just the craving of your warm skin; it’s the thirst for your love and the touch of your soul.
Your kiss tells me to wait. To never let go, to hold onto us and never lose hope. I feel it in my soul and know it in my heart. You’re my true love since the beginning of time, it’s been written in the stars.
Without you in my life, I would be incomplete. I pray that I should never know such pain.
Being in love with you makes every morning worth getting up for. Good morning, my sweetheart.
I smile every time I see you. When you return that smile to me, my heart overflows with joy.