Two Eugene law firms have filed a class action lawsuit against the owners of the Little Big Burger chain claiming the company does not pay employees for earned overtime wages. The suit was filed in U.S. District Court in Eugene by Leiman & Johnson, LLC, and Andrew Lewinter, PC, and seeks an unspecified amount in actual damages, liquidated damages, penalties, interest, punitive damages and attorney fees. One of the plaintiffs is Logan Vance, the former manager of the Eugene location at 1404 Orchard St. near campus. He alleges he was fired for complaining about the unlawful pay practice. The chain is based in Portland and is owned by Micah Camden and Katherine Poppe.
The Market District and the Housing and Community Services Agency of Lane County (HACSA) are in collaboration with Lane County to develop county property near 5th Street Public Market. Three public input sessions are planned from 11 am to 6 pm on three Fridays, May 16, June 6 and June 27, all on the gravel lot across Pearl from the 5th Street Public Market. Since this is a public-private partnership, public input is part of the process. Contact the Lane County public information office at 915-4659.
CodeChops is celebrating its two-year anniversary with a party beginning at 5:30 pm Thursday, May 22, at its offices on the second floor of the Broadway Commerce Center at 44 W. Broadway. CodeChops, managed by Sammy Russo and Mark Davis, is an incubator space for six full-time companies and nearly a dozen part-time enterprises. The shared office space also “aims to foster a community of creative types, freelancers and independent contractors to share ideas, skills and collaborate on projects,” says Russo. He can be reached at codechops@gmail.com or call 852-8775.
The nonprofit Nobel Peace Laureates Project is planning its annual dinner and awards of “Peace Educator of the Year” at 6:30 pm Saturday, May 17, at the UO Ford Alumni Center. Keynote speaker will be Nancy Hughes, founder of Stove Team International. Two teachers will be honored, Rena Dunbar of Spencer Butte Middle School and Mary Smith of Roosevelt Middle School. For tickets, call 485-1604 or visit nobelpeacelaureates.org.
Jewish Events Willamette-valley is holding a raffle to support events such as the Eugene Jewish Film Festival and the L’g b’Omer BBQ & Bonfire from 4 to 8 pm Sunday, May 18, in Cottage Grove (location TBA). The raffle includes gift certificates to Off the Waffle, Chapala’s Mexican Restaurant, Allann Bros. Coffee Roasters, Barry’s Espresso & Bakery and Mrs. Thompson’s Herbs, Gifts and Folklore. Tickets are $1 or six for $5. Drawing will be held at the Eugene Jewish Film Festival showing of Dancing in Jaffa at 3 pm Sunday, May 25, at Bijou Metro. Call Shmuel Shalom Cohen at 514-2571 or visit JewishEventsWillamette-valley.org.
What’s new with Friends of Civic Stadium (FoCS) and its efforts to recruit help from local businesses? FoCS is active in its drive to raise $3 million to renovate Civic Stadium. They’re looking for help from artists as well. A June 7 fundraiser at New Zone Gallery is currently in the works, and FoCS seeks donations of paintings, photos and small pottery works. Fifty percent of sales will benefit the FoCS fund drive, and the other 50 percent goes to the artists. Bring donations to New Zone, 164 W. Broadway, from noon to 6 pm Monday, June 2. More information call 683-6017, or email drobliari@yahoo.com.
AmeriJuanaCon is another big medical marijuana convention/ conference being planned for Aug. 15-17 at the Lane County Fairgrounds, according to Dennis Rogers, one of the founding brothers of the Legalize Marijuana Super Pac and owner of CannaKing Productions. Rogers is looking for sponsors and vendors. Booth space will rent for $420 for the three days and “all vendor fees go toward paying for the fairgrounds and advertising,” he says. Any profits will come from “heads that show up” to pay admission. Call Rogers at 870-1700 or email dennis@oregon420.com.