Change management software allows companies to manage, monitor, and optimize the change management process in their organizations.
Such a process involves several different elements and stages that involve multiple units and activities.
In the era of digital transformation, disruption processes encompass a sequence of steps that lead to the successful implementation of localized or company-wide transformations that lead to the execution of a customer-centric digital strategy.
Change management software enables companies to structure and monitor the process in order to identify opportunities, create a plan for implementation, manage assets and resources, drive change, manage communications, monitor and evaluate data, and optimize auditing.
Change management also involves IT management challenges connected to digitization while companies also need to create a customer-centric and omnichannel infrastructure that can quickly address disruptions, improve customer service, and automate training.
Other challenges connected to change management process include compliance, asset and resource management, communication and project management, risk management, auditing and analysis, and governance.
The biggest component in the process is a change in mentality and approach which are linked to the basic strategy dictated by management.
But after identifying areas that can be susceptible to potential change and creating a plan for execution, change managers also need to deal with resistance to change, and because the overall strategy needs to be reflected in the main IT architecture, companies also need to update the software infrastructure and monitor and push software adoption.
Customers and employees demand high-quality, personalized, digital experiences. The right software stack truly makes the difference when it comes to delivering on such a promise.
Here’s a list of the top change management software solutions that cover different stages of the process.
To manage a full change management program, emails and spreadsheets are definitely not the way to go. ChangeGear represents an enterprise-level change management software solution that allows you to plan your organizational change management strategies and takes into account volume and velocity of changes in large corporations.
ChangeGear is used to automate change management and release management processes.
This change management software is engineered for DevOps, IT, and Business Processes and Compliance, and includes a change calendar, approval management automation, visual reporting, management of RFCs and announcements, change advisory board (CAB) management tools, communications and notifications, RFC processing, SLA management tracking.
Additionally, SunView’s software facilitates the management of change and compliance through functionalities connected to its central repository of changes, risk documentation, change record history, auditing and reporting.
Regulatory Change Management is the process of making sure that all the procedures and practices connected to change management planning and implementing comply with norms, best practices, standards, and regulations.
360factors guarantees that processes are in line with the guidelines provided by regulatory authorities and industry standards and provides essential risk management insights using unique mapping and cognitive technologies.
Predict360’s Regulatory Change Management Software can be implemented as a stand-alone solution or integrated within a more comprehensive and modular solution that also covers (but is not limited to) incident management, auditing processes, reporting, and learning management.
This compliance management software is an integrated solution for managing governance, risk, and compliance (GRC) across an organization.
Now, we couldn’t not include ourselves here, could we?! As a digital adoption platform, Userlane is designed to help companies successfully manage the significant changes associated with digital transformation. Our solution adds a guidance layer on top of any other application to steer users through processes in real time.
Transition from one era to another is challenging, especially when it comes to legacy issues and resistance to change regarding replatforming processes and learning new software and tools.
As a change management platform, Userlane reduces this resistance to change, helping CDOs, CTOs, and CIOs to implement new platforms and tools efficiently and rapidly with interactive guidance designed to maximize software adoption.
This not only boosts the ROI of each software implementation but also helps companies to speed-up software rollouts with instantaneous knowledge transfer. Userlane also reduces problems associated with poor user experiences due to legacy issues and complexity and facilitates the process of migrating to cloud solutions.
Userlane is also suitable to automate DBA and TTT training programs, meaning that there is no longer a need for training materials, such as books, hand guides, videos, and pdf documents. Offering a fully interactive and gamified experience, employees will instantly learn how to use any software application they’re required to work with, turning them into power users of the software.
No frustration, doubt, or wasting valuable time. Userlane makes employees immediately productive and efficient in new software applications, and because it offers an exceptional and effortless UX, IT departments and help desks will no longer be overloaded with support requests. Offering constant performance support, Userlane democratizes software and allows companies to quickly adapt, overcome legacy issues, and implement successful change across the organization.
If you’re looking to automate, standardize, speed-up processes, and successfully deal with managing multiple change management projects across different units, then Userlane is the perfect fit for your company.
Service now mainly focuses on employee experience by enhancing cross-functional communications and streamlining the project management flow through the Now Platform®.
This change management software allows teams to easily cooperate and fight silo structures, thus facilitating the spread of innovation. Servicenow’s software also allows you to create a seamless flow of information by managing shared IT resources.
This change management platform can be used to enhance experiences throughout different departments and streamline IT, HR, security processes, or the development of custom applications.
Servicenow offers different cloud solutions for different use cases and departments which integrate with the Now Platform® to manage IT infrastructure and operations, security, governance, risk and compliance, service delivery, issues, changes and releases, requests, knowledge bases, costs, impact, and much more.
Rocket Aldon is a complete enterprise application lifecycle management suite that allows you to automate IT and DevOps processes.
This change management software covers different stages, from the moment a change request is received to its implementation in production and monitoring phase. With Rocket Aldon you can follow changes throughout production while automating compliance reporting and audit tracking.
Rocket Aldon allows you to automate the entire IT workflow and software release management with built-in compliance.
Solarwinds is a network configuration change management solution that ensures compliance while reducing downtime.
This change management tool allows companies to track and monitor network changes, define who performed the change, quickly recover from configuration errors, and ensure that all changes are compliant with regulations and standards.
Additionally, the suite contains solutions for systems management, database management, security, and IT helpdesk.
Automated configuration changes using approvals, bulk deployments, templates, and change monitoring.
Freshservice is a cloud-based change management software and service desk solution.
As a cloud IT service desk solution, Freshservice allows you to plan, track, and rollback changes from request and change advisory board (CAB) approval to implementation. Additionally, this change management software provides the basis for audits and reviews to improve the processes.
When it comes to incident management, Freshservice allows you to perform root cause analysis, manage tickets, and automate problem management.
This change management solution also works as a release management and an asset management tool that incorporates a change management repository, service-level management, and policy/contract enforcement.
Extensive reporting, which allows you to identify bottlenecks and monitor the ITIL change management software performance.
Remedy is a Helix cloud or on-premise digital service management solution that allows enterprises to plan IT transformation and change management processes.
This software solution includes guided change requests, automated impact analysis, and risk management and allows you to manage conflicts with collision detection and plan a company-wide change calendar.
Remedy allows CIOs to adopt and manage multi-cloud environments efficiently, create the perfect substrate for a customer-centric company structure transformation, drive innovation while optimizing costs and risks and manage assets and service level agreements.
Spiceworks is an IT change management solution that incorporates Help Desk, Inventory Management, Network Monitoring, Traceroute Tool, and Procurement Management for managing your IT infrastructure, service virtualization, and cloud solutions.
This IT change management software allows you to deal with incidents and tickets, asset management, reporting, network security and optimization, outages, subnets, cloud infrastructure cost management for Azure or AWS computing solutions.
This change management software solution focuses on making sure that standardized methods and proced