Pact, its signing and stamping have different dates, says audit firm TR Chadha & Co..
Spot prices of turmeric at the markets in Erode ruled stable on strong demand. Nearly 60 per cent of the arrivals were sold on Wednesday. “Traders hav..
Live data was never shared, claims bourse’s IT Dept..
A trough of lower pressure (as distinct from a low-pressure area) lay in wait on Wednesday over the Equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining South-East B..
Weak crop report lifts pulses Even as new summer moong is expected to hit local mandis in the coming days, a weak crop report and non-availability of..
Oil prices inched lower on Wednesday on signs that global markets remain adequately supplied despite a jump to 2019 highs this week on Washington's p..
The sugar market turned positive on Tuesday as selling pressure eased. On Monday 23-24 mills sold 48,000-50,000 bags at ₹3,100-3,130 (S-grade) and ₹..
The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has assured adequate supplies of crude oil for Indian refineries. This statement comes in light of United St..
Six months after the US rocked oil markets by letting Iranian exports continue, its decision to end sanctions waivers that allowed shipments is also s..
Imports in March grew by 31.22%..
A volume of 11.96 lakh kg has been catalogued for Sale No: 16 of Coonoor Tea Trade Association scheduled for Saturday. This is about 54,000 kg more th..
Average daily turnover hits a record ₹310 cr..
Copper prices hit a nine-month high on Wednesday as firmer-than-expected economic growth figures from China boosted expectations for higher demand in..
IOC also hopes to buy 1.5 million tonnes of Mexican oil in 2019, compared with 1 million tonnes last year..
Oil held above $71 a barrel on Tuesday, supported by falling Venezuelan and Iranian exports and fighting in Libya that raised concerns of more supply..
About 85 per cent of the offer at Sale No: 15 of the auctions of Coonoor Tea Trade Association was sold with the average price falling to ₹100.46 a kg..
India's vegetable oil imports hit the highest levels so far for the season (November 2018-October 2019) with imports hitting 1.44 million tonnes for..
Sugar prices at the Vashi wholesale market declined by ₹5-10 a quintal and ruled unchanged at naka and mill level on Friday. Continuous and sufficient..
State-run co-operative Nafed is planning to buy 20 lakh tonnes of mustard and 15-20 lakh tonnes of pulses in the ongoing rabi harvesting season at the..
The sugar market ruled flat at all levels on Thursday, for the third consecutive day. On Wednesday 20-22 mills sold 34,000-35,000 bags at ₹3,100-3,1..
Oil prices fell on Thursday after US crude stockpiles surged to their highest levels in almost 17 months amid record production.International benchma..
In what is sarcastically described as White House volatility, the under-supplied global crude oil market has received another shock in the form of US..
The arrival of turmeric is in steady position. “For the past two days the arrival for sale has crossed five thousand bags. The traders those who rece..
US reiterates goal to cut Iran oil exports to zero..
Despite dull global cues, weak availability and improved demand lifted soy oil, with soy refined rising to ₹750-52 for 10 kg. Soybean ruled at ₹3,70..
Have risen over 35% so far this year..
Oil prices rallied by more than 2 per cent on Monday to levels not seen since November 2018 as a Reuters source familiar with the matter confirmed a r..
The London Metal Exchange (LME) is poised to deal with a loophole in its warehousing rules, exposed after commodity trader Glencore bought large amoun..
Brent oil hit a 2019 high above $72 a barrel on Wednesday, propelled by steady economic growth in China and a fall in US crude stocks which defied exp..
Oil prices rose for a second day on Wednesday on signs of strong demand from refineries in China, the world's second-largest crude user, amid tighten..
Sugar prices at mill and naka level ruled unchanged and as per quality gain by ₹10-20 at Vashi on Tuesday on normal activities. On Monday 14-15 mills..
Sugar prices at Vashi were higher-lower by ₹10 as per quality and ruled flat at naka and mill level on Monday extending steady trends since start of t..
Major importers of Indian oilmeals were Vietnam, South Korea, Thailand, Taiwan, and Iran..
The arrivals of turmeric to all the markets in Erode registered an increase. “Despite higher arrivals, the price did not decrease. This is due to the..
Oil markets have been pushed up by more than a third this year by supply cuts led by the OPEC..
Adequate availability and weak global cues dragged oil prices down on Thursday, with soy refined quoted at ₹742-43 for 10 kg, while soy solvent ruled..
Amid a delay in the government's purchasing chana at MSP, the pulse has been ruling steady in Indore mandis with chana (kanta) quoted at ₹4,300-4,325..
Tight supply and a drop in output has seen the average prices of cardamom at the Bodinayakanur (Tamil Nadu) auctions touch a new high of ₹1,752/kg. Of..
The U.S. push to reduce Iranian oil exports to zero will tighten crude markets significantly in the short term, but is unlikely to have a big effect..
Sugar prices at Vashi ruled mixed on Monday. Arrivals at Vashi were 58– 60 truckloads and local dispatches were at the same level. On Saturday 19-20..
Spot rubber closed unchanged on Monday. RSS 4 quoted steady at ₹128 a kg, according to traders and the Rubber Board. Volumes were low. May futures im..
Average price of CTC leaf has gone up by 28% last week, say Tea Board data..
Sugar prices remained steady with range bound volatility on Friday. On Thursday 18-20 mills sold 44,000-45,000 bags at ₹3,100-3,130 of S-grade and ₹3..
Odisha resident Sarangi gets a shot in the arm as State partners him in training farmers..
Oil prices edged down on Thursday despite a surprise decline in US inventories, with international benchmark Brent retreating from a five-month high..
Spot rubber was quoted steady on Wednesday. RSS 4 continued to remain unchanged at ₹128.50 a kg, according to traders and the Rubber Board. The market..
Pulse seeds and pulses have been rallying high for the past few days with demand outstripping availability. Chana (kanta) quoted at ₹4,325 a quintal,..
Oil prices edged down on Tuesday after a Russian minister said the nation and OPEC may boost crude output to fight for market share, checking a recen..
Both soy oil and soybean traded low on weak global cues and physical demand with soy refined here today being quoted at ₹740-42 for 10 kg, while soy s..
Oil prices edged lower on Monday after international benchmark Brent hit a fresh five-month high in the previous session, but concerns over global sup..
The decline in buying support at the higher rate today dragged moong by ₹200 with moong (bold) quoted at ₹5,600- 5,800, while moong (medium) ruled at..
The traders have received good demand for turmeric. “The turmeric traders of Erode received fresh demands and so they are buying good number of turm..
Palm oil may test a resistance at 2,191 ringgit per tonne, a break above which could lead to a gain to 2,227 ringgit.These resistances identified as..