The technology which allows us to push the limits of medicine is, unfortunately, typically far ahead of our understanding of how or even if they should be used. Ethical controversies regarding end of life technologies have been a part of our culture for many years, yet continue with the advent of genetic therapies, genetic modification, and their associated pragmatic as well as ethical concerns. In addition to end of life issues we are now increasingly faced with ethical concerns associated with the beginning of life. Advances in assisted reproduction, once seen as futuristic, are becoming increasingly commonplace. From surrogacy to frozen embryos, social workers dealing with family planning issues need to be familiar with the challenges and opportunities associated with assisted reproduction in order to assist their clients in making reasoned, ethically grounded decisions. Using the presenter’s 30 years of experience in medical social work, this presentation will review and explain some of the currently available technology in terms that can be used in discussions with non-medical individuals. We will use case examples as teaching tools to explore the moral, legal, ethical and religious implications related to these technologies with the goal of appreciating (if not necessarily agreeing with) varied beliefs and viewpoints.
About Our Presenter: Dr. Bob Zylstra, EdD, LCSW, is Professor and Director of Behavioral Medicine at the UT College of Medicine Campus in Chattanooga and Adjunct Instructor for the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga BSW program. As well as being an educator and practicing clinician, Dr. Zylstra serves on the medical ethics committees of Erlanger and Sisken Hospital. In addition to his involvement with family medicine, he has worked as a home health care social worker, supervisor of a community hospital’s social work department, and business manager for an outpatient medical office. Dr. Zylstra grew up in Michigan where he earned his Master of Social Work degree from the University of Michigan. He earned his Doctorate degree in educational psychology from the University of Memphis, and continues his research and teaching interests in the areas of community medicine, mental health and geriatrics.