We at Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home are committed to respecting your online privacy and recognize your need for appropriate protection and management of any personal Information you share with us.
The purpose of this Online Privacy Statement is to inform you about the types of information we gather online about you when you visit coxparker.careyhand.com and how we may use that information.
Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home may publish obituaries on our web site that we have been asked to submit for publication to local/national media. In accordance with family wishes, information about services that families request remain private will not be published. We will honor any written requests from the decedent’s legal next of kin to remove a published obituary.
Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home. will not sell, rent, or lease your Personal Information to others. Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home will not share your personal information with a business partner or any unrelated third party company.
Wherever your Personal Information may be held within Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home, we intend to take reasonable and appropriate steps to protect the Personal Information that you share with us from unauthorized access or disclosure.
Please note that Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home is not responsible for the content or privacy practices of non-Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home Web sites to which coxparker.careyhand.com may link.
To the extent that you do provide us with Personal Information, Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home wishes to maintain accurate Personal Information. You may send updates and corrections about your Personal Information (see contact information below) and we will make reasonable efforts to incorporate the changes in your Personal Information that we hold as soon as practicable.
Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home is not structured to attract children. Accordingly, we do not intend to collect Personal Information from anyone we know to be under 13 years of age.
Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home welcomes your comments regarding this Statement of Privacy. If you believe that Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home has not adhered to this Statement, please contact Carey Hand Cox-Parker Funeral Home using our convenient online form.