In the afternoon I attended the memorial service for a man with whom my husband and I used to sing. He was a retired minister with a warm smile, a twinkle in his eye, and a deep love and steadfast devotion for his wife. His son described the love his father had for his mother as a “perfect shelter.” One of his closest friends spoke movingly of the time he spent with him on the many hikes they would take together in the Shenandoah Mountains. He was one of those rare people in this world who simply radiate goodness and light.
I went alone to the service, and my husband stayed home with the kids. As I was leaving the house, I asked my family to think of something fun that we could all do together when I got back. I knew it would be a wrenching occasion, and I wanted to have something to look forward to when I came home.
When I returned, my husband suggested that we go for a hike.
Did he not remember that I had asked him to think of something fun to do?
Did he not remember that in all of the almost twenty years that he’s known her, his wife has always, most definitely been an indoorsy kind of person?
Did he not remember that we had just gone on a hike the weekend before, thereby 100%, maybe even 175% fulfilling the annual hike quota for 2015?
Did he not care that it was about 20 degrees outside?
No. The answer is no, he did not.
I ask you: Is this view worth hypothermia?
As we walked along I kept hearing alarming creaking noises and thought it was only a matter of time before I got beamed on the head with a falling tree.
My daughter still has two legs. I have no idea where she hid the other one in this photo.
I thought it might be a sign.
Note that my daughter lost her coat, but found her other leg and also a big, cheesy grin.
It was a beautiful view worth hiking for, and it made me smile for the first time that day.
My Valentine for whom I hiked. Outdoors. In 20 degree weather.
And that’s how we restored a little light and love to Valentine’s Day.
In memory of John, who really did love hiking, and who brought so much light and love to the world.
owonderful • This entry was posted in Family, Photos, Travel and tagged Charlottesville, family, Hiking, love, photos, Ragged Mountain Natural Area, Valentine's Day. Bookmark the permalink.