Do you want to know how to start a PT business? If so then there’s a few things you need to take into consideration. Obviously the first step you will need to move forward is gaining your certificate 3 and 4 in personal training, but it’s what happens both before and after you finish your certification that is most important.
Most RTOs simply don’t teach you how to set up a personal training business. They teach you about movement, nutrition, muscle groups and how to train clients, but business systems, marketing, sales and even people skills is seriously lacking in their training of PTs entering into the business world.
It’s not too dissimilar to a conveyor belt, churning out personal trainers with no real knowledge on how they are going to succeed once they are out in the market place.
In actual fact, if you are looking at how to set up a pt business for success, the planning stages should actually start well before you have finished your qualifications. At least a month out you want to be prepared and ready to hit the ground running so when you do finish, you are ready to go.
Some of the things you need to look at before even finishing your qualifications should be setting up things such as your business name and company registration, your business logo and what type of training model you are planning to implement into your business.
Once you have these things set up, you can then move onto the next stage which would be to set up your online presence. Even if you plan on working out of a gym to start with, you should always be looking at branding yourself and your business, rather than relying on a gym. If you want to know how to set up a PT studio once you leave a gym, the best advice would be to build your brand first so you have an asset you can rebrand into a PT studio.
One of the biggest mistakes a PT can make when learning how to set up a PT business is not branding themselves and their business from day 1. So setting up your social media sites such as a Facebook page, an Instagram account, Youtube channel and website are all essential in branding yourself online and giving people a chance to find and follow you.
The next thing you will need to consider is how to set up PT business systems. The vast majority of PTs when they start training clients, start out by using and tracking their clients with software such as an excel spreadsheet and Google calendars.
In regards to invoicing and accounting, this is usually done through Microsoft Word. This is an extremely messy and unprofessional way to approach your business and one that will waste you a lot of time as you continue your business.
My advice would be to look into a client management software from the beginning. There are many out in the market place such as Client Connect and PT Minder to name just a few. This helps you track all of your clients in the one place, do all your invoicing and tax, scheduling your classes, track the progress of your clients such as their measurements and results etc. which can all be graphed and shared with your clients so they can see the results and improvements they are making.
This also adds a higher level of professionalism to you as a personal trainer as you will be able to offer a better service.
Finally, the real thing you will need to learn if you want to set up a personal training business for success is to get business education. This means mentoring from someone who has been there and knows how to set up pt business systems. This includes crucial things such as marketing, sales, retention and referrals.
Without the knowledge of how to get people through the door, then how to hold onto them and increase the value per client, your business is going to struggle and will ultimately fail. When PTs enter the market place, most of the time they are unaware how competitive the industry is.
Get your business systems in order before day 1 and start understanding how to generate leads. If you need assistance on gaining this education, then there is no better starting place than PT Business Coaches. The Inner Circle Membership offered by PT business coaches is a 12 month program which teaches you everything you need to know about how to set up a personal training business, how to set up PT business systems as well as the key skills of marketing, sales, social media and business growth.
To get access to the PT business coaches program for only $7 please CLICK HERE to find out more.