If you are a member, please register to gain access to congress material, library bibliographies, videos and much more.
Not a member? You can still register on the website and apply for membership within the members section, but won't have access to all the member benefits until your membership has been approved.
Only available to registered members. Please log in to view documents.
The Epstein Lecture is dedicated to the late Dr Edward Epstein, who was the South African pioneer in the development of pseudophakic correction in cataract surgery in the fifties. He was a founding member and honorary member of the SASCRS.
The Kritzinger Safari Award Lecture is a prestigious named lecture in honour of the late Dr Michiel Kritzinger. He distinguished himself as a pioneer in modern refractive surgery and identified the need to promote the subspecialty.
Please fill in the required input fields below to start your application process.
Note: We do not share contact details with 3rd parties.
Find an ophthalmologist who is also a member of SASCRS.
SASCRS, do not guarantee the availability of services offered on this website ("the Services") or the accuracy of the information and/or images on this website. We make no representations or warranties, whether express or implied, and assume no liability or responsibility for the proper performance of this website and/or the Services and/or the information and/or images contained on this website, and the Services are thus used at your own risk. In particular we make no warrantee that the Services will meet your requirements, be uninterrupted, timely, and secure or error free.
3.1 You may only use the Services for lawful purposes and you warrant that you shall not: 3.1.1 1 other than for your personal and non-commercial use, store on your computer, or print copies of extracts from this website, and you may not, other than for your personal and non-commercial use, "mirror" or cache information provided via this website on your own server, or copy, adapt, modify or re-use the text or graphics from this website without prior written permission from SASCRS.
You acknowledge that we own the intellectual property rights in and to this website, and that the unauthorized use thereof is expressly prohibited. The word or mark "AllergySA", and "SASCRS", however represented, including stylized representation, all associated logos and symbols and combinations of any of the a foregoing with another word or mark, used on this site, are the trademarks of SASCRS.
8.1 These terms and conditions will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of South Africa. 8.2 These terms and conditions are severable, in that if any provision is determined to be illegal or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, then such provision shall be deemed to have been deleted without affecting the remaining provisions of the terms and conditions. 8.3 Our failure to exercise any particular rights or provision of these terms and conditions shall not constitute a waiver of such right or provision, unless acknowledged and agreed to by us in writing. 8.4 These terms and conditions, as varied by us from time to time pursuant to clause 7, above constitute the sole agreement between yourself and ourselves.
SASCRS shall ensure that: 1.1 customer information shall be obtained only for the purpose of delivering and improving the Services and will not be processed in any manner incompatible with this purpose; 1.2 customer information shall be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the above mentioned purpose for which it is collated and/or processed; 1.3 customer information shall be accurate, and where necessary, kept up to date and reasonable steps shall be taken to ensure that information which is inaccurate and/or incomplete, having regard to the purpose for which it was collected, is erased or rectified; 1.4 customer information shall be kept in a format which permits identification for no longer than is necessary for the purpose for which the information was collected or processed.
Customer information may only be processed if: 2.1 the customer has unambiguously given his consent; or 2.2 processing is necessary for: 2.2.1 the performance of a contract to which the customer is a party; or 2.2.2 in order to take steps at the request of the customer prior to entering into a contract; or 2.2.3 for compliance with a legal obligation to which SASCRS is subject; or 2.2.4 the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the recipient; or 2.2.5 for purposes of the legitimate interest pursued by SASCRS, except where such interest is overridden by the interest for fundamental rights as reflected in the constitution.
SASCRS shall ensure that: 3.1 access to, or disclosure of customer information will not be authorized without the documented commitment of the intended recipient so as to maintain confidentiality and the rightful use of such information; 3.2 access to customer information by SASCRS personnel, contract workers, consultants, service providers or suppliers will be restricted to the level of access needed to effectively perform delegated or contracted duties and/or the level of service needed to render a reliable and effective service to Nulane Technologies customers.