Specialist: Dan is the agency’s president, thought leader and chief strategist. He specializes in training, personal development, marketing strategy and program concepts. If you need direction, strategic marketing planning and the Big Idea, Dan Cowling is the guy to have in the meeting.
Dan provides campaign and program strategy for the majority of the agency’s clients. One of his sought-after specialties is program design for campaigns that change behavior achieved through outreach and education. He provides strategic planning and coalition building for agency clients.
Dan’s specialty is: Strategy. No one in the market has a better instinct for how to get from an objective to a successful finish than Dan. Dan built a successful marketing business because he has more experience than any other agency president in the market with outreach and education strategy, research, implementation and programming. Dan pioneered the concept of Funded Public Service™ for outreach programs.
But perhaps an even more powerful reason for his success is his absolute insistence on getting employees to use and leverage their Unique Abilities. He teaches a university-level course based on his blog as well as conducting seminars and giving speeches. Dan is a teacher and a leader, not a follower. And the clients and staff who work with him count on this.
Other specialties: Adjunct U of A professor, fly-fishing, motorsports, vintage cars, teaching. Embraces change. Master’s degree. Community service. Granddad.
Q: Did you attend college? If so, which one?
University of Arkansas, Fayetteville. Undergraduate and graduate.
Q: What was your major and why did you choose it?
Communication. I’ve always been verbally inclined. Fascinated by the power of language. Impressed by its value in personal and professional life. A strong second interest was my minor in creative writing.
Q: How did you choose your career field?
Life threw me a curve. In high school I set my sights on becoming a college professor. As I finished my master’s work and prepared to begin PhD work, a flood of professors hit the market, virtually drying up college positions. I looked for a related industry and chose advertising. I was first hired as a copywriter based on my minor in creative writing.
Tacos, enchiladas and cheese dip.
My family, my wife, my daughter, my grandson, first and foremost. It’s what really counts. My position as Adjunct Professor at the University of Arkansas, which has allowed me to teach.
Spend time at our place on the White River with my wife. Fly-fish. It’s my Zen. Race a vintage sports car, which reminds me I’m alive.