I hope you, your kitties, family, friends and loved ones have plenty of blessings to share this holiday season. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year from my family to yours!
If you follow us on Facebook or if you have followed us for years, then chances are you have already seen this photo. It is my all time favorite cat Christmas photo, so I share it yearly.
Poinsettias are poisonous if cats eat them, so it’s not the best photo to share because of that. However, my mom has never had a cat bother a poinsettia – so she always left them out. My sister took this photo of my Rags when he was 18 years old.
Christmas ALWAYS reminds me of my childhood and of Rags. We were gifted with Rags as a Christmas present (I am holding him in the photo below and my brother, Marsh, is holding Cosby who passed at 10 months from FIP).
The day we got rags. I am holding Rags. My older brother, Marsh, is holding Cosby, my little brother, Spencer, is in the box and Snickers is the GSD.
Christmas also reminds me of Rags because I always had him help me unwrap my presents – even his last Christmas at 19 years old, I lugged him over to my parents’ house to help me undo my stocking. He laid on the couch as an old man and just bitchy meowed at me, while we undid the stocking.
My fondest memories are of him playing in all the wrapping paper before my mom would scoop it up and put it in the garbage bag. Or how he would help me play with new toys or set up new doll houses. Murphy, my parents’ 14-year old Ragdoll, still loves to play with wrapping paper – and he’s a sucker for curling ribbon – gotta be careful with that (Murphy had surgery at 18 months old from eating and swallowing curling ribbon).
Yeowww! Catnip bananas also always remind me of Christmas and Rags because Santa left one in Rags stocking when he was 15 years old – and he went nutzo for it….not only that, but continued to play with it over and over again – something he had never done with a toy.
Do you have any cats and Christmas stories to share?
so true – that’s true in life too – special days usually don’t fall on special holidays!