In 1972, snow storm covered the Andes Mountains, the small plane of 40-seat was flying through it. The destination was in Chile, but the weather was not so bad even when the plane touched the sky from Uruguay. After that, the jet jumped heavily in the air, when it was calm to hit the hill and hit it in the other side, many of the 40 people had died in the death country and the rest of them were busy playing the last game with sure death. One of them was Petro Alguta. The crowd of dead bodies lay down all around. There are many human bodies in the same way that they are covered in rice. They did not even die, have survived. But nobody knows how long it can be possible to survive in the cold. Petro's the same condition. The next passenger was dead soon. Petro has gone out of the broken door by removing the dead bodies, along with a few others.
In the question what would happen, a passenger suddenly lit torch of light, He said, "Do not worry, the news of the crash of the plane has reached Chile, from where the rescue team came. After several days have passed, no one is seen. Meanwhile, a few more people have died in the blaze. Then a few young people survived but then he fought with death, but again, how did this situation go away? Meanwhile, the coolness of the cold is rising, the cutting of the wind is blowing like a carrot but no one has left the cold, no one will survive, but death is sure. Meanwhile, the man's food and the last tension of the water quickly burnt down in the face. No one can survive the end of the meal. Without food, it is impossible to survive in this cold if there is no magic. Meanwhile, Petro looked at a glimpse of the clock and 13 days had passed but no one else was seen.
They are forgetting the rest of the world, so no one is coming to save them. Then everyone decides to live if they have to eat and if there is no food then dead friends are the only hope. The first was vomited, most of the people then started eating meat of man like a madman, and then they started eating meat. Petro's fate was a friend's cut hand and thighs. Petro was biting his bite. On the day that the people became angry they became a monster. About 25 years after that terrible experience, Petro wrote a book named in to the Mountain. He gave a detailed account of that time. He wrote today and when I look at that day, if I did not do that work then maybe I could not see today's day.
Think of what a terrible experience is that a group of civilized man eats their Fellow traveler to save lives. In fact, the people who were killed were not forced to eat meat in the day that they were killed, but see that many people are alive today because of the dead people. Petro Alguata is one of them. Petro said from her own experience that on the day nobody was thinking that they were eating meat but everyone thought that friends had saved them even after. Thus, after a whole 72 days, finally a rescue team comes; they come alive to 16 people. These 16 people, who were living under that mountain, ice, and humankind, were the miracles. All of the dead did not die in the crash; many were killed due to severe cold and lack of food. It is also said that there are murders in order to survive because all the people suspected that due to food, there was a condition in the absence of food that anyone could wait for the dead body. When there is a high level of food, it is also common to kill any living person and it has happened to food. Based on this incident, in 1993, a movie, named Alive, was built.