GI disease Visualization of only the open end of the stainless steel tube in rigid sigmoidoscopy. See Sigmoidoscopy.
Also keep plants low--avoid tall ones that create a tunnel effect.
Developers Urban Solutions submitted the new plans after tests revealed passers-by could get caught in a wind tunnel effect created by the original design.
Alps TuMR element consists of an insulating layer sandwiched between highly magnetic layers that, when applied with a magnetic field, exhibits a tunnel effect in which an electric signal runs through the insulating body.
Long, narrow rooms such as hallways have a natural tunnel effect, which can be reduced by painting the end walls in a deeper colour to the side walls.
ANYONE who walked past Lime Street station today could not fail to notice how the design of the buildings creates a wind tunnel effect, forcing visitors to fight their way through strong gusts to get to their train.
By creating a tunnel effect with hedging or planting that leads to hidden points of interest you will add greatly to the level of intrigue and excitement achieved by your design.
Fibre-optic displays can also be moulded by the kids into different shapes while an interactive 'infinity tunnel' gives them total control over colour choices and produces a never-ending tunnel effect.
Ground-mounted lights installed in proximity to bushes or shrubs may, for example, produce shadows that cause a black tunnel effect at entrances and windows.
This was caused by a tunnel effect, an ability on the part of electrons to penetrate barriers that were perhaps a hundred atoms thick, as though they were tunneling through.
I was intrigued with the idea if doing a variation of Georgia O'Keeffe's bone paintings, using that sort of tunnel effect.
The patio sits between Adobe's three office towers, which create a wind tunnel effect from sustained winds off the Pacific Ocean.
Despite backing the new scheme, at the back of the Lloyd House police headquarters, councillors were concerned about the block creating a wind tunnel effect and called for tests ahead of construction.