Your use of this Internet Site in any manner, including browsing, logging in, creating an account, sending a request or making a purchase, constitutes your acknowledgement that you have read all the Terms and Conditions and that you agree to follow and be bound by them. Cruising2Tahiti.com reserves the right to modify or change the Terms and Conditions at any time without prior notice to you, therefore, we urge you to read them carefully each time you use this Internet Site.
The information, artwork, text, or pictures (collectively the "Content" C) contained on the Website are protected by copyright laws. You may access and use any of the Web pages from this Internet Site provided that such use is for your personal non-commercial and lawful use. You may not modify or use the content for any other purpose without Cruising2Tahiti.com's express written consent. You may not reproduce, republish, post, transmit or distribute any content on the Website. You may print content from the Website for personal or educational purposes only, and such copies must clearly include any original copyright notices. Any computer software downloadable or otherwise available from the Website is licensed subject to the terms of the applicable license agreement. You may not, under any circumstances, reproduce, record, publish, publicly exhibit, or distribute any content on the Website without Cruising2Tahiti.com's express written consent. You may not link directly to any file located on a Cruising2Tahiti.com server, and you should not attempt to "pass-off" any of Cruising2Tahiti.com's content as your own work.
The content included on the Website have been compiled by Cruising2Tahiti.com from a variety of manual and automated sources, and are subject to change without notice. While Cruising2Tahiti.com makes every effort to ensure complete and accurate information, it is not a complete live online system. Rather, the content is collected periodically for display, and as such is subject to change at any time. Supplier descriptions of hotel names, room categories, and meal plans, are translated from data downloads, and may be vague in description, and can contain errors in pricing. Ultimately, the data presented does not constitute an offer of sale, and is only guaranteed upon verification by our staff at the time of booking.
Cruising2Tahiti.com does not guarantee that the information contained on this Internet Site will not contain errors, inaccuracies or omissions. Such errors, inaccuracies or omissions may relate to price or to product or service description or availability. Cruising2Tahiti.com reserves the right to correct any error, inaccuracy or omission or to change or update the Content without prior notice to you. Further, Cruising2Tahiti.com reserves the right to refuse or cancel any orders or reservations containing any error, inaccuracy or omission, whether or not the order or reservation has been submitted, confirmed and/or your credit card has been charged. If your credit card has been charged for the purchase and your order or reservation is cancelled, Cruising2Tahiti.com shall promptly issue a credit to your credit card.
The sites linked from the Website are not under Cruising2Tahiti.com's control, and Cruising2Tahiti.com does not assume any responsibility or liability for any communications or materials available at such linked sites. Cruising2Tahiti.com does not intend links on the Website to be referrals or endorsements of the linked entities, and are provided for convenience only.
Cruising2Tahiti.com, Cruising2Tahiti.com and related logos and trademarks as well as certain other names, words, logos, images, marks, trade names, and trademarks used on this Internet Site, are the properties of their respective owners. You may not use, reproduce, copy or manipulate any such logos, trademarks, slogans, images, marks, or trade names in any manner without the prior written consent of the owner.
All content of this Internet Site, including all information, design, photographs, maps, icons, graphics, text, data and software (collectively, "Content") and the presentation and arrangement of such Content are subject to intellectual property rights, including copyright, trademark, or other proprietary rights or licenses held by Cruising2Tahiti.com and other third parties. All such rights are expressly reserved.
Please note that all content on this Website is provided on a "as is" and "as available" basis. Cruising2Tahiti.com disclaims any and all warranties and liabilities of Cruising2Tahiti.com, whether express or implied, arising from the use of the Website. Cruising2Tahiti.com does not warrant the accuracy or completeness of content on this Website.