I am 34 and am really just now beginning to understand the power of food. It is everything. What we eat has the power to make us better or worse. I've been listening to podcasts and reading tons of articles about this topic, and I am even more passionate than ever about spreading this message to the masses. Food has the power to alter your moods, your energy, and remedy your ailments, aches, pains, illnesses, and more. And yes, this can feel a bit scary. But it is also incredibly empowering.
I have been eating clean for 4 years now, and carb cycling for the past 5 weeks. Having a solid foundation of "clean eating" was very helpful for moving into carb cycling. It is a simple strategy to implement, but it requires REALLY cleaning up your diet for at least 6 days a week. The carbs you eat are complex carbs like rice, sweet potatoes, oatmeal, and quinoa. No bread and no pasta. And no refined sugar. Working through this program has really allowed me to become in touch with my body and what it needs, how it responds to food, and what works best to keep me functioning at my best. I'm incredibly aware of how everything I am eating affects me, and it's thrilling!
When I was in my 20's, I always had an upset stomach. At least once a day, every day, my stomach hurt. And I legit just thought it was part of being alive. Some foods just hurt when they digest. Now that I have cleaned up my diet, if I have an upset stomach, I can pinpoint what caused it and when it started. And then I can correct it. That was a result of eating clean. But let's take it a step further. NOW that I am carb cycling, I can tell you exactly what foods give me the best energy, sleep, and feel-good feeling. It's amazing!
Everyone deserves to feel their best. I want to help as many people as I can find that power that is within them to transform their health and their lives. If you are ready for my help, I will be leading another group of participants through my Carb Cycling 101 program. Will be begin on May 8th. Click here to register!