I have the “if you give a mouse a cookie” mentality.
This is true with almost everything I do. Recently, I got a new Delta H2Okinetic® showerhead. When I installed this – I was in awe of how pretty it was. Bright and shiny! Like a new diamond.
Then there was the ugly shower caddy that had years worth of gross soap scum all over it. You give me a new showerhead, and I’m going to want a new shiny shower caddy to match. When you give me a new shower caddy – I’m going to want a new shower curtain. When you give me a new shower curtain, I’m going to want a new bath mat. Well, you get the picture…….”if you give a mouse a cookie” mentality.
1. Upgrade your shower head! ASAP.
Get rid of that crusty old shower head that barely spits out enough water to wet your eyebrow! I’m obsessed with my new Delta H2Okinetic® showerhead! This baby has multiple settings and the showerhead itself, is HUGE! Makes you feel like you’re showering in a rain forest. Ahhhhhhhhhh.
I love it because I can change it to whatever setting I’m in the mood for. My husband always changes it to something different, so when I get in the shower it’s like a box of chocolate candy….you never know what you’re gonna get! HA!
The Delta H2Okinetic® showerhead is 2 showers in 1! A showerhead and hand shower that can operate seperately, or both at the same time.
It has 3x the coverage of a standard showerhead. Larger droplets and a unique wave pattern that creates the feeling of more pressure and a warmer shower experience. The showerhead also stays put! When you pull the hand showerhead out and place it back, it’s kept firmly in place with a powerful magnet.
Another favorite feature that I love is the “pause” feature! You just push a small button that pauses the water flow so that you can lather up, shampoo your hair, or shave! I LOVE that!!!
Once you put in your new showerhead, your old shower caddy will just look SO out of place! Do yourself a favor and get a new caddy. Pick one that’s large enough to hold your shampoo, conditioner, body washes, and razors!
I don’t know about you, but our shower curtains get GROSS. Really fast. Especially at the bottom of the curtain. New shower curtains are cheap – so grab a new one that matches your bathroom design and style!
I love our microfiber bathmat! They’re really soft and spongy – and they absorb a lot of water! If you have slick bathroom floors, a bathmat is a MUST anyway, especially if you have kids! Get one that adds a pop of color to your bathroom!
To top off the best shower experience ever – go buy a new body wash and shampoo. I love trying new scents! While you’re at it, grab some body scrubs too! Winter is coming soon and we gotta get prepared to get rid of all that dead and dry skin this upcoming cold and chilly season!!
Do you have any shower upgrade ideas? We’d love to hear them!
Guys. Get this. You NO longer have to leave home and get out of your comfy PJ’s and slippers to indulge in Seafood night!
We’ve fallen head over heels in love with the new Michael Angelo’s Seafood Meals, and so will you! It’s an upgrade from frozen fish sticks that the kids love! Nothing wrong with those, we’ll just leave those to the kiddos while we indulge in the big people stuff!
The new Michael Angelo’s Salmon Piccata is CRAZY good! It’s turned off chilly here this week and I really enjoyed warming up and having this for dinner. Perfection! Made with wild-caught Alaskan salmon, spring vegetables, and a fluffy brown rice in a piccata sauce. It’s super flavorful, and the portion was perfect for me!
I’ve been a fan of Michael Angelo’s foods for a long time now, and most people love the amazing flavor. What they don’t know is that the ingredients are simple, and clean.
Want a night off from having to cook?
Want a super quick and easy seafood night at home?
Grab some Michael Angelo’s Seafood Meals, straight from the frozen aisle at your local grocery store. I got ours at Kroger – but you can also find them at Walmart and Publix. Visit their store locator page to see where you can snag yours!
You’ll love that you’ll be able to read and understand everything on the label. Real ingredients. No preservatives. Nothing artificial. BAM! Their salmon is wild caught and their shrimp is chemical free!
Each week now when I write out our weekly menu plan, I make sure to reserve at least one night for Seafood Night! The family is always super excited – and THIS momma is super excited that I don’t have to slave over a hot stove!
Go ahead and visit Michael Angelo’s on their social channels below to see what’s the latest and greatest!
Have you tried any of these seafood meals yet? If so, which was your fave or which would you love to try?
Let’s face it. Potatoes are an integral part of dinnertime. Especially at our house. My husband is one of those “meat and potatoes” kinda guys.
There’s just one thing though. This momma don’t have the time, NOR the energy to stand and peel potatoes, cut potatoes, boil potatoes, and then mash the heck out of them to get all the lumps out. Don’t get me wrong, I do love me some mashed potatoes – but the real deal around our house isn’t as often as I’d like.
I’ve always been a huge fan of Idahoan because they are the best tasting “instant” out there, in my opinion. Well, they have overwhelmingly upped their game!!!
The new Idahoan Signature Russets Mashed Potatoes are SO STINKING GOOOOOOOOOOOD! You’d swear to the heavens above, that these were 100% completely homemade at your grandma-ma’s house! Not even kidding!
They have a very smooth taste, just like original homemade mashed potatoes with just a hint of butter and cream.
I made these the other night with one of my super quick and easy chicken recipes. We’re having some remodeling done on the house, and this particular night — by the time dinner time came – I was too tired and needed something hearty for dinner! This was a HIT.
Place chicken breasts in a plastic container or large zip lock bag with Italian dressing. Shake around until chicken is well coated. Stick in fridge to marinate for 30 minutes or so.
Place chicken in baking dish or pan, pour leftover dressing from the baggie over top. Bake at 400 degrees for 25-30 minutes or until no longer pink.
Spoon some of the hot dressing from the pan over chicken.
Serve with mashed potatoes and your favorite veggies!
They’re delicious. Oh, wait…did I already say that?!
Makes any meal taste like Sunday dinner!
More than 6 pounds of premium Idahoan russet potatoes go into every 16 oz. pouch.
They use a new processing method that let’s the potatoes keep their natural goodness and texture. In the end, they taste as good as if you had peeled, boiled, and mashed them yourself!
Takes just 5 minutes using milk and butter….or just water!
You can get them in a 4 serving, 12 serving, or 20 serving pouch – and the pouches are resealable.
You can find them nationwide, including Walmart and Kroger NOW!
What’s your go-to recipes with mashed potatoes as a side dish?
This post brought to you by Wearsafe. The content and opinions expressed below are that of Sweet Pennies From Heaven.
College Safety Tips for Girls and Guys You Never Think Of!
The kids are all grown up and leaving for college. They think they already know everything, right?! Yeah, they’re pretty smart – but they’re probably also still really naive. My niece, Hannah – my “mini me” – has just started her first year.
Bathroom selfies and all… (God love her heart!). I love her to pieces.
College kids HAVE to be equipped with some “smarts” when it comes to their safety since we’re not there to protect them. Here are 7 college safety tips for girls (and guys) that most of them won’t ever think of…until we tell them!
1 . Have car/dorm keys handy BEFORE you get to the car or your dorm room. Don’t wait until you’re there before you start digging around for keys.
2 . Keep pepper spray handy. Most people think about having pepper spray on them, but most of the time they never even buy any.
3 . Use your car alarm! If a stranger is following you in the parking lot – press that alarm button on your key ring. More than likely, they’ll run the opposite direction!
4 . Don’t leave your drinks/food unattended. I know this one has been said over and over and over again – but for realz! Keep an eye on your drinks. You never know what weird creeper will drop something in it!
5 . Never go to the ATM machine alone, especially at night. Make your bestie or room mate tag along with you. If she/he complains, offer them $5 or something off the dollar menu at Taco Bell. Guarantee they’ll take you up on that!
6 . Keep your expensive stuff like laptops and electronic devices hidden away in your backpack or bag when heading out to the car or to the library.
7 . Use Wearsafe! It’s a teeny tiny Tag that keeps the kids and their family/friends one step ahead of an unsafe situation. In this event – it can be hard to get help when you’re fumbling around for your phone. I just set one up, and it was so easy to do!
This super small Wearsafe Tag uses your phone to alert your friends and family – by sending them audio from the scene. It starts a chat room where they can coordinate, and/or call 911. Even when your phone is OUT OF SIGHT!!
The Wearsafe Tag works with both iPhones and Androids. The app is only $5 a month and comes with a FREE device/tag! You cannot beat that — and there are NO commitments!!! You can Try it free now!!!
You won’t find another product out there that will keep your college kids safer than Wearsafe. It’s the only one to offer audio, GPS, and group chat! The Wearsafe Tag is SO small that a stranger don’t even know it’s there! All the while, in a situation, they have NO idea that 911 may already be on the way, thanks to Wearsafe!
Group chat – all those in selected network are in group chat to create a virtual situation room. Connects people who may not be connected on a daily basis. They can connect as a team to address how to help person in distress and assess the situation.
This gives