A trip to China sounds very exciting Merle! We're more than happy to help answer your question. We are happy to inform you that you can use your TD Visa debit card at any locations that accept VISA across the globe! While you are away, you can make ATM withdrawals from any machine that displays the VISA or PLUS logo. We encourage you to check out our current fee schedule, http://bit.ly/1cTejgt, as it outlines any applicable fees that may come into play when you use your debit card out of the country. If you are unable to find an ATM that is compatible, with the TD Bank Debit Card, it may be used to obtain a VISA Cash Advance. To make sure you do not experience any acceptance issues, we recommend placing a travel notification on your account before you leave for your trip. You can do so anytime by calling our 24/7 Customer Service line at 888-751-9000. If you are enrolled in Online Banking, you can submit your travel notification via secure message. To send a secured message you must first login to your TD Bank online profile. You can do so by clicking here: http://bit.ly/1eaISlq. On the left hand side, you should see and option to "Send a secure message" located in the “Message Center.” In your message, please include the dates and destination(s) you will be traveling. If you are not enrolled for Online Banking, you can do so for free here: http://bit.ly/1lU2qfY. You will need your Social Security number, TD Bank ATM/Visa Debit Card, your account number and e-mail address. Once you have successfully enrolled, you will have immediate access to your account(s). When you place travel notifications, it makes us aware of foreign transactions on your account and help monitor your account's security. While traveling, we also recommend carrying more than one method of payment, just in case you encounter any acceptance issues. For more travel tips while overseas, please visit http://bit.ly/1gDrDYu. You may also want to review our international travel tips frequently asked questions by clicking here: http://bit.ly/1ltwDDc. To contact us from outside of the United States, please dial (856)-751-9000, our Specialists are available 24/7, or you can call us collect from a landline at (215)-569-0518 with operator assistance. If you have a TD Visa Credit Card, please call us at 1-888-561-8861 to place your travel notification 24/7 with a TD Card Services Representative. You may also contact our Credit Card Specialists while you're outside the United States 24/7 by dialing 706-644-3266. Let us know if you have any other questions and we hope you have a wonderful trip!