Get cheap accommodation in Pisa. Find top-rated cheap hotels in Pisa from $117 per night which include Albergo Celide, Hotel President and Hotel Pisa Tower based on user reviews.
Skyscanner Hotels is a fast, free and simple way to organise your stay. In a few clicks you can easily search, compare and book your Pisa accommodation by clicking directly through to the hotel or travel agent website. No fees are added to your stay by booking with us. Plan your stay or find last-minute hotels.
Looking for something to do nearby? Why not consider Tower of Pisa, Cattedrale di Pisa or Battistero for places to stay.
What are travellers saying about Pisa?
Pisa is a smaller must see town in Italy, with its iconic leaning tower, you just can’t explore Tuscany without a stop here! Great authentic food for an affordable price- once you venture down a side street off the main drag of course. And what’s a visit to Pisa without the typical posed photo holding up the tower!
Who hasn't heard of historic Pisa? The quadrangle contains not only the Leaning Tower abut also the Cathedral and the Baptistry - all very interesting buildings to visit and, if you're feeling energetic, you can climb up to the top of the Leaning Tower. Pisa is also a university town with the River Arno running through the centre and the birthplace of Puccini - so the City itself is also full of history.
I took a day trip to Pisa from Florence by train to see the leaning tower of Pisa. Spent half the day walking around Pisa before coming back by train.
There's really not much to see in Pisa besides the tower, but for that quintessential European summer stop, you need to go. Just avoid midsummer weekend afternoons if possible. Because we didn't, and it was nuts.
When is the best time to book a hotel in Pisa?
The least expensive month is November, with an average of $86 per night. The most expensive month to stay in Pisa is July, with an average price of $136 per night.
What is the average price per night in Pisa in April?
The average price of a hotel in April last year was $117 per night. This is the same as the average nightly price seen over the previous 12 months.
What is the weather like in Pisa?
In Pisa, the expected average temperature in April is 12.7°C/54.8°F. The warmest month is typically August, which averages 30.0°C/86.0°F. The coolest month is January, with temperatures averaging 2.4°C/36.3°F.
What airports are the closest to the city centre in Pisa, Italy?