The 17-year-old comes from a family of art collectors.
Carson Guo’s recent acquisition of a series of skateboard decks from the streetwear brand Supreme began with, of all things, a pair of chopsticks.
Two years ago, the Vancouver-based collector spent around $115 for a pair of Supreme chopsticks. That purchase was just the start for Guo. Last month, the 17-year-old, who used to work part-time at a streetwear store, spent $800,000 on 248 skateboard decks, which had been released by the brand over a 20-year period between 1998 and 2018. Originally collected by Ryan Fuller, these boards include pieces that blur the line between fashion and art, featuring work by artists like Damien Hirst, George Condo, and Jeff Koons. There are also two Louis Vuitton decks—the first, in 2000, lifted the luxury label’s logo without permission, and later, the two labels partnered for the much-hyped fall 2017 collection.
Guo may be young, but he comes from a family of art collectors. “My father is a collector who buys from auction houses and galleries. My older sister graduated with a degree in art history from UBC, and she is my father’s adviser in his acquisition of fine art. She is also a collector of fine art, and the two of them are my mentors,” Guy told Robb Report via e-mail. The family owns pieces by towering artists like Picasso and Monet. The teen collector’s proclivities, however, veer more toward street culture.
As you might expect from the man who bought Supreme chopsticks, Guo is no stranger to the New York–based brand. He says he owns around 200 items from Supreme, “including a few skateboards, some clothes, and many accessories.” But his favorite piece? A Supreme x Everlast punching bag, which is available on the website Kixclusive right now for a cool $15,000. “The piece is very rare, and I think it is absolutely fascinating that Supreme collaborated with Everlast,” Guo said.
As for his most recent acquisition, Guo said the decks will go on view in an upcoming gallery in Vancouver for both hypebeasts and art connoisseurs alike to enjoy.