Unashamedly pretty, pink and perfect - these birthday cakes freshly baked in our London bakery are JUST RIGHT for the girly girls we know and love. After all, if you can't indulge them on their birthday, when can you?!
Our team's FAVOURITE ultimate pretty-in-pink cake is the BEST. So pretty it hurts just a little bit to think someone will be having to cut into it!
The Pink Sweetheart cake is a triple decker layer cake made with three layers of soft pink velvet vanilla sponges, smooth and silky pink and natural Swiss meringue buttercream frosting in a stripey finish, glazed in out signature Belgian chocolate drip cake style, and decorated with macarons, glazed baked doughnuts, candied popcorn and piped buttercream flowers. We think this cake will make all the ladies, young and mature, swoon.
Frosted in on-trend watercolour style with various tones of pink, glazed in white chocolate drip and decorated with macarons, candied popcorn and delicate white chocolate feathers, this cake is a gorgeous addition to any girly celebration - be it birthdays or baby showers!
The reigning queen of all girly birthday cakes, this pretty thing quickly shot up our best-seller list as soon as it was launched! Vanilla bean sponges, pink ombre buttercream, peanut butter cups, pink chocolate glazed baked buttermilk doughnuts, and gold accents this baby will not be ignored.
Pastel rainbow buttercream decorated sponge layers with chocolate covered biscuits, pastel macarons and colourful chocolate shards, this cake is for super fun girls (the kind I wanna be bezzies with!). View all rainbow cakes.
For a birthday lady who is a vulture for culture, the Matcha-Sakura cake is a firm favourite, and also stocked in Selfridges Food Hall bakery. Rich chocolate sponge layers sandwiched with Japanese matcha green tea Swiss meringue buttercream, and decorated with our signature Belgian chocolate glaze, raspberry macarons and pink candied salted popcorn - oh so delicious and PRETTY to boot. Part of the Matcha Cake Collection.
Crazy, colourful and kooky - Alex's birthday cake is still one I go googly-eyed over. How could you not?! It's CRAY! View more doughnut cakes.
Sadaf's bespoke trio of cakes and dessert table spread is the epitome of girly chic (as is the girl herself! Check her blog out if you don't believe me). I love the mini cakelings complementing the cakes!
Know a girly girl? Well, I just made it super easy for you to truly make her speechless on her birthday. You're welcome!