The Excellent combination of both of these layers is the reason why the Puffy mattress is able to provide a cool and refreshing sleeping experience.
The Cover of the puffy mattress is made from top quality materials, which was specially designed and handpicked to operate together with the two foam layers and provide a good sleeping experience.
All Puffy mattresses are made according to order, it’s quickly ready in perfectly neat conditions so the mattress doesn’t stay compressed over a long period of time – This helps it feels clean until it’s unpacked.
Upon being crafted, your mattress is then compressed and sealed. It is then placed in a cardboard box for shipping. Puffy uses today’s latest technology to package all of the mattresses, into a single sized box. This includes the California King. The logo for Puffy is nicely printed on the outside of the box. The box is not bulky, so it easy for you to carry it to its desired location.
The Exceptional motion transfer of the Puffy mattress ensures a sleeping surface with a favorable weight distribution system which provides excellent levels of firmness, contour and elasticity to effectively decrease the amount of sagging and motion experienced by different regions of the body.
A Sponge ought to be immersed in a mixture of water and mild detergent and rubbed in a circular pattern on the stain until it disappears. Make sure no robust or harmful detergent is used.
This Limited warranty applies to only original buyers of genuine Puffy foam mattresses the corporation’s site or an authorized distributor, and this warranty is not transferrable.
Puffy Provides a 101-night sleep test with your mattress, meaning that you can return the mattress within the first 101 nights from the date the mattress was bought, if you are not convinced by its comfort or quality.
Puffy does recommend trying the mattress for at least 3-4 weeks, as your body will need time to adapt. Puffy will pick your mattress up free of charge, within the 101 days if you are not happy for any reason. The mattress is then donated to a local charity, and you are issued a full refund. Though many companies have hidden charges or fees, you will not be charged anything out of your refund. Puffy’s Donation policy assures that your mattress will be donated, versus being sent to the dump if you are not satisfied. The only places that have an exception to this, is Canada, Alaska and Hawaii. Your mattress will be refunded, however the shipping fees that the company pays will not be. You must buy directly from Puffy, to receive their 101 Night Trial. You can do so by clicking here.