Procedure: Infini RF Microneedling. To smooth out facial wrinkles , the patient underwent Infini non-invasive (no incision!) treatments that uses radiofrequency technology to tighten skin. Photo courtesy of Infini. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Infini RF Microneedling. To smooth out facial and neck wrinkles, the patient underwent Infini non-invasive (no incision!) treatment that uses radiofrequency technology to tighten skin. Photo courtesy of Infini. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed. . *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Threadlift. 52 year old woman before and 6 days after threadlift. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Threadlift. 73 year old before and immediately after Threadlift. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Threadlift. A Threadlift (non-surgical face-lift) performed 6 months before the second photo helps fight signs of aging in this patient, including droopiness of the skin of the brow, cheeks, jowls and neck. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Threadlift. A threadlift (non-surgical face-lift) performed 6 months before the second photo helps fight signs of aging in this patient, including droopiness of the skin of the brow, cheeks, jowls and neck, front view.	*Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Threadlift. Before and 6 months after, side view. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Non-Ablative Rejuvenation. Notice the visible improvement in this patient's face before and after nonablative laser treatments. Her skin is much creamier and smoother. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Botox, Juvederm, Radiesse. 44 year old before and after Botox, Juvederm and Radiesse. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.
Procedure: Thermage. 62 year old before and after Thermage. *Results may vary and specific results are not guaranteed.