How can I find out if I am registered to vote?
Call the Voter Registration Office at 717-261-3886 or you may also check your Voter Registration Status online.
Primary elections are always held on the third Tuesday in the month of May, except during a presidental year, in which case the primary is normally held on the fourth Tuesday in the month of April. General or Municipal Elections are scheduled for the Tuesday following the first Monday in November.
Am I allowed to split my ticket in a November election?
On the November ballot, there is a straight party box where you may choose to vote a straight party ballot for the party of your choice by darkening the oval to the left of the party of your choice. Upon marking this party oval, all candidates for that particular party will receive a vote.
If you wish to "Split your ticket", you may split your ballot by darkening the oval to the left of the party of your choice under the Straight Party box and then voting for individual candidates in any other party by blackening the oval to voting for individual candidates in any other party by blackening the oval to the left of their name. The precinct counter is programmed to override the straight party vote if an individual candidate of any other party is marked.
No person is allowed to receive assistance in voting unless their registration record indicates the need for assistance or the voter completes and signs a declaration of the need for assistance at the polling place prior to entering the voting booth.
3. An officer or agent of the voter's union.
If you are voting in an election district for the first time, you will need an approved form of identification, either photo or non-photo.
How do I vote if I am visually impaired?
1. They could receive an absentee ballot.
2. They could vote a paper ballot at the polling place with assistance.
3. They could vote indepentently on the AutoMARK ADA unit. Be advised that a visually impaired voter using the AutoMARK ADA unit should be prepared to spend appoximately 20 minutes voting their ballot since all instructions, candidates and summary are read to them with the use of headsets.
How do I vote in Franklin County?
All voters will receive an official paper ballot. After marking their ballot with an ink pen in the voting booth, they will place their ballot into a Precinct Counter to be counted.
How do I know what will be on my ballot?
The Thursday prior to each primary or election, sample ballots are available in the Franklin County Commissioners Office, 340 North Second St., Chambersburg, PA 17201 and this website.
The entire ballot with all offices and candidates listed as well as a list of polling places will appear in both the Record Herald and Public Opinion newspaper the Thursday prior to each primary or election in the classified section.
How far from the polling place should campaign literature, signs and candidates be?
Campaigning and/or campaign signs are not allowed within ten (10) feet from any entrance to any voting location on election day.
How do I run for political office?
You must call the Franklin County Election Board in January of each year to see if the office you are interested in is up for election. Judicial, County, Township, Borough and School District offices are always in odd numbered years. Federal, State and party offices are in even numbered years.
From 7:00 a.m. continuously to 8:00 p.m.
Why should I vote? It really doesn't mean anything.
Your vote is VERY IMPORTANT. There have been candidates in Franklin County that have won the election by one or two votes.
If I register to vote with PennDOT, how do I know where to vote?
If you registered with "Motor Voter" and have not received an ID card from the Franklin County Voter Registration office with your polling place printed on it, you should call to find out if your registration form has been received.
I have not voted in a while. Am I still registered?
Probably. It is no longer legal to remove any voter from the rolls merely for not voting, no matter how long that may be, as long as they maintain their voter record with a valid address.
If a voter is sent a notice from the Voter Registration Office and it is returned as "undeliverable", the voter is placed on "Inactive" status. When a voter is on "Inactive" status through two (2) federal elections and has not voted, they may be purged.
I moved after registration closed. Can I still vote?
You may go to your old polling place for one more election where your registration may still be active. You should complete a change of address form while you are at the polling place so that your registration can be changed for future elections.
Pennyslvania has what is called a closed primary, which only allows Republicans and Democrats to vote for candidates. If there is a referendum on the ballot, all registered voters may vote for the referendum regardless of party affiliation.
Where do I find out information about the candidates?
Listen or read what the news media has to report. Go to candidate debates or talk to the candidates personally. Another good source of information may be the party headquarters.