If you are searching for chicco next to me sheets. I have listed below the various alternatives you can buy. These include the Chicco Next 2 me Crib Sets, the DK Glovesheets fitted cot sheet and Chicco next 2 me sleeping bag.
This is the popular bedding sets from Chicco. The chicco next to me sheets consists of two soft and comfortable, stylish fitted sheets. Designed for comfortable sleeping for your baby. Made from 100 percent natural organic cotton. This means they are kind to young baby’s skin. The sheets all have different animal themed prints. The most popular pattern is a silver dove design.
The duvet crib set consists of two fitted sheets. These sheets are part of the Chicco nursery bedding range. The sheets are to different colours, one and one coloured.
The sheets have generous elasticated corners so that they fit comfortably over the corners of the mattress. As a result, the sheet fits on the mattress with no ceases or folding and the sheet does not slip off the corners easily.
There is a variety of colours including Sky blue, delicacy grey, fairy tale grey, princess pink and silver dove grey.
They are perfect for the crib. The sheets wash and retain their shape after washing and fit well on the mattress. The sheets are of good quality.
The sheets fit the next to me chicco dream crib, the chicco next 2 me crib and Lullago travel crib.
Quite expensive for two sheets.
Care of sheets: – machine at 40˚C or hand wash. Do not tumble dry as this can cause them to shrink and no longer fit.
Make sure the crib sheets fit correctly on the mattress. So that they overlap the base of the mattress. Therefore, the sheet will not pull off the mattress easily.
The design of this chicco cot sheet means that it can fit the cot mattress like a glove. The sheet made in England of 100 percent organic cotton. It will fit mattress size 84cm x 51cm x 6cm.
Glovesheets manufactured continuously since the 1950’s.
The Glovesheet design fits the mattress better than other fitted sheets.
It is best to get four sheets in case of emergencies. Then always have one ready if you need it. You can change the sheets every other day.
You receive one sheet per packet.
The sheets are soft and breathable. The sheets are a perfect fit on the mattress. The sheets look nice are of good quality and wash well. The sheets are soft to feel. They are a good price.
The deep corners and elastic edge keeps the sheet fitting well on the mattress without slipping or creasing. The cotton used to make the Glovesheets has not been chlorine bleached.
The Glovesheets made with 100% organic cotton and makes them strong rather than the single jersey type material often used for the manufacture of sheets, and so means they last longer.
Care of sheets – machine wash at 40˚C or hand wash.
This is a comfortable cot sleeping bag and fitted sheet for your baby. It is one of the new silver collection and is reversible. This is a Chicco Next 2 me cot set and includes a reversible sleeping bag and 100% cotton fitted sheet. The sleeping bag is suitable for babies’ up to six months. Made from 100% cotton jersey. The sleeping bag is available in one size and measures 65cm long.
Care of sheets: – machine at 40˚C or hand wash.
These chicco next to me sheets are from the Catherine line of furnishing. They consist of two fitted sheets in blue or pink. The sheets are made of cotton and so can be machine washed at 40 °C. They are designed to fit both the cot mattress of both the Chicco next 2 me cot and the Chicco next 2 me Dream. In addition, any cot beds with the mattress size, 83cm x 50cm.
Care of sheets: machine at 40˚C or hand wash.