Introducing the Multi-Language feature of the new iScripts eSwap barter network software and iScripts SupportDesk help desk platform! Included in the software are English, French, Spanish, and German as well as the open capability for any other language of your choosing.
What are the benefits of your site?
BRANDING. Your message is important. Create it once and keep it consistent. Branding, marketing and content can be the same quality for your total reach without compromising time or quality. Your website will appear in different search engines, to a different audience who will be typing in different search terms to find products and services that you offer.
SALES. As internet globalization continues to flourish, the importance of a message and product communicated in various languages to a greater buying audience directly impacts sales. There are plenty of ways to receive online payments to US bank accounts from foreign countries, and, therefore, merchants’ opportunities for sales are big.
TRAFFIC. If your website is translated into many languages, it will have an increased flow of traffic. If you know how to put this traffic to work, then you will probably use ads more efficiently and will receive more CTR from search engines and will increase the overall dollar amount per day. More traffic means more clicks. Similarly, more clicks mean more revenue.
COMPETITION. Are your competitors taking advantage of a multi-lingual site? If they are, they may be eating your lunch and capturing customers that you are not reaching. If they are not, you have the unique opportunity of offering your products and services to an entirely untouched market.
CREDIBILITY. Bring credibility to your site. Since professional language services are not cheap, having a website professionally translated to many languages brings credibility and respect to its owners.
It would be very nice to have a good translator on the sit. Unfortunarely, when I used these translators into Russian *my native language), the results were laughable. It was a source of a really good time for me and my wife. I don’t know about other languages, but Russian was pathetic.