Why Buy With Faith Quintana?
My website has the best online tools to search for your home! In fact, this site is better than Zillow, Trulia and the many other real estate websites out there because I am directly connected to my local MLS! What does that mean for you? Accuracy & Advantage! When you search homes here, you get the most up to date homes & properties available with the most accurate information! AND, if you set up an account, you will get alerted of NEWEST Property matches BEFORE any other site has them! First, start by trying one of our Search tools in the menu. Try the Advanced search to choose specific options & customize your results based on all of the things you wish for in your new home. Second, Save your Search and you will be set up for auto alerts when a new home hits the market that matches! You can also try the Map search which offers a unique perspective by allowing you to use the polygon tool on the side to create boundaries on a map around the areas you want to live in. Already know the address of the property you want? Try the Address Search. OR if you have the property ID you can use the Listing Search to search by MLS#. Find a home you like? Simply click on the Schedule a showing button and send me an alert. I will schedule the time and confirm with you once it is set up! Once you have started searching be sure to check out your My Account page so you can manage your Saved Searches & Favorite properties. The My Account feature has a ton of great tools designed to cater directly to you and provide you with a home buying experience. And it’s Mobile friendly!
Lenders normally require that you insure your home. Home Insurance Policies cover the costs to fix any damages that might occur to the home. The price of this insurance is dependent on a home’s age, location and value and the insurance company you choose. Be sure to call around and get several quotes or ask us for a list of vendors I work with. Insurance agents will oftentimes be able to take your information over the phone and get back to you the same day with a quote. Once you choose a company to insure your new home, the cost of that policy is normally added into your closing costs and sent into an escrow account to be paid to the insurance company directly the first year.
Before the home is legally transferred to you, the closing process must occur. During this phase, you will sign all of the mortgage documents, pay closing costs, and sign various other legal documents & in most cases I will be there to help you through it all. Once all of the papers are signed, the keys to your new home are yours! The only thing left to do is move into your humble abode. This may occur immediately after the closing or at the date set in the closing documents.