Copyrighted works of writing, art, or music.
Trademarked brand names and logos.
The trade dress of your business, which includes unique visual aspects of your website as well as products, packaging, and even building architecture.
Trade secrets, including proprietary processes and methods, algorithms, patterns, client lists … any information you would closely guard to keep it out of the hands of competitors.
Do you know the value of your intellectual property? If you really think about the scope of your business, you probably have more intellectual property than you first thought. List your most important IP assets, and ask yourself two questions. First, do I have sufficient protections in place, given the value of this IP? Second, how much am I willing to spend to defend this IP? If a competitor should infringe on your intellectual property rights, you will want to react quickly to avoid potential losses and to collect compensation for any financial damage that may have already occurred. At the same time, you need to take a cost-effective approach to protecting your IP, considering the financial investment and future revenue at stake.
No longer is it necessary for one to key-in a password of letters and numbers in order to gain access to computers, smartphones, or other electronically-secured information. The use of one’s facial features, fingerprints, and even their iris for electronic security purposes is becoming more common, yet concerns pertaining to personal privacy and use of stored information is now facing legal challenges.
More and more companies recognize the value of using the Internet to grow and strengthen their business. Whether for communications, marketing, e-commerce, research, or other purposes, online activity among employees and customers has expanded exponentially. However, with this growth comes the increased threat to information moving along or stored by electronic means.
Hand-held devices have taken on an increased presence among business operations throughout a variety of industries. From tracking inventory to recording important statistics and other real-time data, the threat to the information stored on these devices is no less real. This may complicate matters for cyber professionals charged with protecting intellectual property.