I. Causes of Heart Failure: What every physician needs to know.
Heart failure (HF) is a clinical syndrome in which the heart is unable to provide sufficient blood flow to meet the metabolic needs of the body, or is only able to do so with significantly increased intracardiac filling pressure. However, this is a somewhat older definition, and many people now define heart failure as a clinical syndrome where there is structural heart disease and impaired function.
Heart failure is often referred to as congestive heart failure (CHF). Many experts believe that the term “congestion” does not uniformly apply to all patients, and the syndrome is often referred to as “heart failure” in more contemporary times.
Heart failure is most often characterized as systolic, if ejection fraction (EF) is decreased, and diastolic, if ejection fraction is preserved. “Diastolic” heart failure is also often called heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFPEF) or heart failure with preserved systolic function (HFPSF).
Systolic heart failure is often due to damage to the heart, such as ischemia or alcohol exposure. Diastolic heart failure is often due to longstanding hypertension or intracardiac infiltration such as with amyloid protein, which “stiffens” both ventricles. It is not usually possible to distinguish systolic from diastolic heart failure based on signs and symptoms alone, as both share substantial clinical features.
II. Diagnostic Confirmation: Are you sure your patient has Heart Failure?
Heart failure is diagnosed at the bedside using history and physical findings. There is no absolute laboratory test for the diagnosis of heart failure.
A characteristic history includes exertional dyspnea, fatigue, and edema. Physical exam would be notable for volume overload (jugular venous distention, dependent edema), S3 gallop, and often pulmonary rales.
However, it is important to note that the absence of rales does not exclude heart failure, as the lymphatic system can provide substantial compensation, particularly in patients with chronic heart failure. Pulmonary congestion is typically evident on chest radiography.
Plasma brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal pro-BNP (NT-proBNP) levels are typically elevated, although renal failure and obesity are commonly recognized confounders. The hallmark laboratory exam of heart failure is an echocardiogram.
The presence of a decreased EF is sufficient to give a diagnosis of systolic heart failure; other modalities such as gated nuclear myocardial perfusion imaging, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or gated computed tomography (CT) are also able to determine EF.
Diastolic heart failure is diagnosed in the presence of the clinical syndrome of heart failure with preserved EF. Efforts should be made to determine the etiology of heart failure.
Exertional dyspnea and fatigue are virtually universal. Volume overload is usually found, but in the modern era of powerful loop diuretics, some patients do not manifest fluid overload.
Nocturnal symptoms such as orthopnea and/or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea (PND) are also highly suggestive of heart failure. Abdominal discomfort or fullness is also a frequently reported symptom. Patients with well-compensated heart failure may have minimal symptoms and no evidence of volume overload. Characteristics of end-stage heart failure may include cachexia and Cheyne-Stokes respirations.
Approximately half of patients with heart failure have systolic failure and the other half have diastolic heart failure. Some have features of both types. Heart failure is perhaps more common in men and in those who identify as black racially.
Risk increases with age. Regardless, the most important risk factors for developing heart failure on a population basis are hypertension, myocardial infarction, and diabetes.
The majority of diastolic heart failure is a result of longstanding hypertension, and this phenotype of heart failure is more common in women. Infiltrative diseases, such as amyloidosis and hemochromatosis, also typically lead to diastolic heart failure, often with restrictive physiology.
Prior chest radiation is another potential cause of diastolic heart failure, and the incidence may increase as prolonged cancer survivorship increases. Once patients are hospitalized with diastolic heart failure, the prognosis is approximately the same as systolic heart failure.
Hypertension and diabetes also increase the risk of systolic heart failure through the increased risk of coronary artery disease and myocardial infarctions. Thus efforts to minimize coronary artery disease would be anticipated to have substantial impact on risk of developing heart failure.
The causes of systolic heart failure are myriad, including coronary artery disease, genetic or familial, viral (including HIV), idiopathic, valvular, inflammatory (myocarditis, sarcoidosis), thyroid disease, tachycardia-mediated (often from previously unrecognized atrial fibrillation), stress-induced (also known as Takotsubo cardiomyopathy), nutritional deficiency (such as thiamine or selenium), systemic myopathies (such as muscular dystrophies), and peripartum cardiomyopathy.
Alcohol, cocaine, methamphetamines, anthracyclines, some antirheumatic medications (such as hydroxychloroquine) and tyrosine kinase inhibitors are common toxic causes of heart failure, which are typically identified through patient history.
Common alternative causes of volume overload include renal failure, liver failure, and hypoalbuminemia. Common alternative causes of exertional breathlessness are chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pulmonary embolism (PE), and pneumonia. Coronary artery disease also may present with a dyspnea-predominant phenotype, rather than chest pain, as is classically expected.
Evaluation of the central venous pressure is of the utmost importance.
Profoundly low cardiac output states may be characterized by hypotension and/or narrow pulse pressure along with cool or mottled skin.
Sinus tachycardia is common but may be compensatory.
Chest x-ray (CXR) and EKG are essential in the evaluation of a patient with suspected heart failure. Beyond providing information supporting the diagnosis of heart failure, these diagnostic tests often provide an alternative diagnosis (atrial fibrillation, pneumonia, lung mass, etc.) that implies heart failure may not be the key diagnosis.
Echocardiogram is also essential and will provide substantial information about the size, structure, and function of the heart. MRI, which provides detailed information on the myocardium, should be considered.
MRI can provide strong, noninvasive evidence of etiology in many cases, such as prior infarction, myocarditis, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, left ventricular noncompaction, stress or “Takotsubo” cardiomyopathy, amyloidosis, sarcoidosis, or hemochromatosis, for example. Positron emission tomography (PET) can also be used to diagnose cardiac sarcoidosis.
Endomyocardial biopsy should be considered in highly select circumstances, such as suspicion of myocarditis. Biopsy also has a role in defining the subtype of amyloid cardiomyopathy (e.g., transthyretin versus amyloid light-chain (AL)). Patients with a family history of cardiomyopathy should be offered the option of referral for genetic counseling and testing.
BNP (or NT-proBNP) should be considered, particularly if other causes of dyspnea such as COPD are being considered if there is doubt about the diagnosis. Very low levels virtually exclude heart failure, but can be confounded by obesity.
Elevated levels can be seen in renal failure without substantial heart failure, but at least suggest volume overload. Elevated BNP in the absence of renal failure is strongly suggestive of heart failure, but BNP levels are increased with age.
Basic metabolic parameters including renal and hepatic function should be measured. Renal dysfunction may be a seen as a result of low cardiac output or elevated venous filling pressure.
Hepatic parameters (ALT, AST, total bilirubin) and international normalized ratio (INR) may be elevated as a consequence of hepatic congestion. Serum albumin is helpful in excluding malnutrition as an alternative explanation for peripheral edema.
Minor elevations in troponin are characteristic of heart failure exacerbation, but typically do not rise and fall as in acute coronary syndrome; myocarditis should be considered if troponin is substantially elevated. Inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein (CRP) or erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) would also be typically elevated in myocarditis, but are not diagnostic if elevated. Anemia (hemoglobin or hematocrit) and gout (uric acid) and are also frequent comorbidities to consider.
Additional testing to establish the etiology of heart failure should be considered and may include: HIV, ferritin (hemochromatosis), thyroid-stimulating hormone, and serum free light chains (amyloid), for example. Testing for specific viruses other than HIV is not routinely performed, but Coxsackie, Epstein-Barr, and varicella zoster could be considered. Exclusion of connective tissue disease with antinuclear antibodies (ANA) is also often performed.
CXR film (Figure 1) may show cardiomegaly, but the absence does not exclude heart failure. Pulmonary edema is an important finding, but can be confused with pneumonitis or other causes of diffuse infiltrates. Accompanying findings such as pleural effusions may be helpful in interpretation.
Chest x-ray film demonstrating cardiomegaly and pulmonary edema.
An echocardiogram will provide size; structural detail, including evaluation of valves; and myocardial function, including EF and presence of absence of regional wall motion abnormalities. This is the most important test when considering heart failure as a diagnosis.
Abdominal ultrasound may demonstrate hepatomegaly and/or ascites, although these findings are often evident on exam and thus are not routinely indicated.
The hallmarks of treatment of di