Showing results for tags 'Blueprints'.
I was talking to a friend the other day about being able to create blueprints of your creations and then selling them to players. He brought up a really good point. In Second Life they tried something similar, but ran into problems because players would exploit this system. They would buy blueprints, change a single texture or alter it in a tiny way, and then resell the design as their own. I am curious if there are any ideas or strategies that will be implemented to try and avoid this (if it's possible)? The only idea I can think of to avoid this is to have the designer bake in a signature of some sort into the design. A signature that would remain even if the overall product was slightly altered.
What kind of vehicles will you build? I want to see if anyone has began sketching out blueprints for the ships they plan on creating. I know we've only been given a little bit of info on ship building but I've already began sketching out some initial ship blueprints myself (I'll post those soon ) What kind of ships do you plan on making given the info we have? Post pics if you have any!
So here's one from the discord. Idea courtesy of TheGreatPigeon who assures me he's too lazy to post it. I like it enough I'll put it up and give my thoughts on it. The basic gist is to allow a construct made from a blueprint to be edited, and for those changes to, themselves, be saved as a blueprint. Unlike a normal blueprint, this new type (We'll call it a 'schematic' for now,) can't be used in a factory by itself or to make new constructs. In order to be used, it requires either a construct the original blueprint was for, or a copy of that blueprint alongside it. A usage case: X designs a fightercraft that's fairly popular. Z finds that it's undergunned and a little slow for his tastes. He adds some more weapons, changes the materials to lighten it up, and adds a sick spoiler just for fun. When he saves this, it becomes a schematic. If he has a copy of X's fighter, he can apply that schematic, in a factory or some other industrial unit, or possibly directly to the construct using guides and his nanoformer. If he has a BP, he can put both into a factory and produce a copy of the fighter with his schematic already applied. If he has neither the fighter or the blueprint, his schematic doesn't do anything at all. So this achieves a few things: 1: It allows iterative creativity while still protecting the IP of the original creator. 2: It can drive market sales for all parties. If Z's schematic is really popular, People are going to want to buy a lot more of X's fighter to get to use it! 3: It can allow players/orgs to customize their own variants of a construct without needing the original designer to do the work themselves, but still get paid for their original work. Now obviously, as a toggle, a BP could still have an "Allow/Disallow schematics" sort of option, to give the original IP holder more control. But I think a system like this could allow for some very interesting interactions to take place, without any enormous degree of additional complexity.
Lets say I make an awesome ship and I sell it on the market for a certain amount. What's to stop some guy from buying it, saving it as his own blueprint, then selling it and making tons more currency because he is able to get more attention drawn towards it? Also, whats to stop someone from just saving a ship or construct I'm working on as a blueprint? I was thinking along the lines of constructs being owner specific, even if created from blueprints; so the first person to place a block for a construct permanently owns it and all copies of it. The only problem with that is, what if I take a piece of crap ship and make it 100 times better? Then I can't make a blueprint from it. I was also thinking there could be an "ownership block", where whoever places it on a construct owns that construct permanently. But then that could simply be broken and replaced by someone else to call the ship theirs.