Welcome to the Pleier Family page at Surname Finder, a service of Genealogy Today. Our editors have compiled this checklist of genealogical resources, combining links to commercial databases along with user-contributed information and web sites for the Pleier surname. As additional sources for vital records, original documents, vintage photographs and surname-based DNA projects are discovered, this page is updated to offer the best list for researching Pleier ancestry. Share this page on Twitter!
It is quite possible that someone else has already performed work on a Pleier family tree, so be sure to examine some of the sources listed below carefully. Have you struck a Pleier brick wall? Read "Genealogy's Most Popular Disbeliefs" for some helpful advice.
Many things can go wrong when a record collection is indexed. If you're having diffculty finding Pleier ancestors in a particular database at one site, try finding it on another and compare the results. If you want to know What information is given in U.S. Federal Census Mortality Schedules about Pleier citizens from the past?, then read this frequently asked question.
Historical newspapers give us the ability to discover ancestral history through eyewitness accounts. There are currently matching Pleier records at Ancestry.com! Start exploring this online Pleier family history resource today.
There are no clear, concise answers to why or how one of your Pleier ancestors took on the surname. It may have been based on their occupation or a distinguising physical trait. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country.
While DNA testing cannot conclusively tell you if two Pleier ancestors were related, it can easily prove if they weren't. Be sure you understand what types of research issues each different DNA test can address before you spend any money. If you're not sure how DNA testing could aid your Pleier research, read "DNA Research and Your Family's History".
There is more to exploring your Pleier ancestry than just gathering a bunch of names and dates. Understanding where your ancestors lived, how they were employed, and what they did for fun, may give you a better appreciation of your heritage. Whether you are a beginner or expert genealogists, knowing Where can I find a biography of my Pleier ancestor? is always useful.
When digging deeper into your ancestor's occupation, a great way to connect with others of a similar interest -- many who might have detailed information, is by posting a message board query giving clear information as to your ancestor's name and the specific occupation or organization, in time and place. The article "The Art of Posting Queries" provides some valuable tips for posting successful Pleier queries.
You may also want to consider posting a query to the Community Message Boards at Genealogy Today to get assistance from other researchers on your most elusive Pleier ancestors.
Web: 1920 Distribution of the Pleier surname in U.S.
If you are having difficulty locating records for the last name of Pleier, contact the folks at ProGenealogists for a free research estimate. You may also find it helpful to read, "When, Why and How to Hire a Professional Genealogist."
Whenever possible, consider holding the family reunion in place where you have a strong Pleier family history, which provides opportunities to share stories and visit cemeteries or old home sites; you may even want to consider as a one-day activity, having each family take on the task of gathering information from the local courthouse, school district, public library, etc. -- this, of course, requires advance planning and assignment, but could generate considerable interest and results. The article "A Great Way to Unite a Newly-Found Family" may provide you with tips for hosting a successful Pleier reunion.
Surname Finder, The Pleier Genealogy and Family Tree Page [on-line resource], New Providence, NJ, USA: Genealogy Today LLC, 2019.
Suggested use: Print a copy of this free research checklist, and keep track of the Pleier genealogy resources that you visit. If your web browser does not print the date on the bottom, remember to record it manually. Today is 21/Apr/2019.
If you host the Pleier blog or web page, please link to this surname-focused resource. Here's the HTML code for a basic link. Simply cut/paste this code on to your page.
It took 0.368925 second(s) to prepare this page.