I wrote something yesterday while I was feeling pretty energized. I sat myself down and let the feeling be. At some point I really felt the urge to write, I mean, I scoured my desk for a pencil because I didn't want to miss something.
I ended up posting it on a closed group that I am a part of on FB. I posted a reply to show where I was coming from, after seeing the time that I posted it I think I rolled my eyes a bit... "As if!"
Still don't know why, and if I add up all the things where I'd say "still don't know why" I could summarize that there's a bigger picture. Something of a positive distraction while nature works at her pace.
there's another curious thing that happens when I get worked-up or feel like I am getting pulled down. It's likely that I've mentioned this before. Songs play in my head, very specific songs with lyrical content that (though subjective and absolutely biased ) speak to my exact situation. I'd be worried if the hints were negative, but they are always trying to life me up. I think it's pretty cool and it makes me smile.
She said "I'll take you some place where I know it will change"
"Arise, remove your earth, shake off your dust, raise yourself, that you may travel in company with the spirits, for your wings are those of a falcon, your gleam is that of a star..."
'It is man's duty not to acquiesce in his merely human state, but rather, in the strength of his contemplation of things divine, to scorn and despise the mortal part which has been attached to him because it was needful that he should keep and tend his lower world.
'If man takes upon him in all its fullness the function assigned to him, that is, the tendence which is his special task, he becomes the means of right order to the Kosmos, and the Kosmos to him.'"
I am pasting something Roger wrote to Jan because it fits well with my previous post. I was looking at older posts and found this. I also found one where you mention basically what is happening right now with the US and Syria. Sorry if this moves about in too many directions but I feel the need to post it in this way.
Let’s be a little provocative: to me, a grown up human being is someone who naturally relates to the ‘Unus Mundus’ because doing this has become a fully integrated function corresponding to a bilateral or reciprocal need: the need to consciously feel one’s working belonging to the universe, and the need for the universe to be consciously recognized in its living relatedness, Eros.
So paradoxically in the culmination of 'amour-propre', self-love, where we in some ways seek nothing but our own good and own well-being, the ego and its will principle become so 'immersed' and unified with the greater field of energy, that they 'vanish' alltogether, because there is nothing egoic that 'stands out' anymore, and the sense of self-ness becomes condensed to its most basic form of simple 'being'.
As any natural growth process, Unio corporalis requires time. It also requires conscious acceptance.
What I mean by ‘natural relation’ is that the relating process has become integrated, that is to say ‘works’ as a ‘natural function’, another ‘sense’.
Of course the personality shift it implies is the fruit of this progressive growth process. On this path paved with abandoned ego desires, the (pavlovian? ) wish for bliss eventually finds its place as something else unfolds.
The ‘crystal body’ is not the exclusive treasure of some people considered as ‘holy hermits’. (If they are ‘holy’ it is because they are “whole-y”, and no saint at all by the way). It also permeates, filtrates through, and finally gilds the surroundings of the life of ‘simple beings’ as you put it. It is, and incarnates in the acts (not necessarily ‘deeds’) of the individuals concerned.
Was reading something of Remo's work tending to the Child archetype.
I had to laugh a bit, seems I was setup (life conditions) to have to deal with it.
My impression was that out of two images the child appears, yet split, and is the next image to contend with.
*I'm putting my own words to that to give a description of what it feels like. "Image"
Edit: I had the chance to speak with my parents about being adopted. Many interesting things came from that. In the conversation I explained that this heartbeat that formed me I had no choice to become unfamiliar with regardless of how much love they gave me when I was young. It's not their "fault" that I have things to deal with in that regard, I said. My dad said "you were our chosen son".
This morning (in the shower!) I remembered the gift I received from them on my 1st birthday, a drum (a new beat).
*edit: just read (today, Monday) that everything in nature is dual - 4.
"So maybe Hillman was right. We don’t have to ground the puer out of fear for his extravagances. Wait a while, and life will bring him closer to earth."
How's this for a type-o?
Lapis Philosophorum: Also known as the ultima materia, aqua permanens (=its libido aspect), rubedo tinctura, filius macrocosmi or philosophorum, quinta essentia, panacea, medicina catholica, rotundrum, elixir vitae, lapis exilis (stone of no worth), everlasting food): the Philosopher's Stone, prized goal of alchemy. According to legend, the Stone, a freed form of the spirit of Mercurius trapped within the prima materia or initially unprocessed raw material, grants immortality, heals all disease, and transforms base metals into gold. Jung saw it as a Self symbol--one compensating Christ--and the goal of individuation.
Zeus was heavy-handed at times, as a result I had difficulty in storms because I was afraid to get hit by lightning.
Might not be good to carry that with me, or maybe I should just to let it clear. i am unsure about that.
Might as well keep the ball rolling.
There are a couple of people who helping me with an intense time. I feel pretty blessed in a lot of ways.
One song sent me on a search and I ended up here.
Call me crazy, go ahead, nothing can take this away from me.
I wrote on a FB group page that I've wept what felt like blood on my drums. I just read this page and I guess it makes more sense.
*btw, I'm tired of talking about them.
this morning I was wondering if individuation was the culmination of Romanticism, it was a totally random thought - I've never really studied Romanticism. I started to search that idea and found some really (really) cool stuff.
Hi, I hope everyone who still reads here is doing well.
I have an interface that allows me to play into my computer and record the random stuff that I am trying to process. Anyway, the other day I was playing and looking at the guitar strings vibrate. At that time I was playing something I thought was pretty cool, and thought that I should stop the recording and make a note about it. I stopped the recording at the 137th bar (I didn't see the screen, just reached up and pressed the space bar). This is meaningful to me because I felt really good about what I was playing!
there's something I wanted to write about on the day it happened but I've let it sit for a while. Just now I felt compelled to write about it.
I often read Gregory's posts and find some ideas in there that are very similar to things I may have been contemplating at the time, etc. Well, this last one was pretty vivid. I was walking my dog and kind of laughed at a random idea that came up. I was thinking of some kind of peg leg person playing some kind of pirate music. I don't know why but I felt it was comical, and I could visualize it pretty well.
Shortly after that day I came across Gregory's post talking about the golden peg leg. Ok, fine, similar theme. Why the hell would I think about it in time with that post?
I've looked at it a bunch of ways and I still just have to let it be. Not sure what to make of it, if anything at all.
Pascal, I am glad to see you posting about complex and deeply meaningful synchronicities. I have been experiencing lots of them many times a day for several months. Other people I know in person or online are also having visions and encountering new people in their every day lives who are also surprisingly having deep spiritual aspirations recently arising in them. I have been thinking frequently of our deceased blog mate Ann Elliot. She wrote mystical books that are still posted online by her family. I think there is one I read a few years ago... and in a recent dream I heard an inner voice say that I will discover answers to some of my deepest concerns from Ann in a very specific book... I will recognize when I go to see again what it might be. Thank You for your continuing participation all these years in preserving the Ann/Suzanne Blog. I have two wonderful daughters nearby where I live... but you in effect are like a wonderful son at a distance who shares all of our similar devotion to knowing we have a purpose in our lives now and most likely will be in the same afterlife locale together.
thanks for a being like a mom at a distance! I can't even describe how much I have learned from you and this forum, it's pretty amazing.
For instance, again, Greg's posts. I recently wrote the words PANIK to you in a message about an event I attended (that word was part of a synchronicity). Now I read his latest post and laughed out loud.
I suppose I just have to settle in to the fact that it's all connected.
*edit: after submitting my post I read it. The image fit so perfectly with the idea of a "mom at a distance"!
Today I read the most recent post in Gregory's thread. I swore, I got up, and I walked away from my desk.
Why o why, that's all I can say. I don't mention mana for I don't know how long and there it is.
I posted on FB this morning on a thread by a Jungian named Craig, it was about Elijah and Mana.
I know where I'm stuck. Why? The only song I've ever recorded and put spoken word to is a song I named THESEUS. I had no idea what Theseus was about when I named it.
Just read another thread, I wonder if the forum will close?
I hope not but it is a possibility. You must feel a l