Summer is the time that many of us have a lot more free time than we usually do, and this is a great thing! This means that you have time to do all of the fun things that you can’t seem to make room for when you’re always working or studying.
Perhaps you already have a bucket list in your mind, or you have no idea where to start. It doesn’t matter because after reading this you will know exactly what you still want to do this summer. So let’s get to the fun part of this blog!
If you always buy the same kind of clothes and you’ve been rocking the same old hairstyle for three years then it is time to try something different.
Not only will all of this be a lot of fun, you may also develop a new style that you are totally in love with.
Festival season is happening right now, and why wouldn’t you want to participate? It doesn’t matter if you visit three festivals all-weekend or one free festival for a day, as long as you have fun. Festivals are a great way to enjoy music, the good weather and playing dress-up with all that fringe and glitter. I know that I always love visiting a festival.
Yes, this is a generic tip, which is why you can choose to do what this tip what you want. You can take some cooking lessons and impress your upcoming dates, you can learn how to write an amazing novel or you could even follow a workshop in Burlesque!
Fulfil your craziest dreams and learn something that you always wanted to be able to do, or know. Now is your time to develop yourself.
Of course, it’s important that you’re safe when doing this, so don’t drink too much and make sure someone knows where you are at all times.
If you’ve got that figured out then it can be incredibly exciting, but also a little scary, to go out by yourself. If you’re the kind of girl who likes a hook-up now and then, then you’ll love all the attention that you get as a girl in a club or bar all by yourself. Or perhaps you don’t like it at all, you can always go home, it’s definitely something to experience.
Nothing screams summer like a good ol’ BBQ, so I had to include it in this list. You can keep it simple, or you can go all out for once. Get the best meat from an actual butcher and search the internet for some delicious salad recipes.
If you want to upgrade your BBQ party even further then you can make sure that you have some kind of pool in your garden, whether that is a deep built-in pool or small inflatable pool.
I don’t know about you, but I usually feel guilty when I watch too much Netflix while I should actually be doing work, so a marathon is just not going to work. Summer is a completely different time though, a lot more time mostly. This is the perfect period for that all-day Netflix marathon where you don’t even get dressed and eat a lot of take-out food. You are allowed to treat yourself now and then.
Even if you stayed in all summer watching movies and eating ice cream, your followers are allowed to think that you went on all these crazy adventures. So take one day, put together a lot of outfits, gather your girlfriends, and travel all across town to take some of your best pictures. You will have a lot of fun and enough Instagram photo’s for the coming months.
Don’t forget to share this post if you liked it and follow me on my social media to always be updated and see much more of my work!