If you’re a fan of fantasy-themed games, you’ll no doubt be very much enchanted by the Novomatic release, ‘Secret Forest’. It’s full of fairy, elf and gnome magic, providing players with a transportation to another world. It’s a little unfortunate that the interface is set up to include much of what would be considered a traditional slot machine cabinet, otherwise the developer could have had some fun with providing a foliage-based background and surroundings. However, this is not the biggest mishap with this game. Instead, they still haven’t seen the error of their ways, and have seen fit to incorporate their tired old arcade noises into this every time the reels spin. Audio should be concentrated on as well as the visuals, and it just seems like Novomatic haven’t really bothered thinking about it too much. However, with this nuance put aside, Secret Forest offers up an easy and relaxing game to play.
There are a total of five reels in this game, and these are accompanied by three rows, which presents a standard layout for frequent online video slots players. Upon these reels, various icons relating to the game’s theme can be found, including a griffin, a blonde-haired fairy, a golden-horned unicorn, trees with faces, white-spotted toadstools, two gnomes and a regal castle. Furthermore, the addition of A, J, Q, K, 9 and 10 icons can also be seen. These icons are wonderfully animated and very intricately designed, providing a very visually appealing product.
In addition to these reels and rows, Novomatic have added a total of nine separate pay lines. All of these are able to be easily altered, ranging from a single one up to three, five, seven and the maximum of nine. Furthermore, the value of a single credit in the game can be changed between $0.50 and up to $1 and finally, $2. Also, players are also able to change around the bet placed per line, which will range from its minimum of one and increase up to the maximum of 100. Overall, players are able to place a maximum wager per round of $900.
A large amount of features are usually added in to the best games, and while Secret Forest does have a few, it’s not overwhelmed by them. Its specialities start off with its wild icon, and this is represented by the previously mentioned blonde-haired fairy. She will act as a substitute for all other icons on the reels, except for the scatters, and in doing so, will contribute towards providing a winning combination. Not only that, but she’ll also double the pay out of any winnings.
In addition to this, you’ll be able to see a scatter icon in view, which is represented by the trees with faces. Should you manage to spin three or more of these into any location on the reels, you’ll be rewarded with 15 freespins. During this round, any pay outs will be tripled and freespins can be re-triggered as well.
Novomatic have also added their regular gamble feature to the game, which provides all players with the opportunity to try and increase their winnings. It is triggered after every winning round during the main game, and will offer you up the possibility of playing a side game to do so. Should you choose to do this, you will be taken to a new screen. This will present you with a deck of playing cards, and you will need to guess the colour of the next playing card to be turned over. If you manage to do this correctly, you will see your winnings doubled. Alternatively, if you don’t guess correctly, your winnings will be lost.
This game presents a wonderfully magical game, which is filled with visually pleasing animations and graphics. It’s a shame about the previously noted music and interface, but gamers will be pleased to spend their time gazing upon intricately crafted symbols as they spin the reels.