For Lutherans the church is defined by its worship. The church is “the assembly of all believers among whom the gospel is purely preached and the holy sacraments are administered according to the gospel” (Augsburg Confession, Article VII). More than offering praise to God, Lutherans say specifically that the heart of our weekly liturgy is gathering around the word of God proclaimed and the sacraments of holy baptism and holy communion.
You can’t have worship without the assembly of believers.
The community’s presence reminds us that we are more than our individual selves. We are united with the saints of God around the world and throughout the ages. That is what it means to be part of the one, holy, catholic, and apostolic church. The things we do and say in the liturgy have marked Christians for centuries. We gather to remember our baptism, to confess our sins, and to receive God’s forgiveness. We hear the ancient scriptures read in our midst, but proclaimed anew with power and relevance for our day. We gather around the table to be fed with the bread of life and then we are scattered to live our baptismal faith in our daily lives. Gathering - Word - Meal - Sending, this is the flow of our worship.
Holy Communion is celebrated each Sunday morning at 8:00 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. September – May. During Summer only one service is held at 9:30 a.m. Fellowship and refreshments follow the worship services. Mid-week evening vesper services are offered during Lent and Advent, usually following a light supper.
New Promise enjoys singing praise to the Lord and Sunday’s worship services reflect that in their musical styles. The 8:00 Traditional service uses hymns and liturgical music mainly from Evangelical Lutheran Worship (ELW) accompanied by organ. A blend of music - hymns both old and new along with familiar songs from popular Christian music - are the basis for the blended 10:30 service with accompaniment from both organ and instruments. Holden Evening Prayer is a favorite for vespers.
All who believe in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior are welcome to receive Holy Communion. When you come forward, please pick up an empty cup (or select a cup filled with grape juice), receive the gluten free bread and then step forward to have your cup filled with wine. There are baskets at the head of each side aisle for the used cups.