Over the past century, Leviton's electrical components have made them a household name. But did you know that they produce an impressive line of fiber optic products as well? From consumables and connectors to fiber enclosures and adapter plates, Leviton fiber optic components are designed for fast, easy terminations and high quality connections. Read on to learn more about Leviton fiber optics, available right here at CableOrganizer.com!
Before you can terminate optical fiber, you've got to get it squeaky clean. For just that reason, you'll find a wide variety of Leviton fiber optic consumables products at CableOrganizer.com. The standard Leviton Consumables Kit comes complete with alcohol pads, polyester wipes, music wire, and lapping film. The Fast-Cure Kit is made up of all the adhesive, accelerator, needles and syringes needed for terminations with Leviton's Fast-Cure connectors. We even carry Leviton's Adhesive Accelerator kit, which contains primer and hardener for use with fiber optic connector adhesives.
Leviton Fan Out Kits are perfect for separating and protecting 250-micron fibers during fan out terminations, and make it easy to route them into 900-micron color-coded buffer tubes. Fan out kits are available in 24" and 36" lengths, for 6-fiber or 12-fiber configurations.
Whether you need to terminate single-mode or multimode fiber, Leviton's FastCAM connectors allow you to make fast, precise field terminations. Using a proven and revolutionary mechanical splice technology, FastCAM connectors eliminate the need for hand polishing, specials tools, and even epoxy! After a cleaved fiber is inserted into a FastCAM connector, the installer simply releases the factory-installed wedge clip, and an instant low-loss connection is formed.
EIA/TIA compliant FastCAM connectors are available in LC, SC or ST styles. They're perfect for any indoor premise or fiber-to-the-subscriber installation, as well as applications that require a fast data network. To make terminations even easier, try Leviton's FastCAM Installation Kit, which includes a fiber stripper, cleaver, and two types of cleaning wipes: dry and alcohol-moistened.
Perfect for both indoor and outdoor applications, Fast-Cure Adhesive Style Connectors from Leviton make it easy to quickly terminate optical fiber for LANs, WANs, point-to-point systems and Cable TV distribution networks. Available for single-mode and multimode fiber, Fast-Cure connectors come in LC, SC and ST styles, and feature precision, pre-radiused zirconia ferrules. Leviton's Fast-Cure adhesive connectors comply with TIA/EIA standards, and their high cable-retention crimp makes them ideal for use with jacketed fiber.
Thread-Lock connectors are a convenient solution for easy field terminations on single-mode and multimode fiber. TIA/EIA compliant Thread-Lock connectors are both removable and reusable, and meet Telecommunications Industry standards for tensile strength and performance. Best suited for indoor use, these Leviton fiber optic connectors don't require crimp tools, epoxies or heat curing, and take about 2 minutes each to install. Thread-Lock connectors have a typical insertion loss of 0.20dB, and come in SC and ST varieties, with duplex clips available.
Ideal for protecting and organizing optical splice fibers, the Leviton DPS Optical Splice Enclosure is designed to complement any 19" or 23" rack mount application. The DPS Optical Splice Enclosure is constructed of rugged aluminum, and features front and rear hinged doors (with an optional key lock) for convenient access to fibers and splice trays. Available in 3U, 4U and 6U sizes, this Leviton enclosure is NEBS GR-63 compliant, and is perfect for use with legacy systems.
Leviton's OPT-X® 1000 1RU Fiber Optic Enclosure is ideal for the splicing, patching and cross-connect of single-mode or multimode fiber in rack mount applications. A natural fit for tight spaces, the OPT-X™ 1000 can accommodate up to 24 fibers, and features front and rear tilt-up lids for easy access. Equipped with strain relief at cable entry points, this Leviton fiber enclosure is available with or without adapters, and accepts up to 3 splice trays. The OPT-X™ 1000 is UL-listed, and meets or exceeds all TIA/EIA standards that apply to it.
The perfect partner for Leviton OPT-X™ 1000 Rack-Mount Enclosures! OPT-X® Adapter Plates are available in multiple adapter types, so installers can easily add in or change connector styles. Equipped with easy-to-use plastic plungers, these 16-gauge steel adapter plates allow for fast installation. no tools needed! TIA/EIA compliant Leviton OPT-X™ adapter plates can be configured with 6, 8, or 12 ports, and accommodate FC, LC, ST, MT-RJ and QuickPort adapters.