Wild garlic pesto shrimp pasta is a fresh and easy pasta dish made with sauteed shrimps, marinated in flavourful wild garlic pesto… Perfect for lunch or dinner!
Lately, I’ve been all about easy and quick lunch and dinner ideas, and this recipe is one of my all-time favourite recipes. This whole thing is ready in just 20 minutes, perfect for busy days or even date nights!
Wild garlic can be found normally from March to June, and since it’s the season of wild garlic I wanted to share this recipe with you. However, if you can’t find wild garlic then you can go for regular basil pesto and the result will also be very delicious!
Wild garlic pesto is very easy to make. You will need wild garlic, grated parmesan cheese, pine nuts, olive oil, lemon juice and salt & pepper. Simply place all ingredients in a food processor and blitz until you get the desired consistency. You can add more olive oil to the mixture if needed.
This luxury shrimp pasta dish is very easy and quick to make. It is ready in just 20 minutes, and you can’t beat that! All you need to do is cook the pasta, marinate (or coat if you don’t have time) the shrimp in pesto, saute the shrimp, make a simple creamy sauce for the pasta, toss everything together, top the pasta with shrimps, and finish with a sprinkle of grated parmesan cheese and freshly chopped parsley!
This creamy wild garlic pesto shrimp pasta is packed with flavour. Perfect for lunch or dinner and can be ready in under 20 minutes!
Place all ingredients in a food processor and blitz until you reach the desired consistency. You can add more olive oil if needed.
Marinate shrimp in wild garlic pesto for 15-20 minutes. Or just coat in pesto if you don't have much time.
Cook pasta according to instructions on the pack. I add a little bit of olive oil and a pinch of salt to boiling water before adding pasta.
While pasta is cooking, cook the shrimps. Heat olive oil in a pan, then add shrimps and cook until shrimps are pink and round.
When pasta is cooked, get rid of pasta water and leave pasta in the pot. Reserve just a little bit of the water. Add heavy cream along with pasta water, and let it bubble. Add ground black pepper and salt to taste.
This shrimp pasta dish is also perfect for date nights, my fiance appreciates a good pasta dish with seafood and this recipe is definitely a favourite. For me, date night at home means cooking a luxury comforting dish and eating it on our cosy sofa with romantic music playing in the background.
I was asked to take part in a creative challenge by Juliettes Interiors to create a lunch menu inspired by my favourite Chaise Longue from their collection. They have a beautiful glamorous collection, and it was so difficult for me to choose my favourite chaise. There are so many styles to choose from! From neoclassical, baroque and roman to modern designs. And different gorgeous materials and finishes, like leather, linen, velvet, and wood. I ended up going with this stunning Curved Contemporary Chaise Longue. This luxurious chaise is very elegant and looks very comfy as well!
This post is sponsored by Juliettes Interiors. Thank you for supporting the brands that make Little Sunny Kitchen happen. All opinions are my own. Chaise Longue image courtesy of Juliettes Interiors.
This looks so light and fresh which pasta does not always do. It looks amazing too!
I absolutely love pasta with wild garlic pesto. I made this recipe for my family yesterday, and it was gone right away.
I’m not familiar with wild garlic but it sounds like something I need to track down! Pinned, in hopes that I do! I love the whole date night menu you proposed too. So easy and elegant all at once!
this is so pretty I love the presentation. Everyone would swoon over me serving something so gourmet they would think someone else did it! Great job!
I love the sound of that pesto and with the shrimp I’m sure it’s incredible!
What a fantastic dinner so full of flavor! Perfect for a date night in!
I’m intrigued. I’ve never used wild garlic before and wondering how the flavor differs from regular garlic. I’ll have to hunt it down and check it out!
This look easy to make, and will make a great date night dinner with my hubby! Love the pesto recipe and can’t wait to try it!
This looks very elegant, and yummy! I can’t wait to make this easy pesto shrimp! The pesto recipe looks really easy to make!
I don’t think I’ve ever seen wild garlic before. Does it look different from regular garlic? Do you find it in your supermarket?
Is there anything better than shrimp and pesto? I don’t think so and this looks delicious. I love simple meals like this that I can get on the table quickly during the week!
I can’t believe I haven’t heard of wild garlic before!! I’m such a garlic lover and I’ll definitely need to give this a try!
I’ve been all about quick and easy dinners recently too! But I don’t want to sacrifice flavour or use pre packaged stuff! This looks amazing, so many beautiful and fresh flavours; we need to make this for dinner ASAP!