Expose Corrupt Courts: Federal Judge: "But you destroyed the faith of the people in their government."
Federal Judge Michael Mills: "But you destroyed the faith of the people in their government."
It takes a little longer for a big city investigation to come to light than it would in a smaller locale. But in addition to being patient, New Yorkers should be encouraged by the recent words of Federal U.S. District Court Judge Michael Mills, notably this Super Bowl day from the town that brought New York Eli Manning- Oxford, Mississippi. There are many issues common to little Oxford, Mississippi and big New York, New York: a need for federal intervention over state corruption; conspiracy; public corruption; and the destruction of the faith people have in their government.
Despite numerous letters from prominent community members and a glowing report of cooperation from the U.S. Attorney’s Office, insurance agent Ken Nowlin was sentenced Thursday to spend 30 months behind bars in a federal prison for conspiracy.
Nowlin was charged in June with conspiracy for paying former Lafayette County Supervisor Gary Massey a “commission” during Massey’s term as supervisor.
In late July Nowlin pleaded guilty to the charge and had been awaiting his sentencing hearing which was held Thursday afternoon at the Federal Courthouse in Oxford before U.S. District Judge Michael Mills. The Ecru insurance agent told Mills he was sorry for his actions.
“Who mislead you?” Mills asked.
“An elected official, your honor,” Nowlin replied.
U.S. Assistant Attorney Dave Sanders told Mills that Nowlin has fully cooperated with the investigation by supplying documents and testifying before a grand jury against Massey.
According to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines, Nowlin faced up to 30 months in prison. The U.S. Attorney’s Office filed a motion for downward departure in Nowlin’s favor, asking the court to consider a sentence less than the guidelines stipulate since Nowlin was so cooperative.
But despite the request and his cooperation, Mills sentenced Nowlin to the maximum sentence of 30 months.
Nowlin was also sentenced to pay $275,942 in restitution back to Lafayette County. Nowlin’s attorney, Tony Farese, told Mills that Nowlin had already paid the full restitution on Tuesday.
Mills allowed Nowlin to remain out of custody on bail until March 31 when he will have to report to a prison facility that will be determined at a later date.
Massey and Nowlin were originally charged in June for conspiracy, public corruption and money laundering in a 53-count indictment, which alleged Massey accepted payments in excess of $827,000 during his term as supervisor from 1996 -2003, for the Lafayette County Employee Health Care Contract paid through Nowlin, the agent of record at the time.
Massey pleaded guilty in September to one count of conspiracy and two counts of public corruption. He is still awaiting a sentencing date.
Sanders announced during Thursday’s hearing that the remaining 52 counts against Nowlin will be dropped by the U.S. Attorney’s Office.
Before he became a supervisor in 1995, Massey was the insurance agent of record for Lafayette County. Federal prosecutors claim Massey used his influence to get Nowlin the job as insurance agent of record in exchange for the commission.
My faith in my government has been shattered because the bastards get away with it!
this Federal Judge should get real! News Flash! The ordinary people have no faith in Government! Everyone knows the Government is going to rip them off one way or the other. Get real brother!
I think this judge put it better than anyone else in recent memory. I know I have completely lost my faith in my government.
who has any faith in the government? yougottobe crazy! the government is always looking to screw you one way or the other, so screw them all! they always lie to us!
this Federal Judge is sick if he thinks most people have any faith in the government. And they know that it's not "their government" since it's been taken from them by the lawyers.
Tarbilly says,all politicians aren't crooked ,they just start working on it before they get elected..Hey remember theyre the ones who created so much unemployment weil be borrowing food from China,next..Oh what a web we weave!!!
The Constitution ,Says life liberty and the persuit of Happiness...Maby that will happen tomorrow, Sure it will?
Why ,I talk like I do,My birthright was taken away at birth,I was not raised by my real parents,they didn't adopt me.Name on birth cirtificate was baby doy johnson until i was thirteen and i found my real dad at age twentyone..Do u wana hear more?dad772904@gmail.com,,Anytime!!
We see You in court.com. My Christmas is never ruined because I am not you.com.
Heck it's not just the judges and attorneys who have violated civil rights and due process in Kansas.... family, friends, government institutions, churches have supported by their silence abuse and defamations in procedures kept secret from me. I am more targeted since protesting the corruption.
Sometimes you can believe in "the kindness of strangers."