Nourishing Hydrating Shampoo an antioxidant-packed shampoo that thoroughly cleans without stripping. Leaves hair and scalp hydrated and nourished. Luxurious synthetic-free lather. No harsh sulfates or surfactants. Suits normal, dry, damaged, and color-treated hair. Fresh scent: bright citrus with subtle floral notes.
Both the shampoo and conditioner smell absolutely amazing, are extremely nourishing, and are completely toxin-free.
Apply to wet hair and work into a lather. Rinse and follow with Nourishing Conditioner.
You don’t need harmful SLS to get a good a lather. Instead we use a coconut-derived surfactant, so you can lather to your heart’s content without stripping hair of its natural oils. And because antioxidants are just as important for hair health as they are for skin health, we added those in too. Have we mentioned we love antioxidants?
Green and White Tea leaves contain the potent antioxidant catechins which protect your skin, scalp and hair from the oxidative stress that accompanies sun exposure. Green Tea has been shown to prevent the damage associated with skin cancer, wrinkles, and hyperpigmentation. Tea polyphenols have natural astringent, toning, soothing, and anti-inflammatory properties and prevent the enzymes that attack and break down your body's natural production of collagen and elastase.
A water soluble surfactant derived from Coconut.
Behind every great lather is a great surfactant. Unlike many shampoos, ours is naturally derived (from coconut) and gives a luxurious lather while offering excellent cleansing and moisturizing properties.
A combination of antimicrobial peptides, Lactobacillus works to rid of harmful bacteria and stimulate the production of good bacteria on your skin.
This humectant prevents moisture loss while balancing and soothing the scalp.
A surfactant derived from apples, Sodium Cocoyl Apple Amino Acids conditions the skin.
Emollient, nutritive and rich in antioxidants, this oil actually dissolves the oil complex that holds dead skin cells together. Part exfoliant, part lubricant, it reduces flaking and improves texture.
Derived from the seeds of the Limnanthes alba, Meadowfoam Seed Oil's long chain fatty acid structure and waxy texture gives it great barrier function, allowing it to lock in moisture and hydrate the hair. Additionally, Meadowfoam functions as a powerful antioxidant, protecting your hair from UV damage.
Citric acid helps to preserve a formula by preventing the growth of bacteria. Although it can be obtained from a variety of sources, ours is derived from non-GMO cassava root.
This light, naturally fresh blend of whole essential oils was created exclusively for True Botanicals by one of the oldest fragrance houses in the world and incorporates lemon, orange, mimosa, violet, and ylang ylang.
Retaining the moisturizing properties of the coconut oil from which it is derived, Decyl Glucoside is a surfactant that also works to moisturize, smooth, and soften the skin.