Guests can celebrate their favorite beer holiday for two days at PUB 365 with giveaways from Guinness and Four Peaks Brewing Company, beer offerings and specialty menu items. PUB 365 is offering Smithwick’s Irish Red Ale drafts and Guinness drafts for $3.65 each and a free stout beer sidecar with a Jameson Caskmates purchase. On Thursday, March 16 from 4 – 6 p.m., guests can receive their own Guinness pint glass and have it personalized and engraved while enjoying their meal. In addition to the beer specials, PUB 365 will offer corned beef and cabbage and shepherd’s pie, each $9, on Friday, March 17 only.
In celebration of St. Patrick’s Day, Piazza Lounge will offer specialty cocktails for $7, including libations such as an Irish Old Fashioned, The Heavy Half, an iced Irish coffee, “Weeski” Manhattan and a Jameson Mule.
Throughout the tournament, PUB 365 and Piazza Lounge will feature drink specials during all games. Specials at PUB 365 include $3.50 16 oz Budweiser or Bud Light; $16 beer buckets featuring Budweiser or Bud Light aluminum bottles; $3.65 Four Peaks drafts; $14 Four Peaks pitchers; $3.65 Joseph James American Flyer Craft Lager drafts; and $14 Joseph James American Flyer Craft Lager pitchers. Drink specials at Piazza Lounge include $2.50 12 oz Budweiser or Bud Light; $12 beer buckets featuring Budweiser or Bud Light cans; $3.65 Four Peaks drafts; and $3.65 Joseph James American Flyer Craft Lager drafts.
As part of his Playlists Series, Kenny Davidsen and guests will perform Stevie Wonder’s 1976 Grammy Award Winning Album, “Songs in the Key of Life!” The set includes performances of “Sir Duke,” “Knocks Me Off My Feet,” and “Isn’t She Lovely” among others.
For $59, guests can enjoy a four-course Italian dinner with wine pairings from Hope Family Wines of the California Central Coast. The menu for the evening includes rustic bruschetta, rigatoni paesano, roasted rabbit, and ricotta citrus cheesecake.
Guests can enjoy a Luau-themed evening with newly released beers from Kona Brewing Company, special Tiki cocktails and Hawaiian-inspired bites.
PUB 365 features a collection of 365 rotating beers and a menu of traditional pub fare with a modern spin including homemade small bites, iconic burgers and locally world-famous tacos. PUB 365 is a true beer lover’s dream with an extensive collection that includes an evolving list of rare, specialty brews.
Every day, PUB 365 hosts Happy Hour with food and drink specials available 3 - 6 p.m. daily and 11 p.m. - 2 a.m. nightly. Food specials include 50 cent chicken wings; $2 slow roasted chicken or carnitas tacos; $2 certified Angus beef sliders; $5 pork or veal bratwurst; $3 beer battered onion rings; and $1 pub chips. Select beers and house wine are available starting at $3.65.
Monday – Friday 11 a.m. – 2 p.m.
PUB 365 features an Executive Lunch Menu with an order-to-table 15-minute guarantee or the meal is complimentary. The new menu is ideal for business persons looking for a swift, appetizing meal in between meetings. The menu includes sandwiches such as the Chicken Pesto Panini, Classic Cuban Panini, Pastrami Sub and pulled pork sandwich; salads such as the Caesar Salad with Chicken, Cobb Salad and the ‘Lil ‘Rugula Salad with Chicken; and other classic menu items such as the Carnitas Tacos, Slow Roasted Chicken Tacos and Certified Angus Beef Sliders. Each menu item is $9.95 including pub chips and a fountain drink or iced tea.
Enjoy a taste of Italy at the award-winning Tuscany Gardens, an elegant fine dining Italian restaurant featuring USDA Prime steak, savory entrées like seafood and veal, favorite Italian classics and homemade pastas complemented by the chef’s famous sauces. To top it off, indulge in one of the mouthwatering housemade desserts and a bottle of wine or Champagne for the perfect romantic evening.
Casually elegant, artisanal food and drinks take center stage at Caffé Bottega, a relaxed Italian-style café. Enjoy fresh-baked pastries, tasty breakfast sandwiches and Stumptown Coffee Roasters coffee. For a quick bite, try artisan flatbreads, Panini or fresh salads paired with a variety of delicious wines or craft beers from local breweries.
This welcoming 24-hour Las Vegas restaurant offers an all-day breakfast menu as well as a full menu of hearty homemade classics and late-night specials, including all-you-can-eat crab legs, steak and eggs, flavorsome soups and fresh salads and sandwiches.
Open 24-hours; late night specials menu served midnight – 5 a.m.
Tuscany Casino offers great daily promotions, along with slots, video reels and video poker multipliers every week. Sign up for the Tuscany Players Club to start earning both cash and comps for slot and table play.
Members receive 12x points on Reels and Video Reels and 6x points on Video Poker every Monday and Saturday in March.
Members can discover the mystery multiplier by playing each Wednesday in March. Four different multipliers are available, with members able to earn up to 5x points.
Members over the age of 50 receive free entry in the Senior Slot Tournament from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. every Thursday in March. Additionally, senior members receive a free coffee from Caffé Bottega and a two-for-one entrée coupon redeemable at PUB 365 each Thursday. Seniors also receive 20% off at the Tuscany Gift Shop for the entire month of March.
Members can win up to $3,000 in cash during Tuscany’s Cards to Cash Hi-Low Game every Friday in March at 7 p.m.
Members earning 300 same-day points can receive a free gift each Sunday in front of Marilyn’s Café. On March 5 members can receive a cooler chair; March 12 a basketball snack jar; March 19 a Bluetooth key finder; and March 26 a PUB 365 hat.
In its 18th smash hit year, The Rat Pack is Back! comes to the Copa Room. Frank, Sammy and Dean perform the classic hits and unforgettable group sets showcasing exactly why Las Vegas was (and continues to be) the hippest place on earth. Their cool vintage charm and stage demeanor create a spiritual reincarnation of the original Vegas legends.
Laura Shaffer brings back the glamour and the fabulous music of the Las Vegas lounge era with an evening of cocktails and dancing.
Sina Foley injects soul into your favorite contemporary hits with her radiant personality and sultry voice.
Entertainer of the Year (Nevada Women’s Chamber of Commerce 2015), Kelly Clinton-Holmes, dazzles with her unique blend of singing, dancing and comedy.
Rockie Brown performs the hippest tunes of R&B, Pop and Top 40s, bringing a raw and soulful spin to popular music.
The piano stylings of Kenny Davidsen are accompanied by surprise Las Vegas celebrity guests each week.
Spend an evening in the eclectic garden with the talented jazz songstress, Windy Karigianes.
Sing along to Sinatra-era music.
Inspired by the Tuscany region of Northern Italy, Tuscany Suites & Casino boasts a warm and welcoming atmosphere, some of the largest standard hotel suites in the city and thoughtful amenities to ensure the most comfortable stay possible. For booking information visit tuscanylv.com.
Receive 20 percent off your stay when you book four nights or more. No promo code needed; based on availability; blackout dates apply.
Located inside the fitness center at the Tuscany Suites & Casino, The Spa at Tuscany offers full body massage treatments with an assortment of relaxing and revitalizing products.
Book an appointment between 8 a.m. – 2 p.m. to receive $20-$40 off select massages.
Locals can book massages for $60 per hour.