Last night I was feeling down and confused with all the things that are not happening in my life the way I want them to happen. I saw a couple of Youtube video's about How to Get Motivated, How to Think Clearly etc. etc. but nothing changed.
I wanted to gulp down a few shots to ignore what's been troubling me but then I realized that I am much more stronger than what I am going through in my life right now. We as healers, keep on saying that 'It's all in the mind, your mind creates your reality etc etc." but what I realized that I wasn't really following what I say to others.
A small moment of guilt and shame came over me but then the blessing which I have is the level of awareness, I was able to quickly analyze in those few moments, How my mind tried to create an even negative situation simply because I had let it rule my life. Cmon, I want to make a difference in the whole world and the difference will have to begin from Changing my thinking and thoughts about myself.
I am sure we all go through these dark phases in our lives and feel like its the end of it.
BUT, BUT, BUT If you hang on to these so called Dark phases of your life and Introspect a little, you will know the deeper meaning of Why they came up at the First place?
"If we have to Change the World, We have to First Change Our World"
I somehow Intuitively was guided to Write these few questions on my white board and then When I read them later, I felt that these are the Answers to Help me move past the dark phase into the Light. After all, Light means Guidance, Wisdom, Illumination.
Am I working on my Vision & Goals of Life?
Am I taking the necessary actions to convert my Vision into Reality?
What is my contribution today for My Life's Purpose?
How Am I making the impact to improve the world?
Am I living just for my own self or I feel its my responsibility to improve the world and give my contribution to make it a better place for my generations to come?
What can I do Today to really help and empower others with my current abilities and knowledge?
If its less than 10, How Can I Improve it to be a perfect 10/10? In what better ways Can I be of Help & Assistance to others?
These 11 questions pulled me from going into a rut of negative thoughts and some very inspiring answers began coming from my heart, as if my mind & heart are working in sync to improvise my vision and empowering me to take ACTION.
Try it and Do leave a feedback if these questions helped you out. I am looking forward to hear the results and your kind comments.