MARIKINA CITY – The Marikina City council is celebrating the Christmas season focusing on the city’s rich culture and heritage, its growing shoe and food industries, as well as the contributions of the family in its growth and development over the last three centuries.
“Founded nearly 400 years ago, Marikina City has weathered a number of challenges, thanks to the strength and the unity of its people – those who were originally from Marikina and those who decided to settle here and found kinship with the locals (or “taal na Marikeño” in Filipino),” the local government said in a statement.
The significance of unity will take the center stage in these festivals.
Dubbed as Experience Marikina, the local government has lined up numerous activities to celebrate its three major festivals in the last two months of the year: the Sapatos Festival, the Rehiyon, Rehiyon, and the Christmas Festival.
The city will also commemorate the 22nd year since it became a chartered city on December 8, 1996.
“United ang theme ng celebrations ng mga festival sa Marikina. Iyan ang vision ni Mayor Marcy na i-institutionalize ang lahat ng city events. So naging tagni-tagni siya in tune with the overall direction, which is to give emphasis and importance to family, culture, heritage, shoes, and food,” Winnie Mariano, city events manager, said in an interview.
Among the highlights of the Sapatos Festival will be the shoe bazaar that will run from November 12 to January 6 at the Freedom Park, right across the Marikina City Hall.
Over 50 manufacturers from Marikina will be selling their products – shoes, bags, belts, wallets, and other accessories at attractive prices.
Marikina is best known as the Shoe Capital of the Philippines because it was here where the first pair of shoes was made in 1887, paving the way for the inception of a vibrant shoe industry known for its high quality craftsmanship, durability, and comfort.
Rehiyon, Rehiyon Festival, on the other hand, will honor those who came from other places in the country and settled in the city, becoming Marikeños in the process as they successfully assimilated with the locals and absorbed their tradition, culture, heritage, values and ways of life.
Lastly, the Christmas Festival, which started with the installation of Christmas lights and lanterns on the riverbank, streets, parks and other places in Marikina, will feature a concert comprised of local artists and bands and ending with a fireworks display will be held on December 30 at the Marikina Sports Center.