We are actively developing over 2 million square feet of retail space on over 200 acres of land in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Ontario. To find a Dream Centre, click on the map below or scroll down.
Tamarack is at the heart of a 1 million SF commercial node, which includes a brand new Walmart, and is ideally located to serve the destination, convenience and service needs of this large and growing community.
Montrose is the Town of High River’s first master-planned community. High accessibility location with great visibility and frontage along three roads. Shadow anchored by the Calgary Co-op Supermarket and Liquor Store. Opportunities for units from 1,200 SF in 2017, and up to 25,000 SF in the second phase.
The Shops of South Kensington is a grocery-anchored neighbourhood centre, home to several national retailers that bring excellent food and convenience options to the growing Kensington community. Leasing opportunities are available within the development.
Located in an established community situated in Saskatoon’s north-west quadrant in close proximity to Saskatoon International Airport. Dream Centres is currently developing 33,000 SF of neighbourhood retail under construction, opening planned for 2019.
Construction is underway at Brighton Marketplace, with the first phase opening Q2 2018. Tenants include Landmark Cinemas, Save-on-Foods, Motion Fitness, The Keg and many others. Opportunities exist for restaurants, QSR, and service retail uses from 1,200 to 20,000 SF with openings in 2018 to 2020.
The Brighton Village Centre will be the heart of the Brighton neighbourhood, providing daily goods and services for its current residents as well as the future residents in the neighbourhood to the east. In addition to the retail component, medium-density apartments and townhouses will be incorporated into the Village Centre, intended to provide a supporting population to create a vibrant place to live, with tree-lined streets and rear parking areas to promote attractive streetscapes.
Located on the south side of St. Clair Avenue, in the City of Toronto, this development is shadow anchored by a commercial development which includes tenants such as Walmart, TD Bank, and Tim Hortons. This neighbourhood is known as “The Stockyards” and has undergone a transformation from predominantly industrial uses to a mix of uses including retail since the early 2000s. Space is available for restaurant, QSR and service/professional uses.
In 2001, Dream and Cityscape Holdings partnered and purchased the Distillery District, a then derelict collection of Victorian industrial buildings and former home to the Gooderham and Worts Distillery, one of Canada’s largest distilleries. Armed with a vision to create a community that would preserve its unique heritage and architecture while honoring the community as a national historic site. The team successfully fused old and new into an inspired blend of Victorian Industrial architecture and stunning 21st century design and creativity. Resulting in an internationally acclaimed village of one-of-a-kind residences, offices, stores, shops, galleries, studios, restaurants, cafes, theatres and more. Just minutes to Toronto’s downtown core, easily accessible via public transit and just a short distance from the Gardiner, Lakeshore and DVP, the Distillery District is well located to live, work and play.
The Carnaby condo development is the final addition to Streetcar’s Queen West neighbourhood and completes the urban district of five boutique loft buildings. At street level, these five buildings will be connected through an artfully landscaped courtyard, bringing a Soho-esque vibe to the area and 48,559 SF of ground floor and lower level retail.
Canary District is the city’s new and dynamic health and wellness community, located at Front and Cherry Street, in the heart of Toronto’s Downtown East. The neighbourhood features a spectacular 18-acre Corktown Common Park, Toronto’s new flagship YMCA and a new George Brown College Residence. Within a beautiful setting, including inspiring works of public art and ample green spaces, Canary District is a highly walkable neighbourhood. Canary District has exciting opportunities for retail, restaurant, service retail and quick-serve concepts. We are seeking premier partners to join us in becoming a prosperous new community with prime frontage on Front Street East. Opportunities for all types of business’s with suites in a variety of sizes, the Canary District can be the solution for your business.
Located at the corner of Queen Street East and Carroll Street. Newly developed retail and office space that features high ceilings and great access to Toronto’s east end.The Canary District, and Leslieville to the East. Excellent visibility directly on King St.
Great retail corner location close to Corktown, The Canary District, and Leslieville to the East. Excellent visibility directly on King St.
Located on the northwest corner of King and Simcoe, this 6-storey architectural and historical beauty is situated in Toronto’s bustling Entertainment District within walking distance of Roy Thomson Hall, the PATH system, numerous restaurants, and the financial core. It is an ideal restaurant or retail location in the heart of the Entertainment District.
69 Richmond Street West is located in the heart of Toronto’s Financial Core, at Bay Street. This building is steps away from the subway and the PATH. This exciting retail, restaurant or showroom flagship opportunity puts your business in the midst of downtown action while providing customers and clients with fast, easy access to your location.
Situated minutes from the financial core with frontage on Toronto’s popular and unique Elm street, 655 Bay Street offers the perfect location for any retail business use. Close proximity to Yonge-Dundas Square, The Eaton Centre and city core puts your business in the midst of downtown action while providing customers and clients with fast, easy access to your retail location.
In a prime Bay Street location at the corner of Bay Street and Temperance Street, 360 Bay is steps away from Toronto’s PATH, transit options, Toronto Eaton Centre and numerous downtown amenities. This 2,536 SF retail space provides an excellent location for any retail business, in the midst of the downtown action.
Eastbrook is the newest master-planned community in Regina’s southeast quadrant. The neighbourhood is expected to accommodate more than 3,500 residential units and 8,000 people upon completion. Located at the intersection of Arens Road and Chuka Boulevard, the Urban Village is strategically positioned at the heart of Eastbrook to serve as the focal point of activity.
Situated in the new Coopertown Community that spans over 1,900 acres and will be home to 35,000 residents. Targeted for a grocery store, drug store and neighbourhood convenience-oriented restaurants and services. Construction starts Summer 2019, with openings in Summer/Fall 2020.
Across the street, Harbour Landing Commercial Campus features high-end design catering to medical professionals, office users and retailers. Situated along one of the community’s largest green spaces, the mix of a professional daytime population and busy retail traffic sets this site apart from any other development in Regina.
Located at the intersection of Lewvan Drive and Parliament Avenue, The Runway will feature a new 40,000 foot Sherwood Co-op Food Store along with a mix of local and national restaurants, shops and services. Openings are scheduled for Summer 2019/2020.
Mississauga’s newest community, is a development located along a central piece of Port Credit’s Waterfront on Lake Ontario. This 73-acre site will balance mixed-use lifestyle along with over 14 acres of parks and recreation. The site will consist of approximately 340,000 SF of retail and commercial and approximately 2.7 million SF of residential, consisting of 540 townhouses and 1,960 condominiums.
Location in downtown Montréal’s vibrant Quartier International de Montréal with a direct connection to the Metro/subway, steps to Central Train Station and with great shopping, restaurants and lounges, cafés and convenient services in the area, 700 De La Gauchetière provides businesses and tenants with an excellent work environment.
This multi-phase, mixed-use development will transform derelict land into something completely unique in the National Capital Region. Not only is Zibi poised to become one of the most environmentally conscious communities in Canada, it will also be the largest community seeking certification of a One Planet designation. Truly one-of-a-kind.