Need color dropdown list. Not a variation.
Hey guys I was wondering if there is any way to add a required dropdown list of all the color variation for my products. I do not want to use it in the variations part because I already put different size variations and the customer can't choose two variations. Thanks.
I do not want to use it in the variations part because I already put different size variations and the customer can't choose two variations. Thanks.
The customer should be able to choose as many variations and products as you have available by adding them to the shopping cart. You can also find short codes for marketpress on the plugin download page. Here is the link. Enjoy!
I don't think this is actually possible w/o major edits to Marketpress. I may be wrong, but I am fairly familiar with this plugin, and I just don't see this as a simple fix.
First I would create a unique category name for each specific product. Then, I would create a separate product listing for each color. As in, your item in one specific color with all size options as variables. Then, you could keep track of specific inventory of each item in each color and size.
Then I would create a page in WordPress for each item, and use this shortcode to display all of the items in your product category.
I created a rather silly example here. Please click on a silly example product to see the individual products availability.
Anyway, your shopper first chooses a color, and then selects the size. I know it is not exactly what you are looking for, but it does resolve the need for multiple variables, and also allows you to keep track of stock info for all of your offerings.
Sorry I can't be more helpful! I know exactly what you want to be able to do, but this is way outside of my coding capabilities of resolving.
Thanks guys for the help. I think I will have to hard code it in somewhere because in my store I sell vinyl decals and I need my customers to choose from 5 different sizes and 12 different colors. Now putting that many variations for each one seems excessive. The only variation that changes the price is the size.
I am working on just cloning the variations part of the backend so that I could end up with two "variations" that could ask independently with each other and will add another drop down menu. I am messing around with the marketplace.php and I feel like I am close to my goal. I was able to clone the variation table in the backend but I can't seem to make the second one independent from the first one. Please take a look at my marketplace.php file here: http://pastebin.com/Bn0Gf8HX.
As mentioned here, multiple variations are not yet an option unfortunately.
Unfortunately if you need multiple variations then you would require a developer. If you have separate unique entries for variations then I suspect that your code is either saving and using the default variation still or the code pulling the contents is pulling the wrong ones.
Thanks Timothy! I just upgraded and I think I can make the custom fields work for me. The only thing now that will make it perfect is if I could ad a picture of all my color choices at the "Bottom" of the checkout page. Is there a way to change the image location on the checkout page so that the picture is by the required text box?
Would the colour be the features image?
I think that could be included in the but if its just an image in the content or a custom field then it would require more work.
I did personally request that this item actually appear on the product page as that seemed in my mind the most logical placement for it rather than waiting until checkout. However with this release it is on the shipping page.
I was just checking on the old threads to see if we missed out something and found that we are still waiting to hear on this one from ya.
Please advise how things are going on this one !
Hey guys! I have finally found a way to let my customers pick a color without having to mess with any code. I added a screen shot showing that I just put a picture of my color chart on my checkout page and added a variation that allows to pick a size and require customers to have to type in a color from the chart.
scrolled down to the Shipping form page: Displayed at the top of the Shipping Form page.
Hope this helps with anyone with the same problem.
I'll mark this one as resolved for now then.