At “AT DESIGN GROUP” your privacy is our priority. We are committed to protecting your privacy at all times and in all situations. The information we collect about you when you become a member is used to process your orders and to provide a more personalised experience on our website. Our website uses 128 bit encryption in areas of the website where personal information is collected or displayed to increase the security of any information transmitted between your computer and our website. However, please note that we cannot guarantee complete security of all stored information, although, we do everything in our power to ensure that all information is secure.
Should there be a requirement for data are to be transferred to someone (other than the individual or the organisation or its employees), we will take reasonable steps to ensure that the data which is to be transferred will not be processed inconsistently with this Model Code.
The identity of the person(s) designated by our organisation to oversee the organisation's compliance with the principles shall be made known upon request.
We collect personally identifiable information for the sole purpose of registering a user and for transactional purposes on our web site. Personal data collected, will not be used for a new purpose unless we obtain consent from users. We are the sole owner of the personally identifiable information collected on this site.
We do not collect sensitive information from users. We assure users that all personal information collected would be used or disclosed only for the purposes for which it was collected.
We will obtain consent from users should we need to use the personal data for a new purpose or for a purpose not previously identified. We assure users that consent will be obtain prior to use of their personal data.
Users may withdraw consent at any time, subject to legal or contractual restrictions and reasonable notice. Users may only be subjected to consequences because of this decision where the information is required to fulfil the specified and legitimate purposes set out by the organisation.
Only the necessary personal data is collected from registered users for business purposes only. Both the amount and the type of data collected shall be limited to that which is necessary to fulfil the purposes identified.
We will not disclose, share, transfer, sell or rent personally identifiable information to any 3rd party. We do not send unsolicited marketing email to our users. Registered users will occasionally receive email on special promotions we hold. Out of respect for the privacy of our users, users may opt-out of receiving these communications by replying to unsubscribe in the subject line in the email.
We have developed guidelines and implemented procedures to govern the destruction of personal data that are no longer required to fulfil the identified purposes.
We would not display or make publicly available, whether through online directories, customer lists or otherwise, the personally identifiable information collected.
We ensure all users that all personal information collected is accurate and kept up to date. We will only make a request to users for updates of personal data if the update is necessary to fulfil the purposes for which the data was collected.
We do not maintain duplicate copies of personal information in different systems.
We ensure all users that appropriate security safeguards are in place to protect personal data against unauthorised access, misuse, disclosure, copying, use, alteration, accidental loss or theft, destruction or damage.
All employees in our organisation are aware of the importance of maintaining confidentiality of the personal data collected from users. Circulars are distributed to all employees to ensure they are aware of the compliance.
Cookies are pieces of information that your browser stores on your computer's hard drive which identify you when you enter. We may use session cookies to provide a seamless experience on the website and to combine with our log files so that we can understand our website traffic and analyse website usage information in aggregate form.
Users can write to us to request to obtain details of personal data submitted to our organisation.
We allow users the right to access their personal information. Users can access their personal information by using their respective username and password to gain access to their personal information.
If your personally identifiable information changes, or if you no longer desire our service, you may correct, update or remove your personal data at the member information page or by emailing our Customer Support.
We will respond to our customer’s request within a reasonable time and we charge / do not charge a reasonable fee / a fee for providing the information or data requested for.
Children (users under the age of 18 years) are not eligible to use our services or purchase any products online unsupervised.
We request that children do not submit any personal information to us online. If you are under the age of 18 years, you may only surf the Site only if you have obtained consent from your parents/legal guardian or if you are under the supervision of your parent or legal guardian.
when required by law wherein we have a good-faith belief that such action is necessary to comply with a current judicial proceeding, a court order or legal process served on our website.