"How beautiful are these rings?
I’m soooo in love with the designs of Giardinoblu.
The pieces are so pretty and organic, like some of Nature’s most delicate moments; like morning dew.I can look forever at the tiny dainty morning drops on leaves.
It’s such a pure form of beauty."
"I love so much ALL the eco-conscious jewelry that Francesca creates!
You can feel the love and positive vibes in every single piece. They are all unique pieces.
Everything she creates is high quality. It tells a story for you to discover once you wear its magical jewelry.
I adore her work. And she a such a beautiful person that you can feel her truth embedded in her creative work."
"My precious!! I absolutly love this amazing peace of jewlery! It has so much charm and story to tell <3"
their organic beauty and the magic allure are amazing.
Each piece is totally handmade and unreplicable, their preciousness is made by teeny details.
"I'm super excited as my pendants arrived today and I just collected them from my local post office. I cannot thank you enough, I think they are just beautiful. I think the ladies are going to Love them.
I have also had our local printer print me up some copies of the Guide to Rise to go along with them.
I'm feeling super BLESSED to have accidentally stumbled upon you and your beautiful gift.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart!"
"Words fail me.... my ring!!!!!!! OOOHHH she is SOOOO beautiful...... I just cried when I saw her!!! She pierced my heart!!!! She is magnificent! Your artistry--perfection!!!!! I am in love....completely in love!!!!! THANK YOU WITH ALL OF MY HEART!!!!! I have her on my finger!!!!! Perfect fit!!!!! Franci!!!!!! My goodness the love and energy of your work is so powerful and healing......sigh...... I feel SO BLESSED! This I will cherish and treasure my whole life! It expanded my aura and light the moment I put it on my finger! I just must say I am absolutely in love with your work!!!!! She is SO alive; we are already becoming one..... your love and energy just flooded my heart when I read your note, and THEN when I opened the box, and laid eyes on her! It felt like she was always mine!!!! Yes,yes, YES!!!!!!! I am hooked! By far my favorite crystal jewel EVER!!!!!! SO special. I know you poured your heart and soul into this for me.I can feel it so strong!!!! I needed this so much at this time in my life.....the timing was divine!!!!! Light and love and my deepest gratitude, Desiree xxoo"
“Beautiful necklace and seller was brilliant – great communication and excellent service. Would definitely recommend"
"I’ve been a fan of Francesca’s work for quite sometime and I was so happy to be able to get one of her pieces!Even her packaging is so cute and personal!…. gotta love the Italians!!.. And getting a package form Italy always makes me happy!..
"Giardinoblu is the magic place for who wants to grow their little soul, for those who are still amazed and thrilled in the wonders of Nature.
...Alice can looking for the White Rubbit again.."
I recently discover the wonderfull Francesca creations.
Met a lovely artist, with her unique universe, she takes time to listen and understand my wishes…We talk a lot about art, soul, stones, sensibility, nature, energy, creativity …. she creates something really special for me…. this ring got a story…. she realizes a really particular request…i was really touch by that.
Love so much my aquamarine ring, inspired by nature.
Thanks so much Francesca, for your work, your passion, your design and your positive soul."
"Giardinoblu jewelry gets my heart for the unique and refined teste. They're never boring or "constructed". Each piece of jewel shows the passion and dedication that Francesca gives to each piece.
Great workmanship and great design, extremely feminine."
"It's finally here! One of the Giardinoblu creatures is mine. I can't wait to add more pieces to my collection! "
"Her unmistakable style is ever in evolving and each time recognizable...unique jewels!"
Francesca chooses beautiful stones and has an in-depth knowledge of every of them!
I strongly recommend them not only for design but also for those who needs something extra, that only the positive vibes of Crystals can give! "
"Francesca creatures spring from a pure and bright heart . They tell about a journey made of experimentation, enthusiasm, determination... and love for quality and uniqueness.
It's an ever-evolving path, each time different, just like all of us life is.
Browse the images and just follow your heart, it will choose the right your jewel for you"
"It's when a jewel becomes the projection of an idea...when handicraft turns to poetry."
I bought some jewelry on Giardinoblu website! Thanks Francesca, you're amazing, I love them! thank you!
"I received the most beautiful gift today. And this little story of its arrival on my doorstep needs to be shared.
A few months back I was travelling in country NSW in Australia and was scheduled to do an event on the last night of my stay. It was cold.
So I pulled myself together (like I do) to be of service and speak on all things food and nutrition to a small group of people. In the audience there was one shining light that stood out to me. She radiated so much light and we connected after I talked. She shared with an extremely vulnerable heart, her health concerns.
And I offered my support in the coming weeks.
We connected every few days and I helped her see where she could improve. Our connection was in stolen moments and after she felt confident in the knowledge I had shared, I gave her space to absorb all that she’d learnt to she could put all into practice.
What I didn’t know, in the weeks following was that she had had such profound shifts.
Her symptoms lifted, her energy returned, her ability to feel joy crept back into her life.
You see, when asked why do I coach, the answer is always the same.....to help people return to self. To feel joy again.
Today, I received this beautiful gift, all the way from Milan. This beautiful human had this Pink Kunzite necklace made for me. I had truly made my day and I’m so grateful. Who would have thought that a random act of service can create such immense love and joy for all."
"I don’t know how I found Francesca but I am so glad I did. Lots of thought and love goes into everything she makes. It’s not jewelry. It’s so much more.
you work together to pick which kind of specimen to use.
She might know right away or you might know. Or you might have to decide between a few. But she works with the crystals and narrows it down.
Then You pick from her collection which stone you feel drawn to. In my case, I let her tell me what I needed. She picked 6 pieces of Rubellite tourmaline.
And then I picked the from that. It’s absolutely perfect.
And I got it the day if the new moon so it could not have worked out better.
Thank you so much Giardinoblu Jewellery Milan!!"
"Working with Francesca was an absolute dream. I had been wanting to transform a beloved herkimer diamond into a pendant and, after purchasing several jewelry pieces from Francesca and seeing the level of care she puts into her work, I knew she was the only I would entrust my gemstone to.
Francesca loves gemstones and respects their energy, and that was very important to me when choosing someone.
Francesca made the whole creation process simple. She first shared some designs and, once I liked them, I sent her my stone via courier. Once she had it, she got to work, showing me every step of the way, and seeking my approval before moving forward.
I loved how she kept me regularly informed of where we were in the process and listened to my observations. She was kind and courteous at every step of the way, and ended up creating a jewel I will treasure forever.
I couldn't be happier with the necklace Francesca created for me. It's perfect in every way, and beams with positive energy."
Photographer, Stylist & Visual Strategist, Marcela Macias Photography.