Dinners for Six is an awesome opportunity to connect with others at Lighthouse!
Sign up as a family, couple, or single. Singles can sign up with a friend or as an individual and we will pair you up with another single of the same gender.
During the following three months, take turns hosting a dinner for the others in your group (each pair will host once or meet at a restaurant). Usually, someone will provide the main course and others will bring a side dish, salad, dessert, etc. Paired singles can decide who will host.
Thank you! Can’t wait to connect!
You are invited to our Multi-Congregation Good Friday Service held at Lighthouse. Annually, Faith in Christ Fellowship in Eagan, Spirit of Truth in Burnsville and Lighthouse gather together to worship and remember the cross of Jesus Christ. The cross brings us together!
We like to call this day Resurrection Sunday! He is Risen indeed! We would consider it an honor to host you and your family for this special Sunday celebrating that Jesus is Alive . Death has lost it's sting and now we can have relationship with our Heavenly Father and be FREE from sin. Oh Hallelujah. Please plan to join us at 10am or in Spanish at 1pm.
We offer groceries at no charge on the typically on 4th Monday of each month to people in the community. Come in for a warm meal, prayer and receive fresh fruit and veggies, meat, eggs and bread to take home. Each month the food supply varies. Doors open at 6:00 pm. Guests should not arrive earlier than 5:30pm.
We are excited and honored to host the MN Teen Challenge Choir on Sunday, May 5th at 10am. Ope you will join us and bring a friend for a morning of music and testimonies of freedom from addictions that will inspire and bring hope!
Sunday, May 12th we will have a special time in the 10am service to dedicate children. For those who have little ones that you would like to dedicated to the Lord, we invite you to sign up below!
Topgolf is the premier entertainment destination in Brooklyn Center.
We will meet at Lighthouse at 2pm to carpool. Play is from roughly 3-4:30pm. Cost is estimate of $15/pp to play. You are on your own for food. We will have separate golf bays for men and women. High School age students through adults are welcome. Sign up below by May 16th.
Come with us on a Mission Trip to Haiti from August 19-26, 2019 with Healing Haiti.
Costs: Base cost of trip is $875.00 which us due no later than July 19th. Each person is responsible for their own airfare (roughly $650 to $850 and Lighthouse is looking into pricing through an agent) All payments will be submitted to Lighthouse.
Additional costs: Mandatory insurance that costs $29.00A $10.00 entry into the country. To register click on the link below. When the link opens click on I don't have a managed missions account. Follow instructions. When prompted to choose a trip pick Lighthouse Church. By registering you are agreeing to go on the trip and a$ 100.00 non-refundable deposit should be made to Lighthouse as soon as possible.
(3285 144th St W in Rosemount) on Sunday, April 14th at 10am. We sure hope you will be there!
Women are invited to attend the Going Beyond Simulcast with Priscilla Shirer. This event will be hosted at Lighthouse on Saturday, April 6. The cost for the day is $25. Use https://pushpay.com/g/worldwidelighthouse?src=hpp to pay by entering $25 as the amount and selecting this event.
All those who are 55+ are welcome to join the JOY Group for coffee, pie, and fellowship at Baker’s Square. Sign up so we know how much space to reserve at the restaurant!
Our active adults are having a bowling outing at the Lakeville Bowling Alley on Co Rd 46 just west of I-35.
The Community Center is located at 13885 South Robert Trail. Basically on South Robert’s Trail or Hwy 3 just north of Rosemount High School and the Sport Dome.
Kyle is the Founder/CEO of TimeToRevive based out of Dallas, Texas. He earned a Masters in Biblical Studies from Dallas Theological Seminary and completed his Doctorate degree at Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary, specializing in Outreach and Discipleship.
FMSC is an international organization dedicated to providing nutritious meals to children worldwide. We will help pack meals to be sent overseas.
Through video teaching, group discussion, and personal Bible study, Pastor James MacDonald will urge you to live out Paul's instruction in 1 Corinthians 16:13-14: Be watchful, stand firm in the faith, act like men, be strong. Let all that you do be done in love. Men will be challenged to take hold of their God-given role.
Inviting all guys to gather for pizza, get to know our new worship pastor Paul Mutebi, have a time of praise and prayer.
Our worship center will be open for prayer on Friday, January 4th at 9pm until Saturday, January 5th at 6pm. Feel free to tell others and stop in to a time with the Lord. We will have soft worship music playing. We are also in need of hosts to take shifts to oversee the Burn. Please sign up below!
Just Older Youth invites everyone 55+ to a Christmas Lights Tour on Sunday, December 30th. The cost is $5 and you can sign up below. We hope you’ll join us!
SOLD OUT! We are excited for all those who purchased ticket, but are sorry to say that we are SOLD OUT. Therefore, we will not be selling tickets at the door.
Come and worship Jehovah and pray for the peace of Israel with us.
130th Anniversary Dream Team Needed!
When did YOU first attend a service or event at St John’s or Lighthouse?
Through the years there has been babies born and lives crossing over into their heavily home, baptisms, child dedications, confirmations, weddings, LifeLine, Celebration Athletic Games, Alpha, AWANA, our Leprechaun Days Block Party, Explorer’s Child Center, etc … people coming and people going. We have experienced growth and challenges, times of plenty and times of need… and persevered. We have worshipped with a choir accompanied by an organ and band with drums and guitars. People have made friendships here. Many pastors have shepherded this flock through the years and we continue to pass on our Christian faith from generation to generation. Through it all the Lord has been faithful!And YOU have played a part in our history, so that’s why we are inviting YOU to celebrate with us on Sunday, October 14th.
Consider joining us for our 10am service on October 14thas we will celebrate with special songs, memories, guests from the past and a message from Pastor Bill titled: Where have we Been and Where are we Going? FREE donuts and bagels will be provided at 9:30am.
Then from 3-6pm we will have a REUNION PARTY!
This party will be under our big tent and will include food, fun for kids, music by former worship leaders ;Peder Eide and Josh Edwards along with archives to view from over the years and our vision for the future.This will be a great time for those who have had their lives touched by the Lord over the years to come back and eat and gather with friends. Let’s celebrate God’s faithfulness together!
FMSC is an international organization dedicated to providing nutritious meals to children worldwide. We will help pack meals to be sent overseas. This event will be done in conjunction with Lighthouse Students, JOY (Just Older Youth) Group and Cultivate (Young Adults).
Meet at Eagan FMSC before 6pm.
FMSC needs an email address for every participant, so please sign up below!
We are a group of young people who desire to grow in truth, intimacy with God, and relationship with one another. We meet on the first and third Friday of every month in order to cultivate an atmosphere of worship and friendship. If you are between the age of 18 and 30-something, we would like to personally invite you to come and be a part of Lighthouse Cultivate. Call/text Phillip @ 870-55-7550 for details on meeting location.
Students and parents are invited to meet in the Life Center after our Sunday morning service to participate in a discussion about our mission and strategy for the 18-19 school year. Snacks will be provided.
JOY (just older youth) are invited to a picnic in the park at Crystal Lake on Lac Lavon on Monday, August 13th from 11am-2pm!
It's time for some fun and fellowship for the women of Lighthouse on Sunday, August 12th from 4:00 - 6:15 (arrive at 3:45). You will be instructed and taught by a local artist and go home with a beautiful painting! $35.00 per person, includes: paint, a 16"x 20" canvas, easels, brushes, and aprons. Snacks and drinks will be provided. Sign up is a MUST to hold your spot!! Please pay at lighthousemn.church, LH mobile app, or at the door.