Our adventure will not be more than 2-4ish miles in to camp then back out. Not a strenuous pace at all. More specifics will be included in the emails I send out upon registration.
Astrology if there is interest!
For the sake of leaving no trace as best as we can, and also just for simplicity’s sake, I will be accepting a minimal amount of people for this weekend adventure (possibly only 4-6 individuals). If you cannot make the May event, there will be another in October!
*****I will also be offering a Blue Heron Adventure Club pass this year! There will be several levels of membership, all including monthly adventures of varying sorts to various locations, some with other benefits too!
Brief Astrological Report: The moon will be in Scorpio during this weekend, making for some deep, intriguing energy. Pushing us conveniently closer to the transcendent properties of nature that we will be seeking to learn from and engage with during our discussions!
I try to keep costs low, not because I feel the experience isn’t worth a greater amount, but rather because I want people of various income levels to be able to experience such an opportunity too. I also know how us nature-loving types tend to be. Nature being generally more important than the almighty dollar— and rightfully so!
So for this overnight I’m offering everything on a sliding scale.
$30-50, and no the $30 is not frowned upon. If you have more, it’s appreciated, if you don’t, no big deal! Register at the bottom of this page. Registration will close on Thursday, May 16th. First come first serve. Payment will guarantee your spot. If less than 3 people pre-register, the event may be cancelled. (Pre-registration is important so that I know what to expect!) Kids are free, if they are interested in attending & ready for the experience!
The location is still TBD, but it will most likely be held near the Seven Springs hiking/camping areas. For privacy purposes, this information will be released to registrants directly once confirmed. I am hoping to confirm by April 1st at the very latest.
Possible carpooling arrangements! Please let me know if you can OFFER carpool assistance or if you NEED carpool assistance. Let's help each other and bring as few cars as possible!
One more time: Registration will close on Thursday, May 16th. First come first serve. Payment will guarantee your spot. If less than 3 people pre-register, the event may be cancelled. (Pre-registration is important so that I know what to expect!) Kids are free, if they are interested in attending & ready for the experience!
Upon registering, you will receive an email confirmation from me personally, with a checklist of helpful items to bring and information about parking, food, and all other details! Make sure your paypal order includes your current e-mail address for this info!