Many complex interdisciplinary problems involve deficiencies or discrepancies in the dentoalveolar complex that can prolong treatment time and compromise overall outcomes.
Inter-arch and intra-arch space appropriation problems are most evident as poor esthetics or less than ideal occlusions. Inter-arch problems are caused by TM joint changes or growth and development issues. Intra-arch problems manifest themselves as poor arch forms, severely crowded dentitions, insufficient alveolar bone and traumatic or developmental ridge defects. Surgically facilitated orthodontic therapy (SFOT) in combination with skeletal anchorage can shorten treatment times, modify vertical relationships and enhance the development of the arch form, alveolar bone and soft tissue to ideally address these issues involving the dentoalveolar complex. Special focus will be given to utilizing high-tech clear aligners instead of traditional orthodontic appliances to add a new and exciting dimension to SFOT while significantly increasing patient treatment acceptance.
Interdisciplinary diagnostics and treatment planning for the SFOT patient.
Combining hard and soft tissue grafting with selective corticotomies.
Utilizing skeletal anchorage with SFOT to modify vertical relationships.
High-tech clear aligners as an exciting new appliance option for SFOT.
Bio: Dr. Roblee practiced general restorative dentistry in Dallas, Texas before going back to study graduate orthodontics at Baylor College of Dentistry. He is recognized worldwide for his work in esthetic dentistry, orthodontic techniques and interdisciplinary therapy. He has given more than 500 professional presentations in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and Japan. Dr. Roblee is a Diplomate of the American Board of Orthodontics. He is the author of numerous publications and videos, including a textbook entitled “Interdisciplinary Dentofacial Therapy: A Comprehensive Approach to Optimal Patient Care” (Quintessence Publishing Co., Inc.). He is an associate clinical professor at Baylor College of Dentistry in both the restorative and the orthodontic departments and is an active member in numerous prestigious dental organizations, including the American Academy of Fixed Prosthodontics, the American Academy of Restorative Dentistry and the American Academy of Esthetic Dentistry of which Dr. Roblee is the current President.