My overnight train from Varanasi departed at 5pm so I spent the morning in my air-con room, and the afternoon twiddling my thumbs beneath the fans of the Hotel Buddha restaurant. Once on the train, I chatted briefly with Laura (France) who mistook me for someone she had met in SE Asia.
I didn't sleep as well this second time, so it was a nice surprise to receive what seemed to be a reasonable quote for a rickshaw ride to Taj Ganj, the tourist area directly south of the Taj Mahal. The first view of India's iconic mausoleum resulted in another “wow” moment for me. After checking out a few hotels, I settled on a room in the same place as Laura and Dan (England). Strong winds whipped up sand, and rain soon followed, thus postponing our plans for a rooftop dinner overlooking the Taj at sunset.
The paint was peeling off the ceiling in my hotel room. At first I saw it as a charming detail, however after waking up the next day in a bed covered with flaking paint, I found it less appealing. I also learned that a vent in the wall does not constitute air-conditioning.
Wow, I can’t wait to read your post about Taj Mahal. I’m already impressed with the photos!
Hopefully it wasn’t lead paint!!
Yeah, I was amazed at how the cheap backpacker style accommodations had amazing rooftop views of the Taj Mahal. Try and and find that around the Eiffel Tower, Empire State Buliding, or Big Ben!
Wow impressive pictures of the Taj. Any plans to go to Golden Temple in Amritsar?
Hey Stefan…there are SO many places I’d like to go in northern India that I don’t think I’m going to go to any – just head for SE Asia as time is a tickin’.
Places I’d easily come back to see in just northern India include: Amritsar, Chandigarh, Manali, Leh/Ladakh, Rishikesh. And that doesn’t even touch the rest of India.
Ugh, peeling paint!!! We lived in El Shito Appartmento when we were in Chicago (before we left the landlord was fined and forced to close at least one of his apartments by the city!) and the paint on the pipes over our heads regularly flaked off as the water condenced on the outside of them and dripped onto our bed. We’d have moved the bed but the room was too small!
At least you won’t have to be tehre for long!