Extractions: Spider Venom All spiders, with the exception of two very small families, have poison glands. The spider’s venom is used to kill their pray. All spiders are exclusively carnivorous and generally prey only on live animals. Spiders chiefly dine on insects. Preying on mosquitoes, for example, makes the spider beneficial in the control of mosquito-borne disease such as encephalitis. Some spider species are used to help control insects from destroying grain crops such as wheat. Spiders use their venom as a means to gain food and for defense. The vast majority of spiders do not produce venom virulent enough to harm humans. Too, spiders are timid creatures and bite and inject venom only in self-defense. Most spiders will run away as fast as they can, however, if felt cornered or in the protection of their young, they will bit humans.
Includes color photos, scientific names, common names, a description, and information about the behavior, Category Kids and Teens School Time Invertebrates SpidersAll about black widow spiders, includes color photos, scientific names,common names, description, behavior, range, habitats and life cycle.
HABITAT black widow spiders are common around wood piles, and are frequentlyencountered when homeowners carry firewood into the house.
Extractions: Contact: Eric Day, Manager, Insect Identification Laboratory August 1996 Araneae: Theridiidae, Latrodectus mactans SIZE: About 1 1/2 inches (38mm) long, 1/4 inch (6.4mm) in diameter COLOR: Usually shiny black DESCRIPTION: The female is usually black with a red spot or hourglass- shaped mark on its round abdomen. The male usually has light streaks on its abdomen. HABITAT: Black widow spiders are common around wood piles, and are frequently encountered when homeowners carry firewood into the house. Also found under eaves, in boxes, outdoor toilets, meter boxes, and other unbothered places. TYPE OF DAMAGE: The black widow is not aggressive. It will, however, bite instinctively when touched or pressed. CONTROL: Be very careful when working around areas where black widow spiders may be established. Take proper precautions-wear gloves and pay attention to where you are working. Black widow bites are sharp and painful, and the victim should go to the doctor immediately for treatment. To control the black widow, carefully remove all materials where they might hide. They can be cleaned out of an area simply by knocking down the webs, spiders, and round tan egg sacs with a stick and crushing them underfoot. INTERESTING FACTS: The female eats the male after mating. She hangs belly upward and rarely leaves the web.
Extractions: Eggs of widow spiders are laid in an egg sack, attached to the web of the mother. The sack is pear shaped, and creamy yellow, light gray, or light brown in color. About 200 eggs may be laid in an egg sack and females may produce several egg sacks if conditions are favorable. Where do you find black widows? Widow spiders prefer to nest near the ground, in dark, undisturbed areas. Nest sites often are near holes produced by small animals, or around construction openings and wood piles. Low shrubs also are common sites for widows to occur. Indoors, widows similarly occur in dark, undisturbed sites such as behind furniture or under desks. Undisturbed basement areas and crawl spaces of homes are also used by nesting widow spiders. What are the symptoms of poisoning by widow spiders?
Extractions: Items ... www.kill-fireants.com Black Widow Spider BIOLOGY OF SPIDERS SPIDER ELIMINATION Araneae: Theridiidae, Latrodectus mactans The female black widow spider rarely leaves her web. The web she constructs is an irregular, tangled, cris Egg sacs are pear shaped (or oval), brown, papery and about ½ inch long. They hold from 25 to 900 or more eggs, which have an incubation period of 20 days. The spiderlings disperse shortly after emerging, tearing an opening in the egg sac and stay near the sac. After several hours, these second instar spiderlings balloon to the ground and scatter. Growth requires two to three months, with older females dying in autumn after egg laying. Of all spiders, the Black Widow is the most feared. The female’s venom is especially poisonous to people. Despite its reputation, this spider often attempts to escape rather than bite, unless it is guarding an egg mass or if it is cornered and pressed. The male black widow will not bite you. After mating, the female sometimes eats the male (remember, she only has to mate once in her life), earning the name "widow." During the period shortly following mating and laying of eggs, the female black widow can be a little cranky and hungry. After this period (if he lives through it!) the male lives quite comfortably, eating prey captured by the female. The development of his venom sacs stop and become inactive as the male matures, thus making him less of a potential problem than his female counterpart.
Black Widow Spiders -- General Exterminating, Inc.
Extractions: INTRODUCTION: These spiders get their common name from the popular belief that the female eats the male after mating, a phenomenon which rarely happens in nature. The genus Latrodectus is worldwide in distribution, with 5 species occurring in the United States. Recognition of the genus is sufficient for PCO purposes. RECOGNITION: Young spiders primarily orange and white but acquire more and more black as they mature, with markings very similar to those of males. With 1 or 2 reddish markings on underneath side of abdomen. REPRESENTATIVE SPECIES: Identification to species is left to experts since several species are involved and species separation is based primarily on differences in the male gentalia. Although a very brief description based on female coloration is given below, it must be realized that color and markings are not always reliable characteristics for separation of these species and that males are usually colored and marked quite differently. 1. Latrodectus bishopi Kaston, the red widow. Cephalothorax reddish, abdomen black with reddish to organish spots outlined by white, red marks on venter, and legs reddish; occurs only in central and southern Florida. 2. Latrodectus geometicus (Fabricius), the brown widow. Color brownish with white and black brown markings, abdomen with red hourglass mark, legs banded/ringed; occurs only in southern Florida.
Extractions: William F. Lyon Common Name Scientific Name Black Widow Spider Latrodectus mactans (Fabricius) Northern Widow Spider Latrodectus variolus (Walckenaer) Both the black widow spider and northern widow spider are present in Ohio. The black widow spider is found primarily in the southern Ohio counties whereas the northern widow spider is found in the northern Ohio counties. Most occur outdoors and are not aggressive unless confined or disturbed. Females are more likely to bite when guarding an egg sac. Reports indicate that mortality from bites is the result of one percent or less of the cases, usually occurring in very young or very old individuals. With healthy people, recovery is usually complete in 2 to 5 days. However, this spider is considered the most venomous spider in North America. Adult black widow spiders have shiny, jet black, rounded, globular abdomens with two reddish or yellowish triangles on the underside which form a characteristic hourglass marking. Adult female northern widow spiders are shiny black or brown-black with two reddish triangles on the underside, resembling a split hourglass. These spiders are about 1/2-inch long, not including the legs (about 1-1/2 inches when legs are spread). Adult males are harmless, about half the female's size, with smaller bodies, longer legs and usually have yellow and red bands and spots over the back as do the immature stages. Newly hatched spiderlings are predominately white or yellowish-white, gradually acquiring more black and varying amounts of red and white with each molt. Juveniles of both sexes resemble the male and are harmless.
Imported car shifter knobs with genuine Australian black widow spiders encased inside in a life like stance.
Extractions: Newly hatched black widows are white with black spots on their abdomens with a cream colored hourglass. Later as they mature they become cream and brown-striped. The black widow requires about 4 months from egg to maturity with the females going through six to nine molts. Over their one to two year life span the females produce several egg sacs, each containing several hundred eggs. Female black widows guard the sac, which resembles a silken cocoon, until the eggs hatch. During this time she is most likely to bite when threatened. Eggs are most frequently encountered from May to October.
Urban Integrated Pest Management. Black Widow Spiders. From RL Smith,1982. Venomous Animals of Arizona. The University of Arizona.
Extractions: From: R.L. Smith, 1982. Venomous Animals of Arizona. The University of Arizona. Warning: The bite of a "black widow" spider can be life-threatening. If you or someone in your care has been bitten by a "black widow" spider, obtain professional medical assistance as soon as possible. No emergency first aid procedures are recommended for "black widow" spider bites (see first aid instructions Description: The common name black widow spider specifically belongs to the eastern species Latrodectus mactans , which does not occur in Arizona. Latrodectus hesperus , our species, is very similar to the true black widow. The adult female has a shiny black (occasionally dark brown) body approximately 1.5 cm long and slim black legs with a span of about 4 cm. The most famous and easily distinguishable characteristic of this species is the bright red hourglass-shaped marking on the underside of the bulbous female abdomen (Figure 11). Immature females have red, brown, and cream-colored markings on the dorsal surface of the abdomen (Figure 12), and a cream-colored hourglass. Males are much smaller than adult females (about 1/20 the size) a