The White Russian is among the most popular drinks in the country. This likely has to do with the fact that the ingredients are easy to obtain and it takes no special skills or tools to make. Beyond that, many find it the perfect libation for those who don’t like to drink much. While there is plenty of alcohol involved, the taste is smooth and almost makes you forget liquor is even involved.
The White Russian is among the most popular drinks in the country. This likely has to do with the fact that the ingredients are easy to obtain and it takes no special skills or tools to make. Beyond that, many find it the perfect libation for those who don't like to drink much. While there is plenty of alcohol involved, the taste is smooth and almost makes you forget liquor is even included.
Our recipe is fairly straightforward. The drink is simple to make and best served layered. Pour the cream over the back of a barspoon to keep it floating on the top. The drinker may choose to stir it all together if desired. While our recipe uses the ratio of 2:1:1, some prefer this drink with a 1:1:1 ratio instead.
1: Add vodka to an old-fashioned glass filled with ice.
2: Add coffee liqueur and stir.
3: Pour cream over the back of a bar spoon.
4: Top with a grating of fresh nutmeg, if desired.
The White Russian is among the most popular drinks in the country. Many find it the perfect libation for those who don't like to drink much. While there is plenty of alcohol involved, the taste is smooth and almost makes you forget liquor is even included. Cream is poured over to finish the drink and give it that milky, delicious taste.
Often referred to as the oldest American cocktail, the Sazerac dates back to the pre-Civil War era. It has seen its share of changes, including the substitution of anise-flavored spirits when absinthe was banned in the US in 1912. Because of that, you may see some variation in recipes, but the basics remain.
Give a favorite childhood candy an adult twist by getting gummy worms drunk, then whipping up a tipsy worm's perfect match: a tasty, classic margarita.
Spice up happy hour with these unusual but oh-so-tasty beer cocktails.
This candy-infused frozen treat puts a grown-up twist on a childhood favorite.