What are Cookies & how we use them?
This is one of the four main cookies set by the Google Analytics service which enables website owners to track visitor behaviour and measure site performance.
This cookie determines new sessions and visits and expires after 30 minutes. The cookie is updated every time data is sent to Google Analytics. Any activity by a user within the 30 minute life span will count as a single visit, even if the user leaves and then returns to the site. A return after 30 minutes will count as a new visit, but a returning visitor.
It is not used in most sites but is set to enable interoperability with the older version of Google Analytics code known as Urchin. In this older versions this was used in combination with the __utmb cookie to identify new sessions/visits for returning visitors. When used by Google Analytics this is always a Session cookie which is destroyed when the user closes their browser. Where it is seen as a Persistent cookie it is therefore likely to be a different technology setting the cookie.
This cookie name is associated with a B2B marketing platform, formerly known as Bizo, which is now owned by LinkedIn.
associated with a B2B marketing platform, formerly known as Bizo, which is now owned by LinkedIn.
This is a spider built by digitalpoint that visits the most popular sites on the Internet and then sees what cookies it ended up with as a result of that visit.
This is one of the four main cookies set by the Google Analytics service which enables website owners to track visitor behaviour measure of site performance.
This cookie identifies the source of traffic to the site - so Google Analytics can tell site owners where visitors came from when arriving on the site. The cookie has a life span of 6 months and is updated every time data is sent to Google Analytics.
Stores a visitor's unique Optimizely identifier from a previous domain.
Network Utilities use a 3rd party company to analyse the IP addresses of those individuals and companies that have visited the site, they provide us with location and contact details such as e mail and telephone numbers as well as the names of the individual. We may use this information to contact the individuals and or companies to understand how our services may be of assistance.