Our checking is different than bank checking. It’s better.
Enjoy additional free services with Relationship Checking.
Don't stress about maintaining a certain balance in your checking account — there is no minimum balance required for our checking account.
There are no maintenance fees for this account — it's strictly a no-fee checking account.
Funds in your checking account earn dividends from the date of deposit.
REDI-CASH Overdraft Protection Line of Credit is an open-ended line of credit used in conjunction with a checking account. This protection is activated when you overdraw your account. That means no more bounced checks!
There's no charge to open an Overdraft Protection Line of Credit account. Finance charges accrue only when the account is activated. You must have a checking account and qualify for a minimum line of credit. Maximum line of credit is $30,000.
Our debit card allows you to make purchases and get cash anywhere Mastercard®, Cirrus, Credit Union 24 or Member Access cards are accepted. Request one when you open your checking account.
In addition to the ATMs at our branch locations‚ and a number of credit union owned ATMs throughout the D.C. area, our members have access to an extensive network surcharge-free ATMs worldwide.
Our Relationship Checking program rewards those members who choose to maximize their financial relationship with us. If you have a checking account with direct deposit, you may qualify for a Checking Account that provides an attractive package of rewards. And the more rewards you get, the more money you save and earn.
If you participate in relationship checking, your current level is indicated on your account statement every month. Take a look at the chart to see how you can qualify for each rewards level and its money-savings benefits!
*Eligibility criteria for rewards level re-evaluated on a monthly basis. Rewards subject to change based on eligibility. Qualified Direct Deposit is a recurring direct deposit of a paycheck, pension, Social Security or other periodic payment of at least $500 into a checking account on a month-to-month basis made by an outside organization or agency.