Lock in a great price for Lesní pension – rated 8.2 by recent guests!
The owner come to pick us up with his car anf was so kind, the room was clean and the view at the morning was fabulous. Breakfast is ok , similar to all Czech Republic hotels/pension but satisfied.
Good location with a nice view from the terrace and very friendly staff.
Der Ausblick vom Zimmer war einfach wunderschön, direkt auf den lipno See. Das Zimmer hatte eine ausreichende Größe und einen schönen großen Balkon. Der Frühstücksraum war gemütlich und mit einem großen Kamin versehen.
Snídaně byla vynikající,moc jsme si pochutnaly. Penzion na krásném a klidném místě. Škoda,že jsme se nemohli zdržet déle z pracovních důvodů.
Persone gentilissime , colazione sopra la media , camera con vista lago eccellente .
Mysigt pensionat med ljuvlig utsikt över Lipnosjön. Mysig och barnvänlig atmosfär och sköna rum, dock kanske väl retrofärgade för den känslige. Barnpool och lekplats! Trevlig personal.
- ubytovanie uprostred lesa, naozaj veľmi pekné prostredie - čistota - záhrada pred penziónom - milý personál Keby bola cena do 100€, napíšem len pozitívne hodnotenie. Ale... (viď nepáčilo).
Pokoje prostorné s vlastním balkonem jsou super, i když v zimě se zrovna nevyužijí. Snídaně byla velmi bohatá, vybere si opravdu každý. Pro letní dovolenou určitě i dobrá možnost pobíhání děcek okolo, hřiště i bazén.
Bohaté snídaně, hezké místo u lesa a výhled na Lipno.
Lesní pension This rating is a reflection of how the property compares to the industry standard when it comes to price, facilities and services available. It's based on a self-evaluation by the property. Use this rating to help choose your stay!
Lesní Penzion Kobylnice has a children´s playground, an outdoor swimming pool for children, volleyball and table tennis facilities. Also on site are an infrared sauna, a hot tub and a restaurant.
Rooms at the Penzion are spacious and have a balcony with views of Lipno Dam. They have a bathroom, seating area, free Wi-Fi and TV. Breakfast is served each morning.
Private parking is available on site free of charge, and the Lipno ski area can be reached by car in 5 minutes.
The property is located 2.2 mi from Lipno nad Vltavou’s town center. Lipno Dam is a 10-minute walk away, and Frymburk is 3.1 mi away. The Vyšší Brod Monastery and Český Krumlov are 30 minutes away by car.
When would you like to stay at Lesní pension?
House Rules Lesní pension takes special requests – add in the next step!
A deposit via bank wire is required to secure your reservation. Lesní Penzion Kobylnice will contact you with instructions after booking.
The link for navigation to the property was poor,we find ourselves in the middle of nowhere at the dark.