At Winters & Yonker, P.A., we work quickly to protect our clients. We will begin gathering the evidence needed to build a strong case as soon as possible. We are known as “aggressive attorneys,” and indeed, our experienced and dedicated personal injury lawyers are prepared to fight for you from day one. Call us at (813) 223-6200 or schedule a free initial consultation at our Tampa offices or in your home.
A serious accident can change your life in ways most people don’t understand. The daily battle with pain, the mounting medical bills and the disruption of your life can take a tremendous toll. We know how difficult this is for you. We understand how it feels to have your life turned upside down in an instant. We can help you get through this. Our attorneys help victims of a wide range of accidents. From pedestrian accidents and car wrecks to semi-truck accidents and slip-and-fall cases, we fight for victims of serious personal injuries.
When our law firm represents you, we will review your medical records as soon as possible. We can most likely help you locate and gain access to well-qualified physicians, even if your health insurance coverage is limited. The quality of the care you receive in the early days after your injury can make a huge difference, both medically and legally. We will help keep communication channels open between you, your doctors and our attorneys to make sure your care is handled properly.
We have refined our processes for recovering compensation for injured people after years of practice. We are known for our personalized, aggressive representation. We help clients tap into all available sources of compensation. We will help you get the money you deserve for medical expenses, lost wages, pain and suffering, property damage and more.
As a lawyer, Marc is compelled by a desire to seek justice for the injured. Marc has always focused on personal injury law and feels called to help those who are battling against large insurers for the compensation they deserve.
Bill began his career as a personal injury lawyer at a larger firm, where he had the opportunity to help numerous clients who were being denied their due compensation because of overreach by insurance companies.
Smith finds gratitude in his work through “the ability to leave someone in a better situation than when they came to you.” He loves meeting and interacting with people, and encourages you to call him today!
Mr. Seplowe is experienced in Personal Injury law. His goal is to help you understand the legal issues you face and to obtain the maximum value for your claim either through settlement or trial.
During his undergrad years, Allen interned at the Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, California, assisting in the legal department, and was privy to the different obstacles clients faced after experiencing an accident.
Trevor has worked in personal injury law since his graduation in 2015. He joined Winters & Yonker in 2016 and is a member of the Florida Bar Association and the American Bar Association.
It was Matt’s first law class in college when he knew that he wanted to practice law and advocate for those in need of help. Matt later graduated from Stetson University College of Law in 2017.
Patrick appreciates the firm’s dedication to its clients and assists in providing qualified legal advice and representation to those in need. At Winters & Yonker, Patrick serves as a mentor to the associate attorneys as they master the ropes of litigation and assist clients in finding justice.