Pelion is a peninsula of Greece that is situated in the center of Greece. It is very beautiful and famous. This is blessed with natural beauty and the credit to its beauty goes to the beautiful combination of mountains and sea on the peninsula. All things that are in Pelion look so beautiful. The mountains are filled with lots of greenery with numerous high trees. The beaches are also amazing with crystal clear blue waters.
There is a myth popular about this peninsula. It is that this peninsula was once the home of the famous creatures called as centaurs. These are some mythical creatures that were believed to have body half of human being and half of a horse. The most famous name among the centaurs is of chilon. He was the teacher of the famous achilies who was a great hero of Greece as well as Jason and Heracles. The villages of Pelion are really very beautiful as well as traditional. These are built with grey stones that are found in plenty here. The bridges are also built with grey stone and look very nice. There are many churches in Pelion. Some are of Byzantine time and some of them are post Byzantine times. These have their own contribution in the beauty of this place. The best time for holidays in Pelion can be any time in the whole year. This place is full of activities both in summer as well as winters. If you visit here in summer season then you will have a lot of fun in the beautiful beaches of Pelion surrounded by the wonderful green mountains. And if you come here in winter season then also you will experience a lot of fun viewing the whole peninsula covered in white. You will definitely enjoy the snowy slopes. You can simply enjoy in the pistes that are so well organized in the ski centre in chania. The villages of Pelion are very beautiful and traditional. The architecture of the houses is very beautiful. There is the use of grey stone and wood in all the buildings. The roofs of all the houses have the same shape and are covered with grey stone. There are some mansions in Pelion which are very famous. Their shape is like that of a tower and all of these have three floors.
The beaches of Pelion are very beautiful. These are covered with white colored sand and the water is deep crystal clear and has the beautiful combination of blue and green color. These beaches attract a large number of tourists every year. Some famous beaches of Pelion are milopotamas, agios ioannis and papa Nero etc. these are the real jewels of Pelion. The night life of Pelion is not so famous but it has some well developed facilities for enjoying night life at the main beach resorts.