Spotlight on SheSpeaks Blogger - Lisa Blanco of Try This!
Lisa Blanco has three children ages 7, 8, & 10. She's the Children's Church leader and she spends a lot of time volunteering at her kids school helping out the teachers. Three years ago, she was diagnosed with heart disease and now she's living with an ICD/pacemaker inside. When not busy with kids, she is writing on her blog Try This!
Lisa is an active member of our community and most recently worked on the L'Oreal Magic Cream campaign.
We wanted to learn more about her so sat down to find our more, and here is what we discovered.
My niche is…Parenting, Kids products.
I write when…..My kids are in school. Summer is usually slow for me on the blog.
How has blogging changed my life: It gives me something to do. It helps me to feel like I am helping other families by sharing what works and what doesn’t so they waste their money. I am a quiet person so this also gives me an outlet to reach a lot of people without actually talking in a large group.
A brand I have loved working with: I love working with Boogie Wipes. It is a great product that was invented by a mom.
When did I start blogging: 2010, and when I look back at my first post I laugh at how far I have come with content and posting.
How I see the future of blogging/social media: I think it is going to continue growing. Everyone wants to be heard and blogging is a great way to share.
Where I work: I do most my blogging sitting on the couch watching TV.
I am connected….A lot, though, I try to do anything technology based while the kids are in school so that when they are home my focus is on them. They are little for only so long and I don’t want their memory of their childhood with mom on the computer.
When I’m stressed, I…..Walk and pray.
My favorite gadget is….My camera. I love taking my camera everywhere, you never know when the moment will come that you want to take a picture.
My favorite travel destination is….That’s tough. Living in Florida I love the beach scene but would love to see the mountains when its snowing.
I do all my shopping….Target! I love Target!
My favorite movie: All time favorite is Annie, (the original version) but Couples Retreat is a hilarious movie!
I dream about….The future. I want my kids to have a great future.
What else I do: I am a children’s church leader and I love teaching the children about God.