ITEMS regarding the Niagara Cafe in Hunter Street reminded me of once when I was a young girl standing in the queue with my mother waiting to go into the Strand Theatre we saw a protest across the road.Waitresses were parading outside the cafe demonstrating their anger about something. I wouldn’t know what it was. Perhaps other older readers might know.
Elaine Richards,Salt AshSTEVEN Busch (Short Takes, 4/10) I agree with you when you say that, when daylight savings begins, there is some disruption to our daily lives. But the emphasisshould be on the word “some” (as it’s definitely not a great deal). I believe that daylight savings does actually serve a useful and practical purpose (many in fact), so yes, I would say that the adjustment period is necessary. Especially when considering that said adjustment period is all of a few days at most.
Adam Carter,Adamstown HeightsWHYare they wasting money on advertising about revitalising Newcastle instead of just getting on with the job?
Debra Forbes,WickhamI UNDERSTAND how you feel Mr Cooper-Johnston (Letters, 5/10), as residents of the Lambton area living close to the Hunter Stadium, Lambton pool and Lambton junior football fields we are constantly unable to park anywhere near home during summer and winter, and we have never been consulted by the NRL or Newcastle council to see if the traffic impacts on our everyday coming and going. We sort of just get on with it.
Grant Conway,LambtonANSWER to the poll of ‘will the Jets improve on eighth?’ is: Next question.
Michael Casey,MerewetherI WOULD like to thank the staff of Ward F3 at John Hunter Hospital for the wonderful care that was given to me. Nothing was too much trouble and they always showed care and kindness. Once again, thank you all so much.
J Greentree,TamworthTHE people living inside the proposed Supercars track who aren’t interested in racing, should look into renting their houses out for the week to the race teams or corporate sponsors. This is what most of the residents around the Mount Panorama track at Bathurst will be doing this weekend.
Earl Hamilton,Kurri KurriTHE POLLSWILL Uate be remembered as alegend?
Yes 63%,No 37%DO you think the proposed Supercars route is a good one?
Yes 75%,No 25%SHOULD the city’s harbourside land be used for parking?
Yes 36%,No 64%MESSAGEBOARDANGLICAN Care Auxiliary will hold their 39th Annual Art and Craft Exhibition and sale on October 7, 8 and 9. Friday from 2.30pm-7pm, Saturday from10am-4pm andSunday from 10am-3pm. Exhibits in Timbury Hall and the administration building at Anglican Care (C.A.Brown), Booragul.