S8 NETWORK > Social Casual and Social Arcade > Zoo Story > Zoo Story | Discussions > Please TL!!
View Full Version : Please TL!!
JUST SOMETHING NEW TO PUT SOME EXCITEMENT BACK INTO THE GAME!!!
What would you like to see added to the game? Do you have some specific suggestions of what you'd like to see?
People have millions of coins and can not spend it on anything.
I actually have over 8,000,000 coins and expanded to the limit.
1.) More buildings, animals and plants !
No, but really, a Red Panda would be amazing!
Interestingly enough, red pandas aren't pandas at all.
I for one love Pandas!!!!!!
Hahahahahahahahahaha... This made me burst out laughing!!!!!!
The problem of the game is that you earn coins for ... ehhh ... nothing, since after like one week no one needs coins anymore.
Let?s remember why we play the game ... because we like the cute animals.
So what I suggest is, that you implement something that allows you to spend coins to do some improvements on your animals. Means for example that you get a new button that allows you to TRAIN the animals. Means you spend some gold and the animal gets a "training bar". If you level the animal up, it learns a NEW MOVE, means instead of siting there and just blinking, it will do some animated maove from time to time. Like four levels of moves per animal I suggest. Level four should be insane expensive, but do something AWESOME, like the dragon flying around you zoo.
Another feature would be to change the color of the animals for some gold, by buying color berries.
With NEW MOVES and colored animals, it would be interesting again to check the zoo of an other player, since maybe he has something interesting happening in his zoo.
I like your ideas. I hope TL will comment on that and gives us some information about what will happen to the game. I think GroupMagma promised a bigger update for Zoo Story somewhere in this forum.
I think it shouldn't be a big deal just to add some more animals and buildings in the meantime.
So TeamLava, let's go !!
GM mentioned in a thread last week about a Zoo Story update: "probably not today but soon." This gives me hope that the update is almost ready and that we'll have it soon!
I hope TL waits for the wild stuff until I get to expand my zoo - don't have all those coins with nothing to do with them - am saving so I can expand- and get all the regular things. I love the suggestions made on the voting thread!
Please don't flip out with the updates.... Or is it only me that wants real animals in a realistic zoo?! No fairytale animals or dinosaurs... This is a zoo!
I do love all the updates in all games but doesn't understand why you add themes in the stories..? For ex; Farm Story... Here you add castles, nights... This is Farm Story!! Here you should add a Tractor, Stables, Harvester... Things for a realistic Farm!! FARM STORY!!
What I mean is... Don't destroy the Zoo Story updates when it finally arrives with fairytalethemes and goblets, dragons, animals that change colours... This is another Story, not Zoo Story! Sorry all of you that love this... Doesn't mean to affend you, just one who loves to build a realistic City, Zoo, Restaurant, Bakery, Farm and so on!
I also would like to have some more plants that look NICE.
It is SO TERRIBLE to be forced to have an uggly brown farm field next to my zoo. But to feed all my animals, I need that field. Have a look at my zoo here: organiceric (<-- my ID) ... nice zoo, but why is there a FARM next to it ???
I mean ... if I want to play a farm, I play FARM story.
So please, please, please, please include some BUILDINGS, that produce food. Something like a "Logistics Center" where food is delivered to. I have never seen a zoo that has it?s own little farm attached to it.
You can orient yourself on the factories in city story. The same concept would do wonders for the zoo.
Sounds like New Jersey. We regularly get reports of escaped animals from our nature preservations!