SETTING UP YOUR MIND SET FOR SUCCESS: YOUR MINDSET IS THE BACKBONE OF YOUR SUCCESS.
Have you ever wondered why some people are successful? Why the rich get richer? The answer is that they have focus, a mind-set, they do continuous learning and dedication to achieve the success they set as goals, visions, mission and purpose. In our world today, focusing on changing your mind-set sounds time-consuming. However, it is important to keep in right mind, otherwise stepping out of your comfort zone or learning from your failures may not be possible either.
Humans have different thinking patterns which mostly are produced from our habit loops. They are large part of what makes you and me. Our identities are borne from the convergence of these patterns. They create our subjective experience.
So once we change our mind-set and begin to see things from the inner circle, the outer world begins to respond automatically.
First of all we need to understand that each of us faces different challenges at different times in different ways based both on our biology and our unique cultural upbringing. No two people think exactly the same way because no two people have lived exactly the same life.
· Understanding our programed mind is the first step toward success.
As zat rana writer with medium states ‘’How we think affects everything from our ability to solve problems, to how we understand meaning, value, and purpose. Real change doesn’t just happen but takes critical change from our mindset and overcoming challenges.
· Overcome fear. Your ability to recognize that fear causes limitations in your life. It’s easy to get attached to your thoughts and feelings that it is okay and that is the way it is. Successful people don’t take things the way they are they take up the fight and go beyond ‘okay’ standards. you are not your fears. You are the awareness that experiences it.
· Believing in yourself. Do you know who you are? What are your strength and weakness? Knowing that you can do something and believing that you have what it takes is success in the making. Once you change your mind-set, opportunities come to you, but if you don’t change then you will keep chasing opportunities.
· Choose your company wisely. The saying goes ‘show me your friends and I will tell you who you’re’ successful people surround themselves with mentors, business gurus, and people of same influence. The circle of Friendships, relationships, and Associations should enable you to grow and lead you to success, otherwise to be successful, sometimes we need to let go those that are not contributing significantly in our lives.
· Create your vision and mission. Have a huge vision bigger than yourself so it makes you uncomfortable and sleepless till you achieve it. This is why they say rich men don’t sleep. When your vision does not make you sleep then you ought to do what’s supposed to be done to achieve it.
· Challenge accepted/ adventure into the unknown. The ability to come out of fear and from the known to unknown is the power to create what you want and wealth in abundance. The main secret to success is knowing what you want and being willing to pay the price for what it takes. It’s Taking one step at a time.
· Open mindedness and Willingness to change.
· Conscious and Unconscious mind. Create harmony between your conflicting conscious and unconscious mind, this can be by visualizing and continuous meditation of your goals and vision on daily basis so they become part of what you see, smell, feel, touch and talk.
Open mindedness and Willingness to change. A mind free from limited ideas that is willing to change and open to welcome new intuitions and ideologies. How we think affects everything from our ability to solve problems to how we understand values, logic, meaning and purpose of things.
In the same way we form habits of action relating to our environment, we also form habits of thought when it comes to how we think about the world. We are all born into a reality in which — at first, at least — we can’t even distinguish between our own separateness from the world.
With time, however, we start to recognize patterns around us, and we internalize these patterns like habits so that we can reuse them in the future. Usually, if a pattern persists in our mental habits, it means that it is valuable in some sense. But this is only the case if we apply that pattern to the right information.
One of the reasons it’s so hard to change our minds about things is that our brains are stuck in these mental habit loops, which tend to look at information from a singular point of view. Our brains have learned something in one context, so they mistakenly apply it to others, mixing up the triggers that lead to routine thoughts.
But the good news is we’re all capable of overpowering these habit loops, it’s very productive to have these habits operating as the default mode. To think well, we must be aware of their limitations and to not let them restrict us.
True success stories are built only after you resolve the things which are affecting your life. The problems you are facing, your weak points and stop talking negative about yourself.
The journey to a successful life is not a straight line, it’s a bumpy road full of difficulties and setbacks. The average person would give up along the way, but a champion would stay resilient. It’s the mindset that makes a true difference. The fact is that the more obstacles you overcome, the more resilient you become.
As Ken Chennault, CEO of American Express, has a nice tip for everyone who wants to become successful: “Dedicate yourself to a core set of values. Without them, you will never be able to find personal fulfilment, and you will never be able to lead effectively.
c) Invest in yourself by getting mentors, reading books and get trainings.
d) Mastermind with the leaders. Trust In yourself.
e) Start the journey taking one step at a time through learning, doing and teaching.
Success is about setting your mind-set and making changes based on responsibility and action. It is overcoming fear and getting out of the known to the unknown. It is about overcoming failure as a person.
https://thesixfigurementors.com/?id=susanakello. Learn how to set up your mind for success and become a successful career person.
Sharing is caring. What is your mind-set change story and how can you assist a person like you in the same fear state? Please let’s share your story.