All attendees must check-in onsite at a registration location and present valid, government issued photo id to receive a badge, along with any required business or employee credentials not previously provided.
Children of designers and buyers, ages 12 to 17, are permitted as guests with proof of age; special accommodations are made for babies under one year of age with a waiver and release.
Infants must be carried in a baby carrier or sling; no strollers are permitted.
Contractors, Caterers, Day Labor, etc. must check in at the loading dock and present valid, government issued photo id.
What types of businesses qualify for admission? Any business that sources or resells product represented at AmericasMart, including but not limited to: designers, retailers, distributors, gift shops, architects, landscape architects, builders, home stagers, contract/hospitality buyers, purchasing agents, film and television production buyers, and event planners.
Business Credentials – one or more may be required; certain exceptions may be made.
Upon execution of your lease, you may obtain a permanent AmericasMart badge through the Operations office. A valid photo ID is required. Exhibitor Photo ID badges are issued by AmericasMart only to employees of leaseholders, and only upon the specific request of an authorized officer of the leaseholder. Requests for Photo ID badges must be in writing, either on an AmericasMart Badge Request form or on the leaseholder's company letterhead.
The Photo ID Office is located in the AmericasMart Operations Center, 220 Ted Turner Drive (formerly Spring Street), next to Building 2 (the Gift Building). Hours are extended during Markets. Please contact the administrator at 404-220-3076 for further details.
Authorized part-time or temporary showroom employees will be issued temporary exhibitor passes by Buyer Registration only upon request of the showroom owner. Temporary exhibitor passes are issued only for a particular market/show or other special need. Please help us control access by retrieving these badges from your personnel when access is no longer required.
Permanent Showroom owners and employees may request guest/courtesy badges from registration for access exclusive to the building where their showroom is located. These badges are only valid for the day requested, and if possible, we would prefer 24 hours notice for requests. These passes must be entered in the exhibitor portal. Please contact Customer Relations at 404-220-2446 for assistance with your log-in information.
Please note that there are no guests allowed during Gift/Home Markets and IDS Markets.
Children under 12 are not allowed unless they are children of the showroom owner or an employee of the showroom. Children of showroom owners or employees are required to wear their courtesy badges while in the buildings.
You can only request a courtesy pass for the building where your showroom is located.
An individual who represents one or more product lines in one or more showrooms. This category is for independent sales/line/manufacturers reps only. Employees of an exhibitor should not register in this category. Each representative must provide a personalized business card and photo ID. Representatives must contact at least one of their exhibitors (in advance, before each market) to request that the exhibitor enter the badge request through the exhibitor portal. No representative badges will be printed without prior authorization from an exhibitor. Representatives are not permitted to bring guests or children.
Manufacturers reps who are new to Market and represent a product not currently shown at AmericasMart must present a photo ID, along with photos of their product or a catalog, plus a business card. In January and July, there is a designated registration desk on Floor 1 of Building 1.
Non-Exhibiting Manufacturers are not permitted entrance to area rug shows without permission of leasing. Solicitation of product and product samples and taking photographs are not permitted.
An individual who provides professional services. This includes equipment/computer/technology services and financial services. Each supplier must provide 1. A personalized business card and 2. Photo ID. Requests must be made (each market) in advance by the exhibitor with whom the supplier is doing business. Suppliers are not permitted to bring guests or children.
Buyers are allowed to bring into AmericasMart rolling briefcases and rolling laptop cases smaller than 12" (H) x 16" (W) x 5" (D). Rolling carts and luggage larger than the cases described above will need to be left at Luggage Check stations conveniently located throughout our campus. Please note these restrictions do not apply to exhibitors.
To help keep everyone moving, please pick up your rolling briefcases on escalators.
These policies will be in effect at all times with the exception of Immediate Delivery Markets and Market Wednesdays.
All photography in or of showrooms and on all exhibit hall floors is strictly prohibited without the express permission of each affected exhibitor.
Entry onto AmericasMart property constitutes the consent of the entrant to AmericasMart's use and distribution of the entrant's photographic or video image without compensation to the entrant.
To request AmericasMart images and logos, please contact AmericasMart Strategic Relations and Media Relations Manager.
Smoking (including e-cigarettes) is strictly prohibited in AmericasMart buildings including, without limitation, the parking garages and stairwells. Designated smoking areas can be found outside each building.
Firearms, bladed weapons, explosives, batons, and other personal weapons are not permitted on the AmericasMart campus.
Except for Service Animals (as that term is used in the Americans with Disabilities Act), buyers are not permitted to bring animals of any kind onto the AmericasMart campus.
Conduct that interferes with the operations or management of Market or which endangers the health, safety or well-being of others is expressly prohibited.
Management reserves the right to permanently expel anyone disregarding the above policies.