There are many signs in this world that call to us on a daily basis; but if you're not looking for them, chances are you're not going to find them.
Waking up at the same time every night, even when you've not set any alarms? This is one sign that many people miss.
As a human on this Earth, you are inherently powerful with a myriad of different energies, and energy meridians. As these meridians are used in Traditional Chinese Medicine, they are linked to a clock-like system that energizes certain regions of the body, depending on the time of day.
If you're having a tough time falling asleep during this time period (which is the most common bedtime for people), it's a sign that you're still carrying the stresses and worries from your day.
To combat these effects, practice meditation, promotive mantras, and other relaxation practices. Yoga and stretching also work wonders.
Traditional Chinese Medicine posits that this period of time is linked to our gall bladders. If you're waking up during these hours, it can be indicative of emotional disappointment.
Focus on unconditional self-love, and remember to forgive yourself for any mistakes you've made.
This time period is connected to our liver. If you're waking during these hours, it's a good sign that you are harboring feelings of anger, and have too much yang energy.
Poor a tall glass of cold water and reconcile with your anger; figure out what is troubling you, so you may get some rest.
Waking during these hours is linked to our lungs, and is a sign of sadness. To return to restful nights, practice deep breathing exercises while you focus your thoughts on expressing faith in whatever your higher power may be. Know that they will help you.
Additionally, waking between these hours can be a sign that your higher power is trying to tell you something. When they are sending you messages, it is wise to pay attention; they are trying to bring you into better alignment with your ultimate purpose.
During this time, our energy resides mostly in our guts, the large intestines. If you're waking up during these hours, you might having emotional blockages. Once you're awake, stretch out your body or use the bathroom to fall back into a slumber.
When we dream, we are highly receptive of any messages being sent to us from our Higher Power. If we look closely enough, we can see that our dreams depict certain details of our journey through life. This spiritual journey is important, and thus, so are the messages being sent to us.
Once we realize that we are living this life in order to become the best version of ourselves that we can possibly be, we gain a higher awareness, a deeper form of consciousness, one that allows us to ascend.
Consistently waking between 3:00am and 5:00am is a sign that your Higher Power is trying to contact you. Do your best to listen to what it has to say.