Financial wellness/literacy programs have received substantial visibility in recent years, but are they effective and how do they fit into broader conversations around affordability? This session will examine the terminology related to these programs, the effectiveness of these programs, and will showcase examples of how to create a true culture of financial wellness by integrating programming efforts across campus.
This session will share recommended best practices for peer financial coach training programs. Participants will receive a comprehensive list of recommended training topics, as well as sample training agendas from a variety of peer institutions. Interactive training activities will be demonstrated and discussed. Participants will have the opportunity to share about effective practices in their current training programs and set goals to enhance their future training practices.
How can you get more students to engage with the financial wellness information and programs your office has created? Partnering with academic advising offices is one emerging strategy. Advisors interact with students daily and can be a valuable referral source or extend the reach of a financial wellness program. Join us to discuss building partnerships with advising offices and tools for reaching students via advisors.
America Saves has the infrastructure to help you build a more robust financial wellness program. The research-based campaign uses the principles of behavioral economics and social marketing to change behavior. In this session, you will see how academic institutions and other organizations have used America Saves to motivate and encourage individuals to save. The America Saves Pledge and other research, tools, and resources have helped thousands of Savers set and achieve their savings goals.
Lillian Karabaic, Oh My Dollar!
How can games be used to change student financial habits?We'll discuss a variety of gamification concepts that keep students regularly engaged with financial literacy programs and makes them excited about the mundane. What if you could get students to eagerly track their spending or open a savings account? We'll interactively design a game in this session after hearing examples, showing that games don't need to be complicated (or techy).