Festival of lights, Diwali is very big in India. It signifies victory of good over evil and light over darkness. Markets are bustling with mouth-watering sweets during this festival. I remember my mother working in the kitchen all day and preparing a feast for us which also involved making different sweets. Nariyal ki barfi, kheer-anand (thick rice pudding) and daal ki chaki was always on the menu. Sweets are also offered to friends and relatives who come to visit the following days.
It is always so hectic during Diwali. There is just so much to do - decorating the house, distributing sweets, making a lavish meal, sorting out clothes to wear, socializing. I wasn't sure if I would be able to share this recipe but I am happy I managed.
Today I am sharing a recipe which is a fusion between western and Indian dessert- "Pistachio-yoghurt cupcakes with cardamom frosting"! You know how elders just taste baked goodies because they don't quite enjoy flavor of vanilla and chocolate. This dessert is going to cater to elders as well as kids. My father-in-law flipped over these cupcakes.You can make them in advance, they won't get spoilt for 2-3 days. Drizzle frosting right before serving.
Indian sweets hardly bear any resemblance to Western desserts. Unlike Western desserts, most of the Indian desserts are either deep fried or cooked on an open flame. Mithai is usually made by combining milk and ingredients like semolina, chickpea flour, desiccated coconut and dried-fruit together. Flavored with saffron, cardamom and rose water, mithiais are very aromatic. I have always had a weakness for crisp jalebis and daal ka halwa!
This is actually a mithai( Indian sweet) disguised as a cupcake. Pistachio and aromatic cardamom pods create a beautiful flavour which reminds you of Indian sweets as soon as you taste it! Use of yoghurt does wonders with baking powder and makes cupcakes very moist. Cupcakes just melt in your mouth!
Preheat oven for 10 minutes at 180 degrees Celsius - Golden rule!
Strain flour, baking powder and baking soda together and keep aside.
Now fold dry ingredients, ground pistachio and yoghurt lightly in the creamed butter-sugar mixture. Make sure to not over-beat. You just have to incorporate all the ingredients together.
Pour batter in the cupcake tray and bake at 180 degrees for 15-20 minutes till skewer or knife comes out clean.
Mix icing sugar and a pinch of cardamom powder with few drops of water. If sugar doesn't come together, add more.
Drizzle over cupcakes and garnish with chopped pistachios.
Don't forget to try other desserts and snacks from the blog. Wishing everyone a very happy and safe Diwali!!
Looking for more recipes to satisfy your sweet tooth??