McGilley & George Funeral Home and Cremation Services has been part of the Belton community since 1928. Our funeral directors and associates have a passion for service and feel honored to assist families with funerals and cremations.
As a locally operated funeral home in Belton, our team lives and works in the area. We are your friends and neighbors and strive to provide a personal approach to funeral planning. We're dedicated to honoring those entrusted to our care.
Leadership at McGilley & George Funeral Home and Cremation Services have more than 60 years of funeral service experience combined, including team members fluent in Spanish and available to assist Spanish-speaking families. We also offer the services of specialized funeral celebrants. Call us for more information.
We understand losing a loved one is an emotional and difficult experience, and we're committed to helping families with compassionate, personal service. When you visit McGilley & George, we'll discuss the types of burials and cremations, costs and amenities you need and address special requests.
All of our funeral and memorial services are designed to help families plan a tribute that showcases individuality and celebrates life. Families are encouraged to share personal details about themselves or a loved one, so we can create an event guests will remember for generations. We also offer catering and refreshments, plan flexible visitation hours, write obituaries and help with anything else you need.
Whether you need to plan ahead or have an immediate need, our dedicated team considers it an honor to serve you. Feel free to contact us to tour our funeral home in Belton or to learn more about our burial and cremation service options. McGilley & George is honored to serve the Grandview community with care and professionalism.
Our history dates back to 1909 when George Funeral Home was founded in Belton by Edward Kibbey George. The business became E.K. George and Sons when sons Alan and Richard joined. In 1952, Sterling Goddard joined the business and became a partner with the Georges. In 1971, Richard’s son, Kibbey, joined and became the 3rd-generation of Georges to serve the communities of Belton and Grandview.
In 1974, Allen Meyer joined as a funeral director and embalmer. The George Funeral Homes merged with the McGilley Funeral Homes in 1983, with the Grandview location being managed by Allen Meyer. Throughout the years, the team at McGilley & George Funeral Home and Cremation Services has carried on the tradition of providing exceptional service while remaining committed to meeting the changing needs of our communities.
We’re dedicated to honoring those entrusted to our care. All of us at McGilley & George Funeral Home and Cremation Services are committed to the highest standard of service.