The story Carl centers around a case of mistaken identity and asks the question...Are we really who we think we are, or could there exist some other force, much greater then we, compelling us to do the things we do? Read on and find out.
Don't listen if you don't want to, but don't say I didn't try to warn you! Read this story and get ready, for the inevitable is about to happen!
How does a guy make a name for himself anyways? Read about this dilemma in Reid Laurence's story; Breaking News!
Is global warming fact or fiction? An important consideration, or a minor problem that will heal itself and go away?
Ever get the feeling you might put that pen down and never write another word as long as you live? I know I have, but then, what do you do to fill in the gap? Find another hobby I suppose... but what?
Left wing, right wing, who cares? This plane is never gonna get off the ground anyway. Can't we work out a deal and let Bush do another term?
The temptation to undermine the American work force which I myself have been so long a part of... is this betrayal, treason, or just a bite of forbidden fruit? Who can say?
How do we celebrate the holidays and ignore the terrible effects of war and catastrophic global events at the same time?
A poem about an artist who paints to try to remain happy but can't quite make it happen.
Just a brief poem about the earth and ecology.
The buried dead from past wars lie in enormous numbers all over the world, but how else could we have maintained not just our freedom, but our very identity as Americans?
A measure of trust in every relationship... but what of that trust when it is broken?
How many of us are CEO's? How many are busy on their yachts right now, too busy to talk... too busy to solve problems we're left to contend with?
Arguing takes up so much of our time, it's a wonder we get anything done.
What happens when people who live in glass houses throw stones?
Just how long lasting are some relationships and where do they end?
The future is here. Robots are doing surgery... and what will it be like when we find ourselves sitting in front of a cold bundle of wires and composite materials, spilling our guts to an android?
Do believe? Some people don't. Who's to say who is right and who is wrong?
Writing through some tough times in my life... metaphorically put, I've heard the song of the sirens.
Will a new diamond planet drive us even faster to achieve outer space goals?