I'm a lover of nature, specially I love mountain landscapes. Would France been good to live and work in? I would travel alone and my stay would be indefinite.
Hi, It's pretty difficult to get a working visa for France but if you can get one, it's a good place to live and work.
Beautiful landscapes, and historical monument to visit, everything is full of history, more than 2000 years of history to endurstand, Paris was created 58BC.
Some country services will be picked up directly from your salary, like health insurance, retirement allocations, unemployed allocation, familly allocation etc. If you negociate a salary of 40k€/year (called brut salary) you will really have in your pocket 30k€/year (called net salary). You have to know that every salary is negociate as "brut" salary.
You will have to had on the previous taxes salary taxes wich correspond to one salary per year so it's gonna be 30k€ / 12.
Then you will have a job in France congrat.
If you want moutain and live cheap, you can try to get a job in Pau You have to know that if you want to get a working visa, it can be easier to get it in a company based in Paris.
After almost two years living in US, I feel like France is a way better because of health insurance and you do not need a car to go everywhere but that's my personal opinion.
I hope all those infos helped you.
I lived in Dijon for a while and loved it. Because Paris is such a monster city in size, we tend to not realize that the other cities in France are quite large too. Lyon, Dijon, Orleans (Centre), Lille, Nantes are all truly lovely cities-full of culture, wonderful people and great food...and surrounded by beautiful landscapes. I would be happy to live in any of them!
Getting a work permit will prove difficult, as well as getting a job. The social taxes are astronomic, so most employers are not hiring right now. France is a great place to work, IF you can secure a job. And for this, you will need a work permit. Unless you have a EU passport, or come from North Africa, this is not easy.