One of our Sales Rep. will review your information and email you within 24h (Business Hours) with pricing or questions if necessary.
If you do not receive an email, please contact us at 1.888.720.2115 and supply your Project Number . Our Business Hours are Monday – Friday from 9am to 5pm PST.
In the meantime, you can bookmark this page to access your project.
Click here for a complete explanation of our order process.
Linx Corporation and its subsidiaries are confident in our production processes to offer a 100% Product Satisfaction Guarantee against manufacturing defects.
Since all our orders are custom we have instituted a process that minimizes any chance for errors. We will not start the manufacturing process until you are 100% satisfied with the design and details of your order and we receive your written approval to proceed with the full order.
In situations where a sample is manufactured for proofing purposes we will present that image to you for approval as well.
Linx produces high-quality custom products. If your order differs materially from what you approved or if there is a manufacturing defect we will replace all flawed or defective merchandise or you may return the custom goods for a full refund within 10 days of receiving your order.
If you find that your order is defective or there is any other problem Linx Corporation must be notified immediately upon receipt where we will attempt to rectify any issues.
PLEASE ADD SALES@LINXCORP.US TO YOUR “SAFE SENDERS LIST” IN YOUR EMAIL PROGRAM TO PREVENT OUR MESSAGES FROM GOING TO YOUR “JUNK” MAIL FOLDER.
If you do not receive the confirmation message within a few minutes, please check your Bulk Mail folder just in case the confirmation email got delivered there instead of your inbox. If so, select the confirmation message and click Not Spam, which will allow future messages to get through.
If you do not receive the confirmation message within a few minutes, please check your Junk E-mail folder just in case the confirmation email got delivered there instead of your inbox.
3. Type m1e.net and click OK.
4. Type sender’s ‘from’ address and click OK.