Sam Gold joins The Athletic after working his way through the journalist farm system and is enjoying life in the big league. Growing up outside of Washington, D.C., Sam didn’t choose the Redskins, the Redskins chose him. Out of a love for the game and an insatiable curiosity to determine why his beloved team was underperforming, he turned to studying film.
Seahawks Film Room: How important is bringing back free-agent guards Fluker, Sweezy?
Amari Cooper is a complete receiver, and his acquisition has significantly upgraded the Dallas offense.
After getting carved up by San Francisco's tight ends a week earlier, the Seahawks limited Travis Kelce to 54 yards on nine targets. Here's how they did it.
Jabrill Peppers is the ultimate hybrid defender in the modern NFL.
A week after Seattle shut down the Vikings, 49ers tight ends terrorized the Seahawks. Ahead of a prime-time matchup with the Chiefs, Seattle should consider switching up its defense.
Seahawks Film Room: What happened to Russell Wilson and the passing game Monday night?
After a month of the most efficient football of his career, Russell Wilson finished Monday night's win over the Minnesota Vikings with 72 passing yards. Here's what went wrong.
Seahawks Film Room: Why has Shaquill Griffin disappointed in Year 2?
The Seahawks' second-year corner is clearly talented, but developing consistent technique and habits will define his growth going into next season.
Steelers Film Room: Why has James Conner been able to replicate Le'Veon Bell's production?
James Conner has a different running style than Le'Veon Bell. But he's been just as effective this season.
The Seahawks have trusted David Moore to play a big role in his second NFL season, and he's rewarding that trust with breakout performances.
Seahawks Film Room: Why did pass rush dominate versus Packers?
The Seahawks doubled their average sack output in Thursday night's win over Green Bay. Was the success scheme-related, or did an individual player stand out?
Rashaad Penny finally flashed the play-making abilities that made him a first-round pick.
In this video breakdown, I tracked and analyzed each of his 74 carries so far on the year.
Russell Wilson missed big opportunities, took unnecessary sacks and threw a pick-six, but somehow kept the Seahawks close versus the Chargers.
Russell Wilson's statistically perfect effort versus the Lions didn't start out that way.
Frank Clark is off to a great start in 2018, and the Seahawks need to re-sign him before he hits free agency.
While many saw him as a top tier slot cornerback, there were some doubts on whether or not he could play outside.
Last week versus the Raiders, the Seahawks scored their first opening-drive touchdown in 34 games. Credit offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer's play-calling for the breakthrough.
In his first start, Tedric Thompson did a good job recognizing route combinations and calling out multiple plays before the snap, putting the Seahawks defense in position to succeed.
Josh Rosen made his first NFL start on Sunday when the Cardinals hosted the Seahawks, and while nothing jumps off the page statistically, his numbers are misleading.
In Week 3, Chris Carson gained almost half of his 102 rushing yards independent of his offensive line's contribution. With Carson injured, Mike Davis more than matched that feat in Week 4.
Christian McCaffrey is a runner, receiver and as a pass blocker in Carolina's offense, employing his elusiveness, patience, and vision to make plays.
Chris Carson was the first Seahawks running back to notch a 100-yard game in nearly two years. He's making the most of his opportunities and proving he deserves to be Seattle's lead back.
Baker Mayfield consistently took advantage of the defensive matchups in exactly the ways Tyrod Taylor couldn't versus the Jets.
Patrick Mahomes was considered by some to be the biggest boom-or-bust prospect in the 2017 draft, but his development is already proving his doubters wrong.
Russell Wilson was responsible for half of the six sacks he took in Week 1 versus the Broncos. How many were his fault Monday night in Chicago?
Looking for someone to blame for Seattle's poor performance on third down versus Denver? Start with the Seahawks' franchise quarterback.
Rookie tight end Will Dissly was a bright spot in Seattle's Week 1 loss at Denver, proving he can be a factor in the Seahawks' passing game in addition to his blocking duties.
Julio Jones is such an incredibly talented route runner that he'll continue to perform well regardless who calls the plays.
New Seahawks quarterback Brett Hundley exhibits many of the same issues he had coming out of college despite three years in Green Bay.
In his sophomore season, Allen's budding talent will open eyes around the league.
The former Florida State star flashed the potential that convinced the Chargers to take him with the 17th overall pick.
In an ideal world, Seahawks rookie linebacker Shaquem Griffin could sit behind K.J. Wright for his entire first NFL season, but the fifth-round pick will be called upon to star sooner than later.
Brian Schottenheimer has preached a "back to basics" message for Russell Wilson since being hired as offensive coordinator. In Seattle's the third preseason game, this focus on fundamentals paid off.
Undrafted rookie Poona Ford is making the most of his limited opportunities. While he’s mainly lining up against backup offensive lineman, he has shown enough upside to warrant a roster spot.
Analyzing the route combination he used against the Steelers' Cover 1 defense and how he used his strength and length to grab the score.
The Seahawks selected Rasheem Green to boost their pass rush after losing veterans Cliff Avril and Michael Bennett in the offseason. So far, the rookie has shown a lot of promise.
The forgotten man in Seattle's tight-end group this offseason, Nick Vannett flashed a lot of potential in the Seahawks’ first preseason game.
Saquon Barkley paired vision and patience to exploit the Browns' defense in his first NFL carry.
J.R. Sweezy played in only 14 games over the past two seasons in Tampa Bay, but his pass-blocking skills could earn him a starting job in his return to Seattle, provided he stays healthy.
The stats from Lamar Jackson's NFL debut weren't pretty, but he made some quality plays that should give Ravens fans hope for the future.
Despite consistent production, Doug Baldwin is still one of the most underrated receivers in the NFL. That could change this year.
Seahawks Film Room: Is McDougald better at free safety or strong safety?
Bradley McDougald displayed his versatility while filling in at both starting safety spots for the Seahawks last season, but which position is a better fit for his skills?
Under new offensive line coach Mike Solari, Seattle seems likely to feature more plays using down blocks, combination blocks and pulling offensive lineman, like "60/70 Power."
Seahawks Film Room: Is it time to re-sign Tyler Lockett?
Tyler Lockett is an elite return specialist, but he's still developing as a receiver. That presents the Seahawks with an interesting conundrum as he enters the final year of his rookie contract.
Kam Chancellor, who announced he was walking away from football after suffering a career-ending neck injury last year, impacted games in subtle and not-so-subtle ways for the Seahawks.
There weren't a lot of positives coming out of the Seahawks 2017 run game, but Chris Carson showed enough – in an admittedly small sample size – to compete for a starting job in 2018.
Keenan Allen exceed all expectations in 2017 after returning from at torn ACL. Sam Gold breaks down how Allen used his superior route running and hip flexibility to create separation.
Does offensive line contribution affect running back contribution? Samuel Gold hopes to answer that question in the second part his of analysis on running back and offensive line performance.
Most metrics do a relatively poor job of separating offensive line and running back performance on run plays. When comparing two of this year's first-round backs, Samuel Gold attempts to do just that.
It’s clear Brandon Marshall isn’t the same player he used to be, but the six-time Pro Bowler can play a valuable role in the Seahawks’ offense.
Fourth-round tight end Will Dissly will be an instant upgrade for the Seahawks’ offense and exemplifies Pete Carroll's "always compete" mentality.
In his first piece for The Athletic, Sam Gold breaks down third-round defensive end Rasheem Green's college film and tells us why he believes Green can be an impact player for the Seahawks.