Lawrenceville, Ga. – Gwinnett commissioners on Tuesday approved three contracts that, combined, offer an innovative way to replace both helicopters used by the Gwinnett County Police Department’s aviation unit for less than half the cost of buying new ones. Both units date to the mid-1980s.
Lawrenceville – The 6th Annual Family Promise of Gwinnett County Bed Race is on April 18, 2015 in downtown Lawrenceville. The race encompasses three side streets of the Historic Courthouse.
Open to the public and benefitting Relay for Life, our school's Ultimate Frisbee team has attracted the professional Atlanta Hustle team to perform in a showcase at the inaugural Brookwood Ultimate Invitational.
Susan Rogers Travels - Romance and Relaxation Travel Advisor, presents our three WINE THEMED 2016 SUGGESTIONS for our COMMUNITY RIVER CRUISE: We chose summer dates because so many of you are tied to the school year. Other dates are available if wanted for those who are not.
Have you ever dreamed about learning to fly, but did not know what was involved or how much it might cost. Saturday, April 4th is the day to get those questions answered and have an opportunity to take the controls of a light airplane.
Lawrenceville, Ga., – Commissioners on Tuesday unveiled a new marker at the historic Chesser-Williams House located on the campus of the Gwinnett Environmental and Heritage Center in Buford.
Lawrenceville, Ga. – Gwinnett’s water conservation efforts have led to a renewal of the county’s designation as a WaterFirst community. Gwinnett was the first agency in the state to join the voluntary partnership with the Georgia Department of Community Affairs in 2003.
Duluth, GA – Local area artists capture Duluth through their eyes in a rapidly executed freehand drawing known as sketching. “Duluth Sketchers” is a grassroots group of artists whose mission is to capture what’s unique and beautiful about the City of Duluth such as its landscaping, architecture, people or anything that catches their attention.
Duluth, GA – Excitement filled the area as Dunkin Donuts held their officials ribbon cutting ceremony Saturday, March 7th. Mayor Nancy Harris conducted the ribbon cutting ceremony along with store owner Stephen Attard who said Duluth was an ideal location for his store.