After a lot of touting and teasing, YU Televentures has finally unveiled their latest mid ranger the YU Yunicorn. It was tipped to be launched on 19th of May but the launch was rescheduled to 31st May instead. The YU Yunicorn is a mid-range phone which will give a direct competition to the the phones between 15K-20K. We have been playing with the new entrant from last week and here are the answers to some really important queries about the device.
Answer- The YU Yunicorn looks looks quite different compared to the previous phones from YU Televentures. Front has 2.5D curve glass and a fingerprint sensor at the bottom that looks exactly the same as Mezu m3 Note. The back is made up of metal with brushed finish and has slight curve on the sides. The top and bottom of the back is made up of plastic to place the antennae bands but they are finished like metal. There are two thin shiny stripes where the aluminum back is joint with the antennae bands, which looks good, and the back also has chamfered edges that make it look even more elegant.
It feels very solid and heavy in hand, and looks premium for sure. But the design looks borrowed from Meizu phones, specially the front and the camera at the back.
Question- Does the YU Yunicorn Have Dual SIM Slots?
Answer- Yes, it has a Hybrid dual SIM slot and supports nano SIM.
Question- Does the YU Yunicorn Have microSD Expansion option?
Answer- Yes, you can insert a micro SD card up to 128GB in the SIM 2 slot.
Question- Does YU Yunicorn Have Display Glass Protection?
Answer- It comes with Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection.
Question- How is the Display of the YU Yunicorn?
Answer- The YU Yunicorn comes with a 5.5 inch Full HD (1920 X 1080 pixels) IPS display protected with 2.5D Corning Gorilla Glass 3. The display looks very subtle and clear. Colours were looking punchy and the sharpness is also perfect. Viewing angles are good but the glass is a bit reflective under bright day light.
Question- Does YU Yunicorn Support Adaptive Brightness?
Answer- It comes with the Android 5.1.1 Lollipop with the YU AOS on top.
Answer- Yes, it has a fingerprint sensor and it is baked in the home button, and it is very quick.
Question- Can Apps be moved to SD card on YU Yunicorn?
Answer- It does not have any bloatware pre loaded.
Answer- It has a good loudspeaker, it was fairly loud for a small hall or room.
Question- What is the weight of the YU Yunicorn?
Answer- It weighs 173 grams.
Question- How much storage is free on first boot?
Answer- 25.24 GB is free out of 32 GB on first boot.
Question- How much RAM was available at user end after first boot?
Answer- 2.9 GB of RAM was free when we switched on the device for the first time.
Question- How good is The Camera Quality of the YU Yunicorn?
Answer- It comes with a 13 MP camera on the back and 5 MP on the front. Primary camera performs decent in day light but as we moved to low light, it was literally suffering. It has stabilization issues, focus speed is below average and details were also not up to the mark. The front camera captures clear selfies in natural light, but it becomes difficult to get a clear selfie in artificial light. The camera is very shaky and camera UI is laggy.
Question- Can it record slow motion videos?
Answer- Yes it can record slow motion videos.
Question- Can we Play Full HD 1080p Videos on YU Yunicorn?
Question- How is Battery Backup on YU Yunicorn?
Answer- It comes with a 4000 mAh battery, and such a juicy battery is great for any phone with such hardware configurations. It’ll easily last more than a day on single charge. Yu claims the phone to last for 18 hours with continuous usage.
Question- What Color Variants are Available for YU Yunicorn?
Answer– It will be available in Rush Gold, Graphite and Rush Silver coloured variants.
Question- Can we set the display colour temperature on YU Yunicorn?
Question- Is there any in-built power saver in the YU Yunicorn?
Answer- Yes, it has power saving mode to improve the battery efficiency.
Question- Which Sensors are available on YU Yunicorn?
Answer- It has Gyroscope, Light sensor, Proximity sensor, Fingerprint sensor, Magnetometer, Gravity sensor and Accelerometer.
Question- What is the SAR Value of YU Yunicorn?
Answer- SAR value is still unknown.
Question- Does it has fast charging?
Answer- No it does not support fast charging.
Question- Does YU Yunicorn Have Heating Issues?
Question- Can YU Yunicorn be connected to a Bluetooth Headset?
YU Yunicorn is a really good device for someone who demands a lot of multitasking from their phones. It has everything that you can demand at this price point, but this deal could have been sweeter if the software was on point. It comes with almost stock Android Lollipop, and a very ordinary set of camera, but everything else is great for the price.