Applied CSR24 is the industry's first online customer self-service software that connects your customers to information in your management system, so you can service your customers when and how they want.
"Applied CSR24 is an innovative tool"
I love that Applied CSR24 integrates the client right into the system. The client is able to get real time details, information, and action on their account. This tool really projects an agency into the innovative world. With everyone, especially younger people, going to their smartphones to get things done, having Applied CSR24 really integrates your agency into their lives.
As with anything new, this program will need tweaks and adjustments. But overall it is off to a fantastic start. Applied is great with implementing new ideas, suggestions, and improvements on a regular basis.
I would 100% recommend this product to you. Even though it is not perfect, Applied is constantly taking feedback and improving this tool. With the way people do business in the world, CSR24 is honestly a fantastic tool to take your agency to the next level.
Using CSR24, your agency will profit by having a tool for the client to use directly. Instead of having a person take a phone call, email, or request directly from the insured. The client can go into CSR24 and request a change, download a policy, and do so many things that the live CSR would usually do. With every improvement made to CSR24, it is less that your employees will have to do in the office.
"Great product for clients- convenient for Applied users"
The client interface is very easy to navigate and requires minimal training. The ease of renewing certificates is also a useful component- especially when it comes to emailing them out of CSR24.
Not enough integration with Applied Epic- would be useful to have information loaded into CSR24 to transfer back into Epic the way it does the other direction. Some other little tweaks I'd make, but overall, does a great job at file transmission to clients and giving them COI issuing capabilities.
This solves the issue of policy transmission via email- instead of having to send encrypted emails (which everyone hates) we are able to send those documents through a secure server. It will end up saving CSRs time at renewal of certificates as well. It's given us the added benefit of saving paper also- emailing more and more certificates and mailing less.
What Other Insurance solution do you use?
"Is a great way for your insureds to access material on their own without you. It is a huge timesaver"
I love how the insureds can go on and print a certificate themselves. This really helps with bigger accounts that need a certificate everyday. It helps save time and the insured like it because they have some control themselves. They can also see there polices, auto ID cards, and more!
It is kind of complicated to figure out at first. It is not the easier system to use. I believe the software itself can be easier to understand and easier to use, for the insured and the agency.
I would recommend this product. Again, it saves so much time and the insurer really likes being able to go in when they want to look at something.
It really saves with time, which is super important to us. We get a lot loss phone calls on easy stuff like certificates and we can spend more time on helping other customers and quoting more.
"Decent program for COI needs"
I like that the customer is able to request COI's. I also enjoy the fact that previous COI's and holders are easily accessible and easily changed. It is great being able to send a certificate by fax or email right from the system. No more having to save the document and them email. You can get it done in one swoop. Pretty user friendly as well.
I dislike having to set up an evidence from the start, There are many components that have to be manually entered, which can be time consuming.
I am solving the issue of having multiple certificate requests to complete and being able to easily complete them and send them by fax or email without having to leave my desk.
I dislike the user friendliness. Includes a good amount of extra steps in creating evidences and certificates.
Work on user friendliness and elimination of steps.
We are solving how we issue and request certificates and evidences.
I absolutely love CSR24. It has made life so much easier!
I dislike the delay in dropping files in Applied and them appearing in CSR24.
"Awesome Syatem for issuing COI’s"
Allows clients to issue coi’s if need be. Also renewal of coi’s are a breeze.
Needs detailed training to run not easy to use without any training.
Sends renewal coi’s out electronicslly wirh fax or email address therefore saving postage.
* We monitor all Applied CSR24 reviews to prevent fraudulent reviews and keep review quality high. We do not post reviews by company employees or direct competitors. Validated reviews require the user to submit a screenshot of the product containing their user ID, in order to verify a user is an actual user of the product.
Hi there! Are you looking to implement a solution like Applied CSR24?