On the 12th Day of Christmas my true love gave to me, twelve Drummers Drumming.
I just want you to think about it for a minute people. In the name of interesting gift giving, this poor lady now has girls milking cows, others dancing around her courtyard. She has a small band of pipers and drummers. Oh, and let's not forget the band of leaping lords. She is overrun by all kinds of fowl including geese, partridges, turtle doves, swans and hens. But its not all bad. She has managed to get a bit of jewelry out of the whole thing. I guess she could have done worse. She could have gotten a box of chocolates and the dude could have called it quits. He certainly gets an A for creativity if nothing else.
Over here in our little Fig Tree neck of the woods, we are a bit tired and certainly dazed by all of your shopping prowess. You guyss are quite a dedicated bunch and we really appreciate you!
For this last day we have a grab bag of little goodies. All those little items that we didn't manage to share on any other day. We have: LITTLE BAG O' PEARL BUTTONS, TWINE, CHARMS, POT HOLDERS & a few new BUNDLES.
And the LAST free goodie for our 12 Days is our CHRISTMAS ROSE STOCKING pattern. A perfect little addition to this time of year!
For ordering info on the goodies above, CLICK HERE.
Can't believe that the 12 DAYS OF CHRISTMAS SALE is done! It has been so much fun to do this with you and such a fun Christmas tradition to do for the second year.
Tune in tomorrow for a special follow up post!
I know that we just barely made it without having to call it CHRISTMAS IN AUGUST... which just doesn't quite have the same ring to it, don't you think?
But it's still July, so maybe you could just go with it with me?
For those of you who received our newsletter, this is old hat... but we are having a quick little sale on all of our Christmas related patterns... 15% off.
Go to our SHOP, to search for the patterns above you might like.
And the icing on the cake, or the star on top of the Christmas tree, is that every CHRISTMAS IN JULY order will receive a FREE RED, GREEN OR CREAM FAT QUARTER!!
Click HERE for more info on those.
Hope your summer is turning out to be full of wonder!
We thought we would have some fun today and send you some strawberry love. Given our apparent love of all things strawberry around here, we are putting anything strawberry related on sale 20% this weekend.
This includes any pattern that has the word strawberry in it or is made out of our STRAWBERRY FIELDS fabric collection.
Now you have to go to the website and search for the patterns to see what they are. Some are quilts, some are accessory goodies, some are purses... there is even a box cushion in there. Have fun searching!
In addition, we thought we would tie up some strawberry themed bundles for you for the occasion. These are not on sale, but are added into the festivities just for the fun of it. Not a lot of them here so get 'em while you can!
Click here for more info on the Strawberry Bundles.
With ANY STRAWBERRY SALE PURCHASE [that would include the bundle or any of the above mentioned patterns], we will include a STRAWBERRY CAFE pattern in your order free!
Strawberry Cafe has a pattern in it for some fun summer curtains and a matching table topper. How could you possibly resist?