Your guests will LOVE these caramelized bacon knots with black pepper! Low carb, keto, LCHF, and sugar free recipe.
These bacon knots were inspired by a recipe that my friend Gareth made at a party about 20 years ago! I was hosting and he offered to make them – and they were a HUGE success. I remember everyone crowding into the tiny London kitchen to see what the smell was, and the first batch of bacon knots didn’t manage to leave the kitchen – they were so popular!
The original recipe involved brown sugar and cracked black pepper. I’ve switched the brown sugar for a granular sweetener – and it works really well. For the pepper I used a California seasoned pepper blend (the same as in my Tuna Steaks with Wasabi Sauce recipe), but you could always mix up your own with some ground black pepper, onion powder and garlic powder – or just use black pepper on its own.
Mix equal amounts of the pepper blend and sweetener in a small bowl. I used erythritol, but xylitol would be a good alternative. Set aside.
Cut slices of bacon into half, then tie each half intro a knot.
Press the bacon knots into the pepper mixture, turning them over to coat as much as possible. Place the dipped knots onto a baking sheet lined with a wire rack. You can tie and dip the knots in advance if you need to!
Place the bacon knots under a preheated broiler, and cook for about 5-7 minutes on each side, or until cooked to your liking. You might like to make sure your extractor fan is on as they can make quite a bit of smoke!
Let them cool down, blotting them on paper towels to remove excess grease if necessary. Serve immediately – although by this point your guests will have come to you!
The combination of the pepper and sweetener on the bacon is fantastic!!
Cut slices of bacon into half, then tie each half into a knot.
Press the bacon knots into the pepper mixture, turning them over to coat as much as possible. Place the dipped knots onto a baking sheet lined with a wire rack.
These are outrageously delicious! I subbed Penzey’s Florida Seasoned Pepper for the cracked black pepper and that made them perfect!