The physician assistant (PAs) field has been named one of the “Best Jobs in America” according to CNN Money, Glassdoor and the Huffington Post. Also named one of the “Top Paying Jobs” by Forbes, along with the U.S. Department of Labor Statistics reporting that employment for PAs is rising faster than the average occupation through 2022, there is no better time to get your career started in the medical field.
NP PA Recruiters knows how tough it is to find a career in the healthcare industry. We want to help and see you succeed!
Nearly half of all PAs had a higher income from 2014 through 2015 compared to previous years with a slightly higher percentage being optimistic about their future salary for the upcoming year, according to The Clinical Advisor’s 2015 annual salary survey. The average salary amongst all PAs was $105,013. The highest salaries by geographic region were found in the west, with the average being $112,119.
As PAs continue to play an integral role in today’s healthcare industry, demand has steadily increased. Over 11,000 jobs are available on Glassdoor alone and AllHealthCare.com reports that most job openings for PAs are in California, Texas, Florida and New York.
With a great demand and rising salary, PAs are a necessity in today’s healthcare industry. At NP PA Recruiters, our staff of professionals wants to help you find the perfect beginning in the medical field. We are wholly dedicated to identifying, qualifying and delivering healthcare providers for clinics in need. If you would like to learn more, apply online or give us a call at 956.772.1400 or 214.351.3880.
A new survey from the American Association of Nurse Practitioners revealed that nurse practitioners (NPs) entering the workforce in 2015 might have picked the best time to jump in. The survey revealed high pay across the board for NPs along with several benefits.
Nurse practitioners are earning high wages. Let us help you get started in the field.
According to the survey, 22.5% of nurse practitioners are paid at an hourly rate. For an NP at a full-time practice, the hourly pay rate hovered around $53.16. The vast majority of NPs (74.7%) are salaried, with their annual base sitting at around $97,083.
On top of salary, 30.1% of NPs reported incentive and productivity bonuses. Most (41.3%) received bonuses based on practice revenue or profit, while 31.8% reported bonuses based on quality measures and 27.7% received bonuses based on patient satisfaction.
Additional benefits reported in the survey were as follows: 71.9% of employers were reported to offer continuing education reimbursement while others offered 66.7% professional leave to attend conferences or meetings, and 54% of employers covered costs for registration for said conferences and meetings.
Pay for nurse practitioners has risen since 2013 and now is as good a time as ever to join the workforce. Here at NP PA Recruiters, we strive to not just find you a career; we find you the right career. We assign you a consultant that is available 24/7 to help you find your perfect fit. To find out more about how we can help place you in the right position, give us a call or apply online to help get you started.
Healthcare is one of the strongest fields in our economy. It allows nurse practitioners (NPs) and physician assistants (PAs) an overwhelming reason to rejoice. The other reason being that both professions saw an increase in salaries last year.
Full-time salaries increased by more than $5,000 for both fields according to the 2013 National Salary Survey of NPs & PAs, which is an annual survey conducted by ADVANCE for NPs & PAs. Pay scales can also vary depending on market conditions and employers, though information from the salary report is good news for the healthcare industry overall.
These figures represent a major increase from numbers recorded in 2012 when NPs made over $8,000 less than what they earned in 2013. The PA salary increase, which rose by $13,000, was slightly higher over the two-year span.
Last year, the average full-time nurse practitioner earned a salary of $98,817 while the average full-time physician assistant earned $107,268. The results from the survey showed that hourly wages for PAs were the only ones that slightly decreased.
If the overall expectations for NP and PA salaries remain constant, then both are on their way to being extremely financially-rewarding professions in the healthcare industry.
NP PA Recruiters is a full-service healthcare staffing company committed to keeping employers and career seekers informed with up-to-date industry information. Whether you are searching for a new career or are trying to fulfill your staffing needs, our consultants are available to help you achieve your goals.