Listen to the Minister for Housing (Hon Mick de Brenni), the REIQ and Tenants Queensland discuss tenancy law reform issues with ABC’s Emma Griffith. Property standards, rent increases and rent limitations, pets, and property inspections are all covered on Tuesday morning’s FOCUS program.... In Queensland, before a Landlord is entitled to re-enter the Leased Premises, re-take possession and terminate the Lease, the Landlord must generally first serve a Notice to Remedy Breach (“the Notice”) on the Tenant.
You would have to pay rent until a new tenant is found, or until the end of the lease, whichever is the sooner. Unless, of course, your landlord lets you out of the lease, or you are on a periodic agreement.... Listen to the Minister for Housing (Hon Mick de Brenni), the REIQ and Tenants Queensland discuss tenancy law reform issues with ABC’s Emma Griffith. Property standards, rent increases and rent limitations, pets, and property inspections are all covered on Tuesday morning’s FOCUS program.
Leases over state land are issued for a specified purpose (e.g. grazing, agriculture, sporting, tourism, telecommunication), generally for terms of up to 30 years. An annual rent is charged, which is usually calculated at a percentage of the land valuation. You must be over 18 to apply for a lease... In Queensland, before a Landlord is entitled to re-enter the Leased Premises, re-take possession and terminate the Lease, the Landlord must generally first serve a Notice to Remedy Breach (“the Notice”) on the Tenant.
The more you know about terminating a fixed-term lease early, the more likely you’ll be able to break your lease with minimal issue. Be aware of state-specific details on re-letting fees, advertising fees and whatever rent is owing before new tenants can be found.... Back to QLD FAQ You can only attach fixtures or make structural changes to the premises if you have a written agreement with your lessor, agent or provider. Your lessor or provider must not be unreasonable in refusing to let you attach a fixture or make a structural change.
If a lease is for a retail shop, then the Retail Shop Leases Act 1994 applies to the lease.The Retail Shop Leases Act 1994 cannot be contracted out of, and if there is an inconsistency with the terms of the lease and the Act, then the provisions of the Act shall prevail.
29/03/2011 · The term of the lease means you cannot make the tenant move out any earlier unless they agree. Notice can only be provided at the end of the fixed term of the agreement and that it is best to provide more than the normal time to end the fixed term, usually 14 days notice is required, but is really inadequate, so at least 60 days notice under end of fixed term.
Back to QLD FAQ You can only attach fixtures or make structural changes to the premises if you have a written agreement with your lessor, agent or provider. Your lessor or provider must not be unreasonable in refusing to let you attach a fixture or make a structural change.