during our conversation it became apparent Jerome has developed a great approach to the sport, being backed by a good team, coupled with a dynamic fighting style, he is definitely one to watch.
“I started boxing when I was 21, so I started late, I just went to the gym with a friend, I had always watched boxing but never took that much of an interest in it.
After I went to the gym once I got a feel for it, everything about it, the environment, the smell of the gym and from there it has catapulted, it became an obsession, it went from a hobby to a lifestyle.
“I had 35 fights, I won the Haringey box cup, I reached the national finals in 2016, I won London titles twice, so yeah, in the last two years I’ve seen my amateur career take off.
“You know what it is, I am a strong believer in timing, and at the age of 26 I wasn’t going to gain much more from the amateurs, as in it might take me away from what I want to do as a pro.
“So, I’ve got guys at the IQ Boxing Gym in Neasden, North West London, my main coach is Xavier Miller, and my promoter is Steve Goodwin. Me and Xavier get along like a house on fire, as much as I like him as a coach, I also do as a person. We have a good understanding and it’s a great relationship.
“So, like I said, as an amateur I was relying a lot on reflex, movement, counter punching, but not as a pro, I’m going to focus on sitting my weight down, catching shots, returning shots and working the body.
I would love to say I can adapt to any shape or style but I have to be realistic, I would say that I’m a thinking fighter, I can work out people’s fight quite quickly so I can entertain different styles.
“Without trying to sound arrogant or cocky I feel like I’ve got the makings to go all the way, I feel like I’m destined for great things and it’s a matter of time until everyone else starts to believe it.
In 2018 I’m just looking to get the whole experience, and I think if I could get 4 fights this year I would be happy with that, I’m looking to soak up the experience and fight in front of a big hyped up crowd. I’m also sparring 6-8 rounds at the moment so 4 rounds shouldn’t be too bad.
Jerome Campbell makes his debut tonight on Goodwin Boxing’s ‘Venom’ show at the infamous York Hall. Featuring on a strong card, Jerome is bout #6 of the evening. 4 x 3 minute rounds in the lightweight division, sharing the ring with Luke Fash.