At Digital Republik, we're looking for interns who love to ask questions and have an innate curiosity to learn what goes on inside a cutting-edge Digital Agency. As a Digital Marketing Intern, you will not only earn a spot at the Brainstorming table but also get a chance add value to on-going Client engagement & new Client pitches.
Interns in the DIGITERN PROGRAM will experience the real-world application of Digital Marketing, Project Management and Strategy creation through Client Projects and Internal Assignments. You will be exposed to the 'agency life' and understand the digital landscape and Operational Processes.
Ideas that help transform a brand's message.
An Energetic & Creative mind.
A student of life who is ambitious, curious, hard-working & fun.
Hates to be bored, and seeks a real world working experience.
Learn the dynamics of working with a cross-functional team at a fast growingfull-service digital marketing agency.
Conducting Market Research that contributes to the creative strategy of the brands which Digital Republik handles.
I was flattered when the CEO, gave me the opportunity to sit in on a brainstorming session for one of their major clients. Not just that, but he asked for my opinion! This was a true testament to Digital Republik's promise of valuing their interns and I am so grateful.
This experience helped me see the marketing world from a different perspective. All of this was possible only because of my mentors who were there to train me and guide me throughout my internship.
I am really thankful to Digital Republik for giving me the exposure I was looking for. I was amazed to see the kind of hard work that goes into the forming of a digital marketing strategy. I also got to learn a lot about the impact and use of Digital Marketing in the Healthcare Industry.
Digital Republik showed me a new way of thinking and strategy building which has significantly contributed to my professional growth. I am really thankful to everyone at Digital Republik for providing me with a very friendly and vibrant atmosphere to work in.
I enjoyed everyday of my internship period at DR. I learnt a lot about digital marketing. Working closely with the team on various projects made me realize that the power of social media for the brands, irrespective of their sector is much more than I thought.
My experience with DR was really a great one. DR provides an awesome atmosphere for people to work in. I am really thankful to the entire team for helping me during my 2 months internship. I got to learn a lot about Digital Marketing.
My internship experience with Digital Republik hs been very fruitful. It helped me learn about the basics of Digital Marketing, not only in terms of new client acquisition but also client retention. All this will certainly help me in the long run in pursuing my dreams ahead.
Digital Marketing has been on the rise and it'll continue to do so in the upcoming years. Internship at Digital Republik has helped me be a part of such a revolution, gaining the first-hand experience of each and every aspect of Digital Marketing. The team has always been very supportive despite knowing the fact that I had no relevant experience in this field.This has been a huge learning experience for me, certainly the one I'm going to cherish for the rest of my life.
from May to July every year.
from December to March every year.
We're a blend of Creative, Tech & Strategic thinkers, who work in an environment which is always filled with yummy 'khaana' (Food, for those that are not from India), enthusiastic co-workers, refreshing "beverages" and even more refreshing ideas.
Think you have it in you? Ping us!
Become a Part, Apply Now!