Continuing with Day 2 of the Go Further with Ford adventure, BB wasn't just whistlin' La Guantanamera when she said in the last post that this would be a full day. Just look at the schedule below- and try not to wince.
If there was one thing I'd suggest Ford to change, it's that 6 am breakfast call. So does that mean Babushka went without? JU SO FONII!! My Cuban appetite is such a trooper; it ordered a made for BB omelette along with plates of fruit and pastries- and that was before the first cafe.
At 7:15 am Babushka and the rest of the zombies (BB refuses to believe anyone is awake at this time) head to the conference center. Here we have more cafe waiting for us. Viste?? Babushka's not the only one who saw the zombie resemblance.
A las 8:15 a.m., in hopes that we're now awake, we officially start the day and are welcomed by Ford's Executive Chairman.
Bill Ford- William Clay Ford Jr.
Bill is the great-grandson of Henry Ford and Harvey Firestone. Si, THE Ford and Firestone. With that kind of lineage sabes that he's gotta know a thing or two about carros. And he does, mixing tales of the future with anecdotes of the past, he was knowledgeable and entertaining; he did his tatarabuelos proud.
Sheryl's job is finding the pulse behind consumer's wants and then trying to predict what would start that pulse a racing. Being a lawyer, artist, and mother gives her the multi faceted vision to do the job right, and Babushka cheered her speeches and her chutzpah.
If you notice, there were some pretty big names there. In BB's world we'd say it was an all star cast, but you know what? They weren't reciting Shakespeare. No My Beautifuls, they were talking terms and temas Babushka could follow. True, I didn't attend the #FordTech session (not surprisingly it wasn't picked by my test score) but something tells me it would have been the same. Not only did BB's eyes not glaze over as they usually do when they start with car lingo, Babushka was so inspired by the #FordDesign panel that instead of questioning them I thanked them for their contributions- and for keeping it real. What can I say? BB was bursting with Plebian Pride; this was a car conference one could follow, learn, and contribute to.
"The future is already here, it's just not very evenly distributed."
The story is what is being sold. The challenge is figuring how to matter. Do this with a story.
Babushka was writing this post very late and by mistake erased all her pics. Hopefully they're still in my old laptop (which needs to be repaired upon my return to Tallahassee) and I will continue with the tale of the conference. The pics are of the fab "Felicidades Mustang on turning 50!" fiesta, the test drives on Ford vehicles (chills & thrills), and helping a neighborhood garden by driving a new, grande, gorgeous Ford truck with supplies. Oh yes BB did!!
Something Babushka also did; BB also realized that it's not enough to say we'd like to "make a difference". WE are that difference. It doesn't matter your profession, your social status, your monetary situation, ALL of us are part of the greater good. We are part of this global world, and EVERYONE is family. What part of your family history would you like to tell? Where are the stories sharing your passions and beliefs? As shown in past posts, sometimes it takes a major life event to help us find our voice. Have you found your story, your voice?
The S Sisters brought advocacy and global responsibility events to BB, and in the next post I'll share with you My Beautifuls the story they were preparing me to tell.
Labels: family of man, Ford Motor Company, global family, global responsibility, Harvey Firestone, Henry Ford, making a difference, Seth Godin, Sheryl Connelly, storytelling, William Clay Ford Jr.