Gary Slater – President and owner of Slater Flooring & Design – has been in the floor covering business for more than 40 years.
After his discharge from the military in 1970, Gary was hired by a national flooring retailer in Fort Worth. He was quickly encouraged by management to take on the role of hiring staff and opening new stores throughout the south. After several years of this work, Gary was recruited by a local Fort Worth retailer to come to work as a senior sales associate. Five years later, Gary was approached by the area’s largest independent flooring retailer to take a management position with the company.
Gary stayed there for more than 30 years – and took on an ever- increasing set of responsibilities with the company, eventually rising to the position of company Vice President.
In 2006, Gary realized a life-long dream and started his own company – Slater Flooring & Design. His goal was simple – to bring the highest level of service and support to residential and commercial clients. The company has received individual and community recognition for his unique approach, outstanding customer care and is a proud member of the Ft. Worth Better Business Bureau. Joined in the business by his wife, Faye, who provides design expertise and back-office support, the company has expanded to include kitchen and bath remodeling in its portfolio of services.
Thanks for visiting Slater Flooring & Design. We look forward to working with you to realize your design goals.
Recently Slater Flooring & Design did a marvelously meticulous installation of carpeting in several rooms of our home. We could not be more pleased with their work.
Thanks to their expertise, we are very happy with our new flooring, cabinets and remodeled kitchen. Each one worked patiently with us as we changed our minds almost daily. The results were great!
Cheers to Gary Slater for Outstanding service when another company refused to take responsibility for the vinyl flooring it had installed. Gary immediately identified the problem and spent several months working with the manufacturer to get the flooring replaced under warranty.