Start in Tehran and end in Shiraz! With A Classic Iran Tour, you have a 16 day tour package taking you from Tehran to Shiraz and 8 other destinations in Iran. It includes accommodation in a hotel as well as an expert guide, meals, transport and more.
A travel through old Persia as well as the new Iran. Discover magnificent mosques, small mountain villages, and colorful gardens, and take a deeper insight into this ancient land. Some of the world'd most exquisite examples of design and architecture are to be found in Iran, including the magnificent ruins of Persepolis, the dazzling Islamic centers at Isfahan and Shiraz. The rich bazaars and the ancient tradition of hospitality never fail to impress in a country which sees few tourists. Let's start the journey!
Arrival, our guide will transfer you to the hotel for check in.
Exploring the capital of Iran, Tehran. Places we have planned to visit: The former royal Qajar complex, Golestan Palace. National garden Gate, Mashgh Square, National museum, ( Lunch),30 Tir Street and Nature bridge.
Sa’adabad, Tajrish Bazaar and Darband are some other places in Tehran that we will not miss. We have lunch and then set off to Qom city to visit Hoz Soltan Lake and Hazrat Masume Holy shrine. Afterwards we have dinner and go to the hotel for the night.
Today we will visit Salt mountain, Imam Khomeini`s House, Ghajarie House. Then lunch and next we drive to Kashan. There we are going to see Fin Garden and a Traditional Iranian hose called Tatabaeiha.
Today we drive to Abyaneh Village, famous for the culture, clothes and costumes of the people. The architecture of Abyaneh houses beside the red soil has made a very beautifully unique form for the village. After lunch we go to Isfahan and check in the hotel.
The beautiful Safavid capital in 17th century. City of art, architecture, handicrafts and sweets. We start to explore the city by visiting Khaju and Sio Se Pol Bridge over Zayande River. Then Menar Jonban (Shaking Minarets), Vank Cathedral and Atashgah Fire temple.
Naghsh-e jahan Square, Sheikh lotfolah Mosque, Shah mosque Ali Qapu Palace are our today's destination (All in UNESCO World Heritage list). Gheysariyeh gate way would be last place to visit, where you can buy souvenirs.
From Isfahan we set off to a desert called Varzaneh and a village with the same. We have lunch then start hiking on the sand hills. We will visit Ghoortan Castle and in the night we'll gaze at the stars and the sky of the desert.
Driving to Meybod, Narrin Castle, oldest mudbrick structure in Iran. Driving to Kharanagh, believed to be 1,000 years old and you can explore the abandoned structures of this hillside settlement, we have the opportunity valley and nearby mountains and then we drive to Yazd. The desert city of Yazd is known as the center of the Zoroastrian religion . hotel check in.
Welcome to one of the oldest cities in Iran and the center of Zoroastrian community. The places to visit in this city: Jameh Mosque, Fahadan historical city context. In Yazd you have stroll on the narrow lanes that are among the oldest living parts in the world. One unique features of Yazd is the wind towers that are called Badgir in Persian. Then we go to Water museum where you can see how the Qanats (underground water channels) brought water to the city from the mountains for thousands of years. The next would be Amirchakhmagh square.
Fahraj Mosque, Zendan e Sekandar (Alexander custody), historical house, Zoroastrian fire place, Dowlatabad garden, one of the historical Persian gardens with wind tower.
From Yazd we drive to Abarkooh to see the oldest creature in Asia; Abarkooh Cypress. Then we head to Marvdasht for hotel check in.
Today is the time to visit some ancient world's finest monuments: Takhte Jamshid (Persepolis) the heart of Achamenid Empire and ancient Persia built in 518 BC. Then Nasghshe Rostam which is the necropolis of Achamenid Kings. Afterwards we head to Shiraz city and check in a hotel.
City of poetry, philosophy, flowers and nightingales. In this orange-scented city we will visit Haffeziye (Tomb of Hafez a great Persian poet), Sa’adi tomb, Nasir ol Molk Mosque, Narenjestan (a traditional and historical house in Shiraz, dating back to Qajar era). After lunch Agha baba khan school, Eram garden, Shah cheragh shrine the holy Shrine of Ali Ebne Hamzeh (you will visit this shrine from inside). Then we go to the hotel.
Arg e Karim Khan, Vakil complex (Hammam, bazaar, mosque). Then we have lunch and for the last stop in Shiraz we go to Mooshir bazaar.
check out early morning and group transfer to airport for flight back home.