A long time ago I asked my dad a question, which now in reflection, is exactly contradictory to that of Dr. Seuss’s theory presented above, yet I was seeking the answer to which he depicts. The question, “gosh, why can’t I just find someone normal?
To this my dad responded, “What’s normal? You’re not normal so why do you expect to find someone who is? Nobody’s normal.” Touché my dear father – touché. His answer, although spoken with different words, was right in-line with good-old Dr. Seuss.
Seuss’s quote also flashes me back to a reoccurring conversation I have with my sister. When describing to the other someone new who we’ve just met we say “You’d like them – they have our sense of humor. They “get” it.” My sister and I have the same, or mutual sense of humor. Others have it too.
In dissecting this further I realize those who have been closest to me possess our mutually weird sense of humor, or at least understand it. It’s a humor that we usually call, well, warped I guess for lack of better words. Now I’ll call it “weird,” and do so with a smile – thanks Dr. Seuss.
I think we get caught-up in searching for something that doesn’t exist – normalcy.
Nobody’s normal, and everybody’s weird.
What’s normal or humorous to you, or me, is not necessary normal or humorous to someone else, and vice versa. There’s no wrong or right here. Either you gel-together or you don’t.
I now embrace that I’m different or weird and expect everyone to be a little weird. It’s just a question of whether or not their weird is compatible with mine.
Now I completely understand why I get the butterflies (or excited) when getting to know someone who I think is weird like me. It’s that mutually satisfying weirdness feeling. Where we just ‘get’ the other. What he or she is saying, and find similar elements funny.
Meeting people is a lot like shopping TJ Maxx – you have to sift through a lot of options to find something you want to try on, let alone buy. This is true with friends, and definitely in a significant other. It’s worth the time, though. To sift that is. Because at the end of the day, when the dust settles; it’s that weird, or your version of a normal person sitting next to you that you hope to call love – true love.
You may also enjoy my post A Circle Can’t Fit Where a Square Should Be.
Yes! I am lucky to have found my compatible weird mate, but now I just need to find a locally weird bff! There is a LOT of sifting.