Lincoln Park Minute is a go-to life AND style blog for college and 20 something women who want to keep up with the latest trends, learn new things about fashion, and simply lead a happy life.
Launched in January 2015 as a creative outlet for Meghan McAllister, Lincoln Park Minute is quickly growing and ever-changing. It has become a means of creating content that she herself enjoys reading as a young 20 something. Meghan is all about channeling her inner girl boss and getting things done. If you like social media, all things stationary, and fashion magazines, you’ll fit in here.
In the past, Meghan has been featured on other Chicago blogger’s sites and worked with brands like Nexxus Haircare, Warby Parker, and Rent the Runway and continues to breed a social media following. If it sounds like LPM is up your ally, then Meghan would love to connect with you. You can follow her on Instagram, which is easily her favorite thing ever!
If you’re new to LPM, the tabs at the top of the site are a good place to start. Meghan blogs about her personal style, new beauty products or tutorials, career and internship tips, essentials for your bag and more, and features of lovely women she meets herself! You’ll get all of this and more out of reading Lincoln Park Minute, especially some new found love for fashion and yourself.
Though I’ve moved around my whole life (that’s another story for another day but let’s just say I am originally Canadian), I am currently based in Chicago and plan on staying here for a while. I’m also a recent graduate of DePaul University as of June 2017. As of January 2018, I am working as a Social Media Assistant at Zapwater Communications in the West Loop and I absolutely love it!
I started LPM out of a combination of passions for fashion, photography, and writing. Since the beginning, it has become a labor of love that I keep up with whenever I am free to. Literally, whenever I can, I brainstorm blog post ideas, take photos, or write! It’s most definitely what makes me happiest. As for my personal style photographs, you can thank my patient and generous boyfriend Austin for those. Without him, Lincoln Park Minute wouldn’t exist or thrive.
So, one last question, why is Lincoln Park Minute called what it is? Well, DePaul’s main campus is in the neighborhood Lincoln Park right in Chicago. As for the minute, my blog’s name is a play on the phrase “New York minute,” which is a very short period of time. My school’s campus and my hustle like personality are combined and reflected in the naming of LPM.
Now that you know about all things Lincoln Park Minute, get social and follow me on Instagram or Twitter!