The three events below are just a few highlights from an exciting and impressive array of events! Visit the ArtWeek website to get a full list of events in our area and beyond!
This Saturday take a sneak peak of Norman Rockwell’s last, and “best studio yet,” (opened just for ArtWeek!) before it officially debuts to the public. Free with museum admission. Also on Saturday is a journaling workshop for artists and writers with award-winning illustrator Lisa Cyr. Focusing on the development of personal content through journaling and sketching in handmade and custom-altered books, you’ll explore mixed media techniques and creative writing exercises as Ms. Cyr offers an extensive array of possibilities for artists and writers. $35 Program Fee which includes admission to the museum and studio.
At her eponymous gallery in Great Barrington Lauren Clark will be demonstrating the ancient craft of Turkish Paper Marbling. Watching the magic of marbling is a hit with adults and Ms. Clark is a pro—a paper marbler for over 30 years and instructor at nearby IS183 whose work can be found in multiple books by Dover Publications and at art supply and fine art paper stores.
Sculptor Andrew DeVries will be at his gallery in Lenox for a “Meet the Artist” event to share his passion of casting his own sculptures and creating lively colorful pastels. Also enjoy a video portraying a day in his life, illustrating his bronze process and the lost wax method, playing at the gallery.
The Berkshire Community Land Trust has invited Sarah Waring, Executive Director of the Center for an Agricultural Economy (CAE), and Matthew Derr, President of Sterling College and CAE board member, down from Hardwick VT to share their organizations’ visions. Ms. Waring will share her vision of farmers, entrepreneurs, citizens, government and educators working together to effectively build a vibrant local economy that respects the region’s unique landscape. Mr. Derr will speak about Sterling College and their commitment to preparing the next generation of farm/food/agricultural entrepreneurs. $10 or 10 BerkShares.
THE SALISBURY FORUM: WHAT’S NEXT AMERICA?
Veteran journalist Ray Suarez is presenting “Getting Ready for the Next America: The Fight Over Who We’ll Be;” discussing the battle over America’s racial and ethnic future. Mr. Suarez argues “the two elections of Barack Obama may have convinced you the path to majority-minority America was going to go one way. President Trump, nativism and Charlottesville may be a signal that it’s going to be a much more complicated transition.” Mr. Suarez has over 30 years experience in the news business as a reporter for CNN and ABC, a correspondent for the PBS News hour and the host of Talk of the Nation on NPR. A longstanding member of the press corps and critically acclaimed author, Mr. Suarez has had a front row seat for decades and is now offering us a preview for what’s next. Free.
Celebrate Independent Bookstore Day at The Hickory Stick Bookshop with giveaways, refreshments and activities throughout the day including two book signings. Take part in the state-wide celebration by picking up your “passport” (valid ONLY at independent book stores in Connecticut), and, if you get it stamped at 15 of the 20 participating stores, you’ll win $25 gift cards for all 20 shops! Or stick around at Hickory Stick to enjoy meeting the authors of "Dancing Inside", a book of poetry with watercolor illustrations, and Bibi Gaston, author of "Gifford Pinchot and the First Foresters: The Untold Stories of the Brave Men and Women Who Launched the American Conservation Movement." Visit the website for a list and map of participating stores. Free.
Head to the Stagecoach Tavern for their lively Sunday Jazz Brunch—this week a live performance by The Wanda Houston Band. Executive Chef Laurel Barkan whips up a hearty, wholesome and soul-satisfying brunch to accompany the soulful music of the talented Ms. Houston and her quartet. Covering tunes from the 30s through the 70s, expect rhythm, blues, jazz and, of course, a lot of soul.