Plan a trip with Tripura tour packages and get an incredible travel experience in the royal state of Tripura. Explore the most popular tourist attractions in Tripura with our holiday packages. Enjoy the top things to do like sightseeing, boating, wildlife, exploring heritage sites while admiring its amazing landscape.
You will not encounter any problems while searching for accommodations in Tripura. There are various kinds of hotels available in the state, and you can select one depending on your preference. There are government run tourist lodges and guests houses as well as private hotels which offer excellent services and hospitality. You will find 4 star hotels in Tripura as well as 3 star hotels, but in both categories, you can be assured of enjoying your stay.
Tripura is home to grand palaces, monuments and several archaeological sites. The state is also home to an amazing tribal culture. If you want to explore its spirituality, culture and heritage, then you can visit its temples and royal palaces. Among the monuments, the Neermahal Palace and Ujjayanta Palace take you back to the days of its past glory. You can also visit the waterfall and enjoy a boat ride on its lakes. It is as much a spiritual as a historical destination. Unakoti and Pilak are two archaeological sites which draw tourists in large numbers.
There is such lushness in its landscape of Tripura, as if nature had drenched it in a coat of green paint. You can explore the archaeological sites at Unakoti and Pilak, or admire the folk culture of a village. Spend some time by a waterfall or enjoy a boat ride on its lakes. Admire the flora and fauna at the wildlife sanctuaries or explore the rubber and coffee plantations. Visit the temples and the heritage monuments.
In this Tripura travel guide, you will find every kind of information that you are looking for, and which you will find useful, during your trip to one of the most beautiful states of the northeast. Are you thinking of the best time to visit Tripura? What is the best way of reaching it? This travel guide has the answers to all these questions.