We all know how good oats are.
Oats in a jar, oats with nut butter, oat cookies, oats in granola, oats in smoothies and stovetop oats.
This time, I wanted to fluff up my oats. I mean really puff those babies up and give them a big head like they deserve.
Make your oatmeal on the stovetop as usual. I used part milk, water and honey vanilla flavored coffee creamer and McCann’s Steel Cut Irish Oatmeal. Beat 4 egg whites, cream of tartar and cinnamon in a medium bowl on high speed until stiff peaks form. When there is just a little bit of liquid left in your oatmeal on the stovetop, fold in the beaten egg whites and continue to stir while cooking on medium low heat for 3-5 minutes. Keep stirring until oatmeal gets as thick as you like it. Spoon into a bowl and serve!
Add sweetener or vanilla/almond extract if desired to flavor your fluffy oats!
I used part water, part skim milk and part honey vanilla flavored coffee cream liquid as the base for my bowl of oats.
Can you see the egg whites in the oats? Puffed it up alright!
I should have drizzled on some nut butter or something, but this just tasted really good as is!
I have OATMEAL fever. Do you?
I love pomegranates on my oats!
I know there are a ton of toppings to put on a bowl of oats, but if you could only choose 1 thing to put on your oatmeal bowl, what would it be?
This entry was posted in Deliciousness and tagged Egg whites, oatmeal. Bookmark the permalink.
Wow! I never would’ve thought about egg whites in oatmeal. Sounds delicious!
PB definitely my topping of choice.
I like oats but really only eat them on the weekend when I have time to make it on the stovetop. I’ve heard about eggwhites in oatmeal but it kinda skeeves me out when I’ve heard about it. But now I see the visual and yours are gorgeous!
I’m loving the fluff idea!
Is the egg whites taste strong? Or can you not taste them?
I didn’t really taste them!
would have never thought of that! does it taste pretty different from regular oatmeal?
So much better than regular oatmeal!