HENDERSON, NV (Mar. 18, 2019) – Last Friday, Just Add Water Street (JAWS) returns to downtown Henderson to kick off its celebrated chef challenge event and exciting activations for all ages, Friday, Mar. 29. Attendees will enjoy street-side entertainment, food vendors, retail pop-ups, live music and more at the historic Water Street District from 6-10 p.m.
Returning to host this month’s chef challenge event is Season 12 Hell’s Kitchen Victor and Chef Scott Commings. Set on the main stage of the Henderson Pavilion, the chef challenge will consist of two local chefs who will be provided proteins furnished by Mikuni Harvest. They’ll then have to create two plates in less than 45 minutes. The two competitors set to go head-to-head are Scott Pajak, former Food Network “Chopped” champion and chef de cuisine of Lagasse’s Stadium at Palazzo|Venetian, against notable chef Robert Lomeli of Hecho en Vegas at the MGM Grand.
Local foodies and media personalities will bring the heat to the judges’ table as this month’s roster includes Samantha Thomas of KTNV Channel 13 Action News, award-winning journalist and talk show host. She will be joined by Bart Cops, also known as “Camper Chef,” recognized for his unique cooking techniques and recipes all done within the walls of his vintage camper. And lastly, rounding out the judges’ panel is Bruce Sulzberg, 3-dimensional artist, videographer, producer and pop-up chef extraordinaire.
In addition, Last Friday is sponsoring the nonprofit, Serving Our Kids Foundation, with a non-perishable food and water drive. This volunteer-driven organization is dedicated to feeding at-risk and homeless children throughout Clark County. It has served more than 435,000 weekend food bags to children and currently supports 63 Clark County schools by providing weekend food bags.
General admission to the Last Friday, JAWS is free to the public. The community festival begins at 6 p.m., and the live chef challenge kicks off at 7 p.m. Last Friday was founded to resurrect and celebrate the community’s emerging arts footprint. Area sponsors include The City of Henderson and a few of Henderson’s community-driven partners such as the Las Vegas Weekly, Findlay Las Vegas Volkswagen, Lotus Broadcasting, Station Casinos, Rod’s Produce Market, and Mikuni Harvest. To learn more about Serving Our Kids Foundation, visit https://servingourkids.org/. To learn more about the event, visit www.justaddwaterstreet.com for more details.
Incorporated in 1953, Henderson is Nevada’s second largest city with more than 302,000 residents. Henderson is a premier city, nationally recognized for its stunning parks, trails, master-planned communities, outstanding quality of life and patriotic past. Recognized as one of America’s Best Places to Live (MONEY and Liveability.com), one of America’s Best Cities (Business Week), one of the top six safest cities in America (Forbes, InsuranceProviders.com, Law Street Media, Movato.com), and a Bicycle Friendly Community (League of American Bicyclists), Henderson is a progressive and vibrant city committed to maintaining premier amenities and services for all who choose to live, learn, work and play in Henderson… a place to call home.