Expand your clientele, meet and network with potential business partners and make new business contacts.
Learn from seasoned industry experts sharing their knowledge and experience on scaling up productivity, driving profitability and positioning SMEs for sustainability and global Competitiveness.
Reach new markets, improve your corporate identity, showcase and promote your products and services to visitors and buyers.
Explore potential business deals and commercial partnerships with key trade, commerce and investment representatives from around the Country, the USA and the International Community.
Raise brand awareness and generate new business opportunities across multiple market sectors.
Booth prices starts from N50,000 for 2 days. Start Booking Now! Booth prices starts from N50,000 for 2 days. Start Booking Now!
We were privilege to meet with Ebeano Supermarket, Shoppers Delite and Just Rite; we took up from there and today we are on the shelf of these malls. The exhibition showed us the way to do business right and to do it effectively and efficiently. The exhibition also made room for us to meet various investors, who have tremendously been of help to the growth of Hyst Global Business Ltd.
I exhibited at the African Food and Products Exhibition 2018. The Event was a wonderful one and an eye-opener for not just me but for other exhibitors and attendees. From the conference sessions, I acquired knowledge on exportation of goods. The AFPE 2018 was the door opener to my exquisite Zobo Business. I thought to myself that since the Exhibition was for African Food and Products, Zobo is an African drink so I decided to make and sell for the Exhibition. Just like magic, amidst my other products, the zobo made super sales. Now I have a branded Zobo drink.
The AFPE 2018 was great, it was an opportunity to have a firsthand understanding of the challenges facing SMEs, helping us know what products they needed and how they can take advantage of our service offerings. The AFPE 2019 gave us a chance to partner with many of them.
It was an amazing experience, my business was a month old and I didn’t know anyone. It was the first time I got to be in public and I appreciate the opportunity to be exposed. Coming to the exhibition boosted my sales and created awareness for me when people didn’t know me. I have got contacts from the exhibition and they have formed part of my customer base.
Lagos is a commercial hub and it was important for us to share with the market. There has always been a great need to take our products and services to our end users, offering them values and benefits and we achieved that at the African Food & Products Exhibition 2018.