PITTSBURGH, March 6, 2019 – Rawson, an ERIKS company, was recognized as an outstanding supporting company by the International Society of Automation (ISA) Houston Section for 2017 and 2018. The Houston Section serves its members by providing continuous education through their monthly meetings, instruction lead training classes, facilitating a PE Study Group, hosting networking events and furnishing student scholarships for those who are studying to join the automation industry.
Rawson was presented with an award for their leadership efforts in supporting the ISA Houston Section by hosting several technical training sessions, including the Technical Training Camp in June 2017. Rawson provided an excellent facility with top-notch support with food, audio visual, and a focused environment for the students. Rawson actively participates in ISA events like trade shows, cook-offs, and golf tournaments to support the scholarship program.
Since 1954 vast market knowledge, in combination with strong customer service relationships, keeps us on the forefront of our customers’ needs. With an experienced and diverse technical staff, Rawson can aid in product selection as well as product development. Our goal is to partner with our customers to help them develop innovative and sustainable solutions, and cut costs through technology, operations excellence and strong customer focus. We customize to the needs of our customers and vendors through strong, long-term relationships and close collaboration. These long-term relationships help us to establish formalized processes for each customer that lead to documented cost savings. Our value is also evident in the safety programs we offer to our customers. We don’t just respond to emergencies, we create systems to anticipate and eliminate them. For more information, please visit www.RawsonLP.com.
ERIKS (www.ERIKS.com) has been a leading international industrial service provider since 1940. ERIKS North America offers a wide range of innovative, high-quality mechanical engineering components and associated technical and logistical services from 140 locations across the United States, Canada, and Mexico. We provide the highest quality product standards in the industry, along with the peace of mind knowing that our products and fabrication are consistent, location-to-location, across our extensive footprint. From agriculture to power generation and from oil and gas to food and beverage, ERIKS North America provides a local presence and infinite possibilities, backed by ERIKS’ worldwide network of resources and know-how with over 300 locations in 20 countries. For more information, please visit www.ERIKSNA.com.
The Houston Section is the largest ISA section in the world with approximately 1,100 members. Chartered on March 16th, 1948, we are also one of the oldest! The Houston Section has been the Host Section for many ISA annual events and participates closely with our subsections, ISA Houston Analysis and ISA Pipeline, to provide ongoing education and information to anyone interested in the Automation Industry.
International Society of Automation is the leading nonprofit global organization that is setting the standard for automation by helping its over 30,000 worldwide members and other professionals solve difficult technical problems while enhancing their leadership and personal career capabilities.