Sydney's bestest Hot Cross Buns are coming back soon.
Vegan friendly chocolate cupcakes with not-buttercream rosettas on top. Available all stores.
Perfect for morning or afternoon tea, this playful cake is a crowd-pleaser when visiting or for work parties. A dense but soft and fudgy chocolate cake, glazed with cocoa syrup and then decorated with caramelised salted popcorn and freeze-dried raspberries. This cake is vegan – it contains no animal products.
Hundreds of layers of buttery puff pastry, coated in cinnamon sugar and baked until crisp and caramelised. The palmier is traditionally shaped as a palm leaf or an elephant’s ear, we like to think ours is like the Lorenz Butterfly typically used to explain chaos theory.
Inspired by native Australian lemon myrtle and angel cake, the BlackStar chiffon cake is a light and fluffy sponge cake scented with lemon myrtle, fresh lemon and coated in a light buttercream icing and toasted coconut.
Our frangipane tart has become a picnic and lunch party favourite. A sweet base with a crust of crushed pistachios filled with frangipane, seasonal fruit of plum, apricots or pear, with a sweet glaze.
A BlackStar classic. Choux pastry filled with Valrhona chocolate creme and coated in shiny chocolate glaze.
Our flans pay to homage from the Portuguese pastel de nata. A flat pastry cup filled with vanilla custard and baked at a high temperature to caramelise the top.
The staple of any sensible diet, our croissants are made with locally made cultured butter from Pepe Saya.
A spiral of flaky pastry, cinnamon, chocolate and frangipane paste.
Gingerbread men trained in the ancient art of ninjutsu. They sometimes wears a costume of dark chocolate. They like to dress up for special occasions like Halloween and Mardi Gras.
The perfect winter warmer, our bread and butter pudding is made from croissant pieces, studded with rum-soaked raisins with a marmalade glaze. Rich, buttery, and served with a vanilla bean creme anglaise.
Pepe Saya croissant pastry filled with vanilla creme patissiere and seasonal fillings such as mixed berries, rhubarb, apricot, apple, peach and mangoes.
Buttery pastry twisted into a knot brushed with a boozy marmalade glaze and scattered with flaked almonds. Sticky and delicious.