Many favour Marangu route because it is the cheapest route to the mountain due to few numbers of days during climbing. Marangu route has been referred to as a Coca-cola route because there is no any challenge physical feature which might bring any difficult during climbing only the altitude can be a challenge on this route due to the few numbers of days for acclimatization but it is the only route which you have your accommodation in the Huts but only when you book in advance.
On our last day, we have a long trek mostly downhill through the tropical rainforest. Once at the park headquarters at Marangu gate, we collect our summit certificates. A vehicle will meet us here and drive us back to your hotel in Moshi/Arusha.
Your trekking company is able to pick you up from the airport and bring your to your hotel in Moshi, if needed. A transfer back to the airport can also be arranged.
The transport from Moshi to the gate of Kilimanjaro National Park is taken care off. This also applies to the way back.
Unless you are doing the Marangu Route, you’re staying in our strong and well maintained four season mountain tents. Every time you arrive at your camp the tent has already been set up.
On the Marangu Route you will be provided with a bed in one of the huts on the way to Uhuru Peak. There are 60 bunk beds each at Mandara and Kibo Huts, and 120 bunk beds at Horombo Hut.
Double layered mats provided by your trekking company will put you to sleep in no time.
Breakfast, lunch and dinner are prepared during the trek. Your trekking company is bringing their own cook. Don’t be surprised when you see an exclusive three course dinner on your plate.
During the trek you won’t have a shortage on drinking water.
Don’t expect an extensive shower, but there will be the possibility to use hot water for a decent wash.
The guides carry an altitude sickness kit to monitor your pulse rate, oxygen saturation and heart rate twice a day (very useful for monitoring the symptoms of altitude sickness (AMS) at altitude). Also emergency portable oxygen is carried along. On top of that the guides are qualified Wilderness First Responders.
The fees for the Kilimanjaro Rescue Team are covered. This is managed by KINAPA, Kilimanjaro National Parks. Interesting fact: Kinapa means “We carry each other” in Swahili.
The park entry fees, the crater fee, camping fee and value added tax are included in the price.
Per person you generally have a team of 1 guide, 1 cook and 3 porters who will support you in your climb. If you are part of a group of four, you will be able to enjoy 2 guides, 1 cook and 12 porters. Although there will always be enough hands on deck, the exact amount of support staff varies per trekking company.
Visas are required for all visitors, and cost about $50. For most nationalities it is possible to get a visa upon arrival when you arrive at the airport in Tanzania. Check with your local Tanzanian embassy or consulate to see what the requirements are.
The total amount is also exclusive of flights to and from Tanzania. To get an idea of which airlines are visiting Kilimanjaro International Airport (KIA), it is best to have a look at their website.
Your international travel insurance is your own responsibility. It is important that your travel insurance also covers adventures at a high altitude. Discuss your itinerary with the insurance company before you travel to Tanzania.
Tips for guides and porters are exclusive. You decide what you want to tip, but be generous and read our blog post about tipping when you are planning go trekking in Tanzania.
Whether you stay in Moshi, Arusha or anywhere else, before and after the trek you have to take care of your own accommodation and meals.
While the intention is to stick to the described route, a certain degree of flexibility is built in. In some cases it may be necessary to change the route here and there. The mountains are full of surprises, and the weather on Mount Kilimanjaro is unpredictable. The guides continuously carry out risk assessments throughout the expedition. It is therefore best to plan a number of extra days in Tanzania to cover for possible unforeseen circumstances. Read all about altitude sickness here.
Unless you are choosing the Marangu Route, you will be staying in durable tents that are equipped for all weather situations. A few porters will always trek ahead of you to make sure that your tent is ready when you arrive. There will also be tables and chairs. Accommodation comes with freshly prepared meals. Every campsite has a long drop toilet. Along the trek you can find your private space behind a rock. Read all about camping on the Kilimanjaro here.
Do you reach Uhuru Peak or not? There is a chance that you won’t. Often this depends on the unpredictable weather on the mountain. However, it can also depend on your own physical condition.
Do you enjoy hiking, have you gone trekking at higher altitudes and do you exercise twice a week on average? With a little extra training, you are soon fit to challenge Mount Kilimanjaro.
Is this the first time that you are trekking at altitude? Make sure you are well prepared. This is important for your safety, but also for that of your team. Make sure you start six months in advance with an hour’s walk or hike twice a week. Read this blog post and get fit for your Kilimanjaro ascent.
Trekking in Kilimanjaro requires decent gear. Especially the basics like an 80-90l backpack and quality trekking socks. Also make sure to check our ultimate packing list for trekking Kilimanjaro.
– Duffel bag, (waterproof recommended) for porters to carry your equipment.
Because Mount Kilimanjaro covers a relatively large surface area and a lot of elevation, the mountain has more or less its own climate. Responsible for the weather patterns around Mount Kilimanjaro are trade winds that bring along moist from the Indian Ocean. Because of these trade winds, the months of March, April, May and November are the wettest. The southern mountain slopes are especially rainy in these months. From January to March there is a greater chance to see snow on and around the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro. This can be experienced as negative, but it will any case be much quieter on the trails. Although these are the coldest months, snowfall and cold temperatures can be expected from December to May. The most suitable and most popular season for climbing Kilimanjaro is from June to October. In these months you can choose any route without having to worry about rain too much. If you want a comfortable route during the rainy season, you best choose the Rongai Route, approaching Kilimanjaro from the North. Due to the differences in altitude and the associated climate zones, it is difficult to estimate the temperatures.
Trekking on Kilimanjaro is hard, both for yourself and your support staff. Per person you have a team who will support you in climbing Mount Kilimanjaro. This team usually consists of a guide, three porters and a cook. This way you don’t have to carry your full gear yourself. The guide speaks English and usually the rest of the team speaks English as well. You can make things more interesting by learning a few words of Swahili in advance.
Bookatrekking.com strives to only work with providers who treat porters in a fair manner. Without porters, there is no trekking on Kilimanjaro. They are the heart and soul of your adventure and every day, they carry part of your gear. Bookatrekking.com always tries to find a balance between an affordable trekking adventure and the fair treatment of porters. Read everything about porters on Kilimanjaro here.
It is impossible to climb the Mount Kilimanjaro solo. This means that every climber has his or her own team. Both the guide, the assistant guide, the porter and the cook expect a tip. For the whole trek, this sums up to an amount ranging from USD 330 to USD 450. This is per climber, which means that the amount will not be smaller if the group is larger. Be generous. Read our extensive blog about tipping on Mount Kilimanjaro.
The currency of Tanzania is the Shilling. We recommend you bring US dollars or Euros to cover the costs of your visa, extra travel, and other. It is easiest to travel in Tanzania with US dollars, but credit cards are also accepted in most places. Before you travel, check with your bank whether your credit or debit card can also be used in Tanzania.
Visa are required for all visitors, and cost about $50. It is possible to get a visa-on arrival when you arrive at the airport in Tanzania. Look here at the website of the embassy for arranging your visa.
Tanzania is an area where yellow fever occurs and therefore we recommend you to be vaccinated. We also recommend that you have all other vaccinations such as Tetanus, Diphtheria, Polio and Hepatitis A & B up to date. Malaria is present in Tanzania but there are no mosquitoes at high altitude. Always consult your health professional 90 days ahead of departure.
Huts but only when you book in advance.