We have used this company a few times which is why we continued to stay with them. This job was a 2 step job. We needed new weather strips on the garage door and outbuilding door. Nick identified a problem with the outbuilding door, the wood was rotted and the upper jamb had to be replaced with new wood before the weather strips could be installed. After the wood was replaced, Aurielio came out and completed the installation of the outbuilding weather stripping. Both Technicians were very polite, professional, and did an outstanding job. Again, as evidence of the quality service we receive from these guys, we will continue to stay with this company.
Brenda & Mike E., we are thrilled to know you are a satisfied Precision Door Service customer. Thank you for the feedback, and the positive comments regarding your experience.
Your tech in sales and the technician who came out and couldn't have performed any better. 5 Stars to all involved. One more time your service tech was the BEST.
Mr. Ray, thank you for sharing your positive experience. We appreciate you choosing Precision Door Service. We are thrilled that we were able to exceed your expectations.
Really Great company. Quick response even though I wasn't in a hurry. Nick was at my door within one hour. Great job. Honest opinions. This company is top notch. I highly recommend them for any garage door service.
Jim & Kathy Tucciarone, thank you for the review, and we appreciate the recommendation!
Paul was very informative. I wish I would of done business with you before. Thank you so much. Semper Fi.
John Saringer, thank you for choosing Precision Door Service, and taking the time to share feedback on your experience.
What a pleasant experience, dealing with Precision and the technician who installed my garage door. (Tim). He was very knowledgeable, polite, and explained every thing he did. No questions were left unanswered. I would highly recommend this company, and Tim.
Jean Hazek, thank you for the review, and we appreciate the recommendation!
Matthew Marconi, thank you for sharing your positive experience. Precision Door Service’s goal is not only to fix your garage door right, but to provide exceptional customer service.