Decorist couldn't wait to get their hands on our images too!
Natalia Foto Published in Boston Home Magazine!!!
Back to work today with one of my first clients back when I first we started out, @circlefurniture !! Great way to start back to work. Thanks for getting this twin momma out!
Loving taking time off work to raise our girls!!
I love my best friend @karee487 !! Always thinking of others. Love my get well gifts 🕊🙏🏻so blessed.
We love showcasing designers in their space!
Read up some more about this amazing kitchen I recently blogged about. Get more insider tips from Cecilia Casagrande Interiors!!
If you have not heard of Boston Home Magazine I suggest you run out and get a copy now!!! Also a big reason why is because we just got published in the magazine! It is my favorite local magazine as it only publishes local high-end designer homes. Even just the quality of the magazine is amazing, the thickness of pages and the color! It is chock full of wonderful photography and great articles with little to no advertisements. A real great read! You can always find articles online but I find online distracting with all the advertisements popping up. There is something special about curling up with an artsy quality magazine and a cup of tea for inspiration on a Saturday morning! I also am a big advocate for printing photographs.
I teamed up with Cecilia Casagrande Interiors to photograph her kitchen showroom. These photos may wow you but if you could only step into her kitchen you may just fall over. I wanted to skip and dance for joy when I first met Cecilia the first time for tea in her gorgeous kitchen. And let me tell you this kitchen gets a lot of use with her young boys and her amazing cooking skills I had the benefit of enjoying during our shoots! If you haven’t heard of her yet she is a rising star, she aleady was published once before in Boston Home Magazine in their Summer 2016 issue. http://www.ceciliacasagrande.com/press/ Not bad for your first year in business!!
If you haven't heard of Cecilia Casagrande yet, you will soon! The up and coming interior designer is amazing and I have been fortunately enough to photograph her work. She is focused and has an attention to detail I have never witnessed. Not only is she a fabulous designer but also amazing at styling which is always helpful for a photographer!
If you are looking for a fresh look for your home you must visit Cecilia's Brookline, MA home which showcases her amazing design. When we first met for tea to get to know each other and as I walked through her front doors I felt giddy and delighted as her home whisped me off my feet!!!
She is currently working on my new home. Being a creative person I usually am able to do this myself but with a busy work schedule and a fresh canvas home I thought I should call in a professional. She really helped me develop and perfect my personal style and what is truly was truly important to me. What pieces were visually inspiring and had a special story got me excited! She is amazingly creative and also amazingly organized keeping us on task and focused through the design process.
I'll be posting some before and after photos on the blog as our design journey continues here at Natalia Foto! For now check out our amazing mood board!
Follow Cecilia at her website or on instagram!!