All applicants are required to have Criminal Records Bureau (CRB) checks prior to taking up employment.
Although many educational welfare officers have degrees, requirements vary between employers. There are no set minimum entry requirements in England and Wales, but entry with no qualifications is unlikely.
Some authorities now require a degree in social work. Applicants with a qualification in social work, youth and community work, or similar qualifications, may be offered higher starting salaries. In Northern Ireland, all new entrants must now hold a social work qualification.
Initial training for new staff covers areas such as child protection, personal safety, equal opportunities, and offers an introduction to working with other agencies involved with young people.
Further training depends on the qualifications people have. Many education welfare officers are encouraged to do a degree or postgraduate course in social work after entry. The other alternative in England and Wales is an NVQ Level 3 or (for most officers) Level 4 in Learning, Development and Support Services for Children, Young People and Those who Care for Them.
A three-year degree or a two-year postgraduate course in social work is available at several universities, with some part-time options. Degree courses usually require a minimum of two A levels/three H grades and five GCSE's/S grades (A-C/1-3), including English and maths. In Northern Ireland, three A levels/five H grades are required for social work degrees. Equivalent qualifications may be accepted.
Previous experience of work with young people is useful and often required by employers. It is possible to gain experience through voluntary or paid work - through Community Service Volunteers (CSV), youth work, counselling, social care, classroom support, mentoring, or crisis support centres.
There are about 4,500 education welfare officers employed in England and Wales, with a further 150 in Northern Ireland. Demand for education welfare officers is steady, but competition for jobs is stronger in some parts of the UK than others.
It is possible to specialise in areas such as working with children who have special educational needs, with children of primary school age, or in re-integrating children into mainstream education.
Promotion is possible to more senior posts, such as team leader, manager or senior and principal education welfare officer. It may be necessary to change employers to gain promotion.
Education welfare officers may move into related areas of work, such as youth work, social services, Connexions, the probation service or educational psychology.
Build trusting relationships with pupils and their parents and carers.
Know how to support vulnerable young people.
Have maturity, determination and a steady temperament.
Listen sensitively to people's problems and be able to deal with them in a sympathetic, tactful and non-judgemental way.
Appreciate the value of education.
Keep up to date with new laws and keep accurate records.
Be able to analyse problems.
Be prepared to give evidence in magistrates' and family proceedings' courts.