The soil beneath your feet is your most precious resource in the garden: look after it, and your plants thrive. There's a huge range of bagged composts, soil improvers and fertilisers in our garden centre in Kington to keep container plants happy and your soil in tip-top health.
Multipurpose compost is perfect for container-grown bedding, cuttings and potting on. In our garden centre you'll find environmentally-friendly peat-free and peat-reduced composts, and composts with added fertiliser and water-retaining gels - great for thirsty hanging baskets.
Specialist composts are tailor-made for the needs of plants from citrus to roses. You'll also find soil-based composts in our garden centre for permanent container planting, ericaceous composts for lime-hating plants and fine-grade seed composts for sowing.
Soil improvers like farmyard manure and composted bark beef up poorer soils to keep plants growing strongly. Mix with your soil when planting and use to mulch the surface to suppress weeds and hold in moisture.
Fertilisers include liquid feeds such as liquid seaweed and tomato feed to encourage flowering and fruiting. Add slow-release fertilisers such as bonemeal to planting holes and mix granular feeds into potting composts for feed-and-go convenience.
Please ask the staff in our Kington garden centre for more information and advice about composts and fertilisers.
Welcome to our registration page. Enter your details here and click the submit button and you will soon be joining many of our other garden centre visitors who regularly enjoy the benefit of receiving the latest amazing deals on offer, directly to their e-mail.
We will send our exclusive e-mail vouchers to you normally every two weeks, so keep an eye out and remember to check your e-mails on a regular basis otherwise, you'll be missing out on the chance to save money on some of your favourite garden centre products. You will also receive information about events and news related to the garden centre.
Just to be sure, we won’t sell your e-mail address to anyone else, do comply to the Data Protection Act and will store your e-mail address in a secured database.