If you already have an account please click here to login. If you have an account with our sister site Aston Workwear, you can login using those details.
Please enter a password below, your password should be easy for you to remember but difficult for other people to guess. Your password must be at least 6 characters long.
All contracts of sale made by Aston Pharma whether made by post, telephone or via electronic order on our website shall be deemed to incorporate these terms and conditions, which shall prevail over any other terms with any party ("the Customer") with whom Aston Pharma is dealing.
Goods and services, together with VAT, are invoiced in pounds sterling, at the price prevailing at time of order (unless a VAT exemption is applicable). Aston Pharma reserves the right to modify the prices from time to time without prior notice. Account facilities for Customers are available subject to conditions (see payment options).
• Standard delivery time is 3-5 working days.
• Orders placed after 3pm will be processed the following day.
• A standard delivery charge of £8.95 is applicable to all orders under £150.00 (ex VAT).
• Free delivery for all orders over £150 (ex VAT) to UK and Northern Ireland.
Any time or date stated for delivery is an estimate only. Aston Pharma makes every effort to dispatch goods on time but does not accept liability for failure to deliver within the stated time.
Aston Pharma does not accept liability for shortages or damage to deliveries unless the customer notifies us in writing within five working days of receipt.
The customer has to accept the goods when they are ready for delivery; delivery is deemed to take place when the goods are delivered to the customer's nominated address, whereupon the risks of loss, breakage and all damage shall pass to the customer.
A POD (Proof of Delivery) must be requested within two months from invoice date.
Upon taking delivery of the order please ensure that the order is checked for damages and shortages before signing for the consignment, all damages or shortages must be notified to the courier and noted on the delivery note before signing. With parcel deliveries please check that you sign for the number of parcels that have been delivered. Upon signing for the consignment the risk of damages and shortages passes to you the customer.
Couriers are contracted to deliver to your reception point.
If your order has not arrived within 3 to 5 working days of your expected delivery date it is recommended that you notify us so that we can investigate. Missing orders must be notified to Aston Pharma within 10 working days from the date of invoice, Aston Pharma do not accept liability for missing orders notified after this time.
Customer payment options: An account facility is available for business and professional establishments where payment is due 7 days from the date of invoice. We accept PAYPAL payments using MasterCard, Visa, American Express, Switch and JCB. For orders placed via the email/web site and phone will require pre payment via PayPal. All PayPal payments will be subject to a 3.5% charge.
Failure to comply with the stated payment terms may result in an "Account Facility" being withdrawn.
If payment is not made on time, Aston Pharma may charge interest daily on the outstanding balance at 2.5% above the Bank base lending rate calculated on a daily basis.
Aston Pharma makes every effort to supply products or goods as advertised but reserves the right to vary actual dimensions, specifications and quantities without prior notice.
In the event that Aston Pharma cannot supply the goods ordered by the Customer, Aston Pharma reserves the right to supply goods of equal or superior quality at no extra cost.
Customers are required to notify Aston Pharma of their intention to return faulty, incorrect or unwanted goods for refund, credit or replacement within 10 working days from date of delivery. Claims against equipment carrying a warranty can be made up until the warranty expires.
You have 30 days from receipt of order to return unwanted goods for a refund, special orders such as Sutures are non refundable or returnable.
All returns must be arranged and authorized by Aston Pharma, goods returned Aston Pharma’s authorization will not be processed.
Customers are required to return goods through their own courier at their own expense however Aston Pharma accepts no responsibility for damages or loss.
Refunds and credit will only be issued once the goods have been returned to us and have been checked to ensure the conditions have been met. Refunds and credits can take up to 10 working days to be applied from the date of the goods being collected.
On receipt of the returned faulty goods we will test the product/s to identify the fault which has been notified. If following the testing process the product is found to be without defect, we will return the goods to you. You will be liable for a re-delivery charge and a collection charge if the original collection of the goods was organised through our authorized courier.
Goods found to be faulty will be refunded or credited.
Goods must be returned in their original condition and packaging, customers will be liable for the cost of the goods if they are not returned in this condition.
We reserve the right to charge a reasonable restocking charge.
Clearance lines, single use products and workwear garments that have been personalised with embroidery or heat-seal are non-returnable.
Products bought in as specials upon request are non-returnable.
You are only entitled to cancel the contract if when we receive the products they are in the exact condition in which they were delivered to you.
If you cancel the contract you must return the products to us at your own cost within  days of delivery. If you do not return them to us within such period, then we are entitled to take such steps as are necessary to recover the products from you and charge you for the costs of such recovery. For your protection, we recommend that you use a recorded-delivery type of service.
Tick this box if you would like to join our mailing list and subscribe to receive our latest offers by email. You can opt-out at anytime and we will never share your details with any other companies.
Tick this box to confirm that have read and accept the terms and conditions.