Italian: patronymic or plural form of Morello.
Where is the Morelli family from?
You can see how Morelli families moved over time by selecting different census years. The Morelli family name was found in the USA, the UK, Canada, and Scotland between 1880 and 1920. The most Morelli families were found in the USA in 1920. In 1891 there were 4 Morelli families living in London. This was about 44% of all the recorded Morelli's in the UK. London had the highest population of Morelli families in 1891.
Use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Morelli surname lived. Within census records, you can often find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, and occupations.
What did your Morelli ancestors do for a living?
In 1881, Artist Connected With Periodical Literature, Comedian and Draughtsman & Photographer were the top 3 reported jobs worked by Morelli. A less common occupation for the Morelli family was Fret Cutter (Wood Cutter). The most common Morelli occupation in the UK was Artist Connected With Periodical Literature. 14% of Morelli's were Artist Connected With Periodical Literatures.
Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Morelli ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestor's social and economic status.
What Morelli family records will you find?
There are 3,000 census records available for the last name Morelli. Like a window into their day-to-day life, Morelli census records can tell you where and how your ancestors worked, their level of education, veteran status, and more.
There are 642 immigration records available for the last name Morelli. Passenger lists are your ticket to knowing when your ancestors arrived in the UK, and how they made the journey - from the ship name to ports of arrival and departure.
There are 1,000 military records available for the last name Morelli. For the veterans among your Morelli ancestors, military collections provide insights into where and when they served, and even physical descriptions.
You've only scratched the surface of Morelli family history.
What is the average Morelli lifespan?
Between 1951 and 2004, in the United States, Morelli life expectancy was at its lowest point in 1951, and highest in 2002. The average life expectancy for Morelli in 1951 was 28, and 78 in 2004.
An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your Morelli ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.