How to choose an interesting and creative wedding cake topper?
Nowadays, there is such a vast range of beautiful miniaturized figurines and replicas of romancing couples available in the market that you would be mesmerized. These collectibles also include wedding cake toppers for bride and groom. These cake toppers are so beautiful and cute that you would love to make it a part of your guestbook table, or keep it in your drawing room. You can also gift these to your loved ones.
These silent figurines, which showcase romancing couples, interlocking hearts, birds, wedding rings, girls in bridal dresses, dancing couples, and couples performing love on the hood of a car, are simply amazing. These cake toppers not only have a great aesthetic appeal, but also provide a perfect finish to the wedding cakes. They come in all sizes, colors and varieties, so as to fit on all types of wedding cakes.
If you want to buy cake toppers, make sure that these are of top quality. These porcelain wonders should have a lead free paint to begin with. They should be perfectly crafted to give it a real-life look. Furthermore, make sure attention to details is provided, as these are collectibles and people love to keep it. Some of the wedding accessory suppliers do not pay attention to details. Refer to the website of the store, and choose from a wide variety of cake toppers. A high priority return policy is also an indication that the supplier is committed towards customer service and quality.
For those, who think that most of the wedding toppers are similar, here are a few tips to anniversary cake toppers that are sure to excite you. Don't go for the traditional "arm in arm" or "bride and groom exchanging kisses" positions. Imagine a real-life situation, which would excite you. It might be related to your past events, a memorable journey, your ambition, your favorite outfit, or your favorite activity. You can also get the bride and groom dressed like Indians or Australian aborigines. Adding the element of fun to your cake topper would make it more interesting and original.
A professional cake designer can create an endless variety of wedding cake toppers. You can use different materials such as glass, crystal or porcelain to make them. Most of the people love to keep them as wedding day souvenirs in their drawing rooms.