SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School is committed to developing a strong foundation based upon academic excellence, Catholic faith ministry, moral development, and social and emotional growth. We endeavor to prepare responsible, life-long learners who will proclaim their Christian witness by contributing to the well-being of society. SSPP follows the Diocese of Rockford curriculum which exceeds both state and national standards. Students receive a quality education in the subject areas of Religion, Reading, Language Arts, Math, Science, Social Studies, Technology, STEM, Spanish, Music, PE, and Art. SSPP strives to achieve academic excellence through its robust curriculum which both imparts knowledge and provides productive learning experiences for all students. For students with special gifts and needs, a rigorous curriculum and support staff allows the teachers the ability to differentiate educational material to meet the learning needs of all students.
The foundation of an education at SS. Peter & Paul Catholic School is centered on Christian values. Our Catholic faith is integrated into everything we do. An environment of Christian caring and concern permeates each classroom. SSPP provides a faith-based environment that stresses service to others, spiritual growth and moral decision making.
At SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School, religious instruction is not merely another classroom subject, it's a way of life. Our students are instructed in the teachings, traditions, prayers, and values of the Catholic Church and participate in daily classroom prayer and weekly liturgy. Second grade students receive preparation for the Sacraments of First Communion and Reconciliation.
SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School prepares students to become responsible citizens through the Church's social teaching and by transforming them to see God in those they serve as well as in themselves. Students are encouraged throughout the school year to participate in service projects including Feeding God's Children, clothing and food drives, letters to the military, Operation Rice Bowl, St. Jude's Mathathon, and many more.
SS. Peter and Paul Catholic School recognizes the important role that technology plays in the lives of our students, and is committed to providing our students with essential 21st Century technology skills. The technology curriculum fosters the development of skills that encourage personal productivity, creativity, critical thinking, collaboration, and digital citizenship in the classroom and in daily life. Technology begins in PK and is readily available and accessible in each classroom for the learning task at hand. Multiple platforms and devices are utilized to ensure that our students become fluent in many of the devices and software they will encounter in high school and beyond.