Are you overloaded with work and don't have time to get everything done that you need to?
Is your HR team continually under-resourced?
Are you spending too much of your time on non-productive HR operational issues and putting out fires?
Are you frustrated that the line managers don't follow your HR systems and don't contact you before an HR issue explodes?
Is your budget tight and therefore not allowing you to recruit new staff?
Give your line managers access to the Wentworth Advantage HR Help Desk Service. Outsourcing the line manager's routine, day-to-day HR & staffing issues to the HR Help Desk, releases your in-house HR team to perform a more strategic, value-added role. This strategic alignment between your HR function and the HR Help Desk ensures that line managers have the HR tools, information and expert advice they need to better lead their staff and manage employment legal risk.
Your line managers call the HR Help Desk and speak with one of our degree qualified HR specialists whenever they have an HR or WHS issue. Answered in your organisation name, they will receive sensible, no-nonsense advice & support consistent with your existing HR Policies & Procedures.
We keep your line managers up-to-date with the latest HR trends and workplace issues by presenting a series of contemporary online HR presentations, seminars & webinars. In addition, we write articles for your company newsletters on a broad range of HR and employment related topics. Your line managers will also receive the latest employment legislation & awards updates.
Although we run the service, your line managers hear your company name when calling. It's your service. To meet your exacting standards, we carefully develop Service Delivery & Protocol Standards.
Secondly, we have Help Desk reporting software that allows us to feedback your utilisation levels and a broad array of other relevant and important data.
Secure the benefits of a new, fully branded line manager service without the need for any capital investment or risk.
Leave all day-to-day HR operational issues with the HR Help Desk, thus freeing up the in-house HR team to focus on the important strategic issues and projects that they need to find the time for.
Achieve peace of mind and significantly reduce your exposure to a Fair Work Ombudsman payroll audit or a WHS audit from your state/territory statutory authority. Avoid heavy penalties, fines, injunctions & criminal and civil court proceedings for non-compliance.
Rest easy knowing that our service is seamlessly aligned to one of Australia's largest legal specialists - Dentons.
Watch this video to see how our service is giving accurate support and advice to line managers and freeing up the HR team to do strategic work..
Watch this video to see how our service is helping this HR Manager to manage the HR issues in the corporate head office, 3 factories and 7 distribution centres across the country..