MovingHow to Sell Your House – FAST!
Selling a house is an incredibly stressful and expensive business!
Estate agents valuations – too high because they are greedy, or stupidly low because they need a higher turnover of property and want the commission fast. People traipsing through your home, making silly offers. Buyers making offers then backing out at the last minute. Buyers saying how great your house is and getting your hopes up, but either they put in a silly low offer, or don’t bother putting in an offer at all. Then there are the ones that try and get a reduction in price just before completion.
Note I am saying house & not home. This is because when you decide to sell your house, you need to stop looking it as your home and start looking at it as a house you want someone else to buy.
Too many people make the mistake of saying ‘well if they don’t like my bright purple walls, that’s their problem!’ Actually it’s YOUR problem if you want your buyer to be able to imagine themselves in this house because they won’t be able to do this if the colours are too bright. Also, bear in mind, people don’t want to come into a house & see themselves having to decorate straight away.
If you really can’t be bothered to change things to make your house appeal to others, your house could still sell fast, but you will have to be prepared to accept a lower offer. But there really is no excuse as there are an awful lot of really simple things (often cost free) you can do to tidy up a house and sell it quickly.
Tidy up the front garden and the approach to the house – first impressions count!
Clear all clutter, and this includes kids toys, trinkets, your collection of cute hedgehogs. Clutter can make a room look very small as well as messy, so make sure all surfaces are clear, including the floor.
De-personalise by removing almost all photographs, people need to be able to imagine themselves in your house.
Try and colour co-ordinate a little, if you have a green sofa and a pink fluffy rug, remove the rug (and anything with colours that clash).
Clean and then clean again and if you have time, clean a bit more! The two most important rooms are the kitchen and bathroom, so both need to be spotlessly clean. If you can make your bathroom look as unused as possible then so much the better.
People like to see rooms with a clearly defined purpose, so if you have a study that is a childs playroom containing a dining table and a television, decide what the room actually is and remove anything that causes conflict.