Please try to schedule any personal appointments after camp time.
We cannot guarantee that friends will be in the same group. Request must be submitted upon registration with email to vlenyk@randolphnj.org. No requests after 6/17.
At the beginning of each session, students will be divided into groups where they will learn a song and simple movement, which will then be used to “audition” for the directors. After auditions, each student will then be assigned a role and placed in a cast. Students will participate in acting, music, and dance workshops during one part of the day with the other half of the day dedicated to rehearsals for the show. Friday mornings of performance days, dress rehearsals will take place using costumes and props. Each group will have the opportunity to rehearse on the BPP stage.
What theatrical performance experience would be complete without an audience? At the end of each two-week session we present a production for an audience of parents, relatives and friends. Performances will be held in the theatre each session’s final Friday afternoon at 1:00* or 2:00*, depending on the particular group’s assigned time. Admission is free for these performances.
* Times may be adjusted depending on needs.
Student should be dropped off at the theatre at 9:00 am. The theater is located in Brundage Park, on Carrell Road in Randolph. The program will begin promptly at 9:15 a.m. Students must be picked up promptly at 3:00. Wait outside of the theater lobby until the theater doors are opened. Proceed through the theater doors and out through the right hand exit in front of the stage. For safety reasons, we must insist on this one-way traffic pattern. On performance date Fridays, students will leave following their performance. Please park your car in the park parking lot and do not block the entrance into or out of the park. This is a safety concern.
Students are asked to bring a lunch in an insulated lunch bag. Lunch will not be refrigerated. Soda and candy are available for $1.50 each. Chewing gum is not permitted.
Comfortable playwear and sneakers are recommended. No open-toed shoes or sandals are permitted. Please leave all valuables at home. Toys and electronics are not permitted.