B. Braun Medical Inc. Recalls Dialog+ Hemodialysis Systems Due Defective Conductivity Sensors.
Cook Medical Issues Global, Voluntary Recall of Catheters with Beacon® Tip Technology – the tip can fracture or separate resulting in loss of device function potentially leading to medical intervention, or complications resulting from a separated segment.
FDA reminds health care professionals not to use drug products intended to be sterile from Medaus Inc. – Agency concerned that products may pose serious risks to patients.
Nissan Recalls 108,503 Rogue Models for Rusting Tailgate Struts.
Takata recalls at least 35 million more faulty airbags.
GM recalls various vehicles with steering issue – The front upper control arms may have inadequate welds that can affect steering.
Mercedes-Benz recalls model year 2016 SLK300s – There could be a loss of power from the main vehicle battery.
BRP Recalls Side-by-Side Off-Road Vehicles Due to Loss of Steering Control and Crash Hazard – The steering coupling can strip on the rack and pinion assembly and result in a loss of steering control.
Riverside recalls White Water Retro travel trailers – The tires may rub, causing tire failure.
Pita Pal recalls salads with corn linked to Listeria outbreak.
Frontera Foods recalls Original Taco Skillet Sauce – The product contains soy, an allergen not listed on the label.
Giant Eagle recalls Walnut Delight and Pecan Tassie cookies – The products contain milk, an allergen not listed on the label.
Vitalicious recalls Apple Crumb VitaTops – The products may contain milk, an allergen not listed on the label.
CSM Bakery Solutions recalls Cinnabon Stix – The product may contain peanuts, an allergen not listed on the label.
Federal court orders rice noodle company Kun Wo Food Products Inc. to stop selling products until it complies with food safety regulations.
Brown & Haley of Tacoma, Washington is taking the precautionary measure of voluntarily recalling certain lots of Mountain Thins “Trail Mix” flavor that may be impacted by sunflower seeds contaminated with Listeria monocytogen.
Giant Eagle supplier SunOpta has informed the company that sunflower seeds sold in the bulk section of its Carmel Market District have been voluntarily recalled due to possible Listeria monocytogenes (Listeria) contamination.
CRF Frozen Foods is expanding its voluntary recall of frozen organic and traditional fruits and vegetables because these products have the potential to be contaminated with Listeria monocytogenes.
Hickory Harvest Recalls Certain Sunflower Kernel Products Because Of Possible Listeria Monocytogenes.
Blue Bell Ice Cream Recalls Mispackaged Rocky Road Pints That Contain Cookies ‘N Cream Ice Cream; Potential Allergy Concerns For Those With Wheat and Soy Allergies.
Munchkin Recalls Latch Lightweight Pacifiers & Clips Due to Choking Hazard – The clip cover can detach from the pacifier’s clip.
Walmart Recalls Rival Electric Water Kettles Due to Burn and Shock Hazards – The heating element can fail and rupture, posing shock and burn hazards to the user.
Cascade Designs Recalls Avalanche Rescue Probes Due to Risk of Suffocation – The lock button on the probe can fail to engage and lock, causing the probe not to function as intended. This can interfere with finding someone buried beneath snow.