Penguin Wellness is a division of Tracktion Healthcare which is a full line wellness and disease management company with complete employee tracking, case management, and predictive modeling capabilities.
Developing programs for self funded and fully insured companies.
Working with small and large companies.
Entry level or comprehensive wellness programs.
Disease management and case management.
Matt has been in the health and wellness industry for 16 years. His primary focus in his career has been working with athletes on their speed and strength development as one of the nation’s top sports performance specialist. His career path has enabled him to design and implement his wellness beliefs and software programs into a very successful corporate wellness model.
He holds a degree in Sociology from the University of Tennessee and a Masters of Science degree in Exercise Science and Health Promotion from the California University of Pennsylvania. He also holds eight other specialty certifications is the areas of nutrition, fitness therapy, youth fitness, sport conditioning, cancer rehabilitation, speed and explosion, performance enhancement, and track and field.
Other – Matt is a former football player at the University of Tennessee and is a Unites States Powerlifting Champion.
RN, CCM, COHN has been a registered nurse for 32 years. After completing her education at Union University in Jackson, TN, Mrs. Nelson has held a variety of positions including case and disease management, rehabilitation nursing, homecare and acute care management as well as direct patient care services.
Ms. Nelson has her own success story in relation to disease management, after reaching 297 pounds and facing diagnoses of pre-diabetes and pre-hypertension, Ms. Nelson made lifestyle changes which resulted in a 115 pound weight loss with normal lab studies and blood pressure. Ms. Nelson has maintained her personal wellness for 28 years and enjoys assisting others in health coaching to realize their health and wellness goals.
Over the past twenty three years, Ms. Johnson has been actively involved in the formation of healthcare public policy and established New Horizons Solutions, Inc. in response to employers’ needs and Medicaid’s need to contain health care costs by focusing on prevention, wellness and disease management. Ms. Johnson has been actively involved in legislation affecting health, families and communities lobbying over three hundred pieces of legislation since 1986.
She has served on health care public policy workgroups in Washington, D.C. and served on numerous boards and workgroups. Ms. Johnson earned a B.S. degree in Medical Technology and completed postgraduate study in Comparative Medicine. She worked nine years in the field of medical technology and served as the supervisor of the State of Illinois’ Tissue Typing lab in Chicago.
Lindsey graduated from Murray State University with degrees in Food, Nutrition, and Dietetics. She has extensive experience in a medical setting as a clinical dietitian. She has also worked with post cardiac patients and cancer patients relative to their nutritional needs and requirements as well as working with patients in a nursing home setting.
Her vast knowledge and skills have also been utilized in kidney dialysis centers. She is a registered dietitian and clinical dietitian.
Other – Lindsey ran track at Murray State University.
Over the past 15 years, Wesley has been heavily involved in the ownership of fitness facilities, the management of businesses, and the leadership of men and women. Wesley has extensive experience in personal training and health coaching professional athletes, country music artists, and other top executives in the Tennessee and the surrounding states.
Wesley’s love of training has taken him into the corporate world. He is seen as an authority in wellness, especially his passion to help people manage weight problems such as obesity and the detrimental effects of this condition. Wesley attended Tennessee State University.
Other - Wesley is a former natural body building champion and has won titles in many contest like the “Show Me Naturals”, one of the largest bodybuilding competitions in the Unites States. Wesley is also a former US Marine.
Buddy graduated in 2003 from High Tech Institute in Nashville with a Associate of Applied Sciences degree in Massage Therapy where he was a member of the Alpha Beta Kappa National Honor Society, received the perfect attendance and classroom leadership awards as well as the Outreach and Dedication Award for the Massage Therapy Program.
In the 5 years plus since graduating, he has used his knowledge and natural instinct to provide table and chair massage to hundreds of clients, including members of the Nashville Predators, Tennessee Titans, and members of the music community in Nashville. Integrating a combination of deep tissue, trigger point release and sports massage techniques, Buddy provides a massage that will help relieve the daily aches and pains that your body may experience and leave you feeling revitalized!
Licensed Zumba Instructor, ACE Certified Group Fitness Instructor, & Certified Xtend Barre Instructor, Christy has had a lifelong passion for fitness and dance. As a tap, ballet and jazz dance student for six years, she cultivated her natural sense of rhythm and developed a dedication to healthy living.
She is an ACE Certified Group Fitness Instructor and a Certified Xtend Barre Instructor. Xtend is Pilates and dance AMPlified. She is also licensed in Zumba Basic I, Basic II, Toning, Gold and Zumbatomic. Zumba is "exercise in disguise", a mix of dance-based cardio and resistance sculpting set to international rhythms. Christy is licensed through Zumba Fitness, LLC and is a member of ZIN (Zumba Instructor Network).