is as simple as Black & White.
We are a custom home and remodel company serving the greater Houston area. Whether you’re planning to build your dream house, remodel your kitchen, bathroom, or any area in your house, we can help make your vision come true.
We thrive to make our customers happy exceeding their expectations and staying within the budget. Also, as a responsible company, we like to put back into our community and the environment. Take a look at our Building Green initiative.
Turn your aspirations and ideas into a home that started as a dream.
Create bathroom and kitchen spaces with exceptional attention to detail.
Meld modern and classic styles or think of something out of the ordinary. Possibilities are endless.
Add rooms and custom spaces that are full of excitement and match your visions of those spaces.
Black and White Construction is a premier general home contractor in Houston, TX, specializing in custom home building, new construction, home and office renovation, home and office additions, large structure repairs, and kitchen and bathroom remodeling in Houston.
We are amongst the most sought after new home builders in Houston owing to our attention to detail, quality craftsmanship, and open line of communication. With every project that we successfully deliver, we support the idea that we are not just here to put up walls – our role is to keep your vision central to the building or remodeling process. This is the reason we are one of the fastest growing and most trusted modern home builders in Houston.
Our objective as a luxury home builder in Houston, TX is to make the construction process a truly enjoyable experience for all our clients. We work together with our clients to ensure that we deliver their new home or a remodeled kitchen or bathroom on budget and on time. Starting before we even install the foundation and all the way to handing over the keys, our aim is to deliver smiles and peace of mind.
We work with the utmost integrity to create homes that exude elegance. We have put together a team of premier architects and top-notch custom craftsmen that seamlessly manage the building process and bring it to a speedy completion. All the while not compromising in the least bit with the quality you expect from us. We believe in creating homes and custom spaces that are beyond compare.
At Black and White Construction, we always work towards maintaining a conjunctive partnership with our clients. Our services are structured to help you in every aspect of decision making concerning the design, development, construction, and finishing processes. We listen to you, identify your individual needs and style, and put our experience and skills to work. We turn those ideas and style into spaces that are a true reflection of the home you envision for yourself.
We are a home builder and renovation contractor in Houston that approaches every project with an artistic eye. We hope to have the pleasure of bringing your home building or remodeling project to life soon.
Greg and his team were excellent in my opinion. I felt very comfortable with Greg front the first time he came out to review my project. He was prompt, responsive and courteous. The quality of work his team and him preformed was excellent, they cleaned up daily and respected my neighbors. The project moved quickly and all of the delays were due to my indecision.