10mg/ml: Each ml of oral solution contains 10mg furosemide.
Each ml of solution contains 0.2ml liquid maltitol (E965) and 83.2mg ethanol (alcohol).
Clear, colourless, greenish yellow to pale brown coloured solution with cherry flavour.
Furosemide is indicated in all conditions requiring prompt diuresis in patients who are unable to take solid dose forms. Indications include cardiac, pulmonary, hepatic and renal oedema, peripheral oedema due to mechanical obstruction or venous insufficiency and hypertension.
The medication should be administered in the morning to avoid nocturnal diuresis.
The usual initial daily dose is 40mg. This may be adjusted until an effective dose is achieved.
In the elderly, furosemide is generally eliminated more slowly. Dosage should be titrated until the required response is achieved.
This product should not be used in children below 18 years of age (see section 4.4).
This product should not be mixed with food or beverages before use.
The syringe adaptor should be placed in the neck of the bottle and the required dose should be drawn from the container into the graduated oral syringe provided. The open end of the syringe should be placed in the mouth of the patient, and the piston slowly depressed to release the contents.
Hypovolaemia or dehydration. Anuria. Renal failure with anuria not responding to furosemide, or as a result of poisoning by nephrotoxic or hepatotoxic agents, or associated with hepatic coma. Severe hypokalaemia and severe hyponatraemia. Pre-comatose and comatose states associated with hepatic encephalopathy. Breast feeding.
Contra-indicated in hypersensitivity to Furosemide, sulphonamides or any of the excipients listed.
Patients allergic to sulphonamides may show cross-sensitivity to furosemide.
This product should not be given to children because its ethanol content may affect their CNS.
Caution is required in patients liable to electrolyte deficiency. Regular monitoring of serum sodium, potassium and creatinine is generally recommended during furosemide therapy; particularly close monitoring is required in patients at high risk of developing electrolyte imbalances or in case of significant additional fluid loss. Hypovolaemia or dehydration as well as any significant electrolyte and acid-base disturbances must be corrected. This may require temporary discontinuation of furosemide. Where indicated, steps should be taken to correct hypotension or hypovolaemia before commencing therapy.
Urinary output must be secured. Patients with partial obstructions of urinary outflow for example patients with prostatic hypertrophy or impairment of micturition have an increased risk of developing acute urinary retention and require careful monitoring.
• Patients with hypoproteinaemia, e.g. associated with nephrotic syndrome (the effect of furosemide may be weakened and its ototoxicity potentiated).
Symptomatic hypotension leading to dizziness, fainting or loss of consciousness can occur in patients treated with furosemide, particularly in the elderly, patients on other medications which can cause hypotension and patients with other medical conditions that are risks for hypotension.
The use of some diuretics is considered to be unsafe in acute porphyria therefore caution should be exercised.
Concomitant use with risperidone: In risperidone placebo-controlled trials in elderly patients with dementia, a higher incidence of mortality was observed in patients treated with furosemide plus risperidone (7.3%; mean age 89 years, range 75-97 years) when compared to patients treated with risperidone alone (3.1%; mean age 84 years, range 70-96 years) or furosemide alone (4.1%; mean age 80 years, range 67-90 years). Concomitant use of risperidone with other diuretics (mainly thiazide diuretics used in low dose) was not associated with similar findings.
No pathophysiological mechanism has been identified to explain this finding, and no consistent pattern for cause of death observed. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised and the risks and benefits of this combination or co-treatment with other potent diuretics should be considered prior to the decision to use. There was no increased incidence of mortality among patients taking other diuretics as concomitant treatment with risperidone. Irrespective of treatment, dehydration was an overall risk factor for mortality and should therefore be avoided in elderly patients with dementia (see section 4.3).
Furosemide is not recommended in patients at high risk for radiocontrast nephropathy - it should not be used for diuresis as part of the preventative measures against radiocontrast-induced nephropathy.
Ethanol (alcohol): Each ml of oral solution contains 83.2mg ethanol (alcohol) i.e daily dose of 40mg furosemide would include 332.8mg ethanol (alcohol), equivalent to 8.32ml of beer or 3.47ml of wine.
Harmful for those suffering from alcoholism. To be taken into account in pregnant or breast-feeding women and high-risk groups such as patients with liver disease, epilepsy. Because of its ethanol content this product should also not be given to children.
Liquid maltitol (E965): Patients with a rare hereditary problem of fructose intolerance should not take this medicine.
ACE Inhibitors: Enhanced hypotensive effect when given with diuretics. A marked fall in blood pressure and deterioration in renal function may be seen when ACE inhibitors are added to furosemide therapy. The dose of furosemide should be reduced for at least three days, or the drug stopped, before initiating the ACE inhibitor or increasing the dose of an ACE inhibitor.
Alpha-blockers: Enhanced hypotensive effect when diuretics are given with alpha-blockers, also increased risk of first dose hypotension with post-synaptic alpha-blockers such as prazosin.
Analgesics: Diuretics can increase the risk of nephrotoxicity of NSAIDs, also antagonism of diuretic effect. Antagonism of diuretic effect (especially with indomethacin and ketorolac). Salicylic toxicity may be increased by furosemide.
Angiotensin –II Receptor Antagonists: Enhanced hypotensive effect when diuretics given with angiotensin-II receptor antagonists.
Anti-arrhythmics: Hypokalaemia caused by loop diuretics increases cardiac toxicity with amiodarone, disopyramide, flecainide, and antagonises the action of lidocaine and mexiletine.
Antibacterials: Avoid the use of diuretics in lymecycline treatment. There is an increased risk of ototoxicity when loop diuretics are given with aminoglycosides, polymyxins or vancomycin. Since this may lead to irreversible damage, these drugs must only be used with furosemide if there are compelling medical reasons. Impairment of renal function may develop in patients receiving concurrent treatment with furosemide and high doses of certain cephalosporins.
Antidepressants: Possible increase of hypokalaemia when loop diuretics are given with reboxetine. There is an enhanced hypotensive effect when diuretics are given with MAOIs. There is an increased risk of postural hypotension when diuretics are given with tricyclic antidepressants.
Antiepileptics: There is an increased risk of hyponatraemia when diuretics are given with carbemazepine. The effects of furosemide are antagonised by phenytoin.
Antifungals: There is an increased risk of hypokalaemia when loop diuretics are given with amphotericin.
Antipsychotics: Hypokalaemia caused by diuretics increase the risk of ventricular arrhythmias with amisulpiride or sertindole. An enhanced hypotensive effect may be seen when diuretics are given with phenothiazines. Hypokalaemia caused by diuretics increases risk of ventricular arrhythmias with pimozide (avoid concomitant use).
Antivirals: Plasma concentration of diuretics may be increased by nelfinavir, ritonavir or saquinavir.
Atomoxetine: Hypokalaemia caused by diuretics increases the risk of ventricular arrhythmias with atomoxetine.
Barbiturates: Plasma concentrations of diuretics may be decreased. There may be an increased risk of osteomalacia when diuretics are taken in combination with Phenobarbital.
Beta-blockers: There is an enhanced hypotensive effect when diuretics are given with beta-blockers. Hypokalaemia caused by loop diuretics increases the risk of ventricular arrhythmias with sotalol.
Cardiac glycosides: Hypokalaemia caused by loop diuretics increases cardiac toxicity with cardiac glycosides.
Ciclosporin: there is an increased risk of nephrotoxicity and possibly hypermagnesaemia when diuretics are given with ciclosporin.
Cisplatin: There is a risk of increased ototoxic effects if cisplatin and furosemide are given concomitantly. In addition, nephrotoxicity of cisplatin may be enhanced if furosemide is not given in low doses (e.g. 40mg in patients with normal renal function) and with positive fluid balance when used to achieve forced diuresis during cisplatin treatment.
Corticosteroids: The diuretic effect of diuretics is antagonized by corticosteroids. There is an increased risk of hypokalaemia when loop diuretics are given with corticosteroids.
Other Diuretics: There is an increased risk of hypokalaemia when loop diuretics are given with acetazolamide. Profound diuresis is possible when metolazone is given with furosemide. There is an increased risk of hypokalaemia when loop diuretics are given with thiazides and related diuretics.
Lithium: Loop diuretics reduce the excretion of lithium, which may lead to increased plasma concentrations and a risk of toxicity. Therefore, it is recommended that lithium levels are carefully monitored and where necessary the lithium dosage is adjusted in patients receiving this combination.
Potassium salts: There is an increased risk of hyperkalaemia when given with potassium salts.
Sucralfate: Furosemide and sucralfate must not be taken within 2 hours of each other as sucralfate decreases the absorption of furosemide from the intestine and so reduces its effect.
Sympathomimetics, Beta2: There is an increased risk of hypokalameia when loop diuretics are given wi