Wow! This was big news! Shocking! Gilgamesh turns out to be more than fiction or myth, contrary to what academia has been pushing for a century. Gilgamesh was a real person and they found his tomb, just as it was said in the epic, built under the course of the Euphrates River! It only got a little mention in the BBC (in One Minute World News) where Uruk – the origin of eponymous Iraq!
NOTE how the BBC says “believed found!” If it was “Lucy’s” bones found over a couple square kilometers, they’d say, “definite proof of humanoid primate!” See, it all depends on what they want you to believe.
In this case the find of Gilgamesh tomb ought to be called the find of the decade or of the 21st century, as yet another ancient literary source (2300 BC) turns out to be historical and less “mythological” than widely assumed. Uruk was the first city? Responsible for most first inventions, like writing, law, education, taxes, love songs, ethics, justice, agriculture, medicine, love and family? Wow, that early?
But inspite of all these proven first inventions, mainstream historians don’t trust Sumer’s own historical writings and denounce them as fictitious mythology without any core of truth. After all they were the immdiate descendents of stupid cavemen and hunter gatherers! And Euhemerism is ‘a bad bad method of doing history!’ For sure!!
Turkish archaeologists claim a historical discovery as they believe they have found pieces of the Trojan Horse.
According to a report by newsit.gr, Turkish archaeologists excavating on the site of the historical city of Troy on the hills of Hisarlik, have unearthed a large wooden structure. Historians and archaeologists presume that the pieces are remains of the legendary Trojan Horse.
Excavations brought to light dozens of fir planks and beams up to 15 meters long, assembled in a strange form. The wooden assembly was inside the walls of the ancient city of Troy. Fir planks were used for building seafaring ships, archaeologists say.
The Trojan Horse is considered to be a mythical structure. Described as a horse in Homer’s Odyssey, historians suggest that the writer was making an analogy for a war machine, or a natural disaster.
The structure found fits the description by Homer, Virgil, Augustus and Quintus Smyrnaeus. So, archaeologists tend to believe that the finding is indeed the remains of the subterfuge Greeks used to conquer ancient Troy.
Another discovery that supports the archaeologists’ claims is a damaged bronze plate with the inscription “For their return home, the Greeks dedicate this offering to Athena.” Quintus Smyrnaeus refers to the particular plate in his epic poem “Posthomerica” and the plate was also found on the site.
The two archaeologists leading the excavation, Boston University professors Christine Morris and Chris Wilson, say that they have a “high level of confidence” that the structure is indeed linked to the legendary horse. They say that all the tests performed up to now have only confirmed their theory.