Lock in a great price for North Shire Lodge – rated 9.4 by recent guests!
Location and view were outstanding. Tim and the staff were pleasant and helpful. Breakfast in the Pub room was excellent.
It's a very nice place to stay, relaxing, and comfortable!
The private restaurant and lodge area was very relaxing. Hosts, owners and workers very pleasant and hospitable. The views from the room were splendid and had great sunsets. And one of the coolest, well curated DVD collections I have seen. Complimentary hot breakfast is a huge plus, delicious and great fuel for the slopes.
I loved the sliders that opened up to a beautiful Mountain View. It was gorgeous!
I'm literally going to write a review everywhere about this place! My husband and I stayed at the lodge for three nights and it was the best place we've ever been. Rooms are very spacious, clean and cozy. Each room has a different interior. Great view and amenities. It's owned by a great couple (Tim & Kerry) who are on site 24/7. Very friendly and always ready to help. We had a chance to spend some time with Tim at the pub and he told us some very interesting stories about the lodge. Will definitely come back. Highly recommend!
Love the hosts Love the accommodations Great place to stay in Manchester Great breakfast Love Vermont! Will be back!
Loved the owners and the blueberry pancakes in the morning are to die for!
Quirky motel/B&B. Lady on Reception very welcoming. Breakfast (which you order in advance) was huge.
North Shire Lodge This rating is a reflection of how the property compares to the industry standard when it comes to price, facilities and services available. It's based on a self-evaluation by the property. Use this rating to help choose your stay!
Set in the Battenkill Valley, amid spectacular views of the Green and Taconic Mountains, this Manchester, Vermont lodge features an on-site pub. A free, chef-prepared breakfast is served daily.
A flat-screen TV and DVD player is provided in each room at North Shire Lodge. Guests are also provided with a dining area that includes a refrigerator and dining table. Private bathrooms come with a hairdryer.
The Mountain View Pub, located on site features an extensive bourbon, single malt and cocktail list. An on-site pool offers guests a place to cool down during summer. Wi-Fi is provided free of charge.
North Shire Lodge is located 28 mi from Stratton and 12 mi from Bromley Mountain ski resorts.
When would you like to stay at North Shire Lodge?
This room features a flat-screen TV, microwave oven, refrigerator and furniture with a rustic lodge theme.
House Rules North Shire Lodge takes special requests – add in the next step!
North Shire Lodge accepts these cards and reserves the right to temporarily hold an amount prior to arrival.
Please inform North Shire Lodge of your expected arrival time in advance. You can use the Special Requests box when booking, or contact the property directly using the contact details in your confirmation.
We had no problems with our stay.
Great breakfast made to order in a really cool pub. We ate on top of a piano made into a table.
Nothing! We came in winter and everything was perfect for a weekend get away.
It had a beautiful view from our room!
Bar not open every night. If you’re late for breakfast you’ll find your hot items already cooked and reheated.
Great bar and food. Great rooms.
The short length of our stay !
After dinner in town we spent pleasant evening in bar with owner taking about malt whisky, bourbon and photos of his ancestors which decorate the room.
My first visit here was about seven years ago. They've updated the rooms since then. The beds are very cozy, the rooms are big and I love having the sliding glass doors and outdoor furniture to sit outside. It's got more character than your average motel. Lovely, and deep, swimming pool. Make sure you sign up for the hot breakfast - it's yummy. Close to Manchester and all the amenities.