We can imagine you have a question about the Stoke Stampede. This is your chance to make yours known to us.
Please note this website will contain some more information over time and please also check out our facebook page. Even if the answers you are looking for are not there you might get them from your fellow running friends.
The only way to register is online via www.runbritain.com (search Stoke Stampede).
How do we get our race number?
If you are succesful in your registration you will be sent a confirmation by email. This is not your race number, nor will it be sent to you. Instead you can collect it on race day (6th January 2019) in the Williams Hall, Stoke St Gregory, TA3 6EU which is in the centre of the village, about 10 minute walk from the start line. With your race number, which needs to be visible on your chest at all times, you will also receive your chip which you have to attach to your shoe.
Affiliated runners pay 12 pounds. Non Affiliated 14 pounds. Registration fee takes care of the running cost of the race which over the years have gone up drastically . Running costs include License fee, Road Closure fee, Hire of portable toilets, Medals and this year chip timing. All money left over gets donated to our local charity 'the Playing Field Committee' . This is their major fundraising event which helps them maintain the playing field which includesa childrens playground, two tennis courts, football field, cricket pitch and pavillion. The playing field is also used for historic events such as rememberance day and for social activities such as the village fete and enjoyed by all residents. Many who are happy volunteers pre, during and after the Stoke Stampede.
What if I have registered but I can't run?
Registrations are final. As this is a UKA licensed race we are not able to refund or re-issue race numbers.
How do I get to Stoke St Gregory?
Stoke St Gregory lies on the Somerset Levels roughly in the triangle between Taunton, Bridgwater and Langport. There are various routes into the village so we suggest you navigate by satnav if you are not familiar with the area. TA3 6EU is the postcode you are heading for. Coming into the village you will be greeted by marshalls in hi-vis. Please follow their instructions with respect to parking. There are various parking sites around the village during the Stoke Stampede. We will ensure you park safely in the most suitable location. We will even supply a park and ride service for the more remote ones.
Is there a quick guide to what I need to know?
Those who are lucky enough to secure a place in this year's run will receive a comprehensive email in the week leading up to the race with all the info you need to know about raceday. What we don't supply is a training program :-).