Anyone know if these are preinstalled with windows 10 pro or home version? Been looking at the staples website and HP site, couldn't find info on which version of OS is installed on the system. Any suggestions?
Not sure if I could deal with Win 10 (spy on me and patch when MS says) Home version though.
how does this compare to this one?
I got the i7 directly from HP awhile back. It had very little bloatware on it and set up extremely easy. I took the case off to see how easy it'd be to add an HD and.... Not terribly. But I didn't really need to so it was no big deal. Pretty impressed so far.
Looks like that Dell deal has expired.
You most likely can not stop the spying on you. I do not buy you are not spied on in Windows 7.
As to the patching when they want. Windows 10 is not nearly as bad at that as Windows 7. I have had 10 for some time now. Installed it while it was still free upgrade fairly soon after it started that. Only about twice did it install and restart when I was using it. Now you walk away and leave it on sometimes it will do that.
I quite like Windows 10 and is seems to work better for me than 7. When you first install it it might be problematic. Seems to take up to two weeks to simmer down. I could not force my 4k to work for the first week or two when upgrading to Windows 10. After a week or a bit more I could but had to specify the 4k settings manually. Once I did that it would recognize my 4k monitor. By the way the video card is not a 4k video card. Most will work on 4k if you manually install it at 26 or 30 hz. For 60 you need the correct cable and a better card. Unfortunately most TV's do not have the best input for 4k.
The processor itself cost $300. So yes it is a good deal if you want a powerful desktop for gaming or something.
Makes more sense to me to add an SSD for the Operating System. Optane Memory speeds up a hard drive but not nearly as much as an SSD. Seems to me for this price not adding an SSD would be foolish. It makes the Desktop so much faster.
The second one down has 24 GB of memory. At least now it does perhaps it did not originally.
Last edited by SteveA7911 July 15, 2018 at 07:44 PM.
Not too familiar with these small form factors. Is the power supply not the standard size? And is it even possible to throw in a short 7" long graphics card? I have a nice 450W Corsair PSU just lying around and would like to put it in this HP as well to make it a gaming rig.
Power supply is 310 volts and it would be difficult to replace it as the power on the MB is uncommon.
75 Watts is the max for a Graphics board. It only has two connections for boards. One large one and a small one.
When you ask them a question they do not really answer it. Their main page is almost completely useless describing the computer.
The Motherboard does have a M1 for a SSD. However they have nothing for a second SATA drive. The Motherboard does. So it might be possible to add one anyway. Power would require a divider for power and another SATA cable.
Last edited by SteveA7911 July 15, 2018 at 08:05 PM.
Any idea how the ram would come on the one with 12gb ram? Meaning is it a single 12gb stick or multiple?
think it will hit 500$ by holidays?
8+4 probably. My prebuilt computer came with ram like that.