Surbhi Mith Bore is delicious product. As this Surbhi Mitha Bore is highly nutritious and packed with various vitamins and minerals, it helps in the formation and maintenance of the blood stream, body hormones, bones, muscles, skin, hair, body enzymes. It acts as herbal medicine to treat sore throat. Thus it helps in prevention of common colds and cough. It helps in the formation and maintenance of the blood stream, body hormones, bones, muscles, skin, hair, body enzymes and neurotransmitters. It relieves stress and anxiety. This is helps lower blood pressure. The berries are blood purifier and an aid to digestion. Surbhi Mith Bore extract is useful in control of cold and flu (fever).
Surbhi Mith Bore Churan is delicious product Surbhi Mitha Bore is highly nutritious and packed with various vitamins and minerals, it helps in the formation and maintenance of the blood stream, body hormones, bones, muscles, skin, hair, body enzymes. It acts as herbal medicine to treat sore throat. Thus it helps in prevention of common colds and cough. It helps in the formation and maintenance of the blood stream, body hormones, bones, muscles, skin, hair, body enzymes and neurotransmitters. It relieves stress and anxiety. This is helps lower blood pressure. The berries are blood purifier and an aid to digestion. Surbhi Mith Bore extract is useful in control of cold and flu (fever).
Surbhi Methi Pachak Nimbu is very tasty and digestive, best useful in diabetes and in reducing obesity. It is makes methi dana, sendha namak, kala jeera, sajjikhaar, trikatu, nimbu etc. It is beneficial in enhancing appetite and gastric problems. It provides help from the indigestion, constipation and other digestive disorders. It provides help from the fever, cough and sore throat. It helps from the atherosclerosis which leads to the heart problems. The soothing effect of mucilage in fenugreek also helps to relieve cough and pain from sore throat. Here are foods to relieve sore throat. Increases breast milk production in lactating women.
Surbhi Hing Tikiya is good for digestive . It is very taste and useful product. Surbhi Hing Tikiya helps to reduce flatulence. It help to solve gas problems. It has ingredient sugar, red appearance,salt,natural ilmi, gulab flavor, phosphorus,etc. Surbhi hing tikiya improves digestion.