A Louisiana Taxotere hair loss lawsuit may be an option for chemotherapy patients who took Taxotere and suffered permanent hair loss. Taxotere, a chemotherapy drug used to treat breast, prostate, non-small cell lung cancer, stomach, and head and neck cancers, has been linked to permanent, disfiguring hair loss. Affected patients and their families may be eligible to file a Louisiana Taxotere lawsuit and seek compensation for damages.
Taxotere is a kind of chemotherapy treatment most commonly used to treat breast cancer, head and neck cancer, stomach cancer, prostate cancer, and lung cancer. The medication may be used on its own or together with other chemotherapeutic drugs to treat specific types and stages of cancer. Taxotere belongs to a class of drugs known as taxanes, chemical compounds originally extracted from the needles of the Pacific yew tree.
Taxotere stops cancer cells from dividing and multiplying, blocking the growth of certain kinds of cancers. Since chemotherapy treatments target all rapidly-forming cells, patients will experience a loss of healthy cells as well as cancerous ones.
In 2015, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued updated safety information noting that cases of permanent hair loss related to the use of Taxotere have been reported.
Loss of hair due to chemotherapy is typically reversible with complete hair regrowth, however, there is increased evidence that certain chemotherapy regimens can cause dose-dependent permanent alopecia (hair loss), according to a study conducted by researchers at the University of Miami, Florida. In addition to the Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery’s findings, research presented at the National Cancer Research Institute Conference noted significant hair loss reported by patients who responded to a questionnaire regarding Taxotere and its connection with patient hair loss.
Many patients, particularly women treated for breast cancer, who have allegedly experienced the effects of permanent hair loss after being treated for cancer with Taxotere may find it difficult to cope with their condition.
Taxotere hair loss lawsuits filed in early 2016 allege that drug maker Sanofi S.A. made claims of Taxotere’s superior efficacy, when post market surveillance has shown that Taxotere does not offer increased efficacy or benefits over other similar medications. The lawsuit further alleges that as a result of the drug maker’s claims, thousands of individuals were exposed to more severe side effects, including permanent alopecia (hair loss).
A warning letter sent by the FDA to drug maker Sanofi-Aventis in 2009 requested that the drug maker immediately stop the dissemination of misleading assertions suggesting the efficacy of Taxotere compared to other cancer drugs in its class.
Likewise, lawsuits allege that although the drug maker published information in other countries to patients and regulatory agencies related to the possible connection between Taxotere and permanent hair loss, those warnings do not appear on any information published by the drug maker in the United States. As a result, the lawsuit claims that thousands of individuals were unable to make an informed decision as to whether the benefits of Taxotere over other treatment options was justified.
Although chemotherapy treatment schedules are relatively short, long-term issues may arise, according to the Cancer Network. For some younger breast cancer patients, fertility issues may occur after certain chemotherapy treatments. Additionally, taxane-based chemotherapy treatments such as Taxotere may lead to neuropathy, potentially leading to poor balance and other complications.
Patients who have suffered severe side effects, including permanent hair loss, after taking Taxotere, as well as the families of those who have died as a result of complications with the drug, are encouraged to seek the advice of a Louisiana Taxotere hair loss lawsuit attorney to learn more about their rights and remedies.