Ramon isn't currently collecting unemployment benefits. Ann didn't see Murph anymore. Did you leave a tip? Duane smells horrible. Do we need more inflation? Look out for my friend Rolfe. Abel was killed by Cain. I refused her invitation to dinner. I thought Thomas would get fired. Were you the one who advised Al to go to the police?
He is all but dead. I need coloured pencils. Caroline is on the basketball team. Your tea will get cold if you don't drink it soon. In those days, he lived in the house alone. Jacobson is breathing hard. Wait till Tao gets here. The fawn bolted from its hiding place. Louiqa banged his head. Most people have ups and downs in their marriages.
A swine sees no sky. Success is never blamed. Angela begged me to help him. What is all that? Sit down for a second. Why am I up? I'll buy that back from you if that's what you want. Caroline became calm. I went for a swim. Don't tell me what I'm supposed to do.
Making model spaceships is interesting. Anton picked up takeout on his way home. One of my six Facebook accounts was suspended. Aaron opened the door and turned on the light. This dress shrank, and what's more it faded. Chuck tore up the letter he got from Sigurd. I think we were lied to. Don't you have a driver's license? Alberto asked the DJ for a slow song. Just follow my lead.
We're chopping off their head. You should learn Esperanto. Whatever! Knapper couldn't completely rule out the possibility that he might be laid off from work. You have to pay taxes. I went to elementary school in Nagoya. Sherri ambushed a policeman and killed him with an ax. I sometimes get scared. He is still angry with you for your conduct. I had to tell him about us.
Your plan sounds great. What a bad film! Who's your favorite horror movie character? I hope you can still look at yourself in the mirror my friend. Juan is in great shape. You can have it for nothing. She went with him. It's not safe at night around here. They say Pontus did it. The leaves blew off.
It's probably healthier to eat popcorn than it is to eat potato chips. She is more beautiful than you think. We should do this more often. He looks young. He cannot be older than I. I was really, really disappointed. This city is called the Japanese Denmark. Can you put the children to bed? You're going to love it. Once again she was lived in and taken care of. The doctor painted Gale's throat with iodine.
We all love you. Pat leaned back and smiled. Outside, the storm was rumbling. Lucy witnessed a murder in the main square of Florence. How could anything be worse than this? Wendy seems to be afraid of something. He has a son. Tolerant saw Kamel coming towards him. How long have you guys been standing there? He's partially right.
I told you I needed some air. Many of the students were tired. I did everything in my power to protect her from you. It will never happen again. You'd be stupid to trust him. Who's had enough? Bill used to mow lawns as a part time job. Who should we give it to? I'm not asking for money. It is time to empty the garbage.
He has got it. I want to eat Chinese food. Would you accept a Brazilian coffee? She was very surprised at the sight. We're always learning. There's no leash law here. Over 68 percent of Earth's freshwater is locked up in ice and glaciers; and another 30 percent is in groundwater. He likes sweets. Gordon is the last person I want to see now. Ken is too busy to come.