I have posted a letter of intent similar to this in the past... doing so in this various places for years, but wanted to renew the sentiments for the coming season.
I write today you to tell you of my RENEWED intentions for this year so as to spare you any confusion or frustration when next you encounter me. It is my intention to remain 'in character' as much as possible during my travels for this present year.
"Our organization will educate via a series of first person activities designed to demonstrate the real lives of sailors as they go about their business and live their lives."
There is no doubt in my mind that this could be difficult for me, but also for those around me; and I do not wish to alienate any of my friends or compatriots. Things will not be much different, I imagine, than they have been in the past... you've all met the Doctor during YOUR travels, and know the agreeable sort of fellow he can be.
I am generally already 'in character' for all the visitors and guests I work with at various events, if done correctly, I believe it can be a powerful learning tool for the public.
In addition, I'd like to request that you all help me to do this by not trying to 'snap me out of it' by mentioning a bunch of modern stuff to me whilst at an event. I believe that enough of you have my email address and are friends with me on various forums, message boards and social networking sites... that any out of character conversation can safely take place there at any time.
I tell you now that if you attempt to talk to the Doctor about movies, internet, cellphones and the like, he will be terribly confused. There is a time and a place for talk of that sort, and for me, it's NOT while I'm dressed out at an event.
I daresay I will go one step further and challenge YOU once again to give your interpretation and character some thought. It's no fun if I don't have a few of you to play along!
Special thanks to everyone that has encouraged me (verbally & otherwise) to do this in the past, I look forward to the additional research that I need to do over the fall and winter to get me where I need to be... and the Doctor looks forward to meeting you in the year to come. This has the potential to be a really fantastic learning experience!