Perfectly beautiful! I'd change my name in a heartbeat just to snuggle under that beauty!
Wow! The quilting is just gorgeous! I like that its quilted "just right". Sometimes when I get my quilt top back from my quilter there is just sooo much quilting that the quilt is quite heavy. I like quilting that accents the quilt and adds to it, not overpowers it (does that make sense?). Anyway, I think you did a fantastic job and I love the name quilted into the quilt too!!
Love words quilted into quilts. It's lovely.
Beautiful quilt, fantastic quilting as usual... love the name quilted in... you did a GREAT job!
Tell Scott it is easy to pick out a few stitches if the name is spelled wrong....but changing appliqued letters on a baby quilt when your given the wrong spelling is a bit more challenging!!
Gorgeous quilting, as usual. I love the name! You have such a great quilting design eye.
Beautiful and perfect for spring. That is so cool how you quilted her name on the quilt. Well done!
How lovely - and I really like the name quilted into it, brilliant idea.
That design was perfect for the quilt and love how you stitched the name into it, wonderful idea.
Another fantastic quilt, Linda! I'm sure Moriah will be just tickled! I haven't quilted batiks yet - did you find it any different than regular cotton?
What a sweet quilt! I love how you quilted her name and dotted the i with a flower!!!
It's a fabulous quilt! I love the idea of having her name quilted in the design!!
Once again, gorgeous! I love how you put her name in the quilting design! How wonderful! She will love that! I recognize this pattern. Gave you good practice for my quilt. LOL.
Gorgeous! I love the idea incorporating her name into the quilting.
That is so pretty and putting her name in the quilting is so special...wonderful job!!
Moriah's quilt is gorgeous! The pastels say Spring! Your quilting is wonderful with the flower design and the name is precious!
Another great job! I love the idea of quilting in the name.
Rita is showing this quilt at the Marshall Quilt Show this weekend. She is also having it judged.
love this!! beautiful work- can't believe it is all freehand, such a talent.