Food is definitely the fuel that regulates your energy and your mood, and these superfoods take the cake (or maybe the kale!) when it comes to helping you be more focused. I try to treat the foods you eat the same way as the oil you put in your car engine to help it perform. You wouldn’t put olive oil into your car… so why would you put chocolate syrup into to your body? It just doesn’t add up. So if you’re looking to boost your focus and improve your productivity…. one of the places you should start with is what you’re eating…. like these superfoods.
We all know that antioxidants are good for you, and superfoods are packed full of them. They pick up free radicals and help decrease inflammation in your system that can lead to weight gain, brain fog and even joint pain. My favourite superfood of the berry bunch is the Haskapa Berry. Native to Japan, the Nova Scotia climate is perfect for growing these antioxidant-filled punches of flavour. Antioxidants are important for your focus because they help to stimulate the flow of blood and oxygen to [your] brain. More blood flow = more brain power – what more can I say?
I LOVE a good hit of caffeine to help perk up my brain power…. but green tea goes one step further than the true love of my life (coffee) due to the l-theanine content of this herb. L-theanine is great because it’s been shown to “increase alpha-wave activity”, which increases calmness and releases caffeine more slowly; instead of all at once. This is great for productivity and focus because it means that you can get your work down without worrying about that crash.
I LOVE KALE. But not everyone does. One of the reasons dark green leafy vegetables are so critical for our brain power is because they are filled to the leaf (ha!) with antioxidants, carotenoids and B Vitamins. The combination of these compounds help to boost your brain power and protect those synapses (which transmit signals across your brain) as well as helping your memory.
These fish; like herring, sardines, kippers and mackerel, are filled with omega-3 fatty acids. These omega-3’s help to aid memory, mental performance and brain function, and those of us with less omega-3’s are more likely to have poor memory, mood swings, depression and fatigue.
Please. If you want to improve your focus, you need to drink enough water. Water gives the brain the electrical energy for all rain functions, including thought and memory processes. Plus, you can imagine after living in NS winters what dehydration could only do to your brain.