Career and Testing Services at the University of Mary looks forward to forming a partnership with you. We encourage you to recruit our students and alumni and will work with you to find candidates which are a good fit with your organization. Career and Testing Services is committed to facilitating interactions and partnerships between our students, organizations, staff and faculty. If you would like to visit our campus or if you need additional information, please contact us at (701) 355-8050. Again, we appreciate your partnership with Career & Testing Services.
There are 2 methods to post a job with Career and Testing Services.
Option 1: Visit www.teamnd.org to post a position on our website. This is a consortium website and your posting will go to 8 colleges and universities across the state of North Dakota.
Option 2: Post a job description on the Career and Testing Services Bulletin Board outside our office by completing a short job posting form below.
Throughout the year, Career and Testing Services offers special events for students where employer assistance or participation is often necessary. Some examples are: Community Fair, Mock Interview Days, RESUMANIA, Etiquette Dinner, Backpack to Briefcase, to name a few. Contact us if you are interested in learning more about any of these events.
There are several ways that you as an employer can get in front of students. Career and Testing Services can assist you in arranging/setting up booths outside of our dining facility, in securing a room to do information sessions, or put you in contact with a faculty member for a class presentation. In addition, if you would like to do on campus recruitment and resume collection, we would be happy to assist you.
Career and Testing Services assists students in the career exploration by pairing them with individuals in careers of interest to them. Students can then do informational interviews, job shadow, or become a mentee with a person established in their field. If you would like to assist students in learning more about your field, industry, or career, please contact the director of career services.