This policy does not apply to the practices of companies that TJC does not own or control, or to people that TJC does not employ or manage.
TJC collects personally identifiable information when you register for a T.I.P. Number, when you visit pages on tjctip.com, and when you enter promotions conducted on tjctip.com. TJC may also collect personally identifiable information when you visit or register with a site maintained by an affiliate of TJC. TJC may also receive personally identifiable information from other sources.
When you register for a T.I.P. Number on tjctip.com, we may ask for your name, the name of the owner of horse(s) and information about horse(s), including but not limited to registered name and show name. Once you register on tjctip.com and sign in to our services, you are not anonymous to us.
TJC also automatically receives and records information on our server logs from your browser including your IP address, TJC cookie information, and the page you requested.
TJC uses the information it gathers on you for five general purposes: (i) to distribute to customers of TJC, (ii) to customize the advertising and content you see on tjctip.com, (iii) to fulfill your requests for certain products and services, (iv) to contact you about the Thoroughbred Incentive Program including T.I.P. electronic mailings, and (v) to allow end users of tjctip.com, including horse shows, to lookup T.I.P. numbers and report T.I.P. numbers in connection with horse show results.
We find that your actions on our web sites violate the TJC Terms and Conditions of Use.
TJC may set and access tjctip.com cookies on your computer.
TJC allows other companies that are presenting advertisements on some of our pages to set and access their cookies on your computer. Other companies' use of their cookies is subject to their own privacy policies, not this one. Advertisers or other companies do not have access to tjctip.com cookies.
TJC uses web beacons to access our cookies within and outside our network of web sites and in connection with TJC products and services.
You may edit your tjctip.com account information and preferences, including whether you want TJC to contact you about specials/promotions and new products by contacting TJC at 800-444-8521 Monday through Friday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Eastern Time. You can change your preferences or unsubscribe from the T.I.P. Mailing List by clicking the link at the bottom of the email.
You may request deletion of your tjctip.com account by contacting TJC at 800-444-8521 (during the hours noted above) and requesting termination of your account.
Your tjctip.com account Information is password-protected for your privacy and security.
In certain areas TJC uses industry-standard SSL-encryption to protect data transmissions.
TJC may amend this policy from time to time. If we make any substantial changes in the way we use your personal information we will notify you by posting a prominent announcement on our pages.
If you have questions or suggestions, please contact TJC at the number and during the times shown above.