Robinson Metal, Inc., will be recognized for its collaborative efforts with area educators October 25, 2017, when it receives the Educational Partnership Award at the fifth annual Excellence in Manufacturing/K-12 Partnerships Awards event in Green Bay, Wisconsin. The event, sponsored by the Northeast Wisconsin Manufacturing Alliance, highlights best practices of manufacturing and education collaborations throughout the region.
A regional leader in custom metal fabrication and production of metal parts and full turnkey solutions, Robinson Metal is being honored for its commitment to support the education and training required to fill manufacturing and fabrication jobs in Green Bay.
The NEW Manufacturing Alliance is a group of manufacturers who work with educators, workforce development, chambers of commerce and state organizations to promote manufacturing in the northeast Wisconsin region.
Robinson Metal has established a reputation for partnering with programs at multiple levels of the education spectrum. The company participates in the Trades Center Academy offered by the De Pere and West De Pere school districts. The apprenticeship program focuses on students who are interested in a skill trade after graduation, and gives them hands-on experience in welding, fabricating and design. Robinson also offers tuition reimbursement for student employees who continue their education.
In addition to its relationship with the high schools, Robinson Metal has a five-year commitment to Northeast Wisconsin Technical College through the Robinson Metal Inc. Scholarship Program. Students enrolled in a variety of machine tool, welding and mechanical design technology programs are eligible to apply.
Robinson Metal recently completed its second significant technology investment of the year with the purchase of a WARDJet R-2014 Waterjet large format. The equipment allows multiple large sheets of material to be loaded and cut at the same time, improving quality and efficiency of Robinson’s cutting operations.
Earlier this summer, the company purchased a SNK RB-5M Bridge Mill. The five-speed, multi-center machine combining automated capabilities with high-precision, high-output machining for increased capacity in producing precision parts for a wide range of industrial customers.
Robinson Metal operates out of a custom-designed, 185,000-square-foot modern facility. The company is a single-source metal fabrication supplier, employing more than 300 people at its facilities in De Pere, Wisconsin. Its four divisions include: Fab & Machine; Pipe & Vessel; Robinson Custom Enclosures; and Robinson Heating & Cooling.
For more information about Robinson Metal’s manufacturing and fabrication jobs, please call (920) 494-7411, or visit http://robinsonmetal.com/.