The Assistant Director of Athletics and Recreation assists the Director of Athletics and Recreation in daily operations and provides departmental support to the Athletics department. This position is responsible for Game Day Event Management for Intercollegiate Athletic Events, Athletic Website Management, and other duties assigned by the Director.
Set up for events and breakdown for Baseball, Basketball, Cheer, Cross Country, Lacrosse, Soccer, Softball, and/or Tennis.
Assist with the day-to-day facility operations and ensure an exceptional game day experience for athletes, coaches, officials, and patrons at all intercollegiate athletic events.
Oversee games/matches or other intercollegiate programs and activities, ensure that event venues meet specifications, and provide for the safety and welfare of event participants and guests.
Plan, schedule and oversee all intercollegiate activities in the facilities ensuring proper facility maintenance and safety compliance requirements are met for internal/external use of the facilities.
As assigned, act as 'administrator in charge'; resolve operational issues and direct staff as needed for NJCAA intercollegiate functions.
Post Releases, Event Recaps, Box Scores, Season Statistics, etc.
Create and update Schedules/Events, Rosters/Bios, etc.
Post photos/create photo galleries/upload in bulk.
Send emails to specific groups; direct marketing.
Monitor daily traffic; create reports.
Update scores on website using mobile devices.
Create and manage registration pages/forms.
Archive releases, photos, rosters, schedules, etc.
Assist Director with all aspects of student athlete eligibility requirements as required by NJCAA.
Manage all athletic department photography and videography including individual headshots, team photos, community and game film.
Oversee facility management ensuring that all venues used for athletics, recreation or other sponsored programs are fully operational and meet the requirements for NJCAA competition, practice, intramurals and recreation programming and other student work.
Be responsible for inventory of uniforms and equipment Plan and recommend uniform and equipment replacement schedule.
Act as liaison to the auxiliary services department for athletic-specific rentals for all facilities and fields.
Establish standards and protocols for student athletic recruitment; coordinate recruitment events.
Maintain up-to-date, accurate information for all staff and hourly employees. Provide other support functions as needed.
Develop 'special event' concepts through SAAC and community service initiatives with students, staff, and faculty and community groups.
Work with Marketing and Communications in the development and distribution of marketing and promotional material.
Provide on-site supervision and coordination.
Establish and maintain community relations through interaction and participation with community groups. Develop special event concepts which will be of value and interest to these groups.