"Why the SPAB? The SPAB is about buildings not people, but people made the buildings we care for, people love them, people look after them now and hope to pass them on to those who come after"
You can give old buildings a future. Leaving a legacy to the SPAB is a powerful way to ensure that our work can continue.
Since 1877, the SPAB has fought for the protection of historic buildings. Today we uphold the principles established by William Morris, continuing his campaign for the care and repair of old buildings. Legacies have always been vital to our work.
Demands for the SPAB’s help and support are ever-increasing. To meet them we rely on the assistance of those passionate about the charity’s aims and ideals.
Thousands of old buildings, from the simplest to the grandest, have benefited from our help. The value we place on so many different types of buildings stands us apart from others. We care about the cottage, barn, parish church and mill along with cathedrals, palaces and stately homes. By respecting a building’s history and fabric we aim to protect the very special qualities that give it a timeless beauty and enrich our cultural identity.
As public funding declines and demands on limited resources increase, legacies are even more important than ever to the SPAB. Bequests from our generous supporters vary from year to year, but regularly contribute in excess of 10% of our income. Whatever their size, legacies really do make a significant impact on our work.
William Morris left us the SPAB as his legacy. We hope that you will join us in continuing the important work he started. By leaving a legacy you can help protect old buildings for future generations.
Cecily Greenhill was the SPAB's archivist for many years and left a generous legacy to the Society when she died in 2012.
John Sell joined the SPAB in 1974. He has been a Trustee for many years and served as the Chairman for a number of terms during the 1990s.
Roger Mears, architect and former SPAB Guardian on his enduring involvement with SPAB.