“Beth McCullough serves as our volunteer marketing manager for SolarTech, a Photovoltaic (PV) industry consortium focused on creating a Solar Center of Excellence in the Silicon Valley. In 2009 she helped us update the graphics on our website, and created an internal communications guide for outbound communication consistency across the consortium. This year Beth is responsible for writing content, implementing our email campaigns and distributing press announcements; these are all critical components in managing relationships and communicating with our partner companies and sponsors.
“While I was CEO of the Chase Group, I hired Beth to run the numerous day-to-day functions of event and tradeshow planning. I knew she could hit the ground running because of her industry background; I got to see her firsthand while she was a client at SEMI. Very detailed-oriented and conscientious, Beth helped eBay – one of our biggest clients – save over $100,000 on a custom tradeshow kiosk. This project required custom fabrication as well as overcoming unique shipping challenges using industry knowledge and connections.
During the pre-planning for our Power Seller Awards Dinner for eBay and Paypal, Beth used her diplomatic skills to successfully negotiate with eight of the top restaurants in San Francisco. Great at follow through, she arranged multiple menus ensuring high quality while keeping costs within budget and delivering everything on time.
“I’ve known Beth for 10 years when we did work at IDEMA and for eBay at The Chase Group. She’s amazing with details, deadlines and event management. She makes sure that nothing falls through the cracks and there are no surprises onsite.
Most recently, we managed a chapter event for the International Association of Exhibitions and Events. Taking initiative for all the social media communication for our event, Beth wrote all the messaging including invitations, curriculum, and background information to draw the 20+ attendees.
“I’ve hired Beth many times over the years at SEMI because of her skill and knowledge. Our division focuses on environmental health, safety and sustainability issues, supporting 2000 corporate clients worldwide. Responsible communicating with over 5,000 professionals in our membership, Beth also managed our contact database and event coordination for our tradeshows. She’s done everything related to logistics, ensuring we have everything needed for specific seminars or programs, to pre- and post-planning.
“I’ve known Beth for years and she helped IDEMA with the DISKCON USA Tradeshow in 2009. Her background with tradeshow and event management is impressive. Always reliable, Beth knows exactly what needs to be done. When I was unexpectedly ill the day before our event, Beth stepped in. Because she’s cool under pressure and keeps a strategic head on her shoulders, I didn’t worry about anything. I knew I could rely on her to take care of everything.