This Africa vacation package includes: Chobe Chilwero Lodge, Chobe National Park - Botswana: Chelinda Lodge, Nyika Plateau; Likoma Island and Kaya Mawa, Lake Malawi.
Suitability: Ideal for everybody who has an interest in eco-systems and the wonders of nature.
Note: This Africa vacation package is based on - arrival at Kasane Airport, Botswana - departing Lilongwe Airport, Malawi.
This unique safari, gives you a new perspective of Afica's stunning ecology.
Upon arrival at Kasane Airport on day one of your Africa vacation package, you will be met by a representative and transferred to Chobe Chilwero Lodge.
Enjoy exploring the northern Chobe area on extensive game drives.
Accommodation: In cosy cottages on a full board basis including activities.
Chobe Chilwero is an elegant 5 star lodge blending old world charm with modern comforts and style. Chilwero means 'place of view', and accurately describes this lodge as it boasts undisturbed views across the islands and floodplains of Botswana.
Chobe Chilwero is ideal for excellent game viewing conducted by highly qualified and knowledgeable guides in custom built 4X4 safari vehicles. Exciting water activities like fishing are conducted from safari motor boats. Sundowner cruises affords the opportunity of witnessing a spectacular African sunset over the Chobe River.
After breakfast this morning, you will be transferred from the lodge to Livingstone Airport for your charter flight to Mfuwe in Zambia. Here you will connect to your flight via Lilongwe to Chelinda Lodge.
Spend your time enjoying the activities offered by the lodge.
Accommodation: En-suite log cabins on a full board basis including activities. Chelinda Lodge is situated in one of Africa's most spectacular setting, boasting breathtaking views over the rolling grasslands of the Nyika Plateau.
Accommodation is in 8 charming en suite log cabins, each boasting a welcoming fire place, main dining area and raised wooden walkways. Activities include horse riding safaris, walking, mountain biking, fishing and birding.
On day 6 of your Africa vacation package you will be transferred to the airstrip for your flight to Kaya Mawa on Likoma Island.
Accommodation: In lovely thatch cottages in a full board basis.
Kaya Mawa Lodge is situated at the head of a crescent shaped bay, surrounded by mango trees and ancient baobabs. Kaya Mawa offers an excellent location, world class accommodation and a wide range of exciting activities, guaranteeing guests a memorable and rewarding experience.
Activities include walking or biking around the island, visits to the cathedral or local markets, swimming, diving, water skiing, tube riding, wake snaking, sailing safaris and kayaking.
Spend your days relaxing and enjoying the activities of this unique lodge.
On the final day of your Africa vacation package you bid farewell to the Lodge before your transfer by light aircraft to Lilongwe for your connecting flight home.