Users must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians at all times.
Coasting devices may not be used in any manner that places pedestrians at risk.
Speed of the device must not exceed 5MPH and the user must remain in control of their device at all times. Riding coasting devices down hills, including the hills at East Campus Drive and West Campus Drive is prohibited.
Coasting devices are not vehicles and their use is prohibited on roadways and in parking lots and parking structures.
Use of the devices for acrobatics, racing, or other stunts is strictly prohibited. Riding on any architectural or landscape features other than sidewalks is prohibited. All wheels of the device must be in contact with the ground while in use.
The use of coasting devices is prohibited within any building, any covered area, and in the designated pedestrian-only zones on campus.
Persons using roller skates or rollerblades must remove them before entering any campus building.
These regulations are effective immediately and will be enforced by the University Police Department. Persons violating these prohibitions may be cited under C.V.C 21113(g) regarding local jurisdiction over skateboards, other coasting devices, and bicycles.
Bicycle riders on public roads have the same rights and responsibilities as motorists, and are subject to the same rules and regulations. On the CSULB campus, bicycle use is also allowed on specifically designated sidewalks and pathways. Bicycles must always yield to pedestrians and are prohibited in the designated pedestrian-onle zones.
The use of bicycles and coasting devices on campus carries with it responsibility and liability. Please ride carefully and with all due consideration for the safety and rights of others. Accidental collisions may seriously injure pedestrians, bicyclists, other skaters, and/or cause damage to campus property. A person riding a bicycle, skateboard, or any other coasting device who strikes anyone is liable for all medical expenses of that victim and any damage done to the victim's property.