Best choice ever! I found out about them through a co-worker and loved their pictures. They take their time to capture the most magical moments. Highly recommendable! Thank you for everything.
Michael and I loved working with Nicole and Mike; they made taking pictures in the cold enjoyable and made us feel comfortable. Awesome people to work with, and highly recommended.
We had Nicole & Mike do our engagement and wedding photos. They were professional, personal and truly captured our vision! They went above and beyond (traveling a little ways to our venue). Throughout both photo shoots they made us feel relaxed, comfortable and made it fun!
“Felt like hanging out with (super talented) old friends..."
We hired Dreamscape for our engagement photo session and we can't recommend them enough. If you've seen their work you know that they are seriously talented, know the technical elements of photography, and have a natural eye. The bonus is their professionalism and flexibility. They were so open to all our crazy ideas and were really diligent about making our vision come to life, but they were also honest about what wouldn't work or come out the way we wanted. They are so fun to be around, our whole session felt like hanging out with (super talented) old friends.
“Don't think I could have done it with out them..."
Mike & Nicole did our engagement pictures so of course they had to do our wedding, and we were not disappointed. They showed up on time, actually early, prepared and were ready to go. It was chaotic trying to get everyone together, but they showed the utmost professionalism, even when I was asking for specific pictures! They catered to all my requests and needs. I honestly don't think I could have done it with out them. Our pictures came out beautifully, and I can't thank them enough!!
They were the absolute best pair to shoot our trash the dress evening. Very laid back when we were 30 minutes late stuck in traffic and the best warm-hearted people. They captured every moment we hoped they would and then some. We now have memories frozen in which we can cherish forever. Thanks to both of you so much and look forward to using you in the future. Cheers!
“Still raving about the photos..."
Nicole & Mike did a wonderful job photographing our big day! My friends and family are still raving about the photos they took. They have a good eye for what will work and made everything so easy and enjoyable. Plus, we received our photos very quickly. I'm extremely happy with the work they did for our wedding!
I can not thank Nicole & Mike enough!!! From the moment I messaged them, they have been so amazing. Even after I was an hour late to my wedding, they worked with me. I was in the middle of a break down due to heavy rain and some family drama, but they were there to calm me down and reassure me everything would be ok. These two were very professional in everything they did, but they honestly felt more like apart of the family. Thank you both for being so amazing!!