Vanto is rated 4.5 out of 5 by 120.
Rated 4 out of 5 by JoeGetRDone from Caldera Moments We love every minute we spend in our hot tub with family and friends. A true, mind settling experience that allows time for real conversations in a relaxing environment. Love it!!
Rated 4 out of 5 by MP22 from Very Pleased We've had our Vanto for a year now and love it. Use it at least once a week and really enjoy it over fall and parts of winter. So far, easy maintenance. Very pleased with our choice in spa.
Rated 4 out of 5 by Nick from We like our spa Very nice. Moderately priced. Easy to keep clean.Shopped many different brands before choosing Caldera and glad we did.
Rated 4 out of 5 by so Cal soaker from enjoying the bubbles... While I find the vanto very comfortable, the built in bromide and mineral system was challenging to monitor. Thought it would be a no fuss system... But after 5 months of constant checking and altering... I'm back to floating bromide tablets. Unit holds temperature well and is very comfortable. We use the spa frequently.
Rated 4 out of 5 by Tiki from We spend alot more time in the yard! We have a small corner yard. It was hard to entertain in, once we bought the spa that all changed. We have two children they love to have their friends over. Especially when the weather is cooler. At times there has been more than 10 kids in it. The boys have gotten very creative at making games for the spa. Together we have spent hours of family time in it. I often host a moms night w my girlfriends and whine which is always a hit.
Rated 4 out of 5 by Eaglerivertub from Vanto We've had the Vanto for almost a year. It has held up well to our moderate to low usage and all the knobs, controls and head rests have held up to four kids 5-11 years old. Water care was easy once we gave up on the bromine and went with regular chlorine granules. Overall a good quality purchase that we enjoy using.
Rated 4 out of 5 by Happyhusband from Deep Seats The one bonus for my husband is the extra deep seat. He is a big guy, so being able to actually be covered with water while he is enjoying it is great.
Rated 4 out of 5 by Mom22 from Water Issues My husband loves the new spa, but he does not need to maintain it! The Spa Frog does not provide adequate bromine even at the highest level. We were told, after the fact, that this is an issue with the larger spas. That means we need to add bromine tablets as well. Further more, the "Ozinator" only runs when the pump is running. This impacts energy efficiency because we need to run the pump 12 hours a day. Having its own power supply would have been a big plus.
Rated 3 out of 5 by hot tub chuck from Hot Tub The hot tub water is very cloudy and no seems to give a good explanation why.
Rated 3 out of 5 by 3boys from Disappointed Replaced an old hot tub with a Caldera and have spent the first year trying to keep the tub clean. For some reason the cleaning system does not keep water and hot tub clean. The place of purchase just keep selling me more chemicals. Hot tub looks good. We wish it worked better..very disappointed..
Rated 3 out of 5 by scorjo44 from Happy My 1st. hot tub. Happy with it so far. Use it alot more in winter than summer.
Rated 3 out of 5 by JayM from Help Ok, got this spa delivered a few weeks ago so I could not hook it up right away due to the cold weather spell here in NY. I finally got a decent weekend and got to work. All new 8/3 wiring, 50amp breaker in the main panel, new sub panel w/a 50amp breaker, outside line in flex conduit. got all the wiring done and wanted to test to ensure connectivity before filling, I figured a brief light up on the spa panel...shut it off...fill it up and good to go. Not so much. Everytime I hit the breaker in the sub panel it trips. I went over EVERYTHING 3 times to make sure it was all done properly and it still does the same thing. Any help would be appreciated. Is there a dummy sensor in this...to save people from themselves? I'm at a loss at this point. Im a general contractor and have reasonable electrical experience along with this being one of many I have done.....but this is getting the best of me.
Rated 3 out of 5 by Brocko from Good at times I like my spa. However I have had trouble with it as far as the jets go and leaks. The service people have came out 3 -4 times and apparently cant fix it because they were ordering a part and it wasnt replaced.
Rated 2 out of 5 by Vanto from Rough start but we love our hot tub We sat in every hot tub in town and ended up selecting the Vanto based on the styling, comfort, and price. We had many problems with the unit over the first 3-4 months that we owned it from vacuum pressure sensors to the main control board had to be replaced. The service from the company we purchased the tub was not as knowledgeable as I expected. When the unit would simply not heat they came out and said the filter was dirty. We had only owned it for a few weeks and the filter was absolutely clean. Once a new vacuum sensor and control board were replaced we then had problems with the ionizer that we purchased as an adder. This is not a Caldera problem but yet another problem by the dealer as they installed the wrong size port. We have also had both heating element couplers break in a span of a few weeks. When this happens it spits water all over the inside of the cabinet, a huge problem in the winter months as this cabinet is un-insulated. The entire tub has to be drained to replace the couplers which means there is a real danger for the cabinet to ice up until the heater can turn back on. I remain nervous that this may happen again as the dealer could not offer any explanation as to why this happened twice in less than a month. Since all of these initial problems however we have had a trouble free experience with the unit and I'm in it nearly every day. I switched from the included Spa Frog bromine system to regular chlorine as it is easier to keep the water clean with less hassle and a smaller amount of chemistry. The only negative I would say is that our power bill went up $60 or so per month and we expected only $30. With the main cabinet being un-insulated it is no wonder that during the winter the heater runs frequently. I plan to add some insulation to the main cabinet to hopefully offset our high power bill. Everything else about the unit is great. It's comfortable, has enough jets and features to make a great soaking experience and we absolutely love it. Had we been able to avoid the initial problems I would rate it five stars for everything but energy efficiency.
Rated 2 out of 5 by bandit780 from 2014 tub We have only had our tub 1 1/2 years. The first month of ownership (Dec 2014) we had to drain the tub. All four foot jet chrome ring covers fell off. So we drained the tub, re glued them and refilled our tub. They have stayed on now. Spring 2015, noticed a panel on the outside of the tub where the lid lifter is attached is cracked. We believe that because of the unstability of the cheap lid lifter, it jerks on the lid on the opposite side that you are using to lift the hot tub lid.Contacted company we bought from at the end of March 2015. End of May we got a call that they will replace the panel(because its under warranty) but we will have to pay mileage for them to come and repair it. We live 75 miles one way from the dealer. Wow, really? Not happy with this situation and don't feel we should pay for parts that are under warranty and obviously defective. Dealer told us they had 4 of them with similar problem.
Rated 1 out of 5 by johndoe44 from Won't buy again unless Caldera provides access to parts I purchased my spa with the waterfall feature. This no longer works due to a cheap plastic part cracking. It also affects usage of the spa itself as water spews out the opening where the waterfall control should be. I can't purchase the part from the dealer and see no access to parts online at Caldera. It's easy enough to take the apparatus out and replace the part if I could get the part. To replace the part I have to purchase the entire $35 apparatus to get one little cheap plastic part which probably costs less than $1 to make. It just shows a lack of consideration for the customer to even produce the product with such a cheap plastic single point of failure and then on top of that to not provide a way to replace the part.
Rated 1 out of 5 by ProblemsinAlaska from Problems The first time using this 8 jet covers came off. To date 29 jet covers have been replaced. Within a month a large crack developed. I haven't even had it a year... nothing but problems.
Rated 1 out of 5 by ffmom from Awful Don't share with you that the ozone generator does NOT work continuously - only when the pump is running - NOT very energy efficient. Gave it away! Also the backflow valve for the ozone failed after 11 months. Service tech said this is normal!!
Rated 5 out of 5 by Joe from Vanto I am very pleased with my spa. I didn't think it was a good investment at first but I loss that discussion with my wife and today I am glad she won!
Rated 5 out of 5 by Vantovacationer from Should have made this purchase sooner My husband and I love the Vanto! It is large enough to fit 4-7adults comfortably and leaves enough room to access jet areas for a completely relaxing experience. The controls for jet speed and temperature are easy to use and reach from the cool down seat. The lighting and waterfall options are a nice feature but not necessary to enjoy this spa.
Rated 5 out of 5 by BunkyFourBeers from Worth every penny... Best purchase of my life. I wish I just would have pulled the trigger and bought a quality hot tub like this ten years ago, but I thought it was too much of a hassle to maintain. Man, was I wrong. Its so ridiculously easy. And to think of the good times I let slip by by not buying this earlier... Oh well, it mine now!
Rated 5 out of 5 by aamcz from Great spa Love this spa. The lighting features are great. It is easy to