How do you feel when you take a look at your home’s exterior. If you suddenly notice one day that it’s looking lackluster, it’s no surprise. Many of us spend so much time indoors that we forget to perfect the look of the outside.
When you think about home improvement, you often go through all of the fine details of the house in your head. You think about everything from top to bottom – how to keep everything clean and hygienic, and also how to improve every inch to make it all look as pretty as possible. Everyone wants to live in the best possible home, so they focus a lot of energy into making the interior of the place close to perfect.
What goes into the house is super important, but it’s just a select part of your entire home. The aspects that sit on the outside of the home also need some love and some work. First impressions are important, and people aren’t exactly going to see inside the home when they stand on the outside. There are a bunch of components that make up a home’s exterior, here are a few ideas to help spruce up and shore up the outside.
Whether your drive is concrete or compacted soil (like this one in the UK), keep it clean and in perfect repair. It makes the first impression of your home’s exterior.
The first place anyone reaches as they enter your home’s space. The driveway isn’t always seen as the most glamorous part of a home, but they can definitely be made to look very attractive if given enough time and care.
If the driveway is looking a little weathered, then it probably does have something to do with the years of damage caused by it – even if a driveway is fairly new, it can look as though it has been around for decades only after a couple of years.
The best course of action here is to take a pressure washer and blast away at the dirt that has been collected. You’d be surprised at how youthful it can look after a good clean. You could also add some little extras in there like lights or borders to give it something more than just a plain look.
A garden is the crowning glory of your home’s exterior.
The garden should be a place to clear minds and feel complete bliss. If you have a garden that is fairly packed with different things, perhaps think about having a little clear-out and starting with somewhat of a blank canvas.
People like to have little areas in their garden to sit in and relax – with a bit of work, you could get some chairs, get some plants, maybe half a dozen pieces of landscaping stone and a few other things, and you could have yourself your own little area. You could give the fences and gates a little paint if they look as though they’re fading a little.
In terms of the bricks of the house, they’re in a similar boat to the driveway in that they can begin to look a little aged quite easily. It’s another case of blasting it with the pressure washer and seeing the results – be careful though; you don’t want to make a mess for the neighbors.
If you have a garage and you don’t use it for parking your car in there, then you could give it a little clean – a lot of unused and needless items are stored in one’s garage, you could spend a day just sorting through all of the stuff in there.
You could go one further and renovate it completely. If it’s left alone for a lot of the time, you may elect to turn it into a more practical place.
Addressing your home’s exterior can polish up your dulled curb appeal with your investment of time and labor.
Posted on April 10, 2019 by Deborah TayloePosted in DIY ProjectsTagged DIY, DIY Landscaping, DIY Projects, home exterior, home's exterior, landscaping.