Hello! Welcome to Luckstruck--sterling silver jewelry with a gothic Western feel. Laid back and badass, featuring vintage glass cabochons and my signature handmade silver roses.
Please excuse the somewhat gnarly hands in the photos--those are the hands that make the jewelry. :) Most items are made to order, so please allow three to five business days before they ship.
Though you won't receive the exact item pictured, it will be the same design. I make hundreds of little silver roses but each one turns out just a little bit differently. Kinda like snowflakes, I guess. The beauty of handmade is that each item might have its own little idiosyncrasy.
Buying a gift? Just let me know in the "note to seller" section at checkout where to send it and if you'd like me to include a note to the recipient.
If you have any questions, just shoot me a convo!
These are fantastic stackers! I love all the options, and now I have several choices. I did get a size bigger than normal in order to stack them...a whole size bigger but it was worth it. Fast shipping. Thank you!
Last day to order for Valentine's Day is February 1!
Finally getting around to photographing all the new earring styles I've been taking to shows but hadn't listed in my shop. Whew. Wish me luck.
Quality time in the studio.
I'm a tool junkie. I get it from my dad.
Each order comes ready for gift giving (or keeping for yourself).
Hey. I’m Lisa. I make things. I collect things. I have a lot of cats.
I graduated in 2008 from the University of Kansas with a degree in jewelry design and metalsmithing. Fun fact: It’s the oldest program of its kind west of the Mississippi. I read that in the course catalog once and I’ve repeated it dozens of times. I will probably continue to do so.
You know how most people change their major at least once? I never did. Kinda surprising, especially when you consider that a) I didn't take a single art class in high school and b) I picked jewelry/metalsmithing from a list on the back of a postcard KU sent me. My last semester, I took a letterpress class and made my own graduation announcements. On the back is a quote from Marilyn da Silva which reads, "Some people are said to have been born with a silver spoon. I am convinced that I was born with the hammer, to make the silver spoon, which makes me even luckier." Pure, Grade A awesomeness right there, folks.
I've been a maker my entire life. My mom's mom taught her to sew and my mom taught me. I joined 4-H when I was old enough and made clothes for the fair each year. It's kind of mind-blowing that I've been sewing for over twenty years. My dad was always working on our family home, which originally belonged to his grandmother. From the two of them, I learned how to do it myself before DIY was even a "thing". :) When I was a freshman in high school, I was bound and determined to take woodworking instead of Spanish, despite the reservations of my high school counselor. I later took Spanish, but woodworking has proven to be the most helpful in my daily life, hands down.
If you've got the time or interest, here's a blog post featuring my wedding a couple years ago: http://emmalinebride.com/real-weddings/handmade-wedding-diy-details/ I made my dress, the bridesmaids' dresses, my husband's clothes, our jewelry, invites... It was a crazy, crazy time in my life and called upon nearly every skill I have. Ha ha.
My parents have taken me to flea markets since I was little, so I've had a lifelong appreciation of old things. I especially take inspiration from vintage western imagery as well as Victorian jewelry and symbolism. You'll see a lot of "lucky" symbols...hence my shop name. I am obsessed with horseshoes but I don’t like horses all that much. One chewed on my ponytail at 4-H camp and I’ve never fully forgiven the species.
Many of my pieces showcase vintage glass cabochons. Most of them are what’s called a “reverse intaglio.” The cabochons have a design molded into the back, which is then painted. They're a poor man's version of Essex crystals, some of which are incredible. Google it. You won't regret it.
I recycle whatever I can, in and out of the studio. Your purchase might be mailed in a reused bubble envelope and padded with tissue paper. The gift box itself will be new, but is made of 77% post-consumer fiber.