A mattress for side sleepers? What about a mattress for back or stomach sleepers? Why is there a mattress designed specifically for side sleepers? The mattress must meet the unique needs that a side sleeper needs. The mattress should have a good temperature control so the person can sleep comfortably. The mattress should be reasonably priced and specifically designed for people who like to habitually sleep on their sides. The mattress must give this type of sleeper strong support for their backs, necks and legs, and feet. If the person likes to bend their legs while they sleep or they like to sleep with their legs straight the mattress must be able to meet these needs. This is why memory foam would be good to have so it will form to the person’s peculiar sleeping position.
Benefits and Uses: The mattress is supposed to have 3.5 gel memory foam that conforms to your body. It Will keep the spine aligned and prevent tossing and turning during the night. It does not allow for motion transfer and it will help you have a great night’s sleep. It is lined with New Zealand wool which absorbs moisture and controls the temperature. It will also stop odor from absorbing into the mattress. It contains no harsh chemicals or chemicals that are flame retardant. The mattress is great for side sleepers and the company offers a limited 25 year limited warranty. The mattress is rolled up and compressed into the box for easy shipping.
Feedback: The mattress had over 2200 review written about it. The customer has rheumatoid arthritis and says she can sleep on the sorest parts of her body and she has no pain. The pressure points are fine and she woke up at 7:30 in the morning and she felt like she had slept until 11:00 a.m. She was afraid to sleep on memory foam but she now has no reservations about it.
The customer said they researched the product thoroughly and decided to buy this memory foam mattress. He had tried several other memory foam mattresses in the past. He ordered the product and it was delivered to the front door. The customer was told the box weighed 102 lbs. and the customer was impressed with how compact the mattress was in the box. He dragged the box to the bed the mattress was to go on. He took it out of the box and he let the mattress air out for s night. He slept in another room and the next night he slept on the new mattress. He slept fine until 3:00 am and then he woke up with the sweats. He slept off and on until the morning. He slept on the mattress the next night but he put a fan near the mattress to cool it down. The fan got the room to cool so he had to set the fan at a higher speed. He developed an acute tailbone lower backache. He could not afford this injury because he does heavy lifting at his work. He decided to return the product so he contacted Amazon. The rep said since the mattress had human contact that Amazon could not return the product. The rep said his credit card would be fully reimbursed. He could not believe Amazon would give the money back without taking the mattress back. Amazon told him to give the mattress away. The customer rated the product 2-stars. You cannot blame him for giving the product such a low-rating.
The customer says this is the best mattress he has ever had except for a very expensive one his ex got to keep. This mattress did not sink in the middle or lose his form. He has had very good nights of sleep on the mattress and he gave it a 5-star rating. He highly recommends the product. This is a great mattress for the price. the customer says they have the mattress for a month and so far so good. The mattress is firm and the client likes to sleep on firm mattresses.
The customer is disabled and cannot go to the store to try out a mattress to see what it is really like before he would buy it. He tried this mattress and was disgusted with it because it was not firm at all. He showed a picture of himself sitting on the mattress. It sagged a good 6 to 8 inches when the mattress was 13 inches high. It is definitely not a firm mattress. The customer is tired of reading reviews that do not meet his expectations concerning the product. He thinks maybe the reviews are fake because they seem to be wrong most of the time. Being a disabled person he really needs the reviews to accurately reflect the quality of the product. He called Amazon and they said to give the mattress away but we will still fully refund your money. He likes the way Amazon takes care of the customers. The customer rated the product one-star.
The couple bought the mattress 3 years ago and they are disgusted with the product. They slept well on it at first but now they wake up in the morning with aches and pains. The mattress sagged in certain spots making it tougher to sleep. The rotated the mattress to try and alleviate the sags it did not work. They could not flip the mattress over because the thickness on the bottom is different than on the top. The customer said this mattress is only 3-years-old and is a lousy product. The customers rated the product 2-stars. The mattress was a solid mattress and it was easy to set up. The wife and husband were people of average weight so they cannot understand why the mattress would sag. They will not buy the product again and they do not recommend the product.
Benefits and Uses: It is a knitted polyester and tencel blended fabric which will relieve tension on your shoulders and hips. The mattress is great for side sleepers and is so soft you will think you’re sleeping in the clouds. The mattresses 4 layers will have you sleeping in optimal comfort. The top panel supplies you with comfort. The memory gel section alleviates pressure and gives you support while you sleep. The internal breathable layer keeps you cool while you sleep. The foundational layer comes in soft, medium, and firm designations. You order what you want. The mattress comes with a 10-year non-prorated warranty and a 120 night comfort guarantee.
Feedback: The customer said the mattress came in 18 inches and 41 inches square. It came in a heavy plastic shipping bag and it was easy to roll out of the bag. The customer put it on the mattress box and they waited two hours to sleep on the mattress. Contrary to what they had read and heard the mattress had no odor. The customer said they slept well on the mattress and that it was a foam mattress and not a memory mattress. The customer is right it is not a memory mattress but a foam mattress. The customer does not want a memory mattress. The customer rated the product 5-stars.
The customer rated the product 5-stars and said it was very easy to set up. The product is very comfortable and this is all the customer writes. This is not a detailed review and tells us nothing about the quality of the product. Why is it great? Is it firm? Is it soft? The customer does not say why they rated the product 5-stars. The customer does not write if they slept soundly during the night or that they woke up refreshed in the morning. We do not know if the customer woke up in pain or if any previous pains were alleviated. This review has no selling value for future customers. The review is too general and neutral to convince anyone to buy or not to buy the product.
This is not a very positive review because the customer rated the product 3-stars. Which really is an average rating. The customer bought a medium and firm mattress. The couple decided to sleep on the firm mattress and put the medium mattress in the guest room. The wife has had back issues for years and needed the firm support. The husband weighs 200 lbs and needs to find a comfortable position to sleep in. The firm mattress met this requirement. Despite this seemingly positive review, the customer rated the product 3-stars which sends strong mixed signals. The review will not convince people to buy the product.
The customer says the mattress is like sleeping on a cloud as they said in their own words. They tried the mattress in the store and the longer they laid on it the better they liked it. They selected the firm mattress and they have rated the product 5-stars. They wrote the review the day this article was written 7/16/2018. So, it remains to be seen what the customer thinks about the product down the road.
The customer pays the mattress was easy to set up and is comfortable to sleep on but they did not say why it was easy to set up or why it was so comfortable for them to lay on. The customer rated the product 5-stars. Two women wrestled the box mattress upstairs without any extra help. They said once you get it out the box take it right to where it will be slept on. This is because the mattress once it comes out of the box it expands rapidly so you do not have a lot of time to move the mattress. They put it in the guest room but quickly moved it to the master bedroom because it was too good to leave in the guest room. The mattress is nice and the customer rated the product 5-stars.
Benefits and Uses: Hopefully the mattress is worthy of the robust price tag it carries-$3599 which is very expensive. The mattress is 11.8 inches thick and it is made of temperature material. Or it will control the temperature as you sleep giving you a comfortable sleep. It helps to spread the body weight evenly across the bed helping you to sleep without waking up sore in the morning. The cover is made of breathable, cooling material that keeps the surface of the mattress cool. The mattress material is designed with cooling benefits and it draws heat from the body.
Feedback: The customer says the mattress is working very well for them. They use to lay down and could not sleep and on top of it they would wake up sore. Now, with this mattress as soon as they lay down they fall asleep. They wake up in the morning without feeling sore. They would wake up every morning sore when they slept on the other mattress. The client rated it 5-stars. The customer says they wanted to wait before they wrote this review and the finally got around to writi