If the couple does not click, do not take it personally. You tried, and your intentions were good. Shrug your shoulders, and let it go. Maybe next time.
Avoid getting too involved. Once you have introduced the couple, let things play out without further involvement on your part. It is up to the couple to decide whether or not they want to pursue another meeting. Their first encounter may go extremely well or it may blow up in flames. Either way, the ball is in their court… not yours.
Do not throw people together randomly or just because they are both single. The only good reason for setting up two people is because you sincerely believe they would like each other. Before making your first move, find out if they have similar interests and what each individual is looking for in a relationship.
Ask for permission first. Never ambush anyone with an impromptu setup. Make sure those involved are genuinely okay with your plans. If they decline, accept the refusal graciously.
Playing cupid or matchmaker for family or friends can be fun and rewarding, especially if romantic sparks fly. Helping two people find each other in this great big, hectic world is a wonderful thing to do for people you love and care about. You may be bringing together two people who are a perfect match but might never have found each other without your help. But setting up people you know well can also be an iffy undertaking because romantic chemistry is very hard to predict. Remember… love takes its own path. If you are considering playing matchmaker, think it through and tread a little carefully. You don’t want to do anything that might have a negative effect on your relationship with either person.
Ditch any preconceived expectations. Just because you think two people are perfect for each other does not mean they will feel the same way. Even though heartfelt, your enthusiasm and eagerness might be a bit overwhelming. You could end up putting extra pressure on the couple, and possibly doom a relationship before it has a chance to plant roots and grow.
Be completely honest. When describing each person to the other, full disclosure is essential. Talk about what a person is really like without trying to create an image that will appeal to the other person. If you don’t know someone that well, let the other know. Share photos if you have them.