As some of you may already know, each morning I post a Morning Find to my Twitter account. What’s a Morning Find? It’s a cool product I’ve come across, a happening furniture sale, or a creative idea that I think everyone should know.
If you want to learn more about my Morning Finds, you can follow me on Twitter , “Like” my Facebook Page, or follow this blog!
We love the inexpesive instant upgrades that wall decals offer. Some of our favorite wall decals can be found on Etsy at Wall Decal Depot.
We love the simplicity of Dash & Albert rugs. A little trick - we use outdoor rugs in kid's rooms, playrooms, and other areas that get a lot of foot traffic because they're so easy to clean!
We took this picture at NYIGF last year in the Natural Curiosities booth. We think it makes for a great pop of color!
We find a lot of fun accessories at Roberta Freymann, including these darling candle votives.
Hang your winter coats on this stylish find - we find this Spider Coat Rack from CB2 cheery enough for any entry!
We can think of a hundred uses for this Carlyle Chandelier from Z Gallerie. How many can you think of?
Pillow envy from Judy Ross Textiles.
We recently used this stool from Stray Dog Designs and loved it so much we had to share!
One of our readers pointed out these beverage organizers and we thought they were a genius idea for football season! Find them at Crate & Barrel.
We've always been a big fan of Mottega lamps. And now they have new shapes and colors to choose from!
Designer's secret to a great looking fireplace is birch logs. Find them at BirchLogs.com.
Flotsam Furniture makes these cool midcentury modern inspired benches, available through Etsy.
We announced that Serena & Lily was having a private sale. Did you miss it? No sweat, they are having another sale through December 18th.
Once again, Natrual Curiosities proves how cool they are with their 5x8 series.
Gel Pro offers a way to help you save your back in the kitchen! Find them at Bed, Bath, & Beyond.
We found the best of the Cyber Monday Home Decor Sales!
Chic Cleats offers a solution to upgrade your window treatments with just a switch of the hardware.
We're dying to find a client that will let us use these cozy and fun sheepskins from B&J Fabrics.
We love the Beck Side Table from CS Post as an option in a cozy reading nook.
Serena & Lily added new and original art to their online collection!
For the month of December, we're going to start something a little different. Each month will have a different theme, and the morning finds will correspond to the theme. December's theme? FESTIVE, of course! Make sure to follow us for updates on on all of our festive interior finds!