FX Pips Master

FX Pips Master teaches you to think in a brand new way and ignore what every body else has pushed at you in the past to try out something amazingly powerful yet simple.

$19.99 Yes, the System is an All-rounder… From: Jordan Allen Re: Insider Tactics to Dominate the Forex Markets Dear Frustrated Trader, I know what it feels like to jump from one forex system to another with nothing to show for it except losing trade after losing trade. I know what it feels like to have my trading account blown to smithereens after following some so-called ex hedge fund trader’s software or manual. And I know what it feels like to doubt myself and wonder if I’ll ever make money trading forex. If you’re in this situation right now, my message to you is… You know what I used to tell myself when I read about other people making money from forex while I was losing? “There must be a way.” I used to always wonder, “What are they doing that I’m not? When do they enter their trades? And when do they get out?” It’s a mind-numbing, frustrating situation. Because these people (if you can get in contact with them) won’t give you the time of day if you are not prepared to shell out a couple thousand dollars. You are already in the hole. Where are you going to get that from? Listen… From one forex trader to another, I’m going to show you what works for me that allows me to pull in. And I’m not going to charge you anything like$2997 or some

ridiculous high-priced fee I see forex “gurus” extorting from people who like you who need help.

No.

When I tell you later, you’ll consider it a bargain.

But first, let me show you you a couple screenshots of trades I won that have put over $2,000 in my bank account in one week: And do you know what the beautiful thing about getting those returns is? When others in the past would tell you about rigging up your charts with Bollinger Bands… Stochastics… Commodity Channel Index… and a whole range of indicators you don’t need…. I strictly use price action. Indicators are lagging. And they give signals after the market has long moved on. What I’m going to show you gets you in early–at the beginning of the trend. So you can rake in 10 pips… 20 pips… 30 pips… and more… as the trend begins to form. Even if you are conservative and you shoot for 10 pips a day… If you make at least$10 per day, that’s $50 in your first week. If you make$20 per day, that’s $100 in your second week. If you make$30 per day, that’s $150 in your third week. See how it adds up? That’s what I did to make over$2,000 in a week. Not with 10 pips only.

But more.

And if you master what I’m about to show you, I have No doubt you will be able to make as much as I do.

Now, listen…

So if you are someone who works, you can do this around your day job.

You can do this in the morning before you go to work, at lunch time, or when you get home.

And if you have time on your hands during the day, you will find multiple opportunities to profit.

How much you want to make is completely up to you.

I showed my method to one of my students, Sean, in a Starbucks cafe.

After answering my Craigslist ad, he wanted to meet up instead of showing him by screen sharing online. I said no problem. We set the time for 2PM one Friday.

And when I was done explaining my method, it was 2.18.

It gets better…I watched him place a trade on his account with my guidance and watched the trade go into profit until I told him to

close it for a cool $100. He had NO problem paying my tutorial fee because he proved in flesh that… Hello. My name is Jordan Allen… and many years ago, I worked for a furniture manufacturing business. I had a boss and a salary – much like I’m guessing you have now. My paycheck wasn’t anything big. It wasn’t bad. But it wasn’t grand either. And, maybe like you and a lot of other people… I bought lottery tickets. Scratch N Win. Keno. Pick 3. Or anything I thought could get me out of the financial muck I was in. But none of that was working out. So I did the next best thing… I ran a business making and selling the only think I knew–furniture. I was doing well for a while. Money started coming in. But it was hard. It was just too much work! I was leaving my home at 5.30 in the morning and coming home at 11PM. Plus, my family life suffered. My wife always wore a constant frown when I came home at night. No “Hi Honey, how was your day?” No back rubs. No nothing. I was never home to eat dinner at the table like a normal family does. I was missing out on stuff. My daughter was growing up without me. We didn’t hang out as much as we used to before I started the business. I saw what running a conventional business was doing to my family life and I wanted out. So I started searching for alternatives… Getting a 9-5 again was out of the question. I wanted something that… I looked around and did a lot of research. Then, I had a lucky break. I saw a newspaper article about a wealthy trader from the UK who was a self-taught millionaire forex trader. I told myself that if he did it, I could do it too. I borrowed tons of forex books from the library. I scoured the internet for free and paid resources that could help me master forex. And the more I studied, the more I became confused. So I turned to the gurus. They made things worse. And were more interested in signing me on for their high-priced subscription services. There was nobody to talk to when I needed help, so what was the use giving them my money. But here’s what happened… One day while tinkering around with a currency pair, I noticed a certain pattern. And it always occurred before a major rise or fall in price. I looked at other currency pairs, and I saw the same pattern occurring. Suddenly, I knew I was on to something. I completely forgot about everything I had studied in the past because… Something fresh. Something that didn’t require all the ‘indicator noise’ all the other authors and so-called experts pushed. And boy did it work! Check out some of the recent winning trades I had last week: It worked then. It worked last week. And it’s workingnow. And it will work in thefuture. Another one of my students whom I train one-on-one online is Gregory from North Carolina. He used to run a carpet cleaning business which was doing well… but… like me…he wanted out. He was tired of it all—demanding customers, lazy employees, industry restrictions and fees. It was too much. Using the price action strategy I revealed to him, he beat me at my own game. It really is exciting to see a novice making thousands of dollars by following a few simple rules. The worked for Gregory. And I’m 100% confident they will work for you. My strategy is simple to learn and easy to use. When everyone else is tinkering around with indicators, you will be profiting from pure price action. My system will: • Teach you to think in a brand new way and… • Ignore what every body else has pushed at you in the past to try out something amazingly powerful yet simple. That’s all there is to it. Once you learn my method, you can try it out on a demo account for yourself without taking any risks whatsoever. Practice it daily. Until you’re 100% sure that it works. You will watch in amazement as your demo profits accumulate. Then, pretty soon, you will eager to try it out “for real”. Andyou’llbetakingthefirststepstogetbackallthemoney you have lost using other”systems” I don’t believe in clogging up charts with useless indicators till you can’t even see the price. This is crystal clear that even a clueless 10-year-old could easily “get it”. That’s what Jim, another student of mine, wanted when I met up with him in the local library. He had been around the block many times. Buying system after system. Ebook after ebook. And the first thing he told me when he sat down was, “If this is not simple that a 4-year-old can understand it, I can’t promise that I’ll pay you. He showed me the$200 he had in hand for me.

But I told him, “Keep the $200 for now… I’m going to have you placing a trade before I leave this library. Even if it takes another 2 hours.” And that is what I always do. I never leave our meeting without one of my students placing a trade. If I was some fluke, I’d be sweating bullets wondering if the trade would actually become profitable. But while I’m there guiding them, I’ll go buy coffee. I’ll go buy a hamburger. And I’ll come back and eat or drink like there’s no care in the world. Why? Because I’m confident. And I always prove that I KNOW what I’m doing when I part with my students. …and you WILL start winning trades like this… Do profits like this seem impossible to you? Only if you don’t have a system for doing it. A real one. Not one cooked up by some marketer who plucked a worthless, free strategy off some forex forum and decided to sell it to you. They couldn’t care less about whether you succeed or not. But I do. Because I know what the pain of losing over and over again feels like. The fact is, if you start making money like this, compounding your winnings week after week, you could soon be tempted to quit your job. But you don’t have to quit your job. You can use profit windfalls like this for other things like: You will be able to use the simplest and most straightforward method of market entry and exit for making consistent profits on a daily basis. And as I said earlier, you can even personally put the strategy to the test before trading any real money. Does FX Pips Master Repaint? FX Pips Master pivot lines do not repaint. The Buy/Sell Arrows repaints because we want to keep the chart clean. However, when the Buy/Sell Arrow appears, you can confidently take the trades and use the pivot lines for your TP and SL. Even if the arrow disappears the trades are valid. I get asked that question all the while. Many people who call me up think I’m some snake oil salesman. That I actually don’t trade. They think I just sell something I got from somewhere. But when they get to talking with me they see I genuinely care about their success. When they complain about how they don’t know when to enter and exit a trade, I can easily identify with them. Because I was once where they were at. And it may be the same with you. My first reason is that trading forex can be a lonely thing. Sometimes I crave human contact during the day. And I like to communicate with my students by email and Skype throughout the day as profitable trades are setting up. Nothing gives me more joy than seeing students who were once at their wits ends sending me screenshots of profitable trades they have taken using my strategy. It’s truly a heart-warming feeling. And that’s what I want for you too. The FX Pips Master. I’ll go through with you the overview of the FPM course. I will also reveal to you my proven successful strategy, in details, full colored manual. The FX Pips Master EA which you can plug into your MT4 platform. It will give you clear “BUY” and “SELL” signals so you can confirm my manual strategy. There will be no guesswork ever in placing your trades. In each package, you’ll get: Template files, indicators and automated installer program that does all the work for you. With a click of a button, it will install all the necessary files onto your computer. All you need to do next is to follow my simple instructions to trade. Full-colored manual, with details explanation, step-by-step instructions Everything you need to become a FX Pips Master trader is included in this package. Sure, you’ve heard that from all the other forex vendors you have bought something from before. But I want you to suspend your skepticism in this instant and take me at my word. If you are truly serious about your trading success, then you have to commit to making at LEAST 100 trades using the mechanical rules in this system. And if you can do, you will soon see the beauty of this system and the winning edge that it provides to you to comfortably win over and over and over again. Forget about paying$1,997…. $997…$497… or some other

ridiculous price I paid for crap trading systems years ago when I was struggling.

I wouldn’t want you to go through the stress and pressure of trying to make your money back in trading returns… and who wants that sort of pressure anyway?

Certainly not you!

I want you to re-coup losses you’ve suffered over the years as QUICKLY, SAFELY, and as CHEAPLY as possible.

I don’t want there to be anything getting in the way of you just trying this out, which is why…

… you can get your hands on my proven trading strategy for LOW LOW Price.

If you haven’t thought about where you’ll be in the next 60 days

from now, you can promise yourself that you can be thousands of dollars richer, exploiting a strategy that requires nothing from you other than 15 minutes of dedication to changing your life.

Is that too much to ask?

Is that too much “work”? I don’t think so.

15 minutes a day is all it takes to make a BIG difference in your lifestyle.

User Reviews

0.0 out of 5
0
0
0
0
0

There are no reviews yet.

\indicators\Entry_Reversal.ex4
\indicators\PivotsD_v5 (Black).ex4
\indicators\Trend_candles.ex4
3. How I turned $600 to$4000.pdf