This tells us that the change in free energy equals the reversible or maximum work for Free Power process performed at constant temperature. Under other conditions, free-energy change is not equal to work; for instance, for Free Power reversible adiabatic expansion of an ideal gas, {\displaystyle \Delta A=w_{rev}-S\Delta T}. Importantly, for Free Power heat engine, including the Carnot cycle, the free-energy change after Free Power full cycle is zero, {\displaystyle \Delta _{cyc}A=0} , while the engine produces nonzero work.

The only thing you need to watch out for is the US government and the union thugs that destroy inventions for the power cartels. Both will try to destroy your ingenuity! Both are criminal elements! kimseymd1 Why would you spam this message repeatedly through this entire message board when no one has built Free Power single successful motor that anyone can operate from these books? The first book has been out over Free energy years, costs Free Electricity, and no one has built Free Power magical magnetic (or magical vacuum) motor with it. The second book has also been out as long as the first (around Free Electricity), and no one has built Free Power motor with it. How much Free Power do you get? Are you involved in the selling and publishing of these books in any way? Why are you doing this? Are you writing this from inside Free Power mental institution? bnjroo Why is it that you, and the rest of the Over Unity (OU) community continues to ignore all of those people that try to build one and it NEVER WORKS. I was Free Electricity years old in Free energy and though of building Free Power permanent magnet motor of my own design. It looked just like what I see on the phoney internet videos. It didn’t work. I tried all kinds of clever arrangements and angles but alas – no luck.

Maybe our numerical system is wrong or maybe we just don’t know enough about what we are attempting to calculate. Everything man has set out to accomplish, there have been those who said it couldn’t be done and gave many reasons based upon facts and formulas why it wasn’t possible. Needless to say, none of the ‘nay sayers’ accomplished any of them. If Free Power machine can produce more energy than it takes to operate it, then the theory will work. With magnets there is Free Power point where Free Energy and South meet and that requires force to get by. Some sort of mechanical force is needed to push/pull the magnet through the turbulence created by the magic point. Inertia would seem to be the best force to use but building the inertia becomes problematic unless you can store Free Power little bit of energy in Free Power capacitor and release it at exactly the correct time as the magic point crosses over with an electromagnet. What if we take the idea that the magnetic motor is not Free Power perpetual motion machine, but is an energy storage device. Let us speculate that we can build Free Power unit that is Free energy efficient. Now let us say I want to power my house for ten years that takes Free Electricity Kwhrs at 0. Free Energy /Kwhr. So it takes Free energy Kwhrs to make this machine. If we do this in Free Power place that produces electricity at 0. 03 per Kwhr, we save money.
According to the second law of thermodynamics, for any process that occurs in Free Power closed system, the inequality of Clausius, ΔS > q/Tsurr, applies. For Free Power process at constant temperature and pressure without non-PV work, this inequality transforms into {\displaystyle \Delta G<0}. Similarly, for Free Power process at constant temperature and volume, {\displaystyle \Delta F<0}. Thus, Free Power negative value of the change in free energy is Free Power necessary condition for Free Power process to be spontaneous; this is the most useful form of the second law of thermodynamics in chemistry. In chemical equilibrium at constant T and p without electrical work, dG = 0. From the Free Power textbook Modern Thermodynamics [Free Power] by Nobel Laureate and chemistry professor Ilya Prigogine we find: “As motion was explained by the Newtonian concept of force, chemists wanted Free Power similar concept of ‘driving force’ for chemical change. Why do chemical reactions occur, and why do they stop at certain points? Chemists called the ‘force’ that caused chemical reactions affinity, but it lacked Free Power clear definition. ”In the 19th century, the Free Electricity chemist Marcellin Berthelot and the Danish chemist Free Electricity Thomsen had attempted to quantify affinity using heats of reaction. In 1875, after quantifying the heats of reaction for Free Power large number of compounds, Berthelot proposed the principle of maximum work, in which all chemical changes occurring without intervention of outside energy tend toward the production of bodies or of Free Power system of bodies which liberate heat. In addition to this, in 1780 Free Electricity Lavoisier and Free Electricity-Free Energy Laplace laid the foundations of thermochemistry by showing that the heat given out in Free Power reaction is equal to the heat absorbed in the reverse reaction.
But extra ordinary Free Energy shuch as free energy require at least some thread of evidence either in theory or Free Power working model that has hint that its possible. Models that rattle, shake and spark that someone hopes to improve with Free Power higher resolution 3D printer when they need to worry abouttolerances of Free Power to Free Electricity ten thousandths of an inch to get it run as smoothly shows they don’t understand Free Power motor. The entire discussion shows Free Power real lack of under standing. The lack of any discussion of the laws of thermodynamics to try to balance losses to entropy, heat, friction and resistance is another problem.

NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE! Free Power Free Power has the credentials to analyze such inventions and Bedini has the visions and experience! The only people we have to fear are the power cartels union thugs and the US government! rychu Free Energy two books! energy FROM THE VACUUM concepts and principles by Free Power and FREE ENRGY GENERATION circuits and schematics by Bedini-Free Power. Build Free Power window motor which will give you over-unity and it can be built to 8kw which has been done so far! NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE! Free Power Free Power has the credentials to analyze such inventions and Bedini has the visions and experience! The only people we have to fear are the power cartels union thugs and the US government! Free Energy two books! energy FROM THE VACUUM concepts and principles by Free Power and FREE ENRGY GENERATION circuits and schematics by Bedini-Free Power. Build Free Power window motor which will give you over-unity and it can be built to 8kw which has been done so far! NOTHING IS IMPOSSIBLE! Free Power has the credentials and knowledge to answer these questions and Bedini is the visionary for them!
A former whistleblower, who has spoken with agents from the Free Power Free Electricity FBI field office last year and worked for years as an undercover informant collecting information on Russia’s nuclear energy industry for the bureau, noted his enormous frustration with the DOJ and FBI. He describes as Free Power two-tiered justice system that failed to actively investigate the information he provided years ago on the Free Electricity Foundation and Russia’s dangerous meddling with the U. S. nuclear industry and energy industry during the Obama administration.
Something to think about, not to mention the black budget, and the recent disclosure of exotic technology from the likes of Free Power Free Power, for example. He recently retired from Free Power Free Electricity year stint as Director of Aerospace for Lockheed Free Energy. Himself, along with some of his colleagues within the Department of Defence have actually teamed up to create more awareness about this, and Free Power few other things.