Now you can Subscribe using RSS

# IBPS PO 2017 Reasoning Ability practice set 6

IBPS EXAM Guru

Directions (1-2): Study the following information to answer the given questions:
In certain code ‘always to be right’ is written as ‘4 9 3 2,’ ‘right is also just’ is written as ‘9 7 6 5’, ‘come to terms’ is written as ‘1 3 8’, ‘terms are just’ is written as ‘0 1 6’ and ‘always is’ is written as ‘7 4’.

1 .

Which of the following is the code for ‘right’?

 A.   9 B.   7 C.   6 D.   5
2 . What does ‘6’ represent in this code?

 A.   terms B.   also C.   are D.   is
3 . Directions (3-7): In each question below are given some statements followed by two conclusions numbered I and II. You have to take the three given statements to be true even if they seem to be at variance with commonly known facts and then decide which of the given conclusions logically follows from the given statements disregard ing commonly known facts. Give answer

Statements: Some tigers are panthers.
All lions are tigers.
Conclusion: I. Some panthers, which are not tigers, are also lions.
II. All panthers, which are not tigers, are also not lions.

 A.   if only conclusion I follows B.   if only conclusion II follows C.   if either conclusion I or II follows D.   if neither conclusion I nor II follows
4 . Statements: Some motors are scooters.
No scooter is vehicle.
Conclusion: I. There is possibility that a motor will never be a vehicle. II. A few vehicles may not be scooters.

 A.   if only conclusion I follows. B.   if only conclusion II follows. C.   if either conclusion I or II follows. D.   if neither conclusion I nor II follows
5 . Statements: All stars are planets.
No planet is a moon.
Conclusion: I. There is a possibility of stars being a moon.
II. At least moons are not planets.

 A.   if only conclusion I follows. B.   if only conclusion II follows. C.   if either conclusion I or II follows D.   if neither conclusion I nor II follows
6 . Statements: All roses are flowers.
Some roses are red.
Conclusion: I. All flowers being red is a possibility.
II. Many flowers are not red

 A.   if only conclusion I follows. B.   if only conclusion II follows C.   if either conclusion I or II follows D.   if neither conclusion I nor II follows
7 .

 A.   if only conclusion I follows B.   if only conclusion II follows C.   if either conclusion I or II follows D.   if neither conclusion I nor II follows
8 . Directions: (8-10) Study the following information to answer the given questions.
Twelve people are sitting in two parallel rows containing six people each, in such a way that there is an equal distance between adjacent persons. In row - 2 P, Q, R, S, T and V are seated and all of them are facing north. In row-1, A, B, C, D, E and F are seated and all of them are facing south. Therefore, in the given seating arrangement each member seated in a row faces another member of the other row.

A sits third to the right of D. Neither A nor D sits at extreme ends. T faces D. V does not face A and V does not sit at any of the extreme ends. V is not on immediate neighbour of T. B sits at one of the extreme ends. Only two people sit between B and E. E does not face V. Two persons sits between R and Q. R is not an immediate neighbour of T. C doesnot face V. P is not an immediate neighbour of R.

Who amongst the following sit at extreme ends of the rows?

 A.   B.E B.   s,t C.   p,r D.   b,f
9 . Who amongst the following faces A?

 A.   R B.   T C.   P D.   S
10 . How many persons are seated between T and S?

 A.   one B.   Two C.   Three D.   None of these

1 .
 Answer : Option A Explanation : The code for ‘right’ is ‘9’
2 .
 Answer : Option D Explanation : The number ‘6’ represents ‘just’
3 .
 Answer : Option D Explanation : All lions are tigers + Some tigers are panthers. A + I = No conclusion. Hence neither conclusion I nor II follows
4 .
 Answer : Option A Explanation : Some motors are scooters + No scooter is a vehicle = I + E = O = Some motor are not vehicle. Hence there is possibility that a motor will never be a vehicle. Conclusion I follows.No scooter is a vehicle conversion No vehicle is scooter conclusion II does not follows.
5 .
 Answer : Option B Explanation : All stars are planets + No planet is a moon = A + E = E = No stars are moon. Conclusion I does not follow. No planet is moon conversion Some moon are not planets. Conclusion II follows.
6 .
 Answer : Option A Explanation : Some roses are red conversion Some reds are roses + All roses are flowers = I + A = I = Some reds are flowers = So all flowers being red is a possibility conclusion I follows. But some red are flower conversion Some flower are not red, is a possibility. Hence conclusion II does not follows
7 .
 Answer : Option B Explanation : All institutes are academics + All academics are school = A + A = A = All institutes are school. Some institutes are banks conversion Some banks are institutes + All institutes are academies = I + A = I = Some banks are academics. It means there is a possibility: All academics beings bank is a possibility. Conclusion II follows. But All institutes are academics + All academics are school = All institutes school, conclusion I does not follows
8 .
 Answer : Option C Explanation :
9 .
 Answer : Option D Explanation : S-A
10 .
 Answer : Option B Explanation : Two