Coronal hard X-ray sources revisited

This paper reports on the re-analysis of solar flares in which the hard X-rays (HXRs) come predominantly from the corona rather than from the more usual chromospheric footpoints. All of the 26 previously analyzed event time intervals, over 13 flares, are re-examined for consistency with a flare model in which electrons are accelerated near the top of a magnetic loop that has a sufficiently high density to stop most of the electrons by Coulomb collisions before they can reach the footpoints. Of particular importance in the previous analysis was the finding that the length of the coronal HXR source increased with energy in the 20 – 30 keV range. However, after allowing for the possibility that footpoint emission at the higher energies affects the inferred length of the coronal HXR source, and using analysis techniques that suppress the possible influence of such footpoint emission, we conclude that there is no longer evidence that the length of the HXR coronal sources increase with increasing energy. In fact, for the 6 flares and 12 time intervals that satisfied our selection criteria, the loop lengths decreased on average by 1.0 +/- 0.2 arcsec between 20 and 30 keV, with a standard deviation of 3.5 arcsec. We find strong evidence that the peak of the coronal HXR source increases in altitude with increasing energy. For the thermal component of the emission, this is consistent with the standard CHSKP flare model in which magnetic reconnection in a coronal current sheet results in new hot loops being formed at progressively higher altitudes. The explanation for the nonthermal emission is not so clear.

Original Article: http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04631

The coronal volume of energetic particles in solar flares as revealed by microwave imaging

The spectrum of gyrosynchrotron emission from solar flares generally peaks in the microwave range. Its optically-thin, high-frequency component, above the spectral peak, is often used for diagnostics of the nonthermal electrons and the magnetic field in the radio source. Under favorable conditions, its low-frequency counterpart brings additional, complementary information about these parameters as well as thermal plasma diagnostics, either through gyrosynchrotron self-absorption, free-free absorption by the thermal plasma, or the suppression of emission through the so-called Razin effect. However, their effects on the low-frequency spectrum are often masked by spatial nonuniformity. To disentangle the various contributions to low-frequency gyrosynchrotron emission, a combination of spectral and imaging data is needed. To this end, we have investigated Owens Valley Solar Array (OVSA) multi-frequency images for 26 solar bursts observed jointly with Reuven Ramaty High Energy Solar Spectroscopic Imager (RHESSI) during the first half of 2002. For each, we examined dynamic spectra, time- and frequency-synthesis maps, RHESSI images with overlaid OVSA contours, and a few representative single-frequency snapshot OVSA images. We focus on the frequency dependence of microwave source sizes derived from the OVSA images and their effect on the low-frequency microwave spectral slope. We succeed in categorizing 18 analyzed events into several groups. Four events demonstrate clear evidence of being dominated by gyrosynchrotron self-absorption, with an inferred brightness temperature of $\geq10^8$~K. The low-frequency spectra in the remaining events are affected to varying degree by Razin suppression. We find that many radio sources are rather large at low frequencies, which can have important implications for solar energetic particle production and escape.

Original Article: http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04753

Evolution of the solar Ly-$\alpha$ line profile during the solar cycle. II. How accurate is the present radiation pressure paradigm for interstellar neutral H in the heliosphere?

Following the derivation of a more accurate model of the evolution of the solar Lyman-$\alpha$ line with the changing solar activity by Kowalska-leszczynska et al. 2018 (IKL18) than the formerly used model by Tarnopolski et al. 2009 (ST09), we investigate potential consequences that adoption of the resulting refined model of radiation pressure has for the model distribution of interstellar neutral (ISN) H in the inner heliosphere and on the interpretation of selected observations. We simulated the ISN H densities using the two alternative radiation pressure models and identical models of all other factors affecting the ISN H distribution. We found that during most of the solar cycle, the IKL18 model predicts larger densities of ISN H and PUIs than ST09 in the inner heliosphere, especially in the downwind hemisphere. However, the density of ISN H at the termination shock estimated by Bzowski et al. 2008 obtained using ST09 does not need revision, and the detection of ISN D by IBEX is supported. However, we point out the existence of a considerable absorption of a portion of the solar Lyman-$\alpha$ spectral flux inside the heliosphere. Therefore, the model of radiation pressure for ISN H is still likely needs revision, and hence the available models of ISN H are not self-consistent.

Original Article: http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04929

Casting the Coronal Magnetic Field Reconstruction Tools in 3D Using MHD Bifrost Model

Quantifying coronal magnetic field remains a central problem in solar physics. Nowadays the coronal magnetic field is often modelled using nonlinear force-free field (NLFFF) reconstructions, whose accuracy has not yet been comprehensively assessed. Here we perform a detailed casting of the NLFFF reconstruction tools, such as pi-disambiguation, photospheric field preprocessing, and volume reconstruction methods using a 3D snapshot of the publicly available full-fledged radiative MHD model. Specifically, from the MHD model we know the magnetic field vector in the entire 3D domain, which enables us to perform "voxel-by-voxel" comparison of the restored and the true magnetic field in the 3D model volume. Our tests show that the available pi-disambiguation methods often fail at the quiet sun areas dominated by small-scale magnetic elements, while they work well at the AR photosphere and (even better) chromosphere. The preprocessing of the photospheric magnetic field, although does produce a more force-free boundary condition, also results in some effective elevation’ of the magnetic field components. This elevation’ height is different for the longitudinal and transverse components, which results in a systematic error in absolute heights in the reconstructed magnetic data cube. The extrapolations performed starting from actual AR photospheric magnetogram are free from this systematic error, while have other metrics comparable with those for extrapolations from the preprocessed magnetograms. This finding favors the use of extrapolations from the original photospheric magnetogram without preprocessing. Our tests further suggest that extrapolations from a force-free chromospheric boundary produce measurably better results, than those from the photospheric boundary.

Original Article: http://arxiv.org/abs/1703.06360

The dynamic chromosphere: pushing the boundaries of observations and models

Tiago M. D. Pereira

The interface between the bright solar surface and the million-degree corona continues to hold the key to many unsolved problems in solar physics. Advances in instrumentation now allow us to observe the dynamic structures of the solar chromosphere down to less than 0.1" with cadences of just a few seconds and in multiple polarisation states. Such observational progress has been matched by the ever-increasing sophistication of numerical models, which have become necessary to interpret the complex observations. With an emphasis on the quiet Sun, I will review recent progress in the observation and modelling of the chromosphere. Models have come a long way from 1D static atmospheres, but their predictions still fail to reproduce several key observed features. Nevertheless, they have given us invaluable insight into the physical processes that energise the atmosphere. With more physics being added to models, the gap between predictions and observations is narrowing. With the next generation of solar observatories just around the corner, the big question is: will they close the gap?

Original Article: http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04077

Disparity among low first ionization potential elements

The elemental composition of the solar wind differs from the solar photospheric composition. Elements with low first ionization potential (FIP) appear enhanced compared to O in the solar wind relative to the respective photospheric abundances. This so-called FIP effect is different in the slow solar wind and the coronal hole wind. However, under the same plasma conditions, for elements with similar FIPs such as Mg, Si, and Fe, comparable enhancements are expected. We scrutinize the assumption that the FIP effect is always similar for different low FIP elements, namely Mg, Si, and Fe. We investigate the dependency of the FIP effect of low FIP elements on the O7+/O6+ charge state ratio depending on time and solar wind type. We order the observed FIP ratios with respect to the O7+/O6+ charge state ratio into bins and analyze separately the respective distributions of the FIP ratio of Mg, Si, and Fe for each O7+/O6+ charge state ratio bin. We observe that the FIP effect shows the same qualitative yearly behavior for Mg and Si, while Fe shows significant differences during the solar activity maximum and its declining phase. In each year, the FIP effect for Mg and Si always increases with increasing O7+/O6+ charge state ratio, but for high O7+/O6+ charge state ratios the FIP effect for Fe shows a qualitatively different behavior. During the years 2001-2006, instead of increasing with the O7+/O6+ charge state ratio, the Fe FIP ratio exhibits a broad peak. Also, the FIP distribution per O7+/O6+ charge state bin is significantly broader for Fe than for Mg and Si. These observations support the conclusion that the elemental fractionation is only partly determined by FIP. In particular, the qualitative difference behavior with increasing O7+/O6+ charge state ratio between Fe on the one hand and Mg and Si on the other hand is not yet well explained by models of fractionation.

Original Article: http://arxiv.org/abs/1809.04345