全文文献 工具书 数字 学术定义 翻译助手 学术趋势 更多

 近 在 天文学 分类中 的翻译结果: 查询用时：0.142秒
 历史查询

 近 recent(0)near(0)proximal(0)
 recent
 Development of Astrometry in China in the Most Recent Decade 近10年我国天体测量的发展 短句来源 This paper summarize recent year's absolute measurement on a 3.2-cm waveband radio telescope of Yunnan Observatory. 本文总结了近几年来云南天文台3.2cm射电望远镜的绝对测量工作。 短句来源 Based on the data of nuclear reaction ratederived by the progress in the nuclear experiment in recent years, it is pointed out thatall these models might fail to provide the important astrophysical sources of interstellar26A1 as there are some severe difficulties. 根据近几年核物理实验新进展所获得的有关核反应率的新数据，指出这些模型都面临着严重困难，似乎不大可能成为星际26A1的重要天体源泉。 短句来源 The progress of laser ranging to GPS-35,36 satellites in recent years and the situation of application research are introduced in detail. 详细介绍了近几年来对GPS－35、36卫星的激光测距进展和应用研究的情况。 短句来源 The most important international conference on asteroid during the recent years, "Asteroids 2001: from Piazzi to the 3rd millennium" was held in Palermo, Italy, during June 11~16, 2001. Most of the conventioneers were experts in different directions of minor planet study. 2001年6月 11～16日在意大利巴勒莫召开了小行星领域近 10年来最重要的一次专业会议“小行星 2001－从皮亚齐到第 3个千年”（Asteroids 2001：from Piazzi to the 3rd millennium）国际学术研讨会，与会者几乎涵盖了小行星研究领域内各个方面的专家。 短句来源
 near
 NEAR INFRARED PHOTOMETRY FOR 12 CARBON STARS IN OUR GALAXY 12颗碳星的近红外测光 短句来源 The InSb Near Infrared Photometer of Beijing Observatory 北京天文台的锑化铟近红外光度计 短句来源 Near Infrared Observations of S140 IRS——Heating of Associated Gas S140红外源的近红外观测——成协气体的供热 短句来源 NEAR INFRARED PHOTOMETRY OF MOLECULAR OUTFLOW SOURCES 分子外向流源的近红外测光 短句来源 ORBIT STUDIES FOR THE SPECIAL NEAR—EARTH ASTEROID 1989 FC 特殊近地小行星1989 FC的轨道研究 短句来源 更多
 last
 The second section gives a brief description of observational works in the last thirty years. 第二节介绍近30年来观测工作的概况。 短句来源 Since the success of optical interferometry in last decade, astrometric precision and accuracy have been improved dramatically. 近十年来由于光干涉测量技术的成功,使得天体测量的观测精度有了戏剧性的提高。 短句来源 Firsf of all, a statistics is made to the frequency of observational programs in terms of celestial abjects in the period of last 12 years (1980-1992) for the National Radio Astronomy Observatory 12-m millimetre telescope, U.S.A. 本文首先对美国国家射电天文台(NRAO)②安排的12米毫米波射电镜近12年(1980-1992)观测课题的频数分布作了统计分析。 短句来源 In this article, we briefly review the ground-based and space observations of magnetic transient changes related to solar flares in the last two decades, and give a possible explanation based on non-LTE line profile calculations. 本文简要综述近二十年来对与太阳耀斑有关联的磁场瞬变现象的地面和空间观测 ,并通过非局部热动平衡计算 ,分析了可能的理论解释。 短句来源 In the last decade, with the observations of high resolutions, the developments of theoretical models and numerical simulations, there has been great progress in many aspects of the studies of high-velocity clouds, particularly for some special kinds and the all-sky surveys. 近几年通过高分辨率观测、理论模型和数值模拟,对其中几类高速云及全天性的研究有了很大突破。 短句来源 更多

我想查看译文中含有：的双语例句

 recent
 In the case of 3-dimensional commutative algebras a new proof of a recent theorem of Katsylo and Mikhailov about the 28 bitangents to the associated plane quartic is given. The proof is an application of a recent result by W. As a consequence we prove a recent conjecture of Lusztig (see [L1]). This is a survey of recent work involving concepts of self-similarity that relate to Recent study on the subject is an indirect approach: in order to compute the Gabor coefficients, one needs to find an auxiliary bi-orthogonal window function γ. 更多
 near
 Finally, the problem of inversion of a multiplier will be analyzed for smooth functions that have a specified structure near their zeros. Behavior near the boundary of positive solutions of second order parabolic equations Sharp inequalities between weight bounds (from the doubling, Ap, and reverse H?lder conditions) and the BMO norm are obtained when the former are near their optimal values. The popularity of PSWFs seems likely to increase in the near future, as band-limited functions become a numerical (as well as an analytical) tool. In the application of CAD/CAM, the target form of a curve, which is used for plotting or as the data supplied for CAM, is a set of points on (or near by) the curve. 更多
 proximal
 Modified approximate proximal point algorithms for finding roots of maximal monotone operators In order to find roots of maximal monotone operators, this paper introduces and studies the modified approximate proximal point algorithm with an error sequence {ek} such that The most proximal cysteine residues in native hRI are two pairs that are adjacent in sequence. Proximal tubule uptake of albumin, expression of apical membrane cubilin and infiltrating cells in kidney interstitium were determined by immunocytochemistry. It has been demonstrated that the homology of proximal parts of the 16S rRNA gene of all the strains studied towards one another and towards the reference strain ATCC19258 amounts to 100%. 更多
 last
 The last section is devoted to a result about the cohomology of a Lie superalgebra with reductive even part with coefficients in a finite dimensional moduleM. In the last section we give an exposition of results, communicated to us by J.-P. The main part of the work deals with abstract Higgs bundles; in the last two sections we derive the applications to Higgs bundles valued in a line bundle K and to bundles on elliptic fibrations. The automorphism group ${\rm Aut}\,(X)$ is determined in the last section. We obtain these last estimates (more precisely, Hp/2-estimates for h(f) by using a slight extension of the Coifman-Meyer-Stein theorem relating the so-called tent-spaces and the Hardy spaces. 更多
其他
 点击这里查询相关文摘
 相关查询

 CNKI小工具 在英文学术搜索中查有关近的内容 在知识搜索中查有关近的内容 在数字搜索中查有关近的内容 在概念知识元中查有关近的内容 在学术趋势中查有关近的内容
 CNKI主页 |  设CNKI翻译助手为主页 | 收藏CNKI翻译助手 | 广告服务 | 英文学术搜索
2008 CNKI－中国知网

2008中国知网(cnki) 中国学术期刊(光盘版)电子杂志社