What is High Performance Computing (HPC)?
Technology & Science / July 4, 2018

High performance computing (HPC) has become increasingly more popular and important in the world of engineering. But defining what HPC is and figuring out how it can be deployed to aid designers can be tricky. Nowadays, high performance computing is more and more important for the economic and technological development. The high performance computing also becomes an indicator to measure the power of a country. Therefore, it is important and meaningful to improve the performance and universality of high performance computing. High-performance computing (HPC) is the use of super computers and parallel processing techniques for solving complex computational problems. Basic Description of High Performance Computing  (HPC) High Performance Computing  (HPC) most generally refers to the practice of aggregating computing power in a way that delivers much higher performance than one could get out of a typical desktop computer or workstation in order to solve large problems in science, engineering, or business. High Performance Computing  (HPC) allows scientists and engineers to solve complex, compute-intensive problems. HPC applications often require high network performance, fast storage, and large amounts of memory, very high compute capabilities, or all of these. High performance computing runs a broad range of systems, from our desktop computers through large…

What is World Wide Web (WWW)?
Technology & Science / July 3, 2018

The WWW is such an immensely popular Internet facility that for many users, it has become synonymous with the Internet. The World Wide Web was established with the objective of accessing the data from anywhere at any time in form of interlinked hypertext language. The internet is a huge network of computers all connected together. The World Wide Web (‘www’ or ‘web’ for short) is a collection of WebPages found on this network of computers. Your web browser uses the internet to access the web. Overview of WWW World-Wide Web (also called WWW or W3) is a hypertext-based information system. Any word in a hypertext document can be specified as a pointer to a different hypertext document where more information pertaining to that word can be found. The reader can open the second document by selecting the word (using different methods depending on the interface; in a mouse based system, a user would probably place the mouse over the word and click the mouse button); only the part of the linked document which contains relevant information will be displayed. The World Wide Web, or just “the Web,” as ordinary people call it, is a subset of the Internet. The Web…

Waterfalls near Indore to visit in Monsoon Season
/ July 2, 2018

Dive deep into the details of destinations, culture and everything else that will make your experience in Madhya Pradesh, a memorable one. Indore. Indore is often known to be a historical city living with its cultural heritage. But equally enchanting are the natural wonders that are bestowed upon it. It is located on Malwa Plateau and this location blesses it with many untamed Waterfalls near indore. Most of these waterfalls are formed mainly during the monsoons but they remain to be the sought after picnic destinations for the adventure loving Indorites and tourists. The beautiful valleys and lush green locales surrounding these cascading waterfalls makes them exotic and picture perfect. They are identical to the city of Indore and are always listed on the must see places for the travelers who come to explore this wonderful and diverse city. Lying on the verge of Malwa Plateau, Indore has many untamed waterfall near indore. A catalog of the attractive waterfalls from the state perhaps doesn’t exist but after much data collection the following list of waterfall near indore have to visit in monsoon season. 1. Patalpani Waterfall Patalpani waterfalls are located near Mhow, very close to Indore. The falls are huge…

Insert math as
$${}$$