What is Fleming’s Left Hand Rule ?

Fleming’s Left Hand Rule is Rule for Finding the Direction Of Rotation of an Electric motor.

It show the relation between the direction of thrust on a conductor carrying a current in magnetic field.

Let us discuss in brief

There will be a force acting on the conductor whenever a current carrying conductor comes under a magnetic field. The direction of this force can be found using Fleming’s Left Hand Rule (also known as the Left hand rule of Fleming for motors )

Similarly if a conductor is forcefully brought under a magnetic field, that conductor will have an induced current. One can find the direction of this force using the Fleming’s Right Hand Rule.

What it states

Fleming’s left-hand rule states that if we stretch the thumb, the forefinger and the middle finger of our left hand such that they are mutually perpendicular to each other.
If the forefinger gives the direction of current and middle finger points in the direction of magnetic field then the thumb points towards the direction of the force or motion of the conductor.

How to use

Keeping the Thumb,Index Finger and Middle figure of the Left Hand at perpendicular to each other and the forefinger gives the direction of current and middle finger points in the direction of magnetic field then the thumb points towards the direction of the force or motion of the conductor.

Thumb :-Direction of Thrust or direction of motion of conductor.

Index :-Direction of field

Middle :-Direction of current

What is similarity between Fleming left hand rule and fleming Right hand rule

There is a relation between the magnetic field, the current and the force in both Fleming’s left and right hand rules.
This relation is directionally determined by Fleming’s Left Hand rule and Fleming’s Right Hand rule respectively.

What it determine

These rules do not determine the magnitude but instead show the direction of any of the three parameters (magnetic field, current, force) when the direction of the other two parameters is known.

This rule Applicable for

Fleming left hand rule is mainly applicable to electric motors