RUS  ENG JOURNALS   PEOPLE   ORGANISATIONS   CONFERENCES   SEMINARS   VIDEO LIBRARY   PACKAGE AMSBIB
 General information Latest issue Archive Impact factor Subscription License agreement Submit a manuscript Search papers Search references RSS Latest issue Current issues Archive issues What is RSS

 Uspekhi Mat. Nauk: Year: Volume: Issue: Page: Find

 Regular degeneration and boundary layer for linear differential equations with small parameterM. I. Vishik, L. A. Lyusternik 3 The method of finite differences in the theory of partial differential equationsO. A. Ladyzhenskaya 123 Monte Carlo methods for the iteration of linear operatorsJ. H. Curtiss 149 Scientific notes and problems Elementary proof of the essentiality of the identical mapping of a simplexP. S. Aleksandrov, B. A. Pasynkov 175 Groups allowing arbitrary permutation of the factors of their composition seriesS. D. Berman, V. V. Lyubimov 181 On an elementary method of solving certain boundary problems in the theory of holomorphic functions and certain singular integral equations connected with themA. V. Bitsadze 185 On problems of Frommer differentiationR. È. Vinograd, D. M. Grobman 191 On the Cauchy problem for hyperbolic linear systemsB. A. Vostretsov 197 The Dirichlet problem for the equation $\Delta U+\dfrac{4n(n+1)}{(1+x^2+y^2)^2}U=0$M. P. Ganin 205 On the Dirichlet problem for elliptic equations with a small parameter in the highest derivativesJ. Kopáček 211 On summation of double Fourier series of functions of two variablesI. V. Matveev 221 On a property of nuclear spacesD. A. Raikov 231 On the equations of KolmogorovI. D. Cherkasov 237 Characterization of the dimension of metric spaces by continuous mappings into Euclidean spacesM. L. Shersnev 245 In the Moscow Mathematical Society Meetings of the Moscow Mathematical Society 249 Mathematical Events in the USSR Research Seminar of Department of Algebra of Moscow UniversityA. G. Kurosh, L. A. Skornyakov 261 Letters to the Editor Letter to EditorG. E. Shilov 270 Errata 270