#### 题目列表

Which of the following, if true, suggests that the epidemiologists plan for eliminating malaria is not viable?
Even though physiological and behavioral processes are maximized within relatively narrow ranges of temperatures in amphibians and reptiles, individuals may not maintain activity at the optimum temperatures for performance because of the costs associated with doing so. Alternatively, activity can occur at suboptimal temperatures even when the costs are great. Theoretically, costs of activity at suboptimal temperatures must be balanced by gains of being active. For instance, the leatherback sea turtle will hunt during the time of day in which krill are abundant, even though the water is cooler and thus the turtles body temperature requires greater metabolic activity. In general, however, the cost of keeping a suboptimal body temperature, for reptiles and amphibians, is varied and not well understood; they include risk of predation, reduced performance, and reduced foraging success.

One reptile that scientists understand better is the desert lizard, which is active during the morning at relatively low body temperatures (usually 33.0 C), inactive during midday when external temperatures are extreme, and active in the evening at body temperatures of 37.0 C. Although the lizards engage in similar behavior (e.g., in morning and afternoon, social displays, movements, and feeding), metabolic rates and water loss are great and sprint speed is lower in the evening when body temperatures are high. Thus, the highest metabolic and performance costs of activity occur in the evening when lizards have high body temperatures. However, males that are active late in the day apparently have a higher mating success resulting from their prolonged social encounters. The costs of activity at temperatures beyond those optimal for performance are offset by the advantages gained by maximizing social interactions that ultimately impact individual fitness.
The passage suggests that reptiles and amphibians are able to
Even though physiological and behavioral processes are maximized within relatively narrow ranges of temperatures in amphibians and reptiles, individuals may not maintain activity at the optimum temperatures for performance because of the costs associated with doing so. Alternatively, activity can occur at suboptimal temperatures even when the costs are great. Theoretically, costs of activity at suboptimal temperatures must be balanced by gains of being active. For instance, the leatherback sea turtle will hunt during the time of day in which krill are abundant, even though the water is cooler and thus the turtles body temperature requires greater metabolic activity. In general, however, the cost of keeping a suboptimal body temperature, for reptiles and amphibians, is varied and not well understood; they include risk of predation, reduced performance, and reduced foraging success.

One reptile that scientists understand better is the desert lizard, which is active during the morning at relatively low body temperatures (usually 33.0 C), inactive during midday when external temperatures are extreme, and active in the evening at body temperatures of 37.0 C. Although the lizards engage in similar behavior (e.g., in morning and afternoon, social displays, movements, and feeding), metabolic rates and water loss are great and sprint speed is lower in the evening when body temperatures are high. Thus, the highest metabolic and performance costs of activity occur in the evening when lizards have high body temperatures. However, males that are active late in the day apparently have a higher mating success resulting from their prolonged social encounters. The costs of activity at temperatures beyond those optimal for performance are offset by the advantages gained by maximizing social interactions that ultimately impact individual fitness.
The author implies that, in the desert lizard, the advantages in some forms of social interaction
In his magnificent biography of Keats, Nicholas Roe chronicles a forward-looking spirit, whose poetry offered a strikingly modern amalgam of the arts and sciences.?Medical allusions to nerves, arteries, bone and blood developed in tandem with deepening thoughts on human pain and suffering, says Roe. Keatss vaunted "negative capability" allowed him to engage imaginatively with lifes transience and his own consumptive state (he suffered from tuberculosis and was not expected to live for long).?The rueful melancholy of "To Autumn" and "Ode to a Nightingale" speaks of a courageous reckoning with mortality.

Lord Byron, with customary disdain, regarded Keats as a mere dilettante of sensation and "his imagination". Roe will have little of this. The imagination at work in a poem such as "Isabella, or, the Pot of Basil" derived from Keatss professional exposure to dissecting-room corpses. As the son of a Moorfields livery stables manager, Keats knew how the poor could serve as fodder for scalpels. Hospitals were complicit in the body-snatching trade, as the science of anatomy was in its infancy and trainee surgeons were required to practice their skills.
Select the part of the passage that mentions the poems that were informed by Keats's illness.
The price of the SuperPixel high definition television, by Lux Electronics, has typically been out of the range of most consumers, a few of whom nonetheless save up for the television. This past July, the SuperPixel reduced its price by 40%, and sales during that month nearly tripled. TechWare, a popular electronics magazine, claims that the SuperPixel television should continue to see sales grow at this rate till the end of August.
Which of the following suggests that TechWares forecast is misguided?
A senator, near the end of his first six-year term and running for reelection, made the claim: "Citizens of our state are thriving. While national unemployment levels have remained high, our state unemployment rate has been at astonishingly low levels for eleven years running. Clearly, everyone in our state has benefited from the economical packages I have introduced during my time in the Senate. Therefore, grateful citizens of our state ought to vote for my second term."
This argument is most vulnerable to what criticism?
In order to combat Carvilles rampant homeless problem, Mayor Bloomfield recently proposed a ban on sleeping outdoors in the citys many parks. He claims that such a measure will force the homeless to either leave Carville or to find means other than sleeping in public parks.
Which of the following, if true, suggests that Mayor Bloomfields plan will be successful?
The main goal of "risk communication" is for experts to inform laypeople of the potential dangers of new technologies and ecological phenomenon. In order for experts to effectively communicate risk, they must understand the extent of the knowledge base of those whom they hope to guide. Research has found that canned messages, which make no concessions to a person`s knowledge, are likely to leave those who hear or read the message feeling befuddled or indifferent.
Which of the following scenarios best captures the principle regarding effective "risk communication" elucidated in the passage?
Dolphins can swim at high speeds and achieve high acceleration in the water. In 1936, Sir James Gray calculated the force dolphins should be able to exert based on their physiology. He concluded that the propulsive force they were able to exert was not enough to explain how fast they swim and accelerate.?In the 2000s, experimenters used special computer-enhanced measurements of the water in which dolphins were swimming. Through mathematical modeling, they were able to measure the force dolphins exert with their tails. As it turns out, dolphins exert considerably more force with their tails than Sir James Gray or anybody else ever expected.?Therefore, the force exerted by their tails easily explains how fast they swim and accelerate.
In the argument, the two portions (the third and last sentences) play which of the following roles?
The element ytterbium increases its electrical resistance when subject to high mechanical stresses. This property has made it an indispensable component in a medical tool designed to measure the stress on bones, which can guide physicians in setting broken bones. Unfortunately, ytterbium is rare, found in only a few meager sources around the world. A steep market demand will cause the price to skyrocket, and this technology so helpful to physicians will become unaffordable.
Which of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the argument above?
Megalimpet is a nationwide owner of office space. ?They have major office buildings in the downtowns of several cities in the 48 lower states, and rent this space to individual companies. ?Megalimpet office spaces vary from small office to large suites, and every space has custom-designed wall-to-wall carpeting. ?The carpet in several Megalimpet facilities needed replacing. ?The winning bid for the nationwide carpet replacement was submitted by Bathyderm Carpet Company (BCC). ?The bid contract involves all delivery costs, all installation, and any ongoing maintenance and upkeep while the carpet is under the three-year warranty. ?Both BCC executives and independent consultants they hired felt BCC would be able to perform all these services for far less than their bid price; these circumstances would allow BCC to reap a considerable profit.

25000 +道题目

161本备考书籍