×

# [Help]Looking for Geometry Package

Hello everyone,

I need a little help. Can anyone give me the link to download a graph sketching software, by which one can draw any and every type of graphs. I have "Geogebra" but that doesn't help me. I need some kindaa perfect graph plotter.

Any kind of help will be heartily appreciated.

Thanks a lot

Note by Sandeep Bhardwaj
1 year, 7 months ago

Sort by:

May I ask you why Geogebra is not helpful to you? · 1 year, 7 months ago

Suppose I want to draw wavy curve graph for the signs of any rational expression, then can it be done using Geogebra ? Honestly, I don't have any idea whether Geogebtra will help with this or not, so I want to know. · 1 year, 7 months ago

I do not know what you mean by "signs" but you can certainly plot rational expressions with Geogebra.

For example, just type y=(x^2+5 x+2)/(x^3 + 7 x + 9) in the input box below. · 1 year, 7 months ago

If I want to draw a graph like this (wavy curve method to get the signs of the rational expressions), can it be done using geogebra, if yes, then how ? · 1 year, 7 months ago

Would you be having the closed form of the function?

For example, here is what you get when you enter the following in the input box: y = (x - 3) (x - 4) (x - 5)^3 / (x - 6)^2 (x - 2)^2 · 1 year, 7 months ago

Desmos or geometry pad both are free and available on mobile and PC. · 1 year, 7 months ago

sorry to write here i am in class 12 please guide me aspiring for 300 + in mains · 1 year, 7 months ago

its for ios i guess · 1 year, 7 months ago

well i dont use much this app but i have an app for graphs called freegracal (searh on app store for graphic calculator) may be it would help. · 1 year, 7 months ago

Graph.tk · 1 year, 7 months ago

You can try this,although it is not available for download it is quite good! · 1 year, 7 months ago

If someone needs to draw freehand graphs i.e. not graph for any particular expression ? · 1 year, 7 months ago

Well, those free-hand graphs you can always draw on a graph paper. Why do you need a software for that?? · 1 year, 7 months ago

I can do that on paper, but I need softcopy for those graphs. and I can't click a pic of that paper work because I need quite clear work. Like If i want to draw an upward facing parabola, then how to do that ? · 1 year, 7 months ago

Free hand graphs,like ogives? · 1 year, 7 months ago

Free hand graphs mean like If i want to draw an upward facing parabola, then how to do that ? · 1 year, 7 months ago

I'm sure you know what the equation of an upward facing parabola is.

Geogebra let's you draw one without the equation though.

For more complicated curves, BeizerCurves looks like a good idea · 1 year, 7 months ago

thank you Agnishom for your help. Also now I'm getting familiar with Geogebra, that also looks good. :) · 1 year, 7 months ago

Ohh well for that one could use paint! · 1 year, 7 months ago

Paint doesn't work. How will you draw an upward parabola on that ? · 1 year, 7 months ago

In the shapes area there is one 'curves' option! · 1 year, 7 months ago

Well. You're quite familiar with paint. Great ! But the images are not sharp in paint. Even drawing a vertical line will not give exactly the line. You can try it out. · 1 year, 7 months ago

Yeah!I won't be online now,sorry! · 1 year, 7 months ago

It's ok. Thanks a lot for the help. · 1 year, 7 months ago

Well, you can use Desmos Graphing calculator for that. Its available on Google play store as an app for android device or you can just visit desmos.com/calculator

Hope that helps!! · 1 year, 7 months ago

Is it available for laptop too ? · 1 year, 7 months ago

Yes.

I just gave you the link to calculator in the above note, which you can access from any browser installed on your laptop.

But I don't know if Desmos is available in download/offline version for the reason that I always open the above link from my laptop whenever I need a graphing calculator. · 1 year, 7 months ago

www.desmos.com · 1 year, 7 months ago

Picture

Sir you might like this app its called maths labs. · 1 year, 7 months ago