Scientific WorkPlace V6——LaTeX科学论文排版软件

Scientific Workplace软件支持Windows 和Mac系统。以Mozilla为基础的体系结构，Scientific Workplace具有更多的灵活性。根据您的发布和便捷需要，您可以以多种格式保存和导出文档。

Scientific WorkPlace继续作为Latex排版程序的前端，排版复杂的技术文档。这意味着您不需要去学习Latex语法就可以进行排版。由于它卓越的精度和质量，Latex是科学论文和书籍出版商和作者的黄金标准。

Scientific WorkPlace使用自然数学符号来输入和展示结果，省去了学习复杂命令的语法。有了Scientific Workplace，您可以用鼠标轻松输入数学符号，当您熟练时，用键盘快捷键就可以轻松搞定。

Tex字体中所有的符号，Scientific WorkPlace都有包含，这意味着，在Scientific WorkPlace中，您可以任意输入数学符号。您不用知道Tex 名称也可以输入数学符号。如果您知道数学对象和符号的Tex名称，您也可以使用它们。

Scientific WorkPlace带有预定义的文档壳，每种文档壳都有不同的排版风格，大部分的风格都是为满足特定期刊和学术机构的格式要求而设计的。您可以选择最适合您的期刊和出版商的文档壳。如果您还不知道您的作品将在哪里出版，那么我们建议您从一个标准的Latex文档壳开始，它可以很容易的引用到您的论文当中。

Sciencetific Workplace中内置了CSS文件基本设置，并且不可更改，但是您可以在Sciencetific Workplace的官方网站上替换文件中的参考文献。这会稍微减小网站的大小，但也意味着您的文件只有连上网络才可以读取。

Windows XP或以上版本; OS X 10.5或以上版本 (带有Intel 处理器)

800 MB - 1 GB的硬盘空间(取决于硬盘驱动的类型和所选择的安装选项)

The Integration of LaTeX Typesetting and Computer Algebra

With Scientific WorkPlace Version 5, you can create, edit, and typeset mathematical and scientific text more easily than ever before. The software is based on an easy-to-use word processor that completely integrates writing mathematics and text in the same environment. With the built-in computer algebra system, you can perform computations right on the screen.

The Gold Standard for Mathematical, Scientific, and Technical Publishing
In Scientific WorkPlace, you can typeset complex technical documents with LaTeX, the industry standard for mathematics typesetting. Because of its superior precision and quality, publishers and writers of scientific material use LaTeX extensively. When you typeset, LaTeX automatically generates footnotes, indexes, bibliographies, tables of contents, and cross-references.

You don’t have to learn LaTeX to produce typeset documents. Many of the more than 150 document shells have been designed to meet the typesetting requirements of specific professional journals and institutions. Scientific WorkPlace automatically saves your documents as LaTeX files. You can concentrate on writing a correct paper; Scientific WorkPlace makes it a beautiful one.

Sharing Your Work Just Got Easier

Scientific WorkPlace now exports documents to RTF format for importing into Microsoft Word. The mathematics in your document are converted to Microsoft Equation Editor or MathType 5 format.

The Power of An Easy-to-Use Computer Algebra System
Scientific WorkPlace combines the ease of entering and editing mathematics in natural mathematical notation with the ability to compute with the built-in computer algebra engine, MuPAD?2.5. In this integrated working environment, you can enter mathematics and perform computations without having to think or work in a programming language.

The computer algebra system uses natural mathematical notation, so you don’t have to master complex syntax to be able to evaluate, simplify, solve, or plot mathematical expressions.

Full computer algebra capabilities are available. You can compute symbolically or numerically, integrate, differentiate, and solve algebraic and differential equations. With menu commands, you can create 2-D and 3-D plots in many styles and coordinate systems; import data from graphing calculators; and compute with over 150 units of physical measure.

In addition, you can use the Exam Builder provided with Scientific WorkPlace to construct exams algorithmically and to generate, grade, and record quizzes on a web server.

Increased Productivity
This software thinks like you do. Whether you prefer to use the mouse or the keyboard, entering mathematics is so straightforward there is practically no learning curve. Formatting is fast, simple, and consistent. In Scientific WorkPlace, you use tags to define the document structure and format it consistently.

Users have reported significant productivity increases when support staff use Scientific WorkPlace instead of raw LaTeX to typeset documents. Both technical and non-technical users can quickly learn to enter and number equations, create tables and matrices, and import and create graphics, all with pleasing on-screen mathematics and italics created with TrueType outline fonts.

Scientific WorkPlace has the tools that simplify writing and editing books and other large documents. It is perfect for writers in academic, industrial, and government institutions and in all scientific and technical fields: mathematics, physics, engineering, economics, chemistry, computer science, statistics, medical research, and logic.

The software comes with an extensive online help system and a series of reference manuals. If you need additional help, MacKichan Software provides reliable, prompt, free technical support.

International, Interoperable, Indispensable
Scientific WorkPlace simplifies working with colleagues in other locations. You can import text (.txt) and Rich Text Format (.rtf) files, and you can copy content to the clipboard for export as text or graphics to other applications. You can create .dvi, .htm, .pdf, or .rtf files from your documents, or generate portable LaTeX output for seamless transfer to different LaTeX installations. The Document Manager simplifies file transfer by email or on diskette.

Spelling, font, and hyphenation support for languages other than English is available. You can switch languages in the same document using Babel, the multilingual LaTeX system. The software supports input using any left-to-right language supported by a version of Windows, including Chinese, Japanese, and Russian. It uses the in-place IME (Input Method Editor) for these languages. (The ability to typeset a language may depend on the availability of TeX for that language. Non-Latin character sets are typeset with Lambda, which is included.) Fully localized Japanese and German versions of Scientific WorkPlace are available now through our local distributors.

Scientific WorkPlace has a built-in link to the World Wide Web. If you have Internet access, you can open the file at any URL address from inside the program. Also, you can deliver content via the Web. The software supports hypertext links, so you can facilitate navigation for your readers through a series of related documents. Readers can view and print documents using Scientific Viewer, which we distribute at no cost.

New Features in Version 5
Compatibility
You can interact with colleagues more easily and distribute your documents in different formats when you take advantage of new and enhanced export filters in Version 5.

Export your documents as RTF files. You can now export your SWP, SW, and SNB documents as Rich Text Format (RTF) files, so that interactions with colleagues in non-TeX environments are simplified. The RTF export preserves the formatting you see in the document window. Any mathematics in your document can be represented with MathType 3 (Equation Editor) or MathType 5 objects. The resulting RTF file can be viewed in Microsoft Word even if an Equation Editor is not part of the Word installation. If the Microsoft Word installation includes the appropriate Equation Editor, any MathType 3 or MathType 5 mathematical objects in the RTF file can be edited. The file can also be displayed in outline mode.
Read MathType mathematics in RTF files. In Version 5, you can open and read the MathType equations in RTF files when you import the RTF files in SWP, SW, or SNB. The equations are converted to LaTeX.
Create more accurate HTML files. When you export your SWP, SW, or SNB documents to HTML, the program now places any graphics generated during the process in a subdirectory. Version 5 successfully exports fixed-width tables to HTML and saves the screen format to a Cascading Style Sheet (.css file). With HTML exports, you can make your mathematics available on various platforms over the Internet and in applications that can read HTML files.
Export mathematics as MathML. When you export HTML files, you can output your mathematics as MathML or graphics. Note that not all HTML browsers support MathML.
Typesetting
Version 5 provides new typesetting capabilities and many new document shells, some intended for international use.

Create typeset PDF files. Now you can share your work across platforms in PDF format by typesetting your SWP and SW documents with pdfLaTeX. No extra software is necessary to generate PDF files. The program automatically embeds fonts and graphics in the PDF file.
Use pdfTeX to process files that contain graphics. Until now, using pdfTeX with most graphics file formats has been tedious or impossible. Before typesetting your document with pdfLaTeX, Version 5 of SWP and SW converts any graphics in the document to formats that can be processed by pdfLaTeX.
Preserve LaTeX cross-references in PDF files. If you add the hyperref package to your document, any cross-references in your SWP or SW document are converted to hypertext links when you typeset with pdfLaTeX. The package extends hypertext capabilities with hypertext targets and references. Additionally, pdfLaTeX fully links the table of contents in the resulting PDF file and includes in the file hierarchical markers and thumbnail pictures of all the pages in the document.
Use LaTeX PostScript packages. If you create PDF files from your SWP and SW documents, you can take advantage of LaTeX packages, such as the rotating package.
Use expanded typesetting documentation. A new edition of Typesetting Documents in Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word provides more typesetting tips and information about more LaTeX packages. Learn how to tailor typesetting specifications from inside the program to achieve the typeset document appearance you need.
Examine an expanded gallery of shells. View images of sample documents for each shell provided with the program in A Gallery of Document Shells for Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word, provided on the program CD as a PDF file. Use the documentation to choose document shells appropriately.
Choose shells tailored for international documents. Version 5 includes new shells for documents created in non-English languages, including German, Japanese, Chinese, and Russian. SWP and SW, in combination with TrueTeX, support international typesetting with the Lambda system.
Computation
Complex computational capability makes SWP and SNB indispensable tools.

Compute with MuPAD. In SWP and SNB, compute right in your document with the MuPAD 2.5 computer algebra engine.
Use enhanced MuPAD capabilities. The new MuPAD 2.5 kernel is an upgrade from the MuPAD 2.0 kernel included in Version 4.0. New features include improved 2D and 3D plotting, expanded ODE capabilities, an expanded Rewrite submenu, and an improved Simplify operation.
Compute with MathType mathematics in RTF files. If you open an RTF file containing MathType equations, the program converts the equations to LaTeX. In SWP and SNB, you can compute with the mathematics just like any other mathematics in SWP and SW documents.
Use an improved Exam Builder. The Version 5 Exam Builder is fully functional with MuPAD. Printed quizzes can be reloaded without losing their math definitions, just like other documents. Exam Builder materials generated with earlier versions using either Maple or MuPAD work successfully in Version 5.

Natural Mathematical Notation
Until now, traditional typesetting and symbolic computation systems forced you to use an array of commands and a complex syntax to represent your input. Many of these systems have over 2,000 separate operators, such as int and diff, that you must learn in order to create input. For example, if you want to integrate the expression

using a traditional computation system, you must enter it in linear fashion, int(x\2/sqrt(x\2-9),dx). To typeset it with LaTeX, you must write $\int\frac{x\{2}}{\sqrt{x\{2}-9}}dx$. A simple typing mistake would cause an error message.

Scientific WorkPlace, Scientific Word, and Scientific Notebook eliminate the need to learn complex syntax by using natural notation for input and to show results. With these products, you can enter mathematics easily with the mouse, or, as you gain confidence and familiarity, with keyboard shortcuts.

Here is how you enter the above integral using the mouse in Scientific WorkPlace, Scientific Word, and Scientific Notebook:

In Scientific WorkPlace, Scientific Word, and Scientific Notebook, the space key always moves the insertion point out of the object it is in, and the Tab key always moves the insertion point to the next input box in the current template, if there is one. Thus, in step 9, the first space moves the insertion point out of the radical, but leaves it in the denominator of the fraction. The second space moves it out of the fraction. Pressing the Ctrl key together with the up or down arrow key moves the insertion point up or down to a superscript or a subscript position. The space key returns the insertion point to the main line. Ctrl+up arrow followed by Ctrl+down arrow moves the insertion point to the subscript of a superscript position, not to the main line.

All the symbols in the main TeX fonts are available in Scientific WorkPlace, Scientific Word, and Scientific Notebook, which means you have everything you need to type mathematics. Also, if you know the TeX names for mathematical objects and symbols, you can use them (for example, holding down Ctrl while you type int enters an integral). You do not need to know TeX names to enter mathematics.

Product Philosophy
Scientific WorkPlace, Scientific Word, and Scientific Notebook are designed to increase productivity for anyone who writes technical documents, especially those containing mathematics. They are perfect for writers in all technical fields: mathematics, physics, engineering, chemistry, computer science, economics, finance, statistics, medical research, operations research, logic, and more.

Logical Design Separates Content and Appearance
Our approach, known as logical design, separates the creative process of writing from the mechanical process of formatting. You apply tags to text to say what the text is; the software handles the job of formatting it. Logical design leads to a more consistent and attractive document appearance because choices of fonts, spacing, emphasis, and other aspects of format are applied automatically. Separating the processes of creating and formatting a document combines the best of the online and print worlds. You concentrate on writing a correct paper; our software makes it a beautiful paper. Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word come with over 150 predefined document shells. Over 20 shells are available with Scientific Notebook.

Logical Design Is a New Way of Working
When you use a WYSIWYG system, you constantly give commands that affect the appearance of the content. You select text and then choose a font, a font size, or a typeface. You apply alignment commands such as center, left justify, and right justify. To center an equation, for example, you select it and choose the center alignment. In a logical system, formatting commands are replaced by commands that define the logical structure of the content instead of its appearance. Rather than center text, you create a title, a section head, or a displayed equation by applying tags to information in the document. The format of the title, the alignment of section heads, and the alignment of displayed equations are all determined separately by the properties of the tags you use. In Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word, tag properties are determined by the document’s typesetting specifications (a collection of commands that define the way the document appears when you produce it with LaTeX typesetting) and by the style (a collection of commands that define the way the document appears onscreen and when you produce it without LaTeX typesetting.) In Scientific Notebook, the tag properties are determined by the style only, since it does not include LaTeX typesetting.

Also, WYSIWYG systems divide documents into pages according to their anticipated appearance in print. To see an entire line, you often have to scroll horizontally because the screen dimensions and page dimensions do not match. In a logical system, working with pages is unnecessary, because the division of a document into pages has no connection to the document’s logical structure. Thus, on the screen Scientific WorkPlace, Scientific Word, and Scientific Notebook break lines to fit the window. If you resize the window, the text is reshaped to fit it.

Logical Design Ensures a Beautiful Document Appearance
Our emphasis on logical structure does not ignore the fact that documents must still be printed in a readable, organized, and visually pleasing format, nor does it ignore the fact that you may not always need publication-quality output. With version 4 of Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word, you can preview and print your documents in two ways. You can compile, preview, and print your documents with LaTeX to obtain a high-quality, typeset appearance, or you can preview and direct print without typesetting for a near-WYSIWYG appearance. With Scientific Notebook, only direct printing is available.

Typesetting Features
In Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word, you can typeset your documents using LaTeX, the undisputed industry standard for typesetting mathematical text. LaTeX provides automatic document formatting, including margins, hyphenation, kerning, ligatures, and many other elements of fine typesetting. LaTeX also automatically generates document elements including the title pages, table of contents, footnotes, margin notes, headers, footers, indexes, and bibliographies.

Because Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word communicate with LaTeX for you, you can concentrate on what you do best—creating the content of your document—without worrying about LaTeX syntax. You don’t need to understand LaTeX to produce beautifully typeset material, but if you do know TeX or LaTeX commands, you can use them in your Scientific WorkPlace or Scientific Word documents to make the typesetting even more precise.

Take advantage of these typesetting features of Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word:

Formatting variety with predefined document shells. Scientific WorkPlace and Scientific Word come with over 150 predefined document shells, each with a different typeset appearance and many designed to meet the formatting requirements of specific journals and academic institutions. You can choose the shell that’s most appropriate for your journal or publisher. If you don’t know yet where your work will be published, we recommend that you start with one of the standard LaTeX shells, which can be easily adapted after your paper has been written.

Typesetting control. Each document shell has a LaTeX document class and may also have LaTeX packages. Both the class and the packages have options and settings that create a more finely typeset appearance for your document. The available options and packages depend on the shell, but typically govern the ability to modify the formatting for typesetting details such as different paper sizes, portrait or landscape orientation, double-sided printing, double-column output, different font sizes, and draft or final output. You can change the options and packages with the Options and Packages item on the Typeset menu.

Additional LaTeX packages. The supplied LaTeX packages provide even more control. By adding packages to your document, you can achieve a variety of typesetting effects. For example, you can add packages that switch between single and multiple columns of text on a single page; create endnotes from footnotes; or govern the appearance of footnotes, including their numbering or symbol scheme.

Automatic numbering of theorems, lemmas, and other theorem environments. You can number theorems, lemmas, propositions, and conjectures in a variety of styles. You control whether they are each numbered in the same or separate sequences, so th