file.info

0th

Percentile

Extract File Information

Utility function to extract information about files on the user's file systems.

Keywords
file
Usage
file.info(...)
Arguments
...
character vectors containing file paths. Tilde-expansion is done: see path.expand.
Details

What constitutes a ‘file’ is OS-dependent but includes directories. (However, directory names must not include a trailing backslash or slash on Windows.) See also the section in the help for file.exists on case-insensitive file systems.

The file ‘mode’ follows POSIX conventions, giving three octal digits summarizing the permissions for the file owner, the owner's group and for anyone respectively. Each digit is the logical or of read (4), write (2) and execute/search (1) permissions.

unix On most systems symbolic links are followed, so information is given about the file to which the link points rather than about the link. windows File modes are probably only useful on NTFS file systems, and it seems all three digits refer to the file's owner. The execute/search bits are set for directories, and for files based on their extensions (e.g., ‘.exe’, ‘.com’, ‘.cmd’ and ‘.bat’ files). file.access will give a more reliable view of read/write access availability to the R process.

UTF-8-encoded file names not valid in the current locale can be used.

Value

A data frame with row names the file names and columns
size
double: File size in bytes.
isdir
logical: Is the file a directory?
mode
integer of class "octmode". The file permissions, printed in octal, for example 644.
mtime, ctime, atime
integer of class "POSIXct": file modification, ‘last status change’ and last access times.
unix uidinteger: the user ID of the file's owner. gidinteger: the group ID of the file's group. unamecharacter: uid interpreted as a user name. grnamecharacter: gid interpreted as a group name. Unknown user and group names will be NA. windows execharacter: what sort of executable is this? Possible values are "no", "msdos", "win16", "win32", "win64" and "unknown". Note that a file (e.g. a script file) can be executable according to the mode bits but not executable in this sense.Entries for non-existent or non-readable files will be NA. unix The uid, gid, uname and grname columns may not be supplied on a non-POSIX Unix-alike system, and will not be on Windows.What is meant by the three file times depends on the OS and file system. On Windows native file systems ctime is the file creation time (something which is not recorded on most Unix-alike file systems). What is meant by ‘file access’ and hence the ‘last access time’ is system-dependent.The times are reported to an accuracy of seconds, and perhaps more on some systems. However, many file systems only record times in seconds, and some (e.g. modification time on FAT systems) are recorded in increments of 2 or more seconds.

Sys.readlink to find out about symbolic links, files, file.access, list.files, and DateTimeClasses for the date formats.

Sys.chmod to change permissions.

• file.info
Examples
library(base) ncol(finf <- file.info(dir())) # at least six ## Not run: finf # the whole list ## Those that are more than 100 days old : finf[difftime(Sys.time(), finf[,"mtime"], units = "days") > 100 , 1:4] file.info("no-such-file-exists") 
Documentation reproduced from package base, version 3.0.3, License: Part of R 3.0.3

Community examples

Looks like there are no examples yet.