# Forthcoming articles

International Journal of Ad Hoc and Ubiquitous Computing

These articles have been peer-reviewed and accepted for publication in IJAHUC, but are pending final changes, are not yet published and may not appear here in their final order of publication until they are assigned to issues. Therefore, the content conforms to our standards but the presentation (e.g. typesetting and proof-reading) is not necessarily up to the Inderscience standard. Additionally, titles, authors, abstracts and keywords may change before publication. Articles will not be published until the final proofs are validated by their authors.

Forthcoming articles must be purchased for the purposes of research, teaching and private study only. These articles can be cited using the expression "in press". For example: Smith, J. (in press). Article Title. Journal Title.

Articles marked with this shopping trolley icon are available for purchase - click on the icon to send an email request to purchase.

Articles marked with this Open Access icon are freely available and openly accessible to all without any restriction except the ones stated in their respective CC licenses.

Register for our alerting service, which notifies you by email when new issues of IJAHUC are published online.

We also offer RSS feeds which provide timely updates of tables of contents, newly published articles and calls for papers.

 International Journal of Ad Hoc and Ubiquitous Computing (92 papers in press)  Regular Issues  Assessment of heuristics for self-stabilization in real-time interactive communication overlays   by Pelayo Nuño, Juan C. Granda, Francisco J. Suárez Abstract: Self-stabilization is an autonomic behavior closely related to self-healing. In multimedia communication overlays, self-stabilization copes with network disruptions by dynamically restoring data links and communication paths. The restoration of links may require reorganizing the overlay by establishing new connections among members or modifying existing ones. Self-stabilization techniques are usually triggered asynchronously, either on use (during reorganizations of the overlay) or on event (as a response to a failure), and several heuristics may be used when selecting link peers. In this work several heuristics to perform on event self-stabilization in multimedia communication overlays are assessed. A real-time communication overlay deployed according to a full-mesh topology interconnecting a set of multicast groups is used as assessment framework to evaluate the heuristics. Intensive tests have been carried out to compare and assess heuristics under several overlay topologies and network conditions. Keywords: self-stabilization; overlay networks; multimedia communications; autonomic computing.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001909  A State-of-Art approach to misbehavior detection and revocation in VANET:Survey   by Dinesh Singh, Ranvijay Ranvijay, Rama Shankar Yadav Abstract: With the increased popularity of Internet application and smart cities, Vehicular Ad hoc Networks (VANETs) have become one of the prominent research area and ample of researchers have addressed the many issues in the past decade. Among the many issues involves with e ective VANET, misbehavior detection and revocation is required to address with full attention. It is rst and foremost step towards dealing with safety applications in VANETs. The vehicle misbehavior is responsible for malfunctioning of many network activities (e.g. trac jam, road accidents etc.). The misbehavior detection problem becomes more severe for safety critical applications in VANETs. The misbehaved vehicle must be revoked from the network as early as possible to reduce injuries. Thus, inconjuction of misbehavior detection, revocation problem also needs to be explored. This paper is addressed to provide state-of-art to misbehavior detection and revocation for safety critical VANETs. Here we present a detailed survey on relevant research done in the area of misbehavior detection and revocation with other related issues. Keywords: Vehicular Ad hoc Network (VANETs); safety applications; misbehavior detection; revocation.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001911  An Energy Model of 4G Smartphone Oriented Towards Typical Network Applications   by TunDong Liu, Yun Lin, ZhuoBin Xu, Yi Xie, FuFeng Chen, GuoZhi Xue Abstract: In the wave of wireless technologies, 4G has achieved considerable success because of its high data rate and great potential. But the short battery lifetime of mobile device hinders the development of 4G. The energy scheme in the LTE protocol based on Radio Resource Control (RRC) states in some degree optimizes the energy consumption of 4G smartphone, but it is still far from satisfaction. Therefore, many efforts have been done to study the process of energy consumption in 4G smartphone which is helpful to improve the energy efficiency. Some hardware-based methods using expensive instruments are correct but unhandy. Some software-based methods are flexible but incorrect because they often omit the influences from communication performance. Up to now, most energy models have paid little attention to application layer without considering the quality of wireless communication. This paper proposes an energy model of 4G smartphone where two typical applications (HTTP and FTP) and the data flow of wireless traffic are considered. In order to verify the energy model, an experimental testbed has been set up to capture the data flow and power records during one application. Experiment results have shown that the energy model accurately estimates the energy consumption of 4G smartphone in one operation of the application, whose accuracy rate is higher than 90%. The work described can be considered the first step toward the implementation of a new softwarebased method to accurately estimate the energy consumption of 4G smartphone. Keywords: 4G; Energy consumption; Model; State machine; Smartphone.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001912  NetBAN, a concept of Network of BANs for Cooperative Communication: energy awareness routing solution   by Audace Manirabona, Saadi Boudjit, Lamia Chaari Fourati Abstract: In this paper a NetBAN which is a concept of network of BANs (Body Area Networks) or WBANs (Wireless BANs) is introduced and a routing solution intending to help a group of WBANs to cooperate for relaying packets according to the energy consumption rate and the communication link quality is proposed. The main goal is to provide to the sensors a technique that helps them deliver their data even when the coordinators battery is very low or empty or else the connection to the access point is lost, what leads to balancing energy consumption between cooperating coordinators. For this purpose, an energy threshold based technique is used and energy-aware optimized link state routing (EA-OLSR) is defined and used. Simulation results show interesting performances in terms of network lifetime with a gain of about 30% and data delivery about 20%. Keywords: Network of BANs; WBAN; Cooperation; Relay; OLSR; Routing; Energy Aware.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001913  ADiDA: Adaptive Differential Data Aggregation for Cluster Based Wireless Sensor Networks   by Rabia Enam, Rehan Qureshi Abstract: In dynamic cluster based Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs), clusters are formed dynamically and repeatedly to uniformly consume the energy of the nodes. It has been observed in large scale dynamic cluster based WSNs that the size of clusters vary significantly in terms of number of nodes. The data aggregation mechanisms used at the cluster heads do not adapt adequately to such variance in cluster sizes and incur considerable losses specially in clusters with large number of nodes. In this paper we propose a novel and an \emph{Adaptive Differential Data Aggregation} (ADiDA) method that can minimise the complexity of aggregating large amount of data into small sized data packets. The main feature of ADiDA is that in addition to reducing the cost of redundant data transfer in the network, it also optimally utilises the available space in a packet at each cluster head. We have analysed ADiDA on four different types of sensing environments with multiple types of data-values. The results have shown that ADiDA can reduce the payload size requirement to almost one-fourth of the non-compressed payload and the distortion percentage in the aggregated data decreases by 16\% to 41\% when compared with the summary based aggregation of data. Keywords: Cluster based WSN; Adaptive Data Aggregation; Spatial Correlation; Variable sized Clusters.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001914  MT-SECURER: Multi Factors Trust for Secure and Reliable Routing in MANETs   by Zakir Ullah, Muhammad Hasan Islam, Adnan Ahmed Khan, Imran Shafi Abstract: Routing, having a pivotal role in MANETs successful working, assumes nodes cooperation for its processes. However, this assumption of nodes cooperation makes routing vulnerable to various insider and outsider attackers. Therefore, enforcing nodes cooperation to secure routing from such attackers is stipulated as a challenging research issue in MANETs. In this paper a trust management scheme named MT-SECURER (Multi Factors Trust for SECUre and REliable Routing in MANETs) is proposed to make routing secure and reliable against insider attackers to launch greyhole and blackhole attacks. The proposed scheme develops trust using multiple factors, i.e., nodes cooperation from communication networks and nodes relationship maturity and mutual friends from social networks. These factors are acquired using observer nodes personal observations and neighbors recommendations. Furthermore, neighbors recommendations are passed through a dissimilarity factor based filter to remove false recommendations. As a test case, the proposed scheme is integrated in AODV routing protocol and extensive simulations are conducted to examine the effectiveness and competence of the proposed scheme in presence of insider attackers to launch blackhole and greyhole attacks. Experimental results show significant improvement in packet delivery ratio, throughput and normalized routing load with slightly increased average end-to-end delay when compared to contemporary schemes in presence of attacks asserted. Keywords: Attacks; MANETs; Routing; Trust; Trust Management.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001915  An Energy-Efficient Point-Coverage-Aware Clustering Protocol in Wireless Sensor Networks   by Tri Gia Nguyen, Chakchai So-In Abstract: Preserving coverage is one of the most essential functions to guarantee quality of service in wireless sensor networks. With this key constraint, the energy consumption of the sensors including their transmission behaviour is a challenging problem in term of how to efficiently use them while achieving good coverage performance. This research proposes a clustering protocol, point-coverage-aware (PCACP), based on point-coverage awareness with energy optimizations that focuses on a holistic view with respect to activation sensors, network clustering, and multi-hop communication, to improve energy efficiency, i.e., network lifetime extension while preserving coverage and maximizing the network coverage. The simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of PCACP, which strongly improves the performance. Given a diversity of deployments with scalability concerns, PCACP outperformed other competitive protocols i.e., LEACH, CPCP, EADC, and ECDC in terms of conserving energy, sensing point coverage ratios, and overall network lifetime. Keywords: coverage-aware; point coverage; sensor activation; clustering; energy-efficient; wireless sensor networks; WSNs.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001976  An Optimal Algorithm for Small Group Multicast in Wireless Sensor Networks   by Weizhong Luo, Jianxin Wang, Zhaoquan Cai, Gang Peng, Jiong Guo, Shigeng Zhang Abstract: We propose an optimal algorithm to construct a delay-bounded minimum energy routing tree for small group multicast in wireless sensor networks. Finding the minimum energy multicast tree with constrained delay in general case has been proved to be a NP-hard optimization problem. Existing works mainly focus on developing approximation or heuristic algorithms to find approximate solutions. We formally define the Min-power h-Multicast problem - to find a minimum energy multicast tree in which the path from the source to every destination node is less than h hops - and translate it into a minimum Steiner tree problem. We then develop a dynamic programming algorithm to get an optimal solution to the problem in O(3^k(n+m)h+2^k (n+m)^2h) time, where k is the size of the multicast group, n and m denote the numbers of vertices and edges of the graph characterizing the network, respectively. Simulation results show that, compared with existing heuristic or approximation algorithms, our algorithm saves energy consumption by factors between 19% and 42% with comparable running time for small group multicast. Keywords: Delay-bounded multicast; energy consumption optimization; fixed parameter tractable; NP-hard.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001916  Direction-Based Urban Broadcast Protocol for Vehicular Ad hoc Networks   by Gui-Sen Li, Xu-Hui Chen, Ke-Shou Wu, Ren Chen Abstract: Multi hop broadcast for vehicular ad hoc networks in urban environments is a difficult task for the impact of the intersections. The forward of the next relay will face the problem that some branches of the intersection will not be covered in time. In this paper, we propose a novel broadcast protocol for urban environments. The proposed protocol considers the transmission direction of broadcasting message and the moving direction of forwarding vehicle for delivering the message over the intersection. It delivers the message to all road directions at the intersection by an efficient and fast way. Using the direction information, an agent vehicle mode also has been proposed to cope with the disconnected problem. Performance evaluation results show that the proposed protocol improves the reachability and speeds up the broadcast process. Keywords: VANET; urban broadcast; intersection; transmission direction; moving direction.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001978  Modelling and Mitigating Spectrum Sensing Non-cooperation Attack in Cognitive Radio Network   by Roshni Rajkumari, Ningrinla Marchang Abstract: Collaborative spectrum sensing (CSS) is known to improve spectrum sensing performance in Cognitive Radio Network. In CSS, secondary users participate by sharing their local sensing results. They participate in the sensing process at their own cost, i.e., they expend some amount of energy and time for sensing and sharing. But, a selfish user may refrain from collaborating in the spectrum sensing process in order to save up energy, which results in improper sensing. While this problem is widely known, we call this as the spectrum sensing non-cooperation (SSNC) attack for easy reference. In this paper, a collective action prisoners dilemma game is used to model the SSNC attack. To handle this attack, repeated game punishment mechanisms, namely Tit-for-Tat and Grim strategies are used. In addition, modified Tit-for-Tat and modified Grim strategies are proposed to handle this attack in the presence of reporting channel error. Keywords: Cognitive radio network; collaborative spectrum sensing; spectrum sensing; non-cooperation attack; game theory; fusion rules.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001917  Enhanced Identity Privacy in UMTS   by Hiten Choudhury, Basav Roychoudhury, Dilip Kr. Saikia Abstract: Identity privacy in mobile networks has been an active and exciting research area for quite some time. Earlier, researchers were focused on protecting the subscriber's identity over the radio access link between the mobile device and the visited serving network. Whereas now, they are considering the need for protecting the identity from the serving network itself, due to the security and flexibility that it promises to bring into roaming situations. Towards this, numerous protocols have been proposed for mobile networks in general. In UMTS, one of the most popular and widely deployed mobile networks across the globe, the status of identity privacy is no different. However, a surprising fact is that not much research, that tries to protect the subscriber's identity from the serving network, has been conducted with regards to UMTS in specific. Even recent works in this area seems to ignore this important security aspect. In this paper, we make an effort to fill in this gap by proposing an identity privacy ensuring extension that can be easily adapted in UMTS, without disturbing the current protocol flow. We also establish the security, robustness and correctness of this extension through statistical, security and formal analysis. Keywords: UMTS; Identity Privacy; Identity Confidentiality; Anonymity; Security.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001918  A new hybrid routing protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks   by Slaheddine Chelbi, Habib Dhahri, Majed Abdouli, Claude Duvallet, Rafik Bouaziz Abstract: Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) differ from traditional wireless communication networks in several characteristics. One of these characteristics is power awareness, due to the fact that the batteries of sensor nodes have a restricted lifetime and are difficult to be replaced. In order to save the overall energy of the system and to fairly balance the load among nodes, we propose a New Hybrid Routing Protocol, called NHRP, which incorporates two modules: (1) a scheduling mechanism, called Advanced Energy efficient Coverage Control Algorithm (AECCA), based on binary particle swarm optimization (PSO). This approach aims to activate only the necessary number of sensor nodes while preserving full coverage. (2) A cluster based protocol using Fuzzy C-Means (FCM) method named Advanced FCM (AFCM). Several works prove that FCM algorithms assists to optimize the clusters based on minimizing the distance between the sensor node and the cluster centre. Yet, in cluster based approach, the cluster head is usually selected amongst the sensor nodes which can die quickly for this extra workload. To mitigate this problem, the second module is based on the use of some special and mobile nodes with controllable trajectories which acts as gateways.\\\\ \r\nFirst, AECCA and AFCM results are compared to ECCA and FCM, respectively. We prove that AECCA and AFCM give better performance than ECCA and FCM respectively in prolonging network lifetime. Second, simulation results show that our new hybrid routing protocol improves the fairness energy consumption among all sensor nodes and achieves an obvious improvement on the network lifetime. Keywords: Wireless Sensor Networks; Energy Saving; particle swarm optimization; Fuzzy C-Means; mobile nodes.DOI: 10.1504/IJAHUC.2016.10001982  A Dynamic Trust Evolution Model for MANETs based on Mobility   by Vijender Busi Reddy, Venkataraman S, Atul Negi Abstract: Mobile Ad-hoc Networks (MANETs) are said to be open, anonymous, dynamic and mobile in nature which makes them vulnerable to several types of attacks. Mobility of a node is a source of vulnerability and raises challenges in setup and maintenance of secure and reliable communication. Present literature does not seem to adequately address these concerns. We propose here a trust computation model that enables a node in a network to assess confidence in its immediate and extended neighbourhood. We derive a trust parameter called as Mobility Factor to assess a nodes mobility without using any extra hardware. Our model improves upon existing schemes when assessing trustworthy behaviour. The effects of mobility are included as an integral parameter in the total trust evaluation. The improved trust assessment allows identification of capricious behaviour of a node using the concept of trust flutter. A formal proof presented here supports the adequacy of the pr