## sktjell Group Title WHAT IS The range of 3 √ x !?!?! PLEASE PLEASE PLAESE PLAESE I BEGGG I BEGGGGGGG! LOL 2 years ago 2 years ago

1. Kainui Group Title

What can x be? What numbers can you not take the square root of?

2. sktjell Group Title

O?

3. eigenschmeigen Group Title

$\sqrt{0} = 0$

4. Kainui Group Title

You can take the square root of 0, since 0*0=0. You can't divide by 0, don't forget that when determining range and domain.

5. sktjell Group Title

YES BUT LET ME SHOW U GUYS THE OPTIONS

6. Kainui Group Title

7. eigenschmeigen Group Title

$\sqrt{-1} \notin R$

8. sktjell Group Title

o sorry lol :)

9. sktjell Group Title

10. eigenschmeigen Group Title

what types of numbers can we not square root?

11. Kainui Group Title

Haha it's fine. So yes, eigenschmeigen is right, if you can guess what that means. Remember that a domain is all the numbers of x you can choose to satisfy an equation while the range is all the numbers you can have as a result of your domain.

12. sktjell Group Title

i attached a picture of the options can u guys check it out

13. Kainui Group Title

Numbers in these brackets [x,y] mean that they are included in the range or domain. Numbers in parenthesis (x,y) mean that they're not included, but every number between them is.

14. sktjell Group Title

can u guys help because he didnt help :(

15. imagreencat Group Title

Well, what do you think the answer is?

16. eigenschmeigen Group Title

@Kainui i personally think you were explaining very well

17. sktjell Group Title

C ?

18. eigenschmeigen Group Title

what happens if you put a negative number for x?

19. sktjell Group Title

@eigenschmeigen im just very slow in math like i dont get anything im sorry and i need to get this half a credit graduate with my class by june 3rd and its a whole bunch of quizes this invluded and im just stressing! :(((

20. eigenschmeigen Group Title

what happens if we put a negative number in for x?

21. eigenschmeigen Group Title

what do we get, for example, if i put in -16

22. sktjell Group Title

i believe the answer is A.

23. A.Avinash_Goutham Group Title

A....

24. eigenschmeigen Group Title

yes you would be correct

25. sktjell Group Title

thanks so much.

26. imagreencat Group Title

I hope you're not just guessing and you truly, genuinely understand the concept behind your answer.