/t/ - Technology

Discussion of Technology

Options Max message length: 8000 Drag files to upload or click here to select them Max file size: 32.00 MB Max files: 5 Supported file types: GIF, JPG, PNG, WebM, OGG, and more
E-mail (used to delete files and postings) No flaggentoo

 The backup domain is located at 8chan.se. .cc is a third fallback. TOR access can be found here, or you can access the TOR portal from the clearnet at Redchannit 2.0. Please be aware of the Site Fallback Plan! In case outages in Eastern Europe affect site availability, we will work to restore service as quickly as possible. WE ARE PLANNING THE 2.8 SITE UPGRADE FOR THIS WEEKEND, MONDAY EVENING 6-27. DOWNTIME WILL BE BRIEF, AND THEN WE HUNT FOR BUGS. (Estamos planeando la actualización del sitio 2.8 para este fin de semana, del lunes 6 al 27 por la tarde o por la noche en CST. El tiempo de inactividad será breve y luego buscaremos errores.) 8chan.moe is a hobby project with no affiliation whatsoever to the administration of any other "8chan" site, past or present.

Board Nuking Issue should be resolved. Apologies for any missing posts.

Hydrus Network General #4 Anonymous Board volunteer 04/16/2022 (Sat) 17:14:57 No. 8151
This is a thread for releases, bug reports, and other discussion for the hydrus network software. The hydrus network client is an application written for Anon and other internet-fluent media nerds who have large image/swf/webm collections. It browses with tags instead of folders, a little like a booru on your desktop. Advanced users can share tags and files anonymously through custom servers that any user may run. Everything is free, privacy is the first concern, and the source code is included with the release. Releases are available for Windows, Linux, and macOS. I am the hydrus developer. I am continually working on the software and try to put out a new release every Wednesday by 8pm EST. Past hydrus imageboard discussion, and these generals as they hit the post limit, are being archived at >>>/hydrus/ . If you would like to learn more, please check out the extensive help and getting started guide here: https://hydrusnetwork.github.io/hydrus/
Is there a way to set the media viewer to use integer scaling (I think that's what it's called) rather than fitting the view to the window, so that hydrus chooses the highest zoom where all pixels are the same size and the whole image is still visible. My understanding is that nearest neighbor is a lossless scaling algorithm when the rendered view size is a multiple of the original, otherwise you get a bunch of jagged edges from the pixels being duplicated unevenly. It looks like Hydrus only has options to use "normal zooms" (what you set manually in the options? I'm confused by this), always choosing 100% zoom, or scaling to canvas size regardless of if that's with a weird zoom level (like 181.79%) that causes nearest-neighbor to create jagged edges.
When I deleted a file in Hydrus, how sure can I be that it is COMPLETELY gone? Are there any remnants that are left behind?
>>8156 yeah all the metadata for the file (tags and urls and such) are still there. There isn't currently a way to remove that stuff.
>>8154 Yeah, under options->media, and the filetype handling list, on the edit dialog is 'only permit half and double zooms'. That locks you to 50%, 100%, 200%, 400% etc... It works ok for static gifs and some pngs, if you have a ton of pixel art, but I have never really liked it myself. Set the 'scale to the canvas size' options to 'scale to the largest regular zoom that fits', I think that'll work with the 50/100/200/400 too. Let me know if it doesn't. >>8156 >>8157 Once the file is out of your trash, it will be sent to your OS's recycle bin, unless you have set in options->files and trash to permanently delete instead. Its thumbnail is permanently deleted. In terms of the file itself, it is completely gone from hydrus and you are then left with the normal issues of deleting files permanently from a disk. If you really need to remove traces of it from the drive, you'll need a special program that repeatedly shreds your empty disk sectors. In terms of metadata, hydrus keeps all other metadata it knows about the file. Information like the file's hash (basically its name), its resolution, filesize, a perceptual hash that summarises how it looked, and tags it has, ratings you gave it, URLs it knows the file is at, and when it was deleted. It may have had some of this information before it was imported (e.g. its hash and tags on the PTR) if you sync with the public tag repository. Someone who accessed your database and knew how hydrus worked would probably be able to reconstruct that you once imported this file. There are no simple ways to tell the client 'forget everything you ever knew about this file' yet. Hydrus keeps metadata because that is useful in many situations. Deletion records, for instance, help the downloader know to not re-import something your previously deleted. That said, I am working on a system that will be able to purge file knowledge on command, and other related database-wide cleanup of now-useless definition records, but it will take time to complete. There are hundreds of tables in the database that may refer to certain definitions. If you are concerned about your privacy (and everyone should be!), I strongly recommend putting your hydrus database inside an encrypted container, like with veracrypt or ciphershed or similar software. If you are new to the topic, do some searching around on how it works and try some experiments. If you are very desperate to hide that you once had a file, I can show you a basic hack to obscure it using SQLite. Basically, if you know the file's hash, you go into your install_dir/db folder, run the sqlite3 executable, and then do this: (MAKE A BACKUP FIRST IN CASE THIS GOES WRONG) .open client.master.db update hashes set hash = x'0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef' where hash = x'06b7e099fde058f96e5575f2ecbcf53feeb036aeb0f86a99a6daf8f4ba70b799'; .exit That first hash, "0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef", should be 64 characters of random hex. The second should be the hash of the file you want to obscure. This isn't perfect, but it is a good method if you are desperate.
I just updated to the latest version, and there seems to be a serious (well, seriously annoying, but not dangerous) bug where frames/panels register mouse clicks as being higher up when you scroll down, as if you didn't scroll down. It's happening with the main tag search box drop down menu, and also in the tag edit window where tags are displayed and you can click on them to select them. I'm on Linux.
>>8159 Sorry, yeah, I messed something up last week doing some other code cleaning. I will fix it for next week and add a test to make sure it doesn't happen again. Sorry for the trouble. I guess I don't scroll and click much when I dev or use the client IRL.
>>8159 >on Linux I confirm that.
>>8159 I've got this problem on windows as well. Also, am I the only one experiencing extremely slow PTR uploads? Now instead of uploading 100 every 0.1 seconds, it is more like 1-4 every 0.1s
Apologies if the answer is already somewhere on the /hydrus/ board somewhere, I hadn't been able to quite find it, yet. I'm wondering how to make hydrus be able to download pictures from 8chan (using hydrus companion) when direct access results in a 404? I was assuming some fuckery with cookies but sending the cookies from 8chan trough hydrus companion to hydrus client seemingly made no difference
>>8166 afaik there's no way to import directly from urls of "protected" boards, but I'd love to be proven wrong.
>>>/hydrus/17585 >Is there a way to automatically add a file's filename to the "notes" of a Hyrdrus file when importing? Some of the files have date info or window information if they are screenshots and I'd like to store that information somehow. If not, is there some other way to store the filenames so that they can be easily accessible after importing? >>>/hydrus/17586 >>notes >I think notes are for when there's a region of an image that gets a label (think gelbooru translations), it's not the best thing for your usecase. The best way would be to have them under a "filename" namespace. I'm not either of these people, but a filename namespace is useless if the filename cares about case. Hydrus will just turn it all into lowercase. In those scenarios I've had to manually add the filename to the notes for each one... painful. Also, somewhat related: hydrus strips the key from mega.nz urls, so I have to manually add those to notes as well. More pain. >>8166 Have you tried giving hydrus your user-agent http header as well as the cookies?
>>8174 >Have you tried giving hydrus your user-agent http header as well as the cookies? No I haven't, however I'm still quite inexperienced when it comes to using hydrus so I don't really know how I'd be able to do that. Using the basic features of hydrus companion is pretty much as far as my skillset goes atm. Would you please kindly explain how I might do what you had described?
Trying to add page tags to my imported files is turning out to be an even bigger headache than I expected. The page namespace doesn't specify what it is a page of, so you can end up with multiple contradictory page tags. For example, an artist uploads sets of 1-3 images frequently to his preferred site, but posts larger bundles less frequently to another site. Or he posts a few pages at a time of a manga in progress, and when it's finished he aggregates all the pages in a single post for our convenience. Either way, you can end up with images that have two different page tags, both of which are technically correct for a given context, but the tags themselves don't contain enough information to tell which context they're correct in. If I wanted to be really thorough, I could make a separate namespace for each context a page can exist in, but then I'd be creating an even bigger headache for myself whenever I want to sort by pages. The best I can imagine would be some kind of nested tag system, so you can specify the tags "work:X" and "page:Y(of work:X)", and then sort by "work-page(of work)". As an added bonus, it would make navigation a lot smoother in a lot of contexts. For example, if you notice an image tagged with chapter:1 and you want to see the rest of that particular chapter.
>>8183 Hydrus sucks at organizing files that are meant to be a sequential series. This has been a known problem for a long time unfortunately.
>>8183 >For example, if you notice an image tagged with chapter:1 and you want to see the rest of that particular chapter. You may use kinda nested namespaces: 1 - namespace:whatever soap opera you want (to identify the group) 2 - namespace:chapter 1 (to identify the sub-group) 3 - namespace:chapter 1 - page 01 (to identify the order) So searching for "whatever soap opera you want" will bring you all related files, then add the chapter to narrow the files, and then sort those files by namespace number. Done.
>>8190 >So searching for "whatever soap opera you want" will bring you all related files, then add the chapter to narrow the files, and then sort those files by namespace number. At that point you're basically navigating folders in a file explorer, just more clumsy. That's exactly what I was trying to get away from when I installed hydrus.
I had a great week of simple work. I fixed some bugs--including the scrolled taglist selection issue--and improved some quality of life. The release should be as normal tomorrow.
>>8192 >At that point you're basically navigating folders in a file explorer What are you talking about? In Hydrus all files are in a centralized directory and searched with a database. I understand the hassle to tag manually, but not software is clairvoyant and reads your mind about what exactly you are searching for.
>>8813 if ordered sets are important to you installing danbooru is an option, they do put their source up on github. Last I tried it it was a pain in the ass to get working but I did eventually get it. Though it did lack a number of hydrus features I've gotten used to.
>>8183 Hydrus works off of individual files. It can adapt it to multi-file works, but the more robust of a solution you need the more you’ll butt up against Hydrus’ core design. The current idiomatic solution of generic series, title, chapter, page, etc. namespaces works for 90% of things (with another 9% of things being workable by ignoring all but one context), but if you need a many to many relationship the best you can do is probably use bespoke namespaces for each collection (e.g. “index of X:1” “index of Y:2”) and then use the custom namespace sort to view the files in whatever context you've defined. I guess an ease of use that could get added would be an entry in the tag context menu to sort by namespace. That way you wouldn't need to type it out every time.
>>8197 >That way you wouldn't need to type it out every time. In the future drag and drop tags may be the solution.
I want to remove the ptr from my database. Is there a way to use the tag migration feature to migrate tag relationships only for tags used in my files? You can do it with the actual tags, but I don't see an option to do something similar for relationships, and I'd rather not migrate over thousands of parents/children and siblings for tags I'll never see.
>>8166 Looks like you need to send the referral URL with your request. The 8chan.moe thread downloader that comes with hydrus already takes care of that, so I assume you're trying to download individual files or something? I think the proper thing here would be for the hydrus companion to attach the thread you found the image in as the referral URL, but I'm not sure if the hydrus API even supports that at the moment. So failing that, you can give 8chan.moe files an URL class and force hydrus to use https://8chan.moe/ as the referral URL for them when no other referral URL is provided. Hopefully this won't get you banned or anything.
I hope collections will be expanded upon in the future. It's very nice to be able to group together images in a page, but often I want an overview of the individual images of a group. Right now I have to right click a group and pick open->in a new page, which is awkward. Here's a quick mock-up of how I'd like it to work. Basically, show all images, but visually group them together based on the selected namespaces.
>>8210 The png I posted contains the URL class. Just go to network > downloaders > import downloaders and drag and drop the image from >>8203
Any way to stop hydrus from running maintenance (in my case ptr processing) while it's downloading subscriptions? I think that should prevent maintenance mode from kicking in. It always happen when I start Hydrus and leave it to download subs, because i have idle at 5 minutes. The downloads slow to a crawl because ptr processing is hogging the database. I could raise the time to idle but i still want it that low once hydrus has finished downloading subs...
Is any way to export the notes, like the file and tags? Something like: File: test.jpg Tags: test.jpg.txt Notes: test.jpg.notes.txt
>>8219 I get the impression that notes are a WIP feature. Personally I'm hoping we'll get the option to make the content parser save stuff as notes soon.
>>8212 Bruh
Are there plans to add dns over https support to hydrus? Most browsers seem to have that feature now, so it'd be cool if hydrus did too.
How do I enable a web interface for my Hydrus installation, so others can use it by my external IP? I need something simple like hydrus.app, but unfortunately it refuses to work with my external IP, only accepts the localhost, even though I enabled non-local access in API and entering my external IP in browser opens the same API welcome page as with localhost. Who runs that app, anyway, where do I see support for it?
>>8209 Thanks. Yeah, this is exactly what I want to do too. I am in the midst of a long rewrite to clean up some bad decisions I made when first making the thumbnail grid, and as I go I am adding more selection and display tools. Once things are less tangled behind the scenes, I will be able to write a 'group by' system like this, both the data structure behind and the new display code needed. Unfortunately it will take time, but I agree totally. >>8216 There's no explicit way at the moment. I have generally been comfortable with both operations working at the same time, since I'm generally ok if subs run at, say, 50% speed. I designed subs to be a roughly background activity and don't mean for them to run as fast as possible. If your machine really struggles to do both at once though, maybe I can figure out a new option. I think your best shot in the meantime, since PTR processing only works in idle time but subs can run any time, is to tweak the other idle mode options. The mouse one might work, if you often watch your subs come in live, or the 'consider the system busy if CPU above' might work, as that stops PTR work from starting if x cores are busy. If you are tight on CPU time anyway, that could be a good test for other situations too. You can also just turn off idle PTR processing and control it manually with 'process now' in services->review services. I don't like suggesting this solution as it is a bit of a sledgehammer, but you might like to play with it. >>8219 >>8220 Yeah, not yet, but more import/export options will come. If you know scripting, the Client API can grab them now: https://hydrusnetwork.github.io/hydrus/client_api.html https://hydrusnetwork.github.io/hydrus/developer_api.html
>>8223 For advanced technical stuff like that, I am limited by the libraries I use. My main 'go get stuff' network library is called 'requests', a very popular python library https://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/ although for actual work I think it uses the core urllib3 python library https://pypi.org/project/urllib3/ . So my guess is when python supports it and we upgrade to that new version of python, this will happen naturally, or it will be a flag I can set. I searched a bit, and there might be a way to hack it in using an external library, but I am not sure how well that would work. I am not a super expert in this area. Is there a way of hacking this in at the system level? Can you tell your whole OS to do DNS lookups on https with the new protocol in the same way you can override which IP to use for DNS? If this is important to you, that might be a way to get all your software to work that way. If you discover a solution, please let me know, I would be interested. Otherwise, I think your best simple solution for now is to use a decent VPN. It isn't perfect, but it'll obscure your DNS lookups to smellyfeetbooru.org and similar from your ISP.
>>8232 The various web interfaces are all under active development right now. All are in testing phases, and I am still building out the Client API, so I can't promise there are any 'nice' solutions available right now. All the Client API tools are made by users. Many hang out on the discord, if you are comfortable going there. https://discord.gg/wPHPCUZ The best place to get support otherwise is probably on the gitlab/github/whatever sites the actual projects are hosted on, if they have issue trackers and etc.. For Hydrus.app I think that's here https://github.com/floogulinc/hydrus-web I'm not sure why your external IP access isn't working. If your your friend can see the lady welcome page across the internet, they should be able to see the whole Client API and do anything else. Sometimes http vs https can be a problem here.
>>8233 >If you make a nice URL Class for Mega, I'd be interested in seeing it--it would probably be a good thing to add to the defaults, just on its own as an URL the client recognises out of the box. Is it even possible to download mega links th