Tin học ra đời khi nào

Question:

Tin học ra đời khi nào

According to conflict theory, which crime is the poor segment of society more likely to commit? a. bribery

According to conflict theory, which crime is the poor segment of society more likely to commit? a. bribery b. corruption c. tax evasion d. burglary...

When straining a stock, it's advisable to use a colander lined with wet cheesecloth or a/an: a. pair of tongs. b. fine mesh

When straining a stock, it's advisable to use a colander lined with wet cheesecloth or a/an: a. pair of tongs. b. fine mesh sieve. c. aluminum pot. d. pot lid....

Write the equation of the quadraticfunction that: passes through (4,3) and has x-intercepts of -1

Write the equation of the quadratic function that: passes through (4,3) and has x-intercepts of -1 and 5 $Write the equation of the quadratic function that: passes through (4,3) and has x-intercepts of -$...

How much is this worth? Twice as much as 5 dimes and 3 pennies *

How much is this worth? Twice as much as 5 dimes and 3 pennies *...

Use enthalpies of formation to determine the δhreaction for the reaction cacl2(> cacl2(aq).

Use enthalpies of formation to determine the δhreaction for the reaction cacl2(> cacl2(aq)....

The olmec civilization a) had poor architectural skills. b) left behind mysterious stone sculptures.

The olmec civilization a) had poor architectural skills. b) left behind mysterious stone sculptures. c) were the most advanced pre-columbian civilization. d) was not able to trade because of its geographic isolation....

You should only start this SA once you have mastered the topics in lessons 3.2 and 3.3 (including SA 3.2.5).Show your

You should only start this SA once you have mastered the topics in lessons 3.2 and 3.3 (including SA 3.2.5). Show your work/support for each problem $You should only start this SA once you have mastered the topics in lessons 3.2 and 3.3 (including S$...

Ameasurement must include both a number and a(an)

Ameasurement must include both a number and a(an)...

What would be the consequence of earth taking one year to rotate on its axis we could not have a 24 hour day seasonal variations

What would be the consequence of earth taking one year to rotate on its axis we could not have a 24 hour day seasonal variations would not exist you would experience darkness for half the year all of the above...

The solubility of silver(I)phosphate at a given temperature is 1.02 g/L. Calculate the Ksp at this temperature.

The solubility of silver(I)phosphate at a given temperature is 1.02 g/L. Calculate the Ksp at this temperature. After you get your answer, take the negative log and enter that (so it's like you're taking the pKsp)...

Determine whether the point (1,5) is a solution to the system of equations. Explain your reasoning and a complete sentence.￼￼

determine whether the point (1,5) is a solution to the system of equations. Explain your reasoning and a complete sentence.￼￼ $determine whether the point (1,5) is a solution to the system of equations. Explain your reasoning$...

I need help anyone please $I need help anyone please$...

Paco is telling about his daily routine. choose which word best completes the phrase. normalmente, yo

Paco is telling about his daily routine. choose which word best completes the phrase. normalmente, yo antes de mi hermana. me levanto despertarme levantarme me despierta...

What is the function of the noun clause in this sentence? the investigation of the bank robbery determined

What is the function of the noun clause in this sentence? the investigation of the bank robbery determined who committed the crime....

The sample variance a. can never be zero. b. is always smaller than the true value of the population

The sample variance a. can never be zero. b. is always smaller than the true value of the population variance. c. is always larger than the true value of the population variance. d. could be smaller, equal to, or larger than the true value of the population variance....

During which portion of the earth's revolution around the sun is the northern hemisphere tilted toward

During which portion of the earth's revolution around the sun is the northern hemisphere tilted toward the sun?...

Is a way to minimize technical problems with your computer

Is a way to minimize technical problems with your computer...

What is the answer to this equation?(solve) 5(5x+4)=45

What is the answer to this equation?(solve) 5(5x+4)=45...
HElP PLS I WILL DO ANYTHING BUT HELP $HElP PLS I WILL DO ANYTHING BUT HELP$...