Share Email Print

### Proceedings Paper

The NIST/NRL Free-Electron Laser Facility
Author(s): Philip H. Debenham; Robert L. Ayres; John B. Broberg; Roy I. Cutler; B. Carol Johnson; Ronald G. Johnson; Eric R. Lindstrom; David L. Mohr; John E. Rose; Julian K. Whittaker; Neil D. Wilkin; Mark A. Wilson; Cha-Mei Tang; Phillip Sprangle; Samuel Penner
Format Member Price Non-Member Price
PDF \$14.40 \$18.00

Paper Abstract

A free-electron laser (FEL) user facility is being constructed at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in collaboration with the Naval Research Laboratory. The FEL, which will be operated as an oscillator, will be driven by the electron beam of the racetrack microtron (RTM) that is nearing completion. Variation of the electron kinetic energy from 17 MeV to 185 MeV will permit the FEL wavelength to be tuned from 200 nm to 10 pm. Performance will be enhanced by the high brightness, low energy spread, and continuous-pulse nature of the RTM electron beam. We are designing a new injector to increase the peak current of the RTM. A 3.6-m undulator is under construction, and the 9-m optical cavity is under design. The FEL will emit a continuous train of 3-ps pulses at 66 MHz with an average power of 10-200 W, depending on the wavelength, and a peak power of up to several hundred kW. An experimental area is being prepared with up to five stations for research using the FEL beam. Initial operation is scheduled for 1991.

Paper Details

Date Published: 26 December 1989
PDF: 8 pages
Proc. SPIE 1133, Free Electron Lasers II, (26 December 1989); doi: 10.1117/12.961603
Show Author Affiliations
Philip H. Debenham, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Robert L. Ayres, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
John B. Broberg, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Roy I. Cutler, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
B. Carol Johnson, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Ronald G. Johnson, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Eric R. Lindstrom, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
David L. Mohr, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
John E. Rose, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Julian K. Whittaker, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Neil D. Wilkin, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Mark A. Wilson, National Institute of Standards and Technology (United States)
Cha-Mei Tang, Naval Research Laboratory (United States)
Phillip Sprangle, Naval Research Laboratory (United States)
Samuel Penner, Consultant (United States)

Published in SPIE Proceedings Vol. 1133:
Free Electron Lasers II
Yves Petroff, Editor(s)