RUS  ENG JOURNALS   PEOPLE   ORGANISATIONS   CONFERENCES   SEMINARS   VIDEO LIBRARY   PACKAGE AMSBIB
 General information Latest issue Archive Impact factor Guidelines for authors Search papers Search references RSS Latest issue Current issues Archive issues What is RSS

 J. Sib. Fed. Univ. Math. Phys.: Year: Volume: Issue: Page: Find

 J. Sib. Fed. Univ. Math. Phys., 2011, Volume 4, Issue 1, Pages 18–31 (Mi jsfu158)

Effects of heat and mass transfer on MHD free convection flow near a moving vertical plate of a radiating and chemically reacting fluid

Kalidas Das

Department of Mathematics, Kalyani Government Engineering College, Kalyani, Nadia, West Bengal, India

Abstract: The problem of unsteady MHD free convection flow and mass transfer of a viscous, electrically conducting and chemically reacting incompressible fluid in presence of thermal radiation and under the influence of uniform magnetic field applied normal to an infinite vertical plate, which moves with time dependent velocity is studied. The primary purpose of this study was to characterize the effects of thermal radiative heat transfer, magnetic field parameter, chemical reaction rate constant etc on the flow properties. The fluid is also assumed to be gray; emitting absorbing but non scattering medium and the optically thick radiation limit is considered. The solutions of the present problem are obtained in closed form by Laplace transform technique and the expressions for velocity, temperature, concentration, skin friction,rate of heat and mass transfer has been obtained. Some important applications of physical interest for different type motion of the plate are discussed. The results obtained have also been presented numerically through graphs to observe the effects of various parameters and the physical aspects of the problem.

Keywords: free convection, mass transfer, thermal radiation, chemically reacting fluid, MHD flow, Laplace transforms.

Full text: PDF file (320 kB)
References: PDF file   HTML file
UDC: 517.946
Accepted: 20.11.2010
Language:

Citation: Kalidas Das, “Effects of heat and mass transfer on MHD free convection flow near a moving vertical plate of a radiating and chemically reacting fluid”, J. Sib. Fed. Univ. Math. Phys., 4:1 (2011), 18–31

Citation in format AMSBIB
\Bibitem{Das11} \by Kalidas~Das \paper Effects of heat and mass transfer on MHD free convection flow near a~moving vertical plate of a~radiating and chemically reacting fluid \jour J. Sib. Fed. Univ. Math. Phys. \yr 2011 \vol 4 \issue 1 \pages 18--31 \mathnet{http://mi.mathnet.ru/jsfu158} 

• http://mi.mathnet.ru/eng/jsfu158
• http://mi.mathnet.ru/eng/jsfu/v4/i1/p18

 SHARE:

Citing articles on Google Scholar: Russian citations, English citations
Related articles on Google Scholar: Russian articles, English articles

This publication is cited in the following articles:
1. Das K., “Magnetohydrodynamics Free Convection Flow of a Radiating and Chemically Reacting Fluid Past an Impulsively Moving Plate with Ramped Wall Temperature”, J. Appl. Mech.-Trans. ASME, 79:6 (2012), 061017
2. B. Mahanthesh, B. J. Gireesha, R. S. R. Gorla, “Heat and mass transfer effects on the mixed convective flow of chemically reacting nanofluid past a moving/stationary vertical plate”, Alex. Eng. J., 55:1 (2016), 569–581
3. Sheri Siva Reddy, MD. Shamshuddin, “Diffussion-thermo and chemical reaction effects on an unsteady MHD free convection flow in a micropolar fluid”, Theor. Appl. Mech., 43:1 (2016), 117–131
•  Number of views: This page: 352 Full text: 96 References: 32