# Greenhouse Efficiency

Guest Post by Willis Eschenbach

Buoyed by equal parts of derision and praise for my last post, “Surface Radiation: Absorption And Emission“, I once again venture into the arena. I had an odd thought. The temperature has been generally rising over the period 2000-2021. I wondered if there was a way I could measure the efficiency of the greenhouse effect to see if the warming was due to increasing greenhouse gases (GHGs). If the GHGs were the cause, then the greenhouse effect would need to be more efficient in terms of warming the surface.

A Prologue: The earth is much warmer than the moon, which receives the same amount of solar energy per unit area. It’s generally accepted, including by me, that the warmth is from the very poorly named “greenhouse effect”, which has nothing to do with greenhouses.

Now, if you don’t think the “greenhouse effect” exists, this is NOT the thread for you. There are lots of places to make that argument. This isn’t one of them. We know the earth is warmer than expected. Nobody has ever come up with an explanation for that except the greenhouse effect.

If you are unclear about how the greenhouse effect works, the physical basis of it has nothing to do with CO2 or with the atmosphere at all. I explain this in my posts “People Living In Glass Planets“, and “The Steel Greenhouse“.

To reiterate: PLEASE do not post your opinions here on why the greenhouse effect isn’t real, or why there’s no such thing as downwelling radiation, or that scientists don’t understand the instruments that measure IR. The web is a very big universe. Somewhere out there is the perfect place to make those arguments.

This is not that place.

To return to the question at hand, which is the efficiency of the greenhouse effect, here’s the temperature change during the period of the CERES satellite data.

Figure 1. Surface temperature changes, CERES data. It is a conversion of the CERES surface upwelling longwave data to units of degrees Celsius using the Stefan-Boltzmann equation. It agrees well with e.g. the MSU lower tropical temperature, with a residual standard error of about a tenth of a degree C.

So the question, of course, is why did it warm over that period?

I thought, well, what the greenhouse effect does is to increase the surface temperature. The greenhouse effect starts with a certain amount of energy entering the climate system, and it ends with the surface being warmer and thus emitting more thermal radiation than would be expected if one were to look at say the moon, which gets the same energy from the sun as does the earth.

So … I figured that I could express the efficiency of the greenhouse effect by comparing the upwelling longwave radiation from the surface with the amount of solar energy entering the system. This measures the “end-to-end” efficiency of the entire system, including all feedbacks and interactions. I’ve chosen to express it as a “multiplier”—for every W/m2 of solar input, how many W/m2 of upwelling surface radiation do we get?

The amount of solar energy at the top of the atmosphere is about 340 watts per square meter (W/m2). However, about 100 W/m2 is reflected by the clouds and the surface. This means that the solar energy entering the system is on the order of 240 W/m2.

Upwelling longwave from the surface, on the other hand, is on the order of 400 W/m2. This means that the average greenhouse multiplier is approximately:

400 W/m2 / 240 W/m2 ≈ 1.66

In other words, for every watt per square meter of solar input, we get ~ 1.7 watts per square meter of upwelling surface radiation.

Now, we can run this calculation for each month, looking at the amount of thermal radiation emitted by the surface divided by the solar energy entering the system. Figure 2 shows that result. Remember that for increased greenhouse gases to be responsible for the warming, the greenhouse multiplier needs to increase.

Figure 2. Greenhouse multiplier. The multiplier is calculated as upwelling longwave surface radiation divided by incoming solar radiation (after albedo reflections). A multiplier of 2 would mean that the surface would be radiating two W/m2 of energy for each one W/m2 of solar energy actually entering the system. This shows that the greenhouse has increased the incoming solar radiation by about two-thirds, as measured at the surface.

Now, this is a most interesting finding. The efficiency of the planetary greenhouse has decreased slightly over the period—not significantly, but not increasing either.

In fact, the stability over the period is of interest in itself. Note that the standard deviation of the multiplier is 0.004 W/m2. Over the period, the end-to-end efficiency of the entire greenhouse system hardly varied at all. I’ve written before about the amazing stability of the system. This is another example.

So given the evidence above that the increase in upwelling surface radiation cannot be due to a change in greenhouse efficiency from increased CO2 or any other reason, what is the cause of the temperature increase? Here are the graphs of the two datasets that make up the greenhouse multiplier—the upwelling surface radiation, and the incoming solar radiation.

Figure 3. Upwelling surface thermal radiation (yellow, left panel), and incoming solar radiation after albedo reflections (red, right panel). Blue/black lines are LOWESS smooths of the data.

In Figure 3, we can see why the efficiency of the system hardly varied—the upwelling surface longwave was increasing pretty much in lockstep with the incoming solar energy actually entering the system.

Conclusions: We have observational evidence that the temperature increase from 2000-2021 was not due to an increase in greenhouse gases, or any increase in the efficiency of the greenhouse effect from any cause. The efficiency has been very stable over the period, with a standard deviation of 0.2% and no significant trend.

On the other hand, the change in incoming solar energy is both adequate to explain the increase in warming, and has the same shape as the change in surface radiation (blue LOWESS smooths in both panels in Figure 3). While there are undoubtedly other factors in play, the main cause of the warming is clearly the increase in the amount of solar energy after reflections from the clouds and the surface.

And once again, the clouds rule … go figure …

w.

Math Note: I tend to use “upwelling longwave surface radiation” and “temperature” interchangeably. Yes, I know that radiation varies as the fourth power of temperature, T4. However, the difference is trivial in the narrow range shown in e.g. Figure 3.

Figure 4 shows a comparison of the upwelling longwave shown in Figure 3 and the Stefan-Boltzmann derived temperature. Basically identical in form.

Figure 4. Temperature (yellow, left scale) and surface upwelling radiation (red, right scale)

Policy Note: I was 100% serious about asking people to refrain from commenting about things like how downwelling radiation doesn’t exist and the greenhouse effect isn’t real. Don’t make me tap the sign.

My Usual Request: Misunderstandings abound in communication. When commenting, PLEASE quote the exact words you are discussing, so we can all understand exactly who and what you are responding to.

Article Rating
Inline Feedbacks
Bill Powers
September 2, 2022 10:52 am

That sun. That pesky sun. Now who could have possibly imagined. Certainly not all the brilliant minds at the UN and the best bureaucrats and scientists they could buy with taxpayer money.

Call me a skeptic
Reply to  Bill Powers
September 2, 2022 1:46 pm

They won’t listen, never will. Do the light bulb test. Put a small cloth towel over a light bulb and eureka. Less heat radiates out of the light bulb. You can pump excess CO2 into that room, still less heat radiates from the light bulb. After all climate fraudsters, it’s the sun stupid!

william Johnston
Reply to  Call me a skeptic
September 2, 2022 4:29 pm

No money in that,tho’.

R_G
Reply to  Bill Powers
September 5, 2022 5:29 pm

To be more precise; sun radiations modulated by clouds.

September 2, 2022 10:58 am

Yep, this is a great way to puncture the false arguments that alarmists use to support the hypothesis of CO2 caused warming, Willis. Thanks.

James Rouse
September 2, 2022 11:01 am

Excellent and clear article. Thank you.
Of course the pushback is going to be that what you have measured is a change in albedo of clouds (and Ice) which are feedbacks to temperature increases driven by CO2 radiative forcing.

Rud Istvan
Reply to  James Rouse
September 2, 2022 11:18 am

None other than Dessler himself published a clear sky/all sky analysis that he claimed showed a positive cloud feedback, which NASA then touted officially and loudly. The problem was his r^2 was 0.02! Essentially random no correlation. So observationally there is NO cloud feedback despite what the IPCC and the fancy climate models say. That is one of three main reasons the models run hot. (The others are the parameterization attribution problem, and the now ARGO verified under modeling of ocean precipitation, which causes the modeled water vapor feedback to be too high, which is why the modeled tropical troposphere hot spot doesn’t exist in reality.)

Reply to  Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 11:36 am

Well put, Rud.

John Tillman
Reply to  Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 12:39 pm

There is negative cloud feedback, since they cause net cooling of about 5 degrees C with present cloud cover.

DMacKenzie
Reply to  John Tillman
September 4, 2022 7:45 am

If cloud feedback was positive, Earth would have an atmosphere something like Venus only composed of superheated steam instead of CO2, since the dawn of time….

Reply to  Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 1:00 pm

The models run hot because that is what “management” wants predicted.

They run hot mainly from the exaggerated water vapor positive feedback not limited by increasing cloud cover.

But the reason does not matter — we get the predictions that the programmers are paid to predict — politics not science.

Apparently, that is not true of the Russian INM model that no one seems to care about.

There is insufficient knowledge of all causes of climate change to build a model that is accurate by design. But there is enough knowledge to be “in the ballpark” of observations (reality). if accuracy mattered. But accuracy does not matter. The models are used as science-like props to defend always wrong predictions of climate doom. They will never, as a group, be accurate. The average model represents the consensus on climate change. I’m surprised there are no sanctions to delete the Russian model from the average !

People with good scientific minds, like yourself, think models are intended to make accurate predictions. They are not. Not in modern climate “science” (politics). They are climate computer games intended to scare people. That’s why the CMIP6 models have a higher range than the CMIP 5 models. And CMIP7 models will likely have a higher range than CMIP6 models. This is very predictable if you think like a leftist –delete reason and accountability.

Last edited 1 month ago by Richard Greene
Reply to  Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 1:31 pm

Talking about Dessler is almost as bad as talking about Al Gore.
Two pretend scientists.

Ken
September 2, 2022 11:04 am

Great article. Elegant proof that albedo and solar irradience plays a major role in temperature. It’s intuitively obvious that CO2 has a negligible effect at 400 ppm compared to solar input.

Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 11:10 am

WE, another nice post. I was curious about what the ‘settled science’ says the result should have been with the CO2 control knob changed over your CERES time interval.
Turns out did not even have to work it out myself. There is a ‘calculator’ available at scied.UCAR.edu. That is pretty official—UCAR is a major hub of settled climate science. I used it and the ‘official’ ECS (UCAR default) value of 3.0 (the calculator lets you input more or less ECS). The calculator runs in increments of 10 ppm CO2.
The CO2 in 2000 was 372 (annual average taking out seasonality). 370>>14.4C.
The CO2 in 2021 was 416. 420>>14.9C.
UCAR says you should have seen about a 0.5C increase in surface temperature from the GHE alone. You saw none (Fig 2). So much for UCAR’s settled climate science.

Reply to  Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 1:05 pm

Except UAH is up over +0.5 degrees C. from 2000 to 2020.

Johne Morton
Reply to  Richard Greene
September 2, 2022 3:41 pm

From 2002 through July 2022, the trend is pretty small, ~0.2⁰ using the 12 month running mean (you can’t look at individual months). Even starting in the post-1998 La Niña dip, it’s less than 0.5⁰. Also, how do you explain the excellent correlation to solar activity?

Reply to  Johne Morton
September 2, 2022 4:14 pm

Of course you can look at individual years — 2020 is about +0.5 degrees C warmer than 2000. These are not linear data so a linear trend line is not necessary. Did increased solar energy cause +0.5 degrees C. in 20 years. I’m not even close to being convinced the global warming in the past 20 years was caused by solar energy. And few others are convinced, for good reasons.

Maybe the CERES measure of solar activity is wrong.
There is a lot of calculating involved:
Clouds and the Earth’s Radiant Energy System (CERES) FluxByCldTyp Edition 4 Data Product in: Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology Volume 39 Issue 3 (2022) (ametsoc.org)

And correlation is not causation

Other CERES related publications in 2022:
Publications – CERES (nasa.gov)

Knowledge comes from study of a variety of sources, not just one WUWT article.

Richard M
Reply to  Richard Greene
September 2, 2022 6:18 pm

Did you read Dubal/Vahrenholt 2021? Their data matches very closely to what Willis is reporting here.

Johne Morton
Reply to  Richard Greene
September 3, 2022 2:49 pm

Well, I mentioned individual months, not years. Also, annual changes thanks to ENSO and other factors makes the year-to-year data noisy. Also, I’m not talking about a linear trend line, but the running mean. I could just as easily say that, thanks to the supposed increase in GHG concentrations and (non-existent) GHG efficiency, the temperature should never, ever go down. That would be silly, too.

Richard M
Reply to  Richard Greene
September 2, 2022 6:16 pm

Willis explained why the temperature increase occurred. It was due to increased solar energy absorption. This was also reported in Dubal/Vahrenholt 2021. I’ve commented on this many times. They also used the CERES data.

Their work and now this work by Willis actually demonstrates the enhanced greenhouse effect, that is, that future warming is caused by CO2 increases that 1) increase DWIR warming the surface and 2) raising the effective radiation altitude, is shown to be false.

The reason increased DWIR does not lead to warming has to do with what I call boundary layer feedback. The reason the effective radiation altitude does not change is due to radiation exchange equilibrium in the atmosphere.

Jeff Alberts
Reply to  Richard M
September 2, 2022 7:13 pm

There is no “the temperature”. This is all navel gazing.

Richard M
Reply to  Jeff Alberts
September 2, 2022 8:55 pm

I think “the temperature” is fairly well defined and useful. Maybe a different name could be used, but that would probably lead to even more confusion.

Jeff Alberts
Reply to  Richard M
September 8, 2022 6:43 pm

No it’s not well-defined or useful.

Reply to  Richard M
September 2, 2022 10:15 pm

I never claimed Willie E, is misinterpreting CERES data. I do not believe his conclusion — that’s all. Nor do many climate scientists around the world.

Richard M
Reply to  Richard Greene
September 3, 2022 7:53 am

Willis has been a luke-warmer for a long time. His admission that the data shows no greenhouse warming is a step forward. He should be congratulated for following the data. If you have another explanation feel free to express it.

Keep in mind that the very same lack of greenhouse effect increase was documented in Miskolczi 2010 using NOAA data since the 1940s.

The Dubal/Vahrenholt 2021 paper, which essentially shows the same result from CERES data, has been denied for the past year. Climate scientists are in denial likely for the same reasons you express. That would mean they have the physics wrong which in their minds is “inconceivable”.

?q=50&fit=crop&dpr=1.5

Marty Cornell
Reply to  Richard Greene
September 2, 2022 7:34 pm

The UAH plot does not reflect attribution.

Reply to  Marty Cornell
September 2, 2022 10:16 pm

UAH reflects a decent measurement methodology and I strongly doubt that solar energy was the cause of all warming from 2000 to 2020.

Ron
Reply to  Richard Greene
September 4, 2022 9:28 am

Solar energy IS the cause of all warming if not from geothermal sources.
It’s just a matter of debate how and to what degree the energy delays it’s emission into space.

Smart Rock
Reply to  Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 2:39 pm

Rud – I think you spoke too soon. What Willis’ fig 2 shows is no increase in greenhouse efficiency. His fig. 1 gives surface temperature from CERES, which shows ~0.5°C increase over the period (by my patented “eyeball” method of curve fitting).

As we see more studies coming in, it does appear that the (as yet unexplained) decrease in cloud cover is the culprit behind recent warming.

Thanks to Willis for another neat piece of work, explained as always with exemplary clarity. I’ve been complimented over the years for the clarity and readability of my technical writing, but Willis’ clarity and readability are Olympic gold medal standard.

Rud Istvan
Reply to  Smart Rock
September 2, 2022 5:15 pm

Nope. The issue is, IF the GHE is potentiating because of increased CO2, then his ‘efficacy’ should increase. It didn’t. I just supplied a separate ‘proof’.

Barry Malcolm
Reply to  Rud Istvan
September 2, 2022 6:07 pm

Potentiating? Wtf does that mean, EXACTLY?

John Witten
September 2, 2022 11:17 am

Willis,

As always, this is a very interesting explanation. As a interested non-expert, I always learn something reading your articles. If you could please indulge my technical ignorance, how is the CERES data for incoming solar radiation adjusted for albedo reflection in Figure No. 3 actually obtained? I assume that incoming solar is measured by satellite. Is it also possible to measure short-wave reflection by satellite measurement? Or, is this a calculated number?

Just wondering. Your observations always seem to make so much common sense that is hard to believe that no one else seems to be making the same observations.

Rud Istvan
Reply to  John Witten
September 2, 2022 12:02 pm

Not Willis, but the answer is simple. Inbound solar is measured looking ‘up’ (away from Earth). Albedo reflected outbound solar is measured looking ‘down’ toward Earth. CERES simply uses two opposed sensors.

Gary R Wescom
September 2, 2022 11:17 am

What I gather then is that energy received at the surface to produce 400 watts upwelling IR is a combination of 240 watts from solar radiation and 160 watts downwelling IR. Did I miss something?

leitmotif
Reply to  Gary R Wescom
September 2, 2022 2:45 pm

But you cannot add radiations. It is sophistry.

240W/m^2 equivalent to 255K or -18C
160W/m^2 equivalent to 230K or – 43C
400W/m^2 equivalent to 290K or +17C

There is no way the first 2 could produce the third.

Macha
September 2, 2022 5:00 pm

Yep. The CO2 is already at the air temperature from energy absorbed on the way down. On the way up, its transparent..in/out without surface-air temperature change.

leitmotif
September 3, 2022 2:33 pm

???

Gary R Wescom
September 2, 2022 7:11 pm

Leitmotif – It was a simple watt in vs watts out question. Willis answered satisfactorily.

leitmotif
Reply to  Gary R Wescom
September 3, 2022 2:28 pm

No such thing as watts in v watts out question. Power is joules/sec i.e. energy/sec.

Willis mixing up e