As a lemon, the saddest thing in my life is knowing that I will never win

1. Top Mathematician
tfxi

the respect of HRMs.

However, at least I have a fairly high eye queue (130-140). Some believe this is the optimal IQ range, but they are wrong. The higher one’s IQ, the better, and any high IQ person who fails at basic things probably just needs to work on their social skills and/or attitude.

1 weektfxi
Quote 0 Up 19 Down Report
2. Top Mathematician
mcbt

Buddy, read your post again and rethink where the lack of respect might be coming from. Hint: it may be your attitude and weird obsession with IQ, not your mathematical abilities. Be a grown up, have dignity, respect will follow.

1 weekmcbt
Quote 9 Up 0 Down Report
3. Top Mathematician
unpd

What is this nonsense?

1 weekunpd
Quote 5 Up 0 Down Report
4. Top Mathematician
rwwl

Lol, you're not even a lemon.

1 weekrwwl
Quote 5 Up 2 Down Report
5. Top Mathematician
mzzx

Lol, you're not even a lemon.

Lol, you’re not even wrong. You’re also a bully.

1 weekmzzx
Quote 2 Up 0 Down Report
6. Top Mathematician
mzzx

Buddy, read your post again and rethink where the lack of respect might be coming from. Hint: it may be your attitude and weird obsession with IQ, not your mathematical abilities.

I literally never mention IQ in real life.

Be a grown up, have dignity, respect will follow.

I don’t think this is true. People are animals and do what they think benefits them.

If people don’t bully you, it’s not because of your “dignity” but because you don’t make yourself an easy target. You blend in with the crowd, or, less charitably, the herd.

1 weekmzzx
Quote 1 Up 3 Down Report
7. Top Mathematician
dgec

Chin up. Most HRM mathematicians don’t respect each other either.

1 weekdgec
Quote 8 Up 0 Down Report
8. Top Mathematician
mzzx

I don’t even think IQ determines the worth of a person. As I said in the OP, personality is crucial. One who is as neurotic, introverted, and disorganized as myself is bound to be a lemon. Let me take solace in my intelligence, at least, while I can.

1 weekmzzx
Quote 0 Up 0 Down Report
9. Top Mathematician
mzzx

Also, I don’t think I’m smarter than most mathematicians. Most mathematicians would score above 130 on an IQ test. Some estimate average mathematician IQ as high as 145.

1 weekmzzx
Quote 0 Up 0 Down Report
10. Top Mathematician
xmwz

i know many neurotic and disorganised well respected mathematicians, who are not lemons. moreover, as others have said, many vhrm mathematicians do not respect each others.

1 weekxmwz
Quote 3 Up 0 Down Report
11. Top Mathematician
xmwz

also i’m 100% convinced this whole thread is just a subtle troll

1 weekxmwz
Quote 11 Up 0 Down Report
12. Top Mathematician
dccs

also i’m 100% convinced this whole thread is just a subtle troll

Not exactly subtle. It’s the incel guy back again.

1 weekdccs
Quote 10 Up 0 Down Report
13. Top Mathematician
gnqg

Hi Lemon, How you're doing?

1 weekgnqg
Quote 0 Up 0 Down Report
14. Top Mathematician
jyzm

I don’t think it’s even subtle.

also i’m 100% convinced this whole thread is just a subtle troll

1 weekjyzm
Quote 3 Up 0 Down Report
15. Top Mathematician
mzzx

i know many neurotic and disorganised well respected mathematicians, who are not lemons.

I think those are either smarter or more focused on math than I am, though.

moreover, as others have said, many vhrm mathematicians do not respect each others.

True, it is senseless to beat oneself up about not having a particular group’s approval, when there are no material consequences for how that group thinks of one. But sometimes I can’t help it.

1 weekmzzx
Quote 0 Up 0 Down Report
16. Top Mathematician
otdc

not even an orchid variety lemon

1 weekotdc
Quote 1 Up 1 Down Report
17. Top Mathematician
ilqg

1 weekilqg
Quote 0 Up 0 Down Report
18. Top Mathematician
hlpd

I don’t even think IQ determines the worth of a person. As I said in the OP, personality is crucial. One who is as neurotic, introverted, and disorganized as myself is bound to be a lemon. Let me take solace in my intelligence, at least, while I can.

Do you get laid with that personality?

1 weekhlpd
Quote 1 Up 1 Down Report
19. Top Mathematician
xmwz

Do you get laid with that personality?

rhetorical question

1 weekxmwz
Quote 0 Up 1 Down Report
20. Top Mathematician
wxzp

IQ is the best predictor of everything positive. The rest of social science is creative writing. If your IQ is less than 160, you will have a hard time. For example, you won't get a job at OpenAI.

1 weekwxzp
Quote 3 Up 7 Down Report
Your screen is so tiny that we decided to disable the captcha and posting feature
Store settings & IDs (locally, encrypted)
Formatting guidelines: Commonmark with no images and html allowed. $and$\$ for LaTeX. Input previewed in last post of thread. For a link to be allowed it must include the http(s) tag and come from the list of allowed domains.