All Questions

70 views

Antialiased text in manipulate constantly re-evaluated, ignores TrackedSymbols

I am trying to display antialiased text (using the ImportString[ExportString[]] method shown here) but inside a manipulate so that the text can be changed interactively. I have found a way to do this, ...
56 views

What SampleRate and SampleDepth does Mathematica use on output?

The Play function will happily accept arbitrary values for its SampleDepth and SampleRate ...
182 views

Understanding performance: graph connected components

I need to analyze directed graphs with 10M edges, 1M vertices, and 300K strongly connected components, so that the largest one contains 400K vertices. I read some explanations of Leonid Shifrin here, ...
139 views

89 views

Derivative of generating function (Example from documentation)

In the documentation for GeneratingFunction, the following example is given under Examples -> Properties & Relations -> Derivative: ...
95 views

Getting Arg[z] to go from $0$ to $2\pi$

I'm defining branch cut functions, and I'm using $arg(z)$ as a building block. So I just spent an hour at the whiteboard assuming that $arg(z)$ goes from $0$ to $2\pi$, and then I implement the code, ...
115 views

What can I do to improve the performance of my calculations?

I'm trying to express a simple probability problem in Mathematica, but am having trouble getting my calculations to execute at a reasonable speed. I have an object whose unknown location is modeled ...
91 views

Compiling/calling Mathematica-generated .so from C

I'm trying to call a compiled function from a C program. I am generating the static object ...
184 views

How to restrict the mouse cursor to stay within a box?

I'm trying to use Mathematica to write small games, and I find that it would help to restrict the player's mouse into the game window (just like other games do). Is there any way to achieve this? ...
72 views

I'm trying to use a LibraryLink function in parallel. It is an embarrassingly parallel problem, so that no dependency between those parallel tasks. However I can only get the parallel efficiency about ...
109 views

“Off-label use” of Mathematica functions for performance

Assisting an acquaintance with a simulation where a very large number of binomial probability calculations are required, I pointed them to a slightly obscure function to dramatically speed up their ...
92 views

Deciding whether a semi-algebraic set is empty. Which command is best?

[Update] I was able to prove that the "larger" set $1\ge x \ge y,w \ge 0$ and $p(x,y,w)>0$ is empty with another computer algebra system in my slow laptop in few minutes but in Mathematica even ...
441 views

Problem inserting data into a mysql table with column names having a space

I have a mysql table whose column name has space. I tried inserting the data into this column. I got an error I tried a sample code, which tests accessing the columns with a space and that returns ...
110 views

Using Graph to cull correlated lists

I have a set of lists that represent molecular descriptors. I need to identify which descriptors are highly correlated and eliminate the correlated pairs. I can represent the connectivity by ...
296 views

A* algorithm for finding shortest path in a graph

FindShortestPath finds the shortest path between two vertices in an edge-weighted graph, allowing a choice between the Dijkstra and Bellman-Ford algorithms. In my (limited) understanding, both of ...
136 views

Fourier transformation of HeavisideTheta functions

I want to find 2D-Fourier transformation of the function given below f = HeavisideTheta[y1]*HeavisideTheta[y2 - y1] For the purpose, I use built-in function in ...
153 views

Using NVIDIA 3D Shutter Glasses with Mathematica

Mathematica has great capabilities to display 3D Graphics rendered to the 2D screen. This should make it perfectly suited to use the Graphics3D system together with an NVIDIA Graphics card, a 3D ...
300 views

I'm trying to register (align) two circular grayscale images using a boolean mask to prevent them simply being aligned on the fixed circular border. There are also small fixed circular regions in the ...
146 views

Young Tableaux Miscellanea

I have a problem which is mostly neatly described by using Young Tableaux. Mathematica seems to have these Tableaux built in, except that the Tableaux function is ...
113 views

Non-linear integral equation

I'm trying to solve with Mathematica an integral equation. I found this excellent answer (How to solve a non-linear integral equation?) solving with a collocation method a problem which can be ...
152 views

Launching Remote Kernels takes a lot of time

I recently played around with establishing a remote kernel setup without using mathematica grid. To do this I use the LaunchKernels[] command and ...
260 views

How to determine BLAS/LAPACK implementation used internally for numerical matrix operations?

Is there a command which reveals which implementation of BLAS and LAPACK are used in Mathematica's matrix operations such as Eigensystem? I asked a related question ...
106 views

206 views

Optimization with Matrix value constraint

I am trying to find the orientation and position of a polygon resting on a curved surface under gravity.The polygon MUST not be penetrated by any part of the surface below. Here is an example for a ...
75 views

Copy string with markup so it looks good on input

How can I copy a string with a bunch of *Box expressions without it blowing up into the raw expression? ...