Home OALib Journal OALib PrePrints Submit Ranking News My Lib FAQ About Us Follow Us+
 Title Keywords Abstract Author All
Search Results: 1 - 10 of 100 matches for " "
 Page 1 /100 Display every page 5 10 20 Item
 Hongchang Hu Mathematical Problems in Engineering , 2010, DOI: 10.1155/2010/956907 Abstract: This paper studies a linear regression model, whose errors are functional coefficient autoregressive processes. Firstly, the quasi-maximum likelihood (QML) estimators of some unknown parameters are given. Secondly, under general conditions, the asymptotic properties (existence, consistency, and asymptotic distributions) of the QML estimators are investigated. These results extend those of Maller (2003), White (1959), Brockwell and Davis (1987), and so on. Lastly, the validity and feasibility of the method are illuminated by a simulation example and a real example.
 Ajay Chandra Mathematics , 2008, Abstract: This paper proposes a closed-form optimal estimator based on the theory of estimating functions for a class of linear ARCH models. The estimating function (EF) estimator has the advantage over the widely used maximum likelihood (ML) and quasi-maximum likelihood (QML) estimators that (i) it can be easily implemented, (ii) it does not depend on a distributional assumption for the innovation, and (iii) it does not require the use of any numerical optimization procedures or the choice of initial values of the conditional variance equation. In the case of normality, the asymptotic distribution of the ML and QML estimators naturally turn out to be identical and, hence, coincides with ours. Moreover, a robustness property of the EF estimator is derived by means of influence function. Simulation results show that the efficiency benefits of our estimator relative to the ML and QML estimators are substantial for some ARCH innovation distributions.
 Mathematics , 2008, DOI: 10.1214/009053607000000875 Abstract: We study the asymptotic properties of bridge estimators in sparse, high-dimensional, linear regression models when the number of covariates may increase to infinity with the sample size. We are particularly interested in the use of bridge estimators to distinguish between covariates whose coefficients are zero and covariates whose coefficients are nonzero. We show that under appropriate conditions, bridge estimators correctly select covariates with nonzero coefficients with probability converging to one and that the estimators of nonzero coefficients have the same asymptotic distribution that they would have if the zero coefficients were known in advance. Thus, bridge estimators have an oracle property in the sense of Fan and Li [J. Amer. Statist. Assoc. 96 (2001) 1348--1360] and Fan and Peng [Ann. Statist. 32 (2004) 928--961]. In general, the oracle property holds only if the number of covariates is smaller than the sample size. However, under a partial orthogonality condition in which the covariates of the zero coefficients are uncorrelated or weakly correlated with the covariates of nonzero coefficients, we show that marginal bridge estimators can correctly distinguish between covariates with nonzero and zero coefficients with probability converging to one even when the number of covariates is greater than the sample size.
 Statistics , 2015, Abstract: We prove conditional asymptotic normality of a class of quadratic U-statistics that are dominated by their degenerate second order part and have kernels that change with the number of observations. These statistics arise in the construction of estimators in high-dimensional semi- and non-parametric models, and in the construction of nonparametric confidence sets. This is illustrated by estimation of the integral of a square of a density or regression function, and estimation of the mean response with missing data. We show that estimators are asymptotically normal even in the case that the rate is slower than the square root of the observations.
 Statistics , 2011, Abstract: Although approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) has become a popular technique for performing parameter estimation when the likelihood functions are analytically intractable there has not as yet been a complete investigation of the theoretical properties of the resulting estimators. In this paper we give a theoretical analysis of the asymptotic properties of ABC based parameter estimators for hidden Markov models and show that ABC based estimators satisfy asymptotically biased versions of the standard results in the statistical literature.
 Mathematics , 2007, DOI: 10.1214/074921707000000337 Abstract: We study the asymptotic properties of the SCAD-penalized least squares estimator in sparse, high-dimensional, linear regression models when the number of covariates may increase with the sample size. We are particularly interested in the use of this estimator for simultaneous variable selection and estimation. We show that under appropriate conditions, the SCAD-penalized least squares estimator is consistent for variable selection and that the estimators of nonzero coefficients have the same asymptotic distribution as they would have if the zero coefficients were known in advance. Simulation studies indicate that this estimator performs well in terms of variable selection and estimation.
 Statistics , 2011, Abstract: We establish sufficient conditions for the asymptotic normality of kernel density estimators, applied to causal linear random fields. Our conditions on the coefficients of linear random fields are weaker than known results, although our assumption on the bandwidth is not minimal. The proof is based on the $m$-approximation method. As a key step, we prove a central limit theorem for triangular arrays of stationary $m$-dependent random fields with unbounded $m$. We also apply a moment inequality recently established for stationary random fields.
 Mathematics , 2005, DOI: 10.1016/j.jspi.2006.09.027 Abstract: The aim of this article is to simplify Pfanzagl's proof of consistency for asymptotic maximum likelihood estimators, and to extend it to more general asymptotic M-estimators. The method relies on the existence of a sort of contraction of the parameter space which admits the true parameter as a fixed point. The proofs are short and elementary.
 Mathematics , 2008, Abstract: We consider linear processes, not necessarily Gaussian, with long, short or negative memory. The memory parameter is estimated semi-parametrically using wavelets from a sample $X_1,...,X_n$ of the process. We treat both the log-regression wavelet estimator and the wavelet Whittle estimator. We show that these estimators are asymptotically normal as the sample size $n\to\infty$ and we obtain an explicit expression for the limit variance. These results are derived from a general result on the asymptotic normality of the empirical scalogram for linear processes, conveniently centered and normalized. The scalogram is an array of quadratic forms of the observed sample, computed from the wavelet coefficients of this sample. In contrast with quadratic forms computed on the Fourier coefficients such as the periodogram, the scalogram involves correlations which do not vanish as the sample size $n\to\infty$.
 Gerg？ Nemes Mathematics , 2010, Abstract: Applying a theorem of Howard for a formula recently proved by Brassesco and M\'endez, we derive new simple explicit formulas for the coefficients of the asymptotic expansion to the sequence of factorials. To our knowledge no explicit formula containing only the four basic operations was known until now.
 Page 1 /100 Display every page 5 10 20 Item