2018. We employ the Mining Intelligence database to constitute an individual data panel of gold mines located in Sub-Saharan countries. Our empirical findings also suggest an inverse relationship between the tax rate change of the tax instruments and the declared profit of the firms. This link indicates that firms decide on how much profit to declare depending on the tax levels. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 48 (8 UL) Birefringence-modulated total internal reflection in liquid crystal shellsPopov, Nikolay ; Lagerwall, Jan in Frontiers in Soft Matter (2022), 2(Summer), 991375The combination of anisotropic boundary conditions and topological constraints acting on a spherical shell of nematic liquid crystal confined between aqueous phases gives rise to peculiar but well-defined ... [more ▼]The combination of anisotropic boundary conditions and topological constraints acting on a spherical shell of nematic liquid crystal confined between aqueous phases gives rise to peculiar but well-defined configurations of the director field, and thus of the optic axis that defines the impact of the nematic birefringence. While the resulting optics of nematic shells has been extensively investigated in transmission, studies of the reflection behavior are scarce. Here we show that nematic shells exhibit specific light guiding paths mediated by birefringence-modulated total internal reflection (TIR) within the shell. With stabilizers promoting tangential boundary conditions, shells show immobile antipodal spots revealing the locations of maximum effective refractive index, but their intensity is modulated by the polarization of the illuminating light. With normal-aligning stabilizers, shells instead show bright arcs separated by dark spots, and these follow the rotation of the polarization of the illuminating light. Reflection polarizing microscopy thus offers a valuable complement to the more common characterization in transmission, adding data that can be helpful for accurately mapping out director fields in shells of any liquid crystal phase. Moreover, the TIR-mediated light guiding paths may offer interesting handles to localize photopolymerization of reactive liquid crystal shells or to dynamically modulate the response of light-triggered liquid crystal elastomer shell actuators. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 53 (15 UL) Number transcoding in bilinguals—A transversal developmental studyLachelin, Remy ; Van Rinsveld, Amandine; Poncin, Alexandre et alin PLoS ONE (2022), 17(8), 0273391Number transcoding is the cognitive task of converting between different numerical codes (i.e. visual “42”, verbal “forty-two”). Visual symbolic to verbal transcoding and vice versa strongly relies on ... [more ▼]Number transcoding is the cognitive task of converting between different numerical codes (i.e. visual “42”, verbal “forty-two”). Visual symbolic to verbal transcoding and vice versa strongly relies on language proficiency. We evaluated transcoding of German-French bilinguals from Luxembourg in 5th, 8th, 11th graders and adults. In the Luxembourgish educational system, children acquire mathematics in German (LM1) until the 7th grade, and then the language of learning mathematic switches to French (LM2). French 70s 80s 90s are less transparent than 30s 40s 50s numbers, since they have a base-20 structure, which is not the case in German. Transcoding was evaluated with a reading aloud and a verbal-visual number matching task. Results of both tasks show a cognitive cost for transcoding numbers having a base-20 structure (i.e. 70s, 80s and 90s), such that response times were slower in all age groups. Furthermore, considering only base-10 numbers (i.e. 30s 40s 50s), it appeared that transcoding in LM2 (French) also entailed a cost. While participants across age groups tended to read numbers slower in LM2, this effect was limited to the youngest age group in the matching task. In addition, participants made more errors when reading LM2 numbers. In conclusion, we observed an age-independent language effect with numbers having a base-20 structure in French, reflecting their reduced transparency with respect to the decimal system. Moreover, we find an effect of language of math acquisition such that transcoding is less well mastered in LM2. This effect tended to persist until adulthood in the reading aloud task, while in the matching task performance both languages become similar in older adolescents and young adults. This study supports the link between numbers and language, especially highlighting the impact of language on reading numbers aloud from childhood to adulthood. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 33 (0 UL) Conserved patterns across ion channels correlate with variant pathogenicity and clinical phenotypesBrünger, Tobias; Pérez-Palma, Eduardo; Montanucci, Ludovica et alin Brain: a Journal of Neurology (2022)Clinically identified genetic variants in ion channels can be benign or cause disease by increasing or decreasing the protein function. Consequently, therapeutic decision-making is challenging without ... [more ▼]Clinically identified genetic variants in ion channels can be benign or cause disease by increasing or decreasing the protein function. Consequently, therapeutic decision-making is challenging without molecular testing of each variant. Our biophysical knowledge of ion channel structures and function is just emerging, and it is currently not well understood which amino acid residues cause disease when mutated.We sought to systematically identify biological properties associated with variant pathogenicity across all major voltage and ligand-gated ion channel families. We collected and curated 3,049 pathogenic variants from hundreds of neurodevelopmental and other disorders and 12,546 population variants for 30 ion channel or channel subunits for which a high-quality protein structure was available. Using a wide range of bioinformatics approaches, we computed 163 structural features and tested them for pathogenic variant enrichment. We developed a novel 3D spatial distance scoring approach that enables comparisons of pathogenic and population variant distribution across protein structures.We discovered and independently replicated that several pore residue properties and proximity to the pore axis were most significantly enriched for pathogenic variants compared to population variants. Using our 3D scoring approach, we showed that the strongest pathogenic variant enrichment was observed for pore-lining residues and alpha-helix residues within 5Å distance from the pore axis center and not involved in gating. Within the subset of residues located at the pore, the hydrophobicity of the pore was the feature most strongly associated with variant pathogenicity. We also found an association between the identified properties and both clinical phenotypes and functional in vitro assays for voltage-gated sodium channels (SCN1A, SCN2A, SCN8A) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (GRIN1, GRIN2A, GRIN2B) encoding genes. In an independent expert-curated dataset of 1,422 neurodevelopmental disorder pathogenic patient variants and 679 electrophysiological experiments, we show that pore axis distance is associated with seizure age of onset and cognitive performance as well as differential gain vs. loss-of-channel function.In summary, we identified biological properties associated with ion-channel malfunction and show that these are correlated with in vitro functional read-outs and clinical phenotypes in patients with neurodevelopmental disorders. Our results suggest that clinical decision support algorithms that predict variant pathogenicity and function are feasible in the future. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 25 (3 UL) Ringing the bell for quality P.E.: What are the realities of remote physical education?Kovacs, Viktoria; Csanyi, Tamas; Blagus, Rok et alin European Journal of Public Health (2022), 32(Issue Supplement_1), 3843Background To date, few data on the quality and quantity of online physical education (P.E.) during the COVID-19 pandemic have been published. We assessed activity in online classes and reported allocated ... [more ▼]Background To date, few data on the quality and quantity of online physical education (P.E.) during the COVID-19 pandemic have been published. We assessed activity in online classes and reported allocated curriculum time for P.E. in a multi-national sample of European children (6–18 years). Methods Data from two online surveys were analysed. A total of 8395 children were included in the first round (May–June 2020) and 24 302 in the second round (January–February 2021). Results Activity levels during P.E. classes were low in spring 2020, particularly among the youngest children and in certain countries. 27.9% of students did not do any online P.E. and 15.7% were hardly ever very active. Only 18.4% were always very active and 14.9% reported being very active quite often. In winter 2020, we observed a large variability in the allocated curriculum time for P.E. In many countries, this was lower than the compulsory requirements. Only 65.7% of respondents had the same number of P.E. lessons than before pandemic, while 23.8% had less P.E., and 6.8% claimed to have no P.E. lessons. Rates for no P.E. were especially high among secondary school students, and in large cities and megapolises. Conclusions During the COVID-19 pandemic, European children were provided much less P.E. in quantity and quality than before the pandemic. Countermeasures are needed to ensure that these changes do not become permanent. Particular attention is needed in large cities and megapolises. The critical role of P.E. for students’ health and development must be strengthened in the school system. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 17 (0 UL) Enhanced Communications on Satellite-Based IoT Systems to Support Maritime Transportation ServicesMonzon Baeza, Victor ; Ortiz Gomez, Flor de Guadalupe ; Herrero Garcia, Samuel et alin Sensors (2022), 22(17), Maritime transport has become important due to its ability to internationally unite all continents. In turn, during the last two years, we have observed that the increase of consumer goods has resulted in ... [more ▼]Maritime transport has become important due to its ability to internationally unite all continents. In turn, during the last two years, we have observed that the increase of consumer goods has resulted in global shipping deadlocks. In addition, the future goes through the role of ports and efficiency in maritime transport to decarbonize its impact on the environment. In order to improve the economy and people’s lives, in this work, we propose to enhance services offered in maritime logistics. To do this, a communications system is designed on the deck of ships to transmit data through a constellation of satellites using interconnected smart devices based on IoT. Among the services, we highlight the monitoring and tracking of refrigerated containers, the transmission of geolocation data from Global Positioning System (GPS), and security through the Automatic Identification System (AIS). This information will be used for a fleet of ships to make better decisions and help guarantee the status of the cargo and maritime safety on the routes. The system design, network dimensioning, and a communications protocol for decision-making will be presented. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 31 (4 UL) Evaluation of SORL1 in Lewy Body Dementia Identifies No Significant AssociationsRay, Anindidta; Reho, Paolo; Shah, Zalak et alin Movement Disorders (2022)Lewy body dementia (LBD) is a clinically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder characterized by parkinsonism, visual hallucinations, fluctuating mental status, and rapid eye movement sleep behavior ... [more ▼]Lewy body dementia (LBD) is a clinically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder characterized by parkinsonism, visual hallucinations, fluctuating mental status, and rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder. LBD lies along a spectrum between Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease, and recent evidence suggests that the genetic architectures of these age-related syndromes are intersecting. In summary, we did not find a significant enrichment of rare, damaging SORL1 mutations in our well-powered LBD cohort. Our data set is, to our knowledge, the largest genome-sequence cohort in this understudied disease. Although it is possible that an association was missed due to allelic heterogeneity, our findings indicate that caution should be exercised when interpreting SORL1 mutations in LBD, as the current evidence does not conclusively support an association with disease risk. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 35 (2 UL) Alpha synuclein determines ferroptosis sensitivity in dopaminergic neurons via modulation of ether-phospholipid membrane composition.Mahoney-Sanchez, Laura; Bouchaoui, Hind; Boussaad, Ibrahim et alin Cell reports (2022), 40(8), 111231There is a continued unmet need for treatments that can slow Parkinson's disease progression due to the lack of understanding behind the molecular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration. Since its ... [more ▼]There is a continued unmet need for treatments that can slow Parkinson's disease progression due to the lack of understanding behind the molecular mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration. Since its discovery, ferroptosis has been implicated in several diseases and represents a therapeutic target in Parkinson's disease. Here, we use two highly relevant human dopaminergic neuronal models to show that endogenous levels of α-synuclein can determine the sensitivity of dopaminergic neurons to ferroptosis. We show that reducing α-synuclein expression in dopaminergic neurons leads to ferroptosis evasion, while elevated α-synuclein expression in patients' small-molecule-derived neuronal precursor cells with SNCA triplication causes an increased vulnerability to lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis. Lipid profiling reveals that ferroptosis resistance is due to a reduction in ether-linked phospholipids, required for ferroptosis, in neurons depleted of α-synuclein (α-syn). These results provide a molecular mechanism linking α-syn levels to the sensitivity of dopaminergic neurons to ferroptosis, suggesting potential therapeutic relevance. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 19 (0 UL) Coevaporation Stabilizes Tin-Based Perovskites in a Single Sn-Oxidation StateSingh, Ajay ; Hieulle, Jeremy ; Ferreira Machado, Joana Andreia et alin Nano Letters (2022)Chemically processed methylammonium tin-triiodide (CH3NH3SnI3) films include Sn in different oxidation states, leading to poor stability and low power conversion efficiency of the resulting solar cells ... [more ▼]Chemically processed methylammonium tin-triiodide (CH3NH3SnI3) films include Sn in different oxidation states, leading to poor stability and low power conversion efficiency of the resulting solar cells (PSCs). The development of absorbers with Sn [2+] only has been identified as one of the critical steps to develop all Sn-based devices. Here, we report on coevaporation of CH3NH3I and SnI2 to obtain absorbers with Sn being only in the preferred oxidation state [+2] as confirmed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy. The Sn [4+]-free absorbers exhibit smooth highly crystalline surfaces and photoluminescence measurements corroborating their excellent optoelectronic properties. The films show very good stability under heat and light. Photoluminescence quantum yields up to 4 × 10^-3 translate in a quasi Fermi-level splittings exceeding 850 meV under one sun equivalent conditions showing high promise in developing lead-free, high efficiency, and stable PSCs. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 48 (6 UL) Anger can make fake news viral onlineChuai, Yuwei ; Zhao, Jichangin Frontiers in Physics (2022), 10Fake news that manipulates political elections, strikes financial systems, and even incites riots is more viral than real news online, resulting in unstable societies and buffeted democracy. While factor ... [more ▼]Fake news that manipulates political elections, strikes financial systems, and even incites riots is more viral than real news online, resulting in unstable societies and buffeted democracy. While factor that drives the viral spread of fake news is rarely explored. In this study, it is unexpectedly found that the easier contagion of fake news online is positively associated with the greater anger it carries. The same results in Twitter and Weibo indicate that this correlation is independent of the platform. Moreover, mutations in emotions like increasing anger will progressively speed up the information spread. Increasing the occupation of anger by 0.1 and reducing that of joy by 0.1 are associated with the generation of nearly six more retweets in the Weibo dataset. Offline questionnaires reveal that anger leads to more incentivized audiences in terms of anxiety management and information sharing and accordingly makes fake news more contagious than real news online. Cures such as tagging anger in social media could be implemented to slow or prevent the contagion of fake news at the source. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 18 (4 UL) Evolution of Non-Terrestrial Networks From 5G to 6G: A SurveyAzari, M. Mahdi; Solanki, Sourabh ; Chatzinotas, Symeon et alin IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials (2022), 24(4), 2633-2672Non-terrestrial networks (NTNs) traditionally have certain limited applications. However, the recent technological advancements and manufacturing cost reduction opened up myriad applications of NTNs for ... [more ▼]Non-terrestrial networks (NTNs) traditionally have certain limited applications. However, the recent technological advancements and manufacturing cost reduction opened up myriad applications of NTNs for 5G and beyond networks, especially when integrated into terrestrial networks (TNs). This article comprehensively surveys the evolution of NTNs highlighting their relevance to 5G networks and essentially, how it will play a pivotal role in the development of 6G ecosystem. We discuss important features of NTNs integration into TNs and the synergies by delving into the new range of services and use cases, various architectures, technological enablers, and higher layer aspects pertinent to NTNs integration. Moreover, we review the corresponding challenges arising from the technical peculiarities and the new approaches being adopted to develop efficient integrated ground-air-space (GAS) networks. Our survey further includes the major progress and outcomes from academic research as well as industrial efforts representing the main industrial trends, field trials, and prototyping towards the 6G networks. [less ▲]Detailed reference viewed: 33 (6 UL) Roadmap on Machine learning in electronic structureH J Kulik; T Hammerschmidt; Tkatchenko, Alexandre in IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering (2022)Detailed reference viewed: 47 (0 UL) Matching Traffic Demand in GEO Multibeam Satellites: The Joint Use of Dynamic Beamforming and Precoding Under Practical ConstraintsChaker, Haythem ; Chougrani, Houcine ; Alves Martins, Wallace et alin IEEE Transactions on Broadcasting (2022)To adjust for the non-uniform spatiotemporal nature of traffic patterns, next-generation high throughput satellite (HTS) systems can benefit from recent technological advancements in the space-segment in ... [more ▼]To adjust for the non-uniform spatiotemporal nature of traffic patterns, next-generation high throughput satellite (HTS) systems can benefit from recent technological advancements in the space-segment in order to dynamically design traffic-adaptive beam layout plans (ABLPs). In this work, we propose a framework for dynamic beamforming (DBF) optimization and adaptation in dynamic environments. Given realistic traffic patterns and a limited power budget, we propose a feasible DBF operation for a geostationary multibeam HTS network. The