# 5'UTR and 3'UTR annotation in yeast

I am working on a project in which I need to compute several parameters (such GC content and length) of 5'UTR and 3'UTR sequences of Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast genes.

The problem is finding a proper annotation for these regions in yeast. I have tried with BiomaRt and these sequences are not available for yeast. I have also tried with UCSC table browser to obtain a BED file with 5'UTR or 3'UTR sequences but it is returning only coordinates of tRNAs, pseudogenes, ncRNAs.

In summary, is there a straight-forward way to obtain an annotation for 5'UTR and 3'UTR regions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast?

• Sorry, is for Saccharomyces cerevisiae. I am going to edit the question just in case.
– plat
Nov 6 '17 at 12:58
• isn't there an equivalent of AceView for Yeast ? ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/IEB/Research/Acembly/index.html Nov 6 '17 at 17:15

I am unaware of any "official" or gold-standard UTR annotations in S. cerevisiae.

One option is to use the annotations from the TIF-Seq publication (Pelechano et al. 2013).

The GSE39128_tsedall.txt.gz file contains the major isoforms identified. It would be up to you to computational associate each transcript with a given gene. It is also up to you to determine which major isoforms are present in your dataset. Furthermore based on my own experience there is often a significant number of discrepancies between what I see in an NGS dataset (e.g. RNA-Seq) and what is called as a possible isoform in these annotations. However, a lot of this could be related to the inherent technological limitations of the method.

If you look at the SGD genome browser they provide some additional UTR annotations. Derived from Nagalakshmi et al. 2008.

You can find the relevant annotations for those UTR's in their supplemental data section. The file is 1158441_tables_s2_to_s6.zip and inside you will find TableS4 which seems to contain what you seek.

There might be more resources but these are the two main ones I'm aware of.

According to the README files in the same directory, these are (the README for the 5' file is equivalent):