Abstract

Learning how to obtain rewards requires learning about their contexts and likely causes. How do long-term memory mechanisms balance the need to represent potential determinants of reward outcomes with the computational burden of an over-inclusive memory? One solution would be to enhance memory for salient events that occur during reward anticipation, because all such events are potential determinants of reward. We tested whether reward motivation enhances encoding of salient events like expectancy violations. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, participants performed a reaction-time task in which goal-irrelevant expectancy violations were encountered during states of high- or low-reward motivation. Motivation amplified hippocampal activation to and declarative memory for expectancy violations. Connectivity of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) with medial prefrontal, ventrolateral prefrontal, and visual cortices preceded and predicted this increase in hippocampal sensitivity. These findings elucidate a novel mechanism whereby reward motivation can enhance hippocampus-dependent memory: anticipatory VTA-cortical–hippocampal interactions. Further, the findings integrate literatures on dopaminergic neuromodulation of prefrontal function and hippocampus-dependent memory. We conclude that during reward motivation, VTA modulation induces distributed neural changes that amplify hippocampal signals and records of expectancy violations to improve predictions—a potentially unique contribution of the hippocampus to reward learning.

Introduction

Relationships between events are often clear only in retrospect. For example, when something good happens, we want to know why it happened and how to make it happen again. However, many events may precede a reward; how do we know which of them caused it? One way to solve this “credit assignment problem,” is by recording in memory all potential determinants of behaviorally relevant events like rewards (Fu and Anderson 2008). From an over-inclusive mnemonic record, the relationships between behaviorally relevant events can be disambiguated as experience accumulates, improving mnemonic models for predicting future rewards and knowing how to get them.

How long-term memory supports the resolution of credit assignment for rewards and similar computational problems must be reconciled with combinatorial explosion in representing potential relationships. These two opposing constraints could both be satisfied if the contents of memory were biased as follows: Because it indicates an expectation that reward is possible, reward motivation should result in enhanced memory encoding for salient events, even if those events are not explicitly associated with reward. Conversely, over-inclusive memory encoding should occur only during reward motivation, to limit computational burden. Because any salient event encountered during reward motivation is potentially predictive of reward outcomes, such a memory bias would offer a computationally feasible way to facilitate obtaining future rewards.

Expectancy violations are salient events because they are surprising; they signal environmental volatility and act as a cue to update mnemonic representations. Thus, expectancy violations encountered during pursuit of a goal should be more salient and better remembered than those encountered when no goal is active. For example, an individual might memorize the location of a new, soon-to-be opened restaurant better if she notices it when hungry than when full. This adaptive memory bias would ensure that when behaviorally relevant events do occur, mnemonic models of the environment include an exuberant set of possible predictive relationships to be refined by additional experience.

No research has yet investigated whether reward motivation affects the encoding of behaviorally salient events encountered during goal pursuit, but the hippocampal memory system is well positioned for such a function. First, the hippocampus is specialized to create inclusive records of the surrounding environment: the hippocampus generates detailed representations of multiple interconnected events (Davachi 2006; Ranganath 2010), unfolding in time (Devito and Eichenbaum 2011; Tubridy and Davachi 2011), with preferential representation of surprises (i.e., expectancy violations) (Ranganath and Rainer 2003). Second, the hippocampus is modulated by activation of the dopaminergic midbrain, a region strongly implicated in reward-motivated behaviors (Berridge and Robinson 1998; Wise 2004). Accumulating evidence suggests that engagement of the midbrain (including the ventral tegmental area [VTA]) biases hippocampal memory to support future adaptive behaviors (Shohamy and Adcock 2010; Lisman et al. 2011). However, although VTA activation and motivation have both been shown to influence memory encoding (Shohamy and Adcock 2010; Lisman et al. 2011), the mechanisms of these effects in behaving organisms remain to be elucidated.

Prior research suggests that reward motivation could influence hippocampal memory either directly or indirectly. Plausible direct mechanisms include dopaminergic modulation of dynamic hippocampal physiology (Lisman and Otmakhova 2001; Hammad and Wagner 2006; Swant et al. 2008) and stabilization of long-term potentiation (Wang and Morris 2010; Lisman et al. 2011). Alternatively, given the widespread influence of dopamine on distributed brain systems beyond the hippocampus, changes in these broader networks could alter hippocampal physiology indirectly. Indirect hippocampal modulation could result from changes in a variety of processes that contribute to memory encoding (Nieoullon and Coquerel 2003; Mehta and Riedel 2006; Watanabe 2007). For example, the VTA modulates prefrontal neurophysiology during working memory, and attentional or executive processes (Williams and Goldman-Rakic 1995; Durstewitz et al. 2000; Goldman-Rakic et al. 2000; Seamans and Yang 2004), and recent evidence from the rodent literature has demonstrated synchronized activity across the VTA, hippocampus, and prefrontal cortex (PFC) during a working memory paradigm (Fujisawa and Buzsaki 2011). Because working memory and executive processes support episodic memory encoding (Blumenfeld and Ranganath 2007; Jeneson and Squire 2012), these processes could be recruited during reward-motivated memory encoding to indirectly modulate the hippocampus. This possibility is supported by recent electrophysiological evidence linking frontal theta to reward-motivated memory (Gruber et al. 2013) but a link to hippocampal physiology has yet to be demonstrated.

The first goal of the current study was to test for the existence of a mnemonic bias for encoding expectancy violations during reward motivation. The second goal was to adjudicate between direct and indirect mechanistic accounts of this adaptive memory bias. To address these questions, we collected fMRI data while participants performed a rewarded reaction-time task with goal-irrelevant expectancy violations embedded in a series of goal-relevant stimuli (Fig. 1). Specifically, participants viewed serial repetitions of a trial-unique object, responding via button press when it changed from color to grayscale, under high- or low-reward motivation. On half of the trials, the series was interrupted by a temporally unpredictable, novel but highly similar object: a goal-irrelevant expectancy violation. Following scanning, participants' memory was tested for the novel objects that served as expectancy violations. This design allowed us to independently measure activations to reward cues and expectancy violation events, and thus, to identify a novel candidate mechanism of midbrain dopamine effects on hippocampal physiology and memory.

Figure 1.

Experimental task. In each trial, participants first viewed a reward cue that indicated whether they had the opportunity to earn a high ($2.00) or low reward ($0.10) for a speeded button press to a target image (a grayscale image). In control trials, the reward cue was followed by serial repetitions of a trial-unique, color object image. After 10 to 11 repetitions that image turned grayscale, to which participants were to make a speeded button press. In expectancy violation trials, serial representations of the trial-unique, color object image was interrupted by a novel, yet highly similar, object image at a temporally unpredictable time. Participants were instructed that expectancy violations had no bearing on earning rewards, and earnings were solely based on their button press to target images. Following the button press to the target, participants were presented an outcome screen that indicated how much money they earned on that trial and how much they had accumulated over the course of the experiment.

Figure 1.

Experimental task. In each trial, participants first viewed a reward cue that indicated whether they had the opportunity to earn a high ($2.00) or low reward ($0.10) for a speeded button press to a target image (a grayscale image). In control trials, the reward cue was followed by serial repetitions of a trial-unique, color object image. After 10 to 11 repetitions that image turned grayscale, to which participants were to make a speeded button press. In expectancy violation trials, serial representations of the trial-unique, color object image was interrupted by a novel, yet highly similar, object image at a temporally unpredictable time. Participants were instructed that expectancy violations had no bearing on earning rewards, and earnings were solely based on their button press to target images. Following the button press to the target, participants were presented an outcome screen that indicated how much money they earned on that trial and how much they had accumulated over the course of the experiment.

Materials and Methods

Twenty-seven healthy, right-handed participants were paid $40 to participate, plus any additional earned monetary bonuses (mean =$69.78; standard deviation = $19.06). All participants gave written informed consent for a protocol approved and monitored by the Duke University Institutional Review Board. One participant was excluded due to a computer malfunction. The current analysis included 26 participants (18 females, age range: 18–36 years; median age = 24.5 years). Experimental Task To test for the effects of reward motivation on expectancy violation processing, participants perform a speeded reaction-time task, modified from the monetary incentive delay task (Knutson et al. 2000). This task was designed to manipulate 2 factors: participants' motivational state and the presence of expectancy violations. To manipulate motivational state, every trial of the task began with a 500-ms cue that indicated whether participants could earn either a high ($2.00) or low (0.10) reward for a speeded button press to a target image (Figure 1). Following a variable delay (between 5.5 and 6.5 s), the target appeared on the screen. Targets were trial-unique, grayscale object images. If participants were sufficiently fast at responding to targets, they earned the monetary bonus indicated by the cue. The target reaction time for earning money was determined by an adaptive algorithm, which estimated the response time threshold at which the subject would be successful on ∼65% of trials. Thresholds were calculated independently for each condition to ensure that reinforcement rates would be equated across all four conditions. Following the presentation of the target image, participants viewed an outcome screen that indicated their success on the current trial as well as their accumulated monetary bonuses. The intertrial interval between reward feedback and the following reward cues was 1–15.8 s (mean = 4.84). To manipulate expectancy violation, following the cue but prior to the target presentation, participants viewed 10–11 serial presentations of color object images for 409 ms with an interstimulus interval (ISI) of 136 ms. During control trials (CO), participants viewed repeated presentations of a color version of the upcoming target stimulus. During expectancy violation trials (EV), participants viewed repeated presentations of a color version of the upcoming target stimulus interrupted by a highly similar, but novel, image. This expectancy violation stimulus always appeared randomly between the fourth and eighth object presentation. Participants performed 2 runs of this task. During each task run, participants completed 10 High-Reward CO, 10 Low-Reward CO, 10 High-Reward EV, and 10 Low-Reward EV trials. Trial order was pseudo-randomized across each run, with each run lasting 7 min and 56 s. Trial onsets, cue-scene intervals, and trial order were optimized using Opt-seq software (Dale 1999). Immediately prior to scanning, participants were shown a visual schematic of the task and given verbal instructions. Participants were instructed about the incentives for detecting the grayscale object. They were also instructed that on some trials a different object would interrupt the stream of repeating objects, and that these interruptions were irrelevant to earning money. Participants were informed that they would receive all money earned during the performance of this task. Participants performed an unpaid, practice version of the task that consisted of 10 High-Reward CO and 10 Low-Reward CO to familiarize themselves with the paradigm and to calibrate reaction-time thresholding. Following scanning (∼30 min after the encoding session), participants performed a 2-alternative forced-choice recognition memory task for objects that constituted expectancy violations. During this test, participants saw pairs of object images, one of which was an object that constituted an expectancy violation and the other a similar, yet novel, object that participants had never seen. For each object pair, participants had to identify which object they saw during the encoding session by pressing either the “1” or “2” button to indicate the object on the left or right, respectively. Following each memory decision, participants had to indicate their confidence in their response (i.e., 1 = very sure, 2 = pretty sure, 3 = just guessing). Participants received 40 recognition memory trials (20 high reward and 20 low reward). MRI Data Acquisition and Preprocessing fMRI data were acquired on a 3.0-T GE Signa MRI scanner using a standard echo-planar imaging sequence (echo-planar imaging [EPI], TE = 27 ms, flip = 77 degrees, TR = 2 s, 34 contiguous slices, size = 3.75 mm × 3.75 mm × 3.80 mm) with coverage across the whole brain. Each of the 2 functional runs consisted of 238 volumes. Prior to the functional runs, we collected a whole-brain, inversion recovery, spoiled gradient high-resolution anatomical image (voxel size = 1 mm, isotropic) for use in spatial normalization. fMRI preprocessing was performed using fMRI Expert Analysis Tool (FEAT) Version 5.92 as implemented in FSL 4.1.5 9 (www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl). The first 6 scans were discarded to allow for signal saturation. Bold images were then skull stripped using the Brain Extraction Tool (Smith 2002). Images were then realigned within-run, intensity normalized by a single multiplicative factor, spatially smoothed with a 4.0-mm full width half maximum (FWHM) kernel, and subjected to a high-pass filter (100 s). Spatial normalization was performed using a 2-step procedure on fMRIb Linear Registration Tool (Jenkinson et al. 2002). First, mean EPIs from each run were co-registered to the high-resolution anatomical image. Then, the high-resolution anatomical image was normalized to the high-resolution standard space image in Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) space using a nonlinear transformation with a 10-mm warp resolution, as implemented by fMRI NonLinear Registration Tool. All coordinates are reported in MNI space. Behavioral Analysis Reaction times and hit rates to target images were submitted to separate repeated measures ANOVAs with motivation (high vs. low trials) and expectancy violation (EV vs. CO) as within-subjects factors. Of note, the adaptive nature of our reaction-time algorithm was explicitly programmed to keep reinforcement rates equivalent across conditions. For both of these ANOVAs, we tested for main effects of motivation and expectancy violation as well as their interaction at a significance level of P < 0.05. Recognition memory for objects that constituted expectancy violations was tested by submitting the number of hits to Student’s t-test with a significance level of P < 0.05 with motivation (high vs. low) as a within-subject factor. All memory responses were included in this analysis, irrespective of participants' reported confidence. fMRI Data Analysis fMRI data were analyzed using FEAT Version 5.92 as implemented in FSL 4.1.5. Time-series statistical analyses used FILM with local autocorrelation correction (Woolrich et al. 2001). General Linear Model: Task-Related Activations To investigate task-related activations, first-level (i.e., within-run) general linear models (GLMs) included 8 regressors that modeled high-reward cues, low-reward cues, high-reward target images, low-reward target images, high-reward EV events, high-reward CO events, low reward EV events, and low reward CO events. The latency to CO events was determined by randomly sampling from the latency of EV events without replacement. All trial events were modeled with an event duration of 0 s and a standard amplitude of 1. These events were then convolved with a double-gamma hemodynamic response function. EV and CO events were orthogonalized with respect to cue and target events. Using this GLM, individual maps of parameter estimates were generated for 4 contrasts of interest: high-reward cue > low reward cue, [high-reward EV + low-reward EV] > [high-reward CO + low-reward CO], high-reward EV > high-reward CO, and low-reward EV > low-reward CO. Second-level analyses for each of these contrasts (i.e., across runs, but within-subject) were modeled using a fixed effects analysis. General Linear Model: Cue-Expectancy Violation Interactions To investigate interactions between cue-related VTA activation and EV signaling, first-level parametric GLMs were constructed which investigated the parametric modulation of EV and CO events by cue-evoked VTA activation. First, a single-trial, beta-series analysis was performed to extract single-trial parameter estimates for cue-evoked VTA activation (for a similar approach, see Rissman et al. (2004)). GLMs were constructed for each participant that separately modeled cue-evoked activations for each individual trial (40 high-cue and 40 low-cue regressors). EV/CO events and target images were modeled as described above. Then, a weighted average of cue-evoked β-values was extracted for each individual trial from a probabilistic VTA region-of-interest (ROI). This probabilistic ROI was generated by 1) independently hand-drawing the structure on 50 high-resolution anatomical images from an independent sample of 50 participants, 2) normalizing those images to standard space, and 3) averaging across those images (Shermohammed et al. 2012). Details for the anatomical landmarks used to define the VTA in individual participants can be found in Ballard et al. (2011). We chose to focus on the VTA over the SN in this paradigm because although there may be more dopaminergic neurons in the SN, the VTA has been demonstrated to be more critical in guiding reward-motivated behavior. In rodents, dopaminergic activity in the VTA has been demonstrated to track reward-motivated behaviors and learning (Aragona et al. 2008; Stuber et al. 2008), and selective stimulation of the VTA has been demonstrated to elicit reward-motivated behavior (Tsai et al. 2009; Adamantidis et al. 2011). In humans, high-resolution functional imaging has localized reward-motivated learning to the VTA and not the SN (D'Ardenne et al. 2008). Selective lesions