Science topics: Mathematics
Science topic

Mathematics - Science topic

Mathematics, Pure and Applied Math
Questions related to Mathematics
Question
Members of the mathematics group:
I read that there are 147 members in the mathematics group here in ResearchGate. I therefore want to bring once again the issue I initiated some time ago-establishing a mathematical science journal here. I will appreciate if we participate in the discussion and put our efforts to bring the journal to existence. We all will appreciate later when the journal becomes an international hub for mathematicians who work in pure and or applied mathematics alike and post their results with a minumum hassel and make their works be read and see their contribution to Mathematics and thereby to society. I will once again approximately quote Lobachevsky : " No part of Mathematics however abstract it may look or be that will not be used to the good of mankind " . It is this spirit that makes almost all mathematicians need to participate ( not only as readers ) in contributing works and results how small they may be who will later produce larger results in their fields.
To give credit to the scientic network that we are using -ResearchGate, we can make copyrighted to it as :
As you may recall, the title of the journal was: "Electronic Journal of Cross Sections in Mathematics" acronymed by EJCSM
Sincerely,
Dear Dr. Dejenie A. Lakew,
Your idea is excellent. I may support the idea by contributing mathematics in industrial applications.
Question
(a+b) (a+b) = a2+2ab+b2
(a+b)square
you calculate dela
Question
I have prepared a paper on Graph theory but I don't know how or where to publish it.
Whoever it may concern I am N V Nagendram working as Assistant Professor in Mathematics and i got published 14 papers in the academic year 2010 - 2011 after continuous and constant work done in Near Rings under Algebra of Mathematics. please visit lbrce.ac.in CSS Dept. Faculty / publications you can have my profile.
For your answer after writing an article to how it is to be sent ?
Ans: please go through international journal for graph theory topic you can find many journal titles go through each and every journal inside till you get the publication on your specialization of topic if you find then you goto submission online from there only. it will ask you title, author, co-author if any, Abstract , Key words and Subject specification/classification code mention thereof. upload your paper in the form of either MSWORD / LATEX or required form there mentioned by publisher.
So for this you can not ask every time to where my paper / article to be sent what you need to do is on regular basis you must have to had habit of reading journal by opening site international journal of topic name then you will find and read increase your reading capacity about journals. it is a good habit for a researcher on any topic. ok!
Now i am going to give you one journal name here you please send this article to that journal.
"International Journal of Mathematics Archive (IJMA)." or "International Journal of Mathematics and Computer Applications Research (IJMCAR) ISSN(Print):2249-6955 ISSN(Online): 2249-8060 " like this you have to thorough with net web site on your selected topic. bye yours .............N V Nagendram
Question
I know here f '(1) =0. I found in some texts if f ' (x) = 0 for some x then we can't apply N-R method. Is there any other technique to find first approximation for x^3-3x+1 = 0 taking initial approximation as 1? Which is correct ? a) 1 b) 0.5 c) 1.5 d) 0
I don't think there is any other way ,in the definition itself they say only if f'(xo) not equal to zero.
Question
I know parallel lines can't touch but what if they share all of the same points? Just wondering if there are any exceptions.
@Deepak Anand: The problem is the use of the word "Euclidean". This implies many things, including Euclid's 5th Postulate wherein parallel lines do not intersect. If you want to investigate other geometries (there are many) in which there are no parallel lines or there are many parallel lines, all passing through the same point. These are important and just as valid as Euclidean Plane Geometry. They just have different assumptions and contexts. You might want to do a Google search on Vanishing Point or on Projective Geometry which are probably relevant to the point you would like to make.
Question
One is euler's method.
Broadly, there are three classes of methods for solving (systems of ordinary) differential equations: special methods, numerical and graphical methods, and qualitative methods.
1. Special methods. They are rare, are only available for standard problems, and often require an initial transformation to a standard form before applying a solution method. However, it can be difficult to recognize the kind of differential equation you have so you can choose the right transformation. Possibly the best guide to these methods is "Ordinary Differential Equations" by Tenenbaum and Pollard, is available in a low-cost (US$12-25) Dover edition, and can often be found in college libraries. 2. Numerical and graphical methods. This includes Euler's method. The methods are broadly applicable, and there are excellent numerical solvers available for computers that are based upon the same idea as Euler's method, but are faster and more accurate. They are used to compute particular solutions or solution curves, and usually include methods for creating graphs when they can be useful. However, this approach may not give you insight into your problem. I recommend that you use such methods once you understand what are differential equations and what it means to find their solutions. 3. Qualitative methods. They are broadly applicable, are intended to give you insight into the kinds of solutions that exist for your differential equation, and the nature of the long-run behavior of the solutions to the equation (e.g. stabilize, grow or decrease without limit, oscillate, etc.). However, they may not give you numbers. They are based on patching together solution curves of (linearised versions of) the differential equation near coordinates where the kinds of solutions change. A modern first course in ordinary differential equations will usually introduce you to all three classes of methods, while a traditional course will emphasize special methods. As I said above, Tenenbaum and Pollard offer a textbook for a traditional first course. There are many texts available for a modern first course, such as the one by Blanchard, Devaney, and Hall, but they are usually expensive (about US$125).
If you are eventually headed towards graduate studies in mathematics, the above approach will be OK for a first course, but there are much better texts available. Authors of excellent introductory texts for mathematics majors include V. I. Arnold or Birkhoff and Rota.
Question
Moments Descriptors are invariant under RST ( Rotation, Scaling, Translation) in PR.
Is Moment Descriptor almost invariant under Optimization?
Is Moment Descriptor almost invariant under Guassian Noise?
Can the reduction of pixels to draw an optimal shape of a planar curve shape using mouse on computer affect recognition rate? If yes then upto which extent ?
I'm not sure about your question, but an important factor if you are considering using moment descriptors is to make sure that moments exist in your domain. (For example Lorentzian curves, which are common in my work, have no defined moments).
Question
Notice, that if f:K --> M is an injective map which can be defined by a finite statement, then
for every y in img(f) there is an x in K satisfying the relation y = f(x), which can be regarded as a definition for y. Thus, either both x and y can be defined by finite statements, or no one of them can be defined finitely.
S. K's definition is for a bijection, not an injection. An injection is one-one into, not necessarily onto. Cardinality arguments show that there are many undefinable functions. If by definable one means definitions by an expression in some language where the expression contains a finite number of symbols and the number of symbols is finite, then there are a countable number of definable functions. But the number of injective functions is uncountable.
Question
Hi i send you one problem.
If for (4) you don't need that it is 'strictly' increasing then you can just use Q(t)=t/3
Question
May i know a book which gives a basic results or informations about Matrix theory?
- Matrix Theory, Joel N. Franklin‏
- Elementary matrix theory, Howard Whitley Eves
- Introduction to matrix analysis, Richard Ernest Bellman
- Matrix theory, James M. Ortega
- Matrix Theory, David W. Lewis‏
How do I improve my English and my mathematical representation
Question
First of all, your English for a German is better than my German for an American. I mostly understand what you are saying, which is the basis for communication. If you want to personally improve your English, I recommend that you practice, practice, practice. If you want to publish in English I recommend finding a person who is very fluent in English and German and writing in German. Second, just because English is the language of science does not mean that you cannot write to German journals and have a friend write the English translation for you. In fact, some people would like the opportunity to do translation work for their professional resume and if you get published that would help them out. Finally you can try to get a quick translation by using technology like translate.google.com, which by no means is a perfect piece of software, but it does well enough. Better yet that technology (by both Google and others) is getting better. For example: ------------------------ Guten Tag Herr Guettinger. Ich empfehle auch Englisch Lernsoftware von einer Firma Berlitze. Ich bin mit ihrer Software, um ein wenig Spanisch zu lernen. Es ist erschwinglich, im Gegensatz zu Rosetta Stone. Mit freundlichen Grüßen, Jimmy ------------------------- So as you can see, you have a lot of options.
Question
as I say vogels method is usually better but not always, have you seen a contradiction example?
thanks a lot
Golabi is the best method for it
Question
What are the various fields
Hi John,
I admire your bravery of challenging the "ridiculous" theories and I have browsed your website and sharing notes. But I think you go to extremes to some extent.
1. You said you had corrected some mistakes of Newton, Leibniz & Cauchy, and give your own definition of derivative. However, even though your New Calculus is well defined as you said, it may be classified as another type of calculus. Only when the "Old" Calculus' foundations have been PROVED wrong could I admit that is a fake.
Infinity does not exist in reality, but it doesn't mean we couldn't use this definition to help us cope with some practical problems.
2. Could you tell me some other advantages of studying your New Calculus? I mean other than the easy-understanding, for the epsilon-delta is quiet difficult for students as you said, is there any possible applications? Maybe we could test your derivative and make a comparison of the speed and accuracy with the "old", that may make sense in computer applications.
Frankly in China, undergraduates like me have few concepts of challenging the theories in our textbooks. So it's a great honor for me to have approached your ideas, regardless of the right or wrong. Maybe I have misunderstand your ideas, and wish we all have a fine discussion in the Research Gate.
Sincerely
Question
My question is : can we use adomian decomposition method for solving non linear equations in complex space ?
Thanks a lot
Dear Hamed,
I think that the Adomian decomposition method has been used for solving non linear equations in complex space.
Question
I would like to send my publications to this publisher. I would like to ask if someone has an experience with this publisher. Thank you!
You are posing a problem with two unknowns. First, I don't know what kind of works you are going to publish. Second, this PubCo is not well-known, but looks similar to Lambert Academic Publishing. Seems, it publishes only monographs. I have experience with LAP.
There are mathematical objects or situations for which one needs an infinite number of definitions, statements or descriptions?
Question
Mathematical objects or situations are special numbers, for example, Quantities in general, functions .....
My God, First of all thank you for the great number of contributions. Since I've stirred up a hornet's nest. I did not receive notification of your contributions. Who knows what to do? Can someone help me? Now back to my question. The intuition for my question arose from the post: "Is there a finite definition for every real number?" I probably still not understood. Now something very important to my question: I think of the primes, I think of the twin primes. I mean this is still an infinite process. Are there any other mathematical things? Yes, there is only the Fields Medal. See you soon
Question
For instance, pi = 3.141592... can be defined as the ratio between the length and the diameter of a circle. Any integer can be defined by a finite sequence of figures, and so on.
Dear Steven,
Every mathematical paper contains always some definitions and notations introduced by the corresponding author. In general, these definitions must be only considered in the paper context. Unfortunately, there are a limited symbol set to be used, and this fact oblige us to term different objects by the same symbols. This inconvenient does not matter whenever the author takes care of defining them.
The great french mathematician Henri Poincaré says: "Mathematics is the art of denoting different things by the same name". Of course, he was thinking in equivalence classes and analogies. Analogies are also particular cases of equivalences.
The father of normed spaces, Banach, wrote the following:
A mathematician is a person who can find analogies between theorems;
a better mathematician is one who can see analogies between proofs
and the best mathematician can notice analogies between theories.
One can imagine that the ultimate mathematician is one who can
see analogies between analogies.
(Stefan Banach 1892 - 1945)
Best regards.
Juan Esteban
P.S. I have sent you my paper about Cantor's theorem via e-mail.
Question
Homotopy continuation method provide an useful aproach to find zeros of nonlinear equation systems in a globally convergent way. Homotopy methods transform a hard problem into a simpler one and solve it, then gradually deform this simpler problem into the original one. I usually solve equations from nonlinear circuits: diode, bipolar, MOS. Now, i want to solve other kind of equations with applications, specially if the equation is multivaluated. ¿Somebody want to collaborate with me?
Normal linear systems involve derivatives on the input and output signals. The transfer function is the quotient of the Laplace transforms of the output and input. They are rational functions of a complex variable, normally noted by "s". The poles of the transfer function are very important in describing the properties of the system. If we introduce delays, at any of the involved derivatives, terms with exponentials will appear. In this situation the discovery of the poles is a difficult task. Frequently, the Lambert function is used. The situation becomes more involved if the system is fractional. In this case, fractional powers of s will appear.
Question
If f(x) is an increasing real valued function, what about its inverse?
As many have pointed out, f(x) has an inverse if f(x) is strictly increasing. In that case, its inverse is also strictly increasing. Let´s see:
Let´s call g(x) to the inverse of f(x).
f(x) is strictly increasing; that means that the following sentence is true:
"x1 < x2 if and only if f(x1) < f(x2)" for any values x1 and x2 in the domain of f(x) .
g(x) is also strictly increasing only if it satisfies that same sentence,
so we need to prove that the following sentence is true:
"y1 < y2 if and only if g(y1) < g(y2)"
but proving it is easy if one takes into account the following:
For some values x1 and x2 it´s true that y1 = f(x1) and y2 = f(x2) (we used the fact that f and g are inverses).
and replacing those values y1 and y2 in g(y1) and g(y2)
we obtain g(y1) = g( f(x1) ) = x1 and g(y2) = g( f(x2) ) = x2 (we used the fact that f and g are inverses).
Now, that means that
y1 < y2 is the same as f(x1) < f(x2)
and
g(y1) < g(y2) is the same as x1 < x2
and thus, we can say that the pair of sentences
"x1 < x2 if and only if f(x1) < f(x2)" and "y1 < y2 if and only if g(y1) < g(y2)"
are the same sentence!!
and finally, since the former is true, so is the later.
Question
Maybe my English is poor.
So someone misunderstands the question.
Let me rewrite it in another words.
The problem I am interested in is as follows:
Given g(x).
We want to find out:
whether there exists a function f(x) that f(f(x))=g(x).
whether there exists a continuous function f(x) that f(f(x))=g(x).
and so on...
What's more,if we have a pair of such functions f1(x) and f2(x) that each allows f(f(x))=g(x),with what condition can we prove f1(x)=f2(x) for any x?
For example.
If g(x)=x.
There exists a continuous function f1(x)=x allows f1(f1(x))=x.
But we also have f2(x)=-x allows f2(f2(x))=x.
Here f1 is not always equals to f2.
However,if we add a condition that f must be monotone increasing,then we abandon f2.
We can prove only f1 suits for our demands.
What's the general situation?
===============================================================
The previous edition：
Where g(x) is already known,for example g(x)=exp(x)+x^2.
What can we say about the existence and uniqueness of f(x)?
If we require that f is continuous or analytic?
I'm sorry……I couldn't catch your point. Maybe my English is poor, so you didn't know the question clearly. Let me say it again. I mean that g(x) is already given. We need to make sure if there exists a f(x) which allows f(f(x))=g(x). What's more,if we also have h(h(x))=g(x),can we make sure f(x)=h(x) for any x?
Question
Commuting vector fields means that their Lie bracket equals zero.
Use the well known formul for commuting vector fields, $X,Y$:
$\exp(t(X+Y))=\exp(tX)\exp(tY)$
Question
Dear Srs,
First I would like to excuse my English, but is not
my native language.
I am a software developer with interest in Automaton Theory, I have a few related project that you can see here http://fsvieira.com/,
but I lack of math knowledge.
So, I made my own definition of a non-deterministic recursive automaton, that you can find here http://fsvieira.com/nar.pdf, and now I want to proof that my definition can accept the same languages that a non-deterministic pushdown automaton can.
But I don't have the skills to do it, so I just asking for some hints, what exercises should I do, what books can I read...
Thanks.
@Filipe. I've read your notes. The idea is sugestive but I can't find out how to accept some context-free languages as {(a^n)(b^m)(a^p)(b^q):n+m=p+q}
On the other hand in the definition of transition function \delta on your example 1, you set \delta(q_1,M)={q_2}, but M is not in the alphabet ... and you cannot collect all possible M's in the alphabet because the M's are an infinite set whereas alphabets must be finite. Perhaps I've misunderstood some point.
Question
What are the isometries of the Hilbert Cube I^\infty = the set of all sequences (x_i) such that x_i \in [0, 1] endowed with the metric
d((x_i), (y_i)) = \sum_{i=0}^\infty 2^{-i} |x_i - y_i| ?
My conjecture is that the only possible isometries of the Hilbert Cube (in this metric) are
f(x_i) = (y_i) such that y_i = x_i or y_i = 1 - x_i
where (x_i) and (y_i) denote sequences in I^\infty and x_i, y_i denote their i-th terms, respectively.
Question
Write what you want
Dear Hanspeter,
It is the metamorphosis of another that degenerated.
Question