Home

# Include latex in doxygen manual

Add the examples a shown in the HTML CHM documentation also to the LaTeX PDF documentation. doc. doc added latexonly part referencing the example in the appendix docDoxyfile silence the generation of the manual docdoxygenmanual. tex add the examples as appendices to the manual, by means Doxygen allows you to put formulas in the output and RTF output. To be able to include formulas (as images) in the HTML and RTF documentation, you will also need to have the following tools installed.

Formulas or other latex elements Include latex in doxygen manual are not in a math environment can be specified using \f Doxygen manual Including formulas. There are three ways to include formulas in the documentation. Formulas or other latex elements that are not in a math environment can be specified using \fenvironment, where environment is the name of the environment, the corresponding end command is \f.

Here is an example for an How to include LaTeX snippets directly in Doxygen comments? Ask Question. To do that, I figured I can have LaTeXonly files and include them from Doxygen. I did create Doxygen aliases for \begin and \end to make the syntax compatible. From the doxygen manual: The program generates two folders, html and latex. In the html folder, there are some class diagrams (png files) I How to include class diagrams in Doxygen pdf?

[closed Ask Question. In the html folder, there are some class diagrams (png files) I would like to include in the pdf file that I can generate from the tex files in the latex I want to write documetation for my current appliaction in LaTeX (about technologies i used and so on) and i wander if i could use section \mainpage of Doxygen in him, as a chapter" how to use" Special Commands Introduction All commands in the documentation start with a backslash (\) or an atsign This can be useful if the include name is not located on the default include path (like ).

Generated on Thu Feb 5 16: 59: 08 2004 for Doxygen manual by Add examples to LaTeX PDF doxygen manual doc. doc use include instead of verbinclude to make use of the code coloring in the examples examples. cfg some examples automatically display the code from the include file (. h), for the examples it is better to show the comment as well. Needed for the include dependency graphs, the graphical inheritance graphs, and the collaboration graphs.

The PDF manual doxygenmanual. pdf will be located in the latex directory of the distribution. Just view and print it via the acrobat reader. Installing the binaries on Unix I'm writing a manual of sorts in LaTeX for some software. I'm constrained to use the article class. I must include docs of individual c classes in the manual.

I'm looking at doxygen for this, This can be useful for or docbook output (i. e. formatlatex or formatdocbook). Size indication This command can be used to include code that is too complex for doxygen (i.

e. images, formulas, Generated on Mon Jul 2 2018 21: 23: 45 for Doxygen Manual by Doxygen allows you to put formulas in the output (this works only for the HTML and output, not for the RTF nor for the man page output). To be able to include formulas (as images) in the HTML documentation, you will also need to