Use the options below to create customized views of the 2020 Colorado Academic Standards. For all standards resources, see the Office of Standards and Instructional Support.

Current selections are shown below (maximum of five)

clear Content Area: Mathematics // Grade Level: Eighth Grade // Standard Category: 4. Geometry

Mathematics

• MP3. Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.
• MP5. Use appropriate tools strategically.
• MP7. Look for and make use of structure.
• MP8. Look for and express regularity in repeated reasoning.

8.G.A. Geometry: Understand congruence and similarity using physical models, transparencies, or geometry software.

Evidence Outcomes:

Students Can:

1. Verify experimentally the properties of rotations, reflections, and translations: (CCSS: 8.G.A.1)
1. Lines are taken to lines, and line segments to line segments of the same length. (CCSS: 8.G.A.1.a)
2. Angles are taken to angles of the same measure. (CCSS: 8.G.A.1.b)
3. Parallel lines are taken to parallel lines. (CCSS: 8.G.A.1.c)
2. Demonstrate that a two-dimensional figure is congruent to another if the second can be obtained from the first by a sequence of rotations, reflections, and translations; given two congruent figures, describe a sequence that exhibits the congruence between them. (CCSS: 8.G.A.2)
3. Describe the effect of dilations, translations, rotations, and reflections on two-dimensional figures using coordinates. (CCSS: 8.G.A.3)
4. Demonstrate that a two-dimensional figure is similar to another if the second can be obtained from the first by a sequence of rotations, reflections, translations, and dilations; given two similar two-dimensional figures, describe a sequence that exhibits the similarity between them. (CCSS: 8.G.A.4)
5. Use informal arguments to establish facts about the angle sum and exterior angle of triangles, about the angles created when parallel lines are cut by a transversal, and the angle-angle criterion for similarity of triangles. For example, arrange three copies of the same triangle so that the sum of the three angles appears to form a line, and give an argument in terms of transversals why this is so. (CCSS: 8.G.A.5)

Colorado Essential Skills and Mathematical Practices:

1. Think about how rotations, reflections, and translations of a geometric figure preserve congruence as similar to how properties of operations such as the associative, commutative, and distributive properties preserve equivalence of arithmetic and algebraic expressions. (Entrepreneurial Skills: Critical Thinking/Problem Solving and Inquiry/Analysis)
2. Explain a sequence of transformations that results in a congruent or similar triangle. (MP3)
3. Use physical models, transparencies, geometric software, or other appropriate tools to explore the relationships between transformations and congruence and similarity. (MP5)
4. Use the structure of the coordinate system to describe the locations of figures obtained with rotations, reflections, and translations. (MP7)
5. Reason that since any one rotation, reflection, or translation of a figure preserves congruence, then any sequence of those transformations must also preserve congruence. (MP8)

Inquiry Questions:

1. How are properties of rotations, reflections, translations, and dilations connected to congruence?
2. How are properties of rotations, reflections, translations, and dilations connected to similarity?
3. Why are angle measures significant regarding the similarity of two figures?

Coherence Connections:

1. This expectation represents major work of the grade.
2. In previous grades, students solve problems involving angle measure, area, surface area, and volume, and draw, construct, and also describe geometrical figures and the relationships between them.
3. In Grade 8, this expectation connects with understanding the connections between proportional relationships, lines, and linear equations.
4. In high school, students extend their work with transformations, apply the concepts of transformations to prove geometric theorems, and use similarity to define trigonometric functions.

• MP3. Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.
• MP7. Look for and make use of structure.
• MP8. Look for and express regularity in repeated reasoning.

8.G.B. Geometry: Understand and apply the Pythagorean Theorem.

Evidence Outcomes:

Students Can:

1. Explain a proof of the Pythagorean Theorem and its converse. (CCSS: 8.G.B.6)
2. Apply the Pythagorean Theorem to determine unknown side lengths in right triangles in real-world and mathematical problems in two and three dimensions. (CCSS: 8.G.B.7)
3. Apply the Pythagorean Theorem to find the distance between two points in a coordinate system. (CCSS: 8.G.B.8)

Colorado Essential Skills and Mathematical Practices:

1. Think of the Pythagorean Theorem as not just a formula, but a formula that only holds true under certain conditions. (Entrepreneurial Skills: Inquiry/Analysis)
2. Construct a viable argument about why a proof of the Pythagorean Theorem is valid. (MP3)
3. Test to see if a triangle is a right triangle by applying the Pythagorean Theorem. (MP7)
4. Use patterns to recognize and generate Pythagorean triples. (MP8)

Inquiry Questions:

1. What is the relationship between the Pythagorean Theorem and its converse? In what ways is each useful?
2. Is it always possible to use the Pythagorean Theorem to find the distance between points on the coordinate plane? How do you know?

Coherence Connections:

1. This expectation represents major work of the grade.
2. In Grades 6 and 7, students solve real-life and mathematical problems involving angle measure, area, surface area, and volume.
3. In Grade 8, this expectation connects with radicals and integer exponents, square roots, and solving simple equations in the form $x^2 = p$.
4. In high school, students (a) prove and apply trigonometric identities, (b) prove theorems involving similarity, (c) define trigonometric ratios and solve problems involving right triangles, (d) translate between the geometric description and the equation for a conic section, and (e) use coordinates to prove simple geometric theorems algebraically.

• MP3. Construct viable arguments and critique the reasoning of others.
• MP6. Attend to precision.

8.G.C. Geometry: Solve real-world and mathematical problems involving volume of cylinders, cones, and spheres.

Evidence Outcomes:

Students Can:

1. State the formulas for the volumes of cones, cylinders, and spheres and use them to solve real-world and mathematical problems. (CCSS: 8.G.C.9)

Colorado Essential Skills and Mathematical Practices:

1. Efficiently solve problems using established volume formulas. (Professional Skills: Task/Time Management)
2. Describe how the formulas for volumes of cones, cylinders, and spheres relate to one another and to the volume formulas for solids with rectangular bases. (MP3)
3. Use appropriate precision when solving problems involving measurements and volume formulas that describe real-world shapes. (MP6)

Inquiry Questions:

1. How are the formulas of cones, cylinders, and spheres similar to each other?
2. How are the formulas of cones, cylinder, and spheres connected to the formulas for pyramids, prisms, and cubes?

Coherence Connections:

1. This expectation is in addition to the major work of the grade.
2. In Grade 7, students solve real-world and mathematical problems involving area, volume, and surface area of two- and three-dimensional objects composed of triangles, quadrilaterals, polygons, cubes, and right prisms.
3. In Grade 8, this expectation connects with radicals and integer exponents.
4. In high school, students apply geometric concepts in mathematical modeling situations and to solve design problems.

Need Help? Submit questions or requests for assistance to bruno_j@cde.state.co.us