1. Developments in Agricultural Policy and Support

In 2020, agricultural policies and support to the sector were significantly affected by the outbreak of the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the subsequent spread of the COVID-19 virus, and substantial restrictions to populations and enterprises aimed at containing the virus. These factors caused economic growth to slow significantly or even turn strongly negative in all economies, while in many countries unemployment rose as companies were forced to lay off employees. Commodity markets were affected as well, but the implications for global agricultural markets remained comparatively limited as, despite some significant stresses, food systems and supply chains proved relatively robust.

The pandemic caused major dislocations to food markets, in particular with the closure of restaurants, and the shift in consumption away from food outside the home. But the overall demand for food was fairly stable, as food supply was generally recognised to be essential and thus exempt from lockdowns, while consumers prioritised food among their expenditures. However, several advanced economies saw increased recourse to food banks among low income consumers who had seen a drastic fall in their incomes. Labour intensive sectors, such as meat processing and sectors requiring seasonal labour for planting or harvesting, were also deeply affected by the virus and measures to contain it.

As a land based activity, the production of most commodities was generally able to withstand the pandemic, although those products requiring more labour input – principally fruits and vegetables – or where supply is destined primarily for the restaurant trade, were more affected. In general, developments on agricultural markets were driven as much by non-COVID factors as by the impacts of the pandemic. Overall, the agricultural sector proved remarkably resilient, with farm incomes increasing in 2020 for a majority of countries covered in this report.

To help people and companies to cope with the economic consequences of both the virus and containment strategies, governments introduced a wide set of policies as of early 2020. In looking at changes made to agricultural policies and support, this report therefore begins by discussing policy responses to the COVID-19 pandemic that focus on, or strongly affect, agricultural producers, other actors along the food supply chain, and food consumers.

The report then analyses the level and structure of agricultural support, in particular in terms of the extent to which they help or hinders the performance of food systems, gauged in terms of their contribution to the “triple challenge” of:

1. 1. Achieving food security and nutrition for a growing world population.

2. 2. Providing livelihoods to farmers and others connected to the sector, either vertically along the value chain or spatially across rural economies.

3. 3. Reducing the environmental footprint of the sector and contributing to lower greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.

Drawing on insights from the OECD Framework for Productivity, Sustainability and Resilience, this part of the report also explores how current policies perform across the three dimensions of productivity, sustainability and resilience, which are identified as key channels through which agriculture can contribute to the challenges facing food systems. Lastly, this part of the report concludes with an assessment of the developments in policies and support, and with recommendations for concrete actions to improve the performance of agricultural policies in meeting the challenges facing global food systems.

Conditions in agricultural markets are strongly influenced by macro-economic factors, such as economic growth (measured by gross domestic product, GDP), which generates the income supporting demand for agricultural and food products, as well as prices for crude oil and other energy sources which affect the prices of numerous production inputs in agriculture, such as fuel, chemicals and fertiliser. Energy prices also affect the demand for cereals, sugar crops and oilseeds through the market for biofuels produced from these feedstocks.

Global economic growth, which slowed to below 3% in 2019, came to an abrupt halt in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Global output in 2020 is estimated to have been more than 4% below that in 2019, reflecting policy responses to the pandemic, which included substantial restrictions in both personal and economic activities (OECD, 2020[1]).1 GDP growth in all OECD economies turned negative. The contraction was particularly significant in the Euro area, where economic output declined by 7.5% in 2020, after low growth of 1.3% the year before. Japan was significantly hit as well, with GDP shrinking by 5.3% in 2020, after some first signs of rebounding growth in 2019 at +0.7%. The contraction was less pronounced in the United States, where economic output, which grew by more than 2% in 2019, declined by 3.7% in 2020.

The downturn in OECD economies was associated with a decreased demand for labour. Across the OECD area, unemployment, which had fallen slightly to 5.4% in 2019, increased to 7.2% in 2020. In many countries, the negative impact on employment was mitigated by substantial public interventions, including notably the widespread application of publicly supported short-time work.2 Average inflation declined further to 1.5%, driven in particular by falling energy prices (see below).

Growth in emerging economies also fell substantially, although the extent of the downturn varied strongly. Argentina’s GDP, which had seen negative growth for the last two years already, shrank by 12.9%, the first double-digit economic contraction since the currency and debt crisis of 2001-02. India’s GDP contracted by 9.9%, more than 14 percentage points below 2019 growth, while South Africa’s GDP fell by 8.1%, following stagnation in 2019. On the other hand, the People’s Republic of China (hereafter, “China”) is the only country covered in this report that maintained positive growth in 2020, at 1.8% compared with 6.1% the year before. The Indonesian economy also fared comparatively well, with a slight contraction of 2.4%, following 5% growth in 2019.

The consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and of related restrictions are strongly visible in international trade. In real terms, global trade declined by more than 10% year-on-year, following already slow growth in 2019.

Lower economic growth and restrictions on personal and economic mobility put significant pressure on prices for energy and other non-food commodities (IMF, 2021[2]). On average, energy prices in 2020 were 30% lower than in 2019, and more than 40% below their 2018 levels. Crude oil prices, which had fallen to levels close to (and on certain markets even below) zero in April 2020, averaged 33% lower over the full year compared to 2019. Lower energy prices also pulled down fertiliser prices, which on average were 9% lower year-on-year.

In comparison, food prices remained robust. After dropping by 7% in the second quarter of 2020, average international food prices increased towards the end of the year, and annual averages ended 3% higher than in 2019, with contrasting movements between crop and livestock markets, as explained below.

Global food markets saw prices for crops and livestock products moving in opposite directions. World meat markets had seen production decline in 2019 primarily due to the impact of African Swine Fever (ASF) on China’s pig meat sector. While the disease continued to limit production in China and other countries such as Viet Nam during 2020, herds began to rebuild. In spite of the lower Chinese output, however, global meat prices were under significant downward pressure in 2020 due to logistical difficulties and reduced demand following the COVID-19 pandemic, which together dampened meat import demand from several key importing countries. On average, meat prices in 2020 fell by 4.5% year-on-year.

The pandemic also had significant, though varied, impacts on dairy markets. While away-from-home consumption in many countries suffered as a result of widespread confinement measures, larger retail sales for at-home consumption partly offset these losses. Fresh dairy products were particularly vulnerable to disruptions in supply chains, but many countries were able to adjust their production chains relatively quickly. As a consequence, while the effects of the pandemic varied across regions, global dairy prices changed only little year-on-year, with lower prices in the second quarter balanced by rising prices towards the end of the year.

In contrast to livestock markets, world prices for crop commodities mostly rose in 2020. Following short-term disruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic, oilseeds markets were driven by strong demand notably for imported soybeans into China as the country began to rebuild pig herds. At the same time, lower supply growth of palm oil resulted in relatively short supplies on international markets. As a consequence, international prices rose significantly in 2020, with prices for soybeans and vegetable oils averaging 7% and almost 20% higher than in 2019.

Increased feed demand from the rebuilding pork sector in China, logistical difficulties in some major producing countries, and some temporary export restrictions following the COVID-19 pandemic, drove prices upwards in cereal markets. Pushed by increases notably towards the end of the year, average cereal prices were almost 7% higher in 2020 than in the preceding year.

Continued shortfalls in sugar production due to unfavourable weather conditions in some of the major producing countries offset lower import demand for sugar and notably reduced biofuel demand in light of reduced mobility due to the pandemic, resulting in average sugar prices increasing slightly year-on-year, but remaining well below levels seen in 2016.

Overall, food supply chains were recognised as essential services in most countries implementing COVID-19 related restrictions on economic activities, as a result of which the sector was affected by those restrictions more indirectly than directly. Often, both domestic and international trade in food products were facilitated through green corridors and other measures notwithstanding disruptions affecting trade overall. Labour shortages due to restrictions on people’s movement were alleviated through exceptions for agricultural and food chain workers, and through schemes encouraging workers laid off in other sectors or students to temporarily work in agriculture and the food industry. However, income losses and economic uncertainties, together with restrictions for restaurants and other away-from-home food suppliers, generated changes in food demand which the industry needed to cope with. But the impact of economic contractions on food expenditure was mitigated through public support partly compensating for income losses, and reductions in disposable incomes seem to have led to higher shares of income being spent on food. Partly with the help of government policy responses, food systems have therefore proven remarkably resilient. Indeed, after short-term disruptions in international food markets in the early phase of the pandemic, these markets appear to have been impacted more by other factors such as livestock diseases and climatic conditions than by the pandemic itself.

As governments started implementing containment measures to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus early in 2020, they also began introducing measures to limit impacts of the virus and associated containment measures on the agriculture and agro-food supply chains.3 Most government responses in the sector were introduced in the first few months of the pandemic, largely in response to the shock to specific subsectors. Still, as the year went by, as new waves and strands of infection developed, governments in many countries shifted their attention towards medium-term issues by bolstering early relief measures and introducing economic recovery packages.

This section presents an overview of government measures introduced in 2020 in the 54 countries covered in this report, using different categorisations, focusing mainly on the number and type of measures, and associated budget figures. The dataset used for analysis was compiled based on the information on domestic and international trade related COVID-19 policy developments provided in country chapters in this report.4 While the reported set of measures is comprehensive, and covers all the most important policy responses, it does not claim to capture all measures in place in all countries covered in the study.

Governments of the covered countries and the European Union introduced 776 unique policy measures to respond to the COVID-19 related crisis during 2020, of which 496 were introduced in the first four months of 2020 (OECD, 2020[3]; Gruère and Brooks, 2021[4]). The overall number of unique measures for the year 2020 increases to 1 086 applied policy measures if EU-wide measures, applicable to all member states, are added to unique measures for each of the EU Member States (including for the period covered, the United Kingdom).

The nature of the government responses varied widely. OECD (2020[3]) distinguished seven categories of measures: 1) Sector-wide and institutional measures; 2) Information and co-ordination measures; 3) Measures on trade and product flows (enhancing trade or restricting trade); 4) Labour measures (biosecurity and workforce related measures); 5) Agriculture and food support (or support for agriculture and food companies); 6) General support (including packages that apply to the sector); and 7) Food assistance and consumer support (demand side interventions).5 Unique government measures were distributed across those categories, with 37% of the 776 measures focusing on agriculture and food support, 5% on institutional measures, and 8% on food assistance measures, with the remaining four categories covering between 11% and 14% of measures (Figure 1.2).

These proportions changed since the four first months of 2020, from a focus on information and co-ordination to agriculture and food support measures. The share of agriculture and food support measures increased by 14 percentage points over the year, while the share of measures on information and co-ordination and general support declined by 7 and 4 percentage points, respectively. This evolution might reflect the need for information and communication in the early period, followed by the increased importance that some governments attached to providing support to agriculture and food companies to cushion the impact of the first wave of the virus. Shares for other categories of measures remained stable, indicating a moderate increase in the use of these measures across countries.

A wide range of measures adopted is also observed among the 54 covered countries, underscoring the comprehensiveness of government responses. Thirty-eight of the covered countries applied measures in all seven categories, while ten countries applied measures in six of the seven categories. Fifty or more countries applied trade and product flow measures, information measures or agriculture and food support measures, while the other categories of measures were each applied by at least 46 countries (Figure 1.3).

At the same time, differences in the number of measures by category can be seen among regions and countries. In particular, 54% of measures undertaken by governments in OECD countries focused on the three categories of support (agriculture and food support, general support and food assistance and consumer support measures), including the largest proportion on agriculture and food support (35%), while 58% of measures undertaken by emerging economies were in the non-support categories of measures (sector wide and institutional, information and co-ordination, trade and product flows and labour measures), including the largest proportion of measures (26%) in the trade and product flow category. This difference may reflect the existing policies covering the sector in the respective groups of countries, but may also be due to differences in structures of the sector as well as the type of shocks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and associated containment measures. A further factor may be differences in budgetary and fiscal scope to provide additional support. Among OECD countries, Asian and European countries favoured agriculture and food support measures, South American countries focused on information and co-ordination measures, Oceanian countries prioritised labour measures, and North American countries displayed no clear dominance across categories of measures.

Only 11% of the unique measures recorded explicitly built on existing policy measures already in place, almost all in the agriculture and food support category in the form of flexibility or changes in existing policy programmes. This suggests that governments often introduced new programmes, funding or approaches to respond to the crisis, or that they relied on existing policies without making notable changes. Innovative approaches were used for instance to re-channel food unused by closed schools towards families, to hire temporarily unemployed workers from cities in fields, or via the use of digital tools to ease market transactions and custom controls.

Government responses also differed in their timing and scope, from the initial imposition of lockdown measures, to policies aiming to temper the impacts of the crisis on specific supply chains or consumers or in the medium term. At the same time, several measures taken to facilitate the functioning of production or supply chains could usefully have been taken before of the COVID-19 crisis. To highlight these distinctions and better understand the implication of government responses, measures were organised in three groups:6

• Urgent measures to ensure supply: these emergency measures were taken at the onset of the crisis to ensure supply and keep the sector functioning. Examples include biosafety measures; declaring agriculture and food as an essential sector; measures to ensure the functioning of government agencies; co-ordination of responses with the private sector; and national and international logistic and transport measures, including setting up green lanes to ensure the continuation of trade. These measures are intrinsically linked to the pandemic, and would either be lifted or no longer relevant after the COVID-19 crisis. This group includes 150 unique measures (19% of the total).

• No regrets measures: these measures improve market functioning and thereby contribute to improved resilience. They could have been taken before, and should be maintained or even scaled up after the COVID-19 crisis. This group includes measures supporting digital innovations that facilitate e-commerce; exchange of information; agriculture job-matching information centres; and training or trade facilitation measures. This group includes 75 unique measures (10% of the total).

• Temporary relief measures: these measures seek to contain the impact of the crisis on agriculture and food sector actors, from producers to consumers. Governments considered them necessary but they should include sunset clauses to avoid outliving their original rationale. These measures comprise largely temporary trade and markets measures to relieve domestic economic pressure, agricultural support measures, including those that compensate producers and agro-food chain actors for damages incurred; consumer and food assistance7 measures and measures that lifted or limited regulatory requirements for farmers. This group is the largest, with 537 unique measures (69% of the total).

The remaining 14 measures (2%) could not be attributed to any of the groups.

As expected, measures in the three support categories