SpaceX Falcon 9 historic landing thread (1st landing attempt & most recent missions)

Help Support The Rocketry Forum:

georgegassaway

NOTE - Thread is for the first landing attempt thru the most recent missions. This first post and thread title will no longer be updated with the most recent mission, but all are encouraged to make new posts for the newest (and future) missions.

-------------------------------

Next launch is JCSAT-14, a Com Sat for Japan. very early Friday May 6th, 1:22 AM EDT (think of it more like launching late Thursday night after midnight). It will try to land on the ASDS Barge, OCISLY. News for this launch begins here: https://www.rocketryforum.com/showt...-PM-EDT-*TODAY*-April-8&p=1577374#post1577374

[archive milestone link to first successful ASDS Barge landing]CRS-8 , an ISS resupply mission, is currently set to launch Friday, April 8th, at 4:43 p.m. EDT. It’s booster is planned to land at sea, on the ASDS Barge “Of Course I Still Love You”. Link for thread message with more info on the flight is here: https://www.rocketryforum.com/showt...5-PM-EST-Friday-March-4&p=1568868#post1568868

[archive milestone link to first successful landing]
The SpaceX RTF (Return To Flight) mission for Orbcomm-2 successfuly launched its satellites.
The first stage soft landed on land, back at the Cape, at the new landing facility previously known as LC-13.
See message #547: https://www.rocketryforum.com/showt...(Sunday)-at-8-29-PM-EST&p=1530659#post1530659

Here is the SpaceX Webcast link:
https://www.spacex.com/webcast/

[original December 11, 2014 message text below]

Space-X is scheduled to launch an unmanned "Dragon" spacecraft on a resupply mission to ISS.

But the biggest news about that is that it will attempt the first landing of a Falcon-9 first stage, onto a solid surface, so it can not only be recovered intact but hopefully reflown. If successful it will make history.

The computer-generated image below is not depicting pre-launch, it is post-landing!

There have been successful tests of controlled re-entry and soft landings in the ocean (and MANY soft landing test hops in Texas). This time, it'll try to land on a converted barge. Here's a link to one of many stories about it, and some photos. I'm including the text of the story at the end of this.

https://www.dailymail.co.uk/science...ugh-make-spaceflight-affordable-everyone.html

BTW - here is a very relevant youtube video of a test flight in Texas in July. It flew a kilometer up, and tested out the deployable steered grid fins. However, it does not descend very fast, so the steerable grid fins did not really get much of a test like they will during supersonic descent from 20-30 thousand feet.

The steering grid fins are pretty important for trying to make a precise landing on the barge. The earlier "soft landings" in the ocean were , as far as I can tell, not attempting to land on an exact coordinate spot and really could not do so without some kind of aerodynamic (or some other additional) steering to tweak the trajectory path during descent. And the test hops in Texas could not simulate a long ballistic descent because they did not have the necessary huge safety area to be able to fly that high, across a long distance, to attempt to simulate such a thing. It seems like the above test flight to a height of 1 kilometer might be the highest they have flown (and descended to simulate landing), and that was pretty much vertical. They have done other tests, not quite as high, where it flew partly diagonally then flew back to the launch pad. So the aerodynamic steering is to help get it close enough to the ballpark for the powered landing to be able take it the rest of the way.

Here is a video of a launch in August, the second stage put six Orbcomm satellites into orbit. The first stage did a successful powered soft landing in the Atlantic Ocean, it floated for awhile but broke up & sank.

Here is onboard video from the same flight. Unfortunately, the view was obscured by accumulations of ice, but you can still make out some neat portions of the landing.

If it makes it close to the barge, there ought to be some great video, even if the onboard camera gets obscured again. I would expect a lot of fixed cameras on the barge. Perhaps a few that also pan and tilt, either remotely human controlled or auto-computer controlled.

Also, they have made some great use of multicopters ("drones") for video of many of the Texas flights, despite the FAA anti-drone crusade. So I am hoping they also have at least one of those in the air, done well it would make for incredible video. Sort of depends I guess on how close the support ship will be, to allow for one or more human R/C pilots, and/or the range of the R/C equipment if the ship is say 10 miles out. Or if that is not practical, I would not be surprised if they had a totally autonomous multicopter or two to automatically shoot the video from fixed position(s) in the sky, a few hundred feet off to the side from the barge, with the camera pointed at the barge. Once the Falcon launches, it'll be minutes before the multicopter(s) would need to take off, and get into position. Onboard battery life not a big issue since they'll know when the Falcon first stage should land, almost to the second, so they can plan out the timeline to get into the air, into position, video the landing, and to allow for time to fly back to the barge, maybe do a not-too-close circle around Falcon, then land on the barge.

The Public Relations value of such would be tremendous, because while aerospace pros and junkies do not even need to see any video to know the importance of it, the general public needs to see something impressive. And that would be the most impressive way to show it...... if it works (Hope they don't use the old cold war Russian method of only showing successes, put the video on a time delay and cut the feed if something goes wrong. They never did release any video of the self-destruct explosion they had in Texas, AFAIK. But then that was a private test, and not a NASA-funded launch).

- George Gassaway

Aerial view of the actual barge

View of the deployable steerable "grid fins" at the top of the first stage, with interstage at right.

Previous Falcon 9 launch in July.

SpaceX gears up to land a reusable rocket on a floating barge - and the breakthrough could make spaceflight more affordable for everyone
• SpaceX is planning to land a rocket at Cape Canaveral on Monday
• The first stage of their Falcon 9 rocket will attempt to touch down on a barge after launching a Dragon capsule into space*
• It is the first ever attempt at landing a rocket on solid ground after launch
• Elon Musk said the ambitious attempt has a 50% chance of working
• The company*ultimately*wants all of its rockets to be reusable*

By JONATHAN O'CALLAGHAN FOR MAILONLINE

SpaceX has long spoken of its ambition to make rockets reusable.
And on Monday, the firm plans to reach a major milestone as part of this endeavour when it brings back part of one of its Falcon 9 rockets after launch.*
If all goes to plan, the first stage of the rocket will gently lower itself and land on solid ground for the first time ever.*

The attempt will occur during the launch of the latest cargo-carrying Dragon capsule to the ISS at 7.31pm GMT (2.31pm EST) on Monday 16 December.
The Falcon 9 rocket carrying Dragon will take off from Florida’s Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.
After launch, at a height of about 56 miles (90km), the first stage of the rocket will separate from the second stage.
While the latter continues its mission into orbit, the former would usually be left to fall back into the ocean - as is the case on all other rocket launches.

However on this flight, for the first time ever, SpaceX will instead use a specially designed first stage capable of landing itself on a floating barge.
In a previous flight, a Falcon 9 first stage hovered above the surface of the ocean - without a barge - in a successful demonstration of the technology.
On that flight, the first stage was left to fall into the ocean after proving it could hover above the ground. But on this next flight, the rocket will touch down on a floating barge.

The barge measures about 300 feet (90 metres) long by 100 feet (30 metres) wide, and also has wings that extend out to another 170 feet (50 metres).
According to SpaceX chief Elon Musk, it also has ‘thrusters repurposed from deep sea oil rigs’ that can hold it in position within 10 feet (three metres) even in a storm.
To control the rocket as it lands, grid fins on its side are used, which control its pitch, yaw and roll.
These are ‘stowed on ascent and then deploy on re-entry for “X-Wing” [from Star Wars] style control,’ according to Musk.
And to slow it down as it descends it will save 15 per cent of its original fuel, allowing it to lower itself towards the ocean without the use of a parachute.

However, as the mission has never been tried before, he added that there was only a 50 per cent chances of the platform landing being a success on this first attempt.
Whatever the outcome, though, SpaceX will use the data they glean to improve their technique and one day plan to perform this manoeuvre during every launch.
Cameras on board the barge will capture the entire descent, although it’s unclear how much - if any - of this footage SpaceX will make public.
Eventually, they will start bringing the upper - or second - stage of the rocket back as well.
The ultimate goal is to make the entire rocket reusable - which will drastically reduce the cost of going to space.
SpaceX has a £1billion ($1.6 billion) contract with Nasa to resupply the ISS. This launch of the Dragon capsule will be the fifth of 12 scheduled missions. Last edited: georgegassaway Lifetime Supporter TRF Lifetime Supporter Here's a link to another article, with more technical info and background: SpaceX&#8217;s Autonomous Spaceport Drone Ship ready for action November 24, 2014 by Chris Bergin https://www.nasaspaceflight.com/2014/11/spacex-autonomous-spaceport-drone-ship/ The first stage leg-span is 60 feet, BTW. So if all four footpads are inside of the 80 foot yellow circle, that'll be pretty much a bulls-eye. The barge can keep station within 10 feet in high seas, so if Falcon landed 10 feet off.... it might not be Falcon that was off for all of the 10 feet, the barge might be off a few feet. Although I would expect the Falcon to be using some means of "homing in" for final corrections based on where the barge is exactly located as it is coming in to land, and not where the barge is supposed to be. Depending on what was technically more practical, possibly not "home" on the barge but for the barge to have GPS transponders that provide ultra-precise GPS coordinates for Falcon to get rapidly updated GPS data on where to exactly land. And here is a link with info on NASA TV's schedule for the launch. Set for December 16th at 2:31 EST https://www.nasa.gov/press/2014/dec...supply-mission-to-space-station/#.VIlODmTF8rM Unfortunately, the info on that page is 100% focused on the Dragon's payloads going to ISS. No mention of the planned landing of the first stage on the barge. That would be sort of like focusing on two payloads named John Young and Bob Crippen flying into orbit and returning safely in April 1981, without mentioning what history was made by the vehicle they launched in. I hope NASA does not ignore the landing attempt. I am not a NASA basher, but man that would be ridiculous if they overlook it, and/or Space-X does not make a live feed available. So it may well be that it'll be necessary to follow a live feed from Space-X to see what may be the most important part of this flight. Although I just looked at their site and do not see anything to support live feeds, only multimedia files. If NASA isn't going to do it, Space-X would be foolish not to have their own live feed of the landing. I'm going to check some other places for info on whether Space-X or NASA or someone is likely to have a live feed of the landing attempt. Just do not have a good feeling that an answer has not come up yet..... if it's planned it should be easier to find. - George Gassaway Last edited: fyrwrxz latest photo George- Thanks for taking the time for this extensive update. Your invaluable insights into the PR aspect of video feeds and the use of drones are dead on and I'm excited about the possibilities of seeing this evolve as a useful tool. I am not a "NASA basher" either (hell, they paid the bills in one form or another for 20 years) but I have my fingers crossed for SpaceX to prove we can do without the political pork barrels and infighting, budget restraints and 'non-engineering' inputs we suffered thru the latter half of our so called 'space program'. Myself, I see the Orion as so much static and noise destined to be heaped on the pile of dead ends that the politicos find so easy to discard for votes from the aging baby boomers when they want free hearing aids after decades of disco and heavy metal from their boom boxes. Clean signals and green lights to these guys! butalane Well-Known Member Cool post George! Its certainly going to be exciting! luke strawwalker Well-Known Member This certainly bears watching. I hope they have complete success and excellent coverage, especially from drones! Watching the parachute sequence and splashdown of Orion from their drone was VERY cool! I wonder why they didn't try to do a more 'long range ballistic arc' test at White Sands?? WSMR is a BIG place... not quite as big as they'd need for a full "100%" scale test of the path, altitude, and distance flown by a Falcon 9 stage 1, but for a grasshopper test article, they COULD have more closely approximated the kind of ballistic arc, descent, and landing that would be required of the larger Falcon 9 first stage, and remained within the WSMR safety zone, which is pretty huge... I guess perhaps working with the military or range fees or red tape or something is probably the reason they've simply kept testing to their own "test range" in central Texas. That, and just doing "on the side" flight testing as part of their contracted NASA launches under their COTS program contracts... very good use of "expended hardware" (which the first stage is after staging, anyway, at this point...) Later! OL JR georgegassaway Lifetime Supporter TRF Lifetime Supporter Well, I have not found any info on a live feed of the landing. I did ask on a space site where there ought to be answers.... but nobody had any solid info. Sadly a few came up with some petty excuses such as Space-X might not have a live feed in case it does not succeed, only release video much later if it works. So, Cold War Russian Space Program style. I hope not. I have very SLOWLY built up my impressions of Space-X. If they didn't show something this historic for petty reasons, they are not the company I thought they are and not worth that trust. But again it's fanboys who wrote some of those pre-emptive petty excuses. So they may be wrong and Space-X perhaps has not made info on how/where to see a feed of the landing in an easy-to-find way (yet?). But it's very troubling that if there is to be a live feed of the landing, it's this hard to get info on. I'm not as high on this as I was 24 hours ago. What does come thru clear is that NASA is "the customer", and the NASA TV feed is not going to cover anything beyond launching the spacecraft into orbit and getting supplies to ISS. Just another routine unmanned launch of supplies to ISS.......which if it was true most space buffs would not bother to watch to begin with. UPDATE - Launch has slipped to Dec 19th: https://spaceflightnow.com/2014/12/11/launch-of-spacex-cargo-mission-slips-to-dec-19/ - George Gassaway Last edited: jmattingly13 Well-Known Member I wonder why they didn't try to do a more 'long range ballistic arc' test at White Sands?? WSMR is a BIG place... not quite as big as they'd need for a full "100%" scale test of the path, altitude, and distance flown by a Falcon 9 stage 1, but for a grasshopper test article, they COULD have more closely approximated the kind of ballistic arc, descent, and landing that would be required of the larger Falcon 9 first stage, and remained within the WSMR safety zone, which is pretty huge... I guess perhaps working with the military or range fees or red tape or something is probably the reason they've simply kept testing to their own "test range" in central Texas. That, and just doing "on the side" flight testing as part of their contracted NASA launches under their COTS program contracts... very good use of "expended hardware" (which the first stage is after staging, anyway, at this point...) You know SpaceX has a lease with Spaceport America (right next to WSMR) for doing high altitude testing of Grasshopper/F9R? jmattingly13 Well-Known Member Well, I have not found any info on a live feed of the landing. I did ask on a space site where there ought to be answers.... but nobody had any solid info. Sadly a few came up with some petty excuses such as Space-X might not have a live feed in case it does not succeed, only release video much later if it works. So, Cold War Russian Space Program style. I hope not. I have very SLOWLY built up my impressions of Space-X. If they didn't show something this historic for petty reasons, they are not the company I thought they are and not worth that trust. But again it's fanboys who wrote some of those pre-emptive petty excuses. So they may be wrong and Space-X perhaps has not made info on how/where to see a feed of the landing in an easy-to-find way (yet?). But it's very troubling that if there is to be a live feed of the landing, it's this hard to get info on. I'm not as high on this as I was 24 hours ago. SpaceX has publicly stated that they are weaning themselves off holding a webcast for every launch, as they intend to make launches fairly regular and, for lack of better term, mundane. They pull engineers and managers off their normal jobs to do those webcasts, so the plan is only to do live webcasts of major milestone launches (Dragon v2, etc.). I would guess they might have a webcast for landing on a barge, but I cannot say for sure. If they do, it would be spacex.com/webcast. After all, their job is launching rockets, not broadcasting launches. georgegassaway Lifetime Supporter TRF Lifetime Supporter SpaceX has publicly stated that they are weaning themselves off holding a webcast for every launch, as they intend to make launches fairly regular and, for lack of better term, mundane. They pull engineers and managers off their normal jobs to do those webcasts, so the plan is only to do live webcasts of major milestone launches (Dragon v2, etc.). I would guess they might have a webcast for landing on a barge, but I cannot say for sure. If they do, it would be spacex.com/webcast. After all, their job is launching rockets, not broadcasting launches. Thanks very much for posting that link. You have done what nobody on nasaspaceflight.com was able to do. This will be the most historic flight Space-X has made, if the anding is a success. So even if they are weaninng off of webcasts, this is most deserving. And now that I see they have the previous ISS supply flight webcast up, it would make no sense to have posted that flight and not post this. Even a likely future launch of NASA astronauts to ISS won't be as fundamentally history-making as safely landing a re-useable rocket stage that helped launch a spacecraft into orbit. Of course that does not mean it will be a live video feed, but clearly that link is the place to "tune into" for the news about the landing attempt. - George Gassaway MichaelRapp Well-Known Member That camera view from the July test flight looked uncannily like a a keychain camera view from a model rocket. Well, except the absolutely no roll and that fact that the rocket stopped, then went back down. Ravenex Sponso