Title: Simhadri (2003 film)

Simhadri is a 2003 Indian Telugu-language action film directed by S. S. Rajamouli from a story written by V. Vijayendra Prasad. The film stars N. T. Rama Rao Jr., Bhumika Chawla, and Ankitha, with Mukesh Rishi, Nassar, and Rahul Dev playing supporting roles. The film has music composed by M. M. Keeravani while the cinematography and editing are done by Ravindra Babu and Kotagiri Venkateswara Rao respectively.

Released on 9 July 2003, the film received universal acclaim for its story, direction, and emotional scenes. It received positive reviews from both audiences and critics. At that time, the film had the all-time highest-grossing record.  The film was  on a budget of ₹8.5 crore (US$1.8 million) and collected a distributors' share of 25.7 crore (US$5.7 million). The film was subsequently remade in Tamil as Gajendra (2004), in Bangladeshi as Durdhorsho (2005), and in Kannada as Kanteerava (2012).

Plot 
An orphan and good-hearted lad Simhadri, grows up under Ram Bhupal Varma's family care in Visakhapatnam. The bond they share is like that of a father and son. Kasturi is Varma's granddaughter, and she is in love with Simhadri. Once a week, Simhadri visits a mentally challenged girl called Indu, and entertains her, where he provides money to her caretakers. When Varma and his wife discover Kasturi's wish to marry Simhadri, they decide to get married. He makes a formal announcement to officially adopt Simhadri. At this time, it is revealed that Simhadri is very close to Indu, and the alliance breaks off when Simhadri refuses to leave Indu (who is suspected to be his lover). 

Meanwhile, two separate groups are in search of Simhadri. They find him at the banks of Godavari river, along with Indu. In the ensuing confrontation between one group of gangsters and Simhadri, Varma and his family are surprised to see that Simhadri, who used to be calm and composed, suddenly ruthlessly kills many goons without mercy. Meanwhile, Simhadri is helped by a second group, who call him Singhamalai Anna. Meanwhile, Indu gets injured. When Indu regains her senses, she remembers her past and stabs Simhadri with an iron pole. Simhadri is hospitalized in critical condition, and the leader of the second group, who was searching for Simhadri, explains Simhadri's past.

Past: Varma's oldest daughter Saraswati elopes with her lover, a Keralite named Aravind. After some harsh words and sadness over Varma's rejection of her choice to marry her love, they settle in Kerala. Learning of the sadness surrounding Varma and his wife, Simhadri takes up the job of uniting the family and visits Thiruvananthapuram, where he joins the medical and spiritual therapy spa operated by Saraswati and her family under the disguise of a patient. He finds that Indu, Varma's first granddaughter, convinces the separated family to reunite and ask for forgiveness. During this time, Saraswati is killed by a local goon Bala Nair for witnessing a homicide done by the latter. A gangster named Bhai Saab controls the mafia of Kerala. 

Bala and Bhai belong to the same syndicate. Simhadri takes the law into his hands and eradicates Bala and his small gang in Kerala. The local Kerala people started calling him Singhamalai Anna. In the ensuing scenes, Simhadri finds himself developing into Singhamalai, eradicating Bhai Saab's network and illegal activities. Indu finds herself alone and constantly worrying about him. She proposes to her father that they should return to Andhra Pradesh because she cannot stand their home without her mother, and Simhadri ignores her now. Indu and Aravind decide to return to Visakhapatnam, where Simhadri receives a call that Indu's father is carrying a bomb in his briefcase. 

Aravind is seen rushing to catch a moving train, and Indu is about to lend him a hand. Unable to warn him, Simhadri has two choices: to let Indu's father die so people on the train can live, or let the bomb kill everyone on board, including Indu and her father. Remembering his foster father's philosophy stating if many lives can be saved through sacrifice, there's no problem doing so, Simhadri chooses the first option. As soon as Aravind catches the train bar handle, Simhadri shoots him. Surprised at Simhadri's action, Indu jumps off the train to catch her falling father, and she gets hit her head against a pole, causing her amnesia and becoming mentally challenged. 

Present: At the hospital, Bhai and his men arrive to finish off Simhadri, but Simhadri has gained consciousness, and with the help of his friends, cops, and family (now reunited, including Indu, who apologize for her actions), he takes down Bhai and his henchmen.

Pingalam and Ram Bhupal decide to marry off Simhadri by their choice, either Indu or Kasthuri. But Simhadri tells them that it is a very outdated matter, so they should hand it over to the almighty.

Cast 

 Jr. NTR as Simhadri / Singhamalai
 Master Mahendra as Young Simhadri
 Bhumika Chawla as Indira "Indu", Saraswathi's daughter and Ram Bhupal Varma's grand-daughter
 Ankitha Jhaveri as Kasturi
 Mukesh Rishi as Bhai Saab
 Nassar as Ram Bhupal Varma
 Rahul Dev as Bala Nair
 Brahmanandam as Talupulu
 Sharat Saxena as ACP Namboothri, Simhadri's mentor
 Sangeeta as Varma's wife
 Bhanu Chander as Aravind, Saraswathi's husband and Indu's father
 Seetha as Saraswathi, Aravind's wife, Indu's mother, and adopted sister to Simhadri
 Rallapalli as Indu's caretaker
 Sekhar as Bala's aide
 Ragini as Indu's caretaker
 Venu Madhav as Iyer, a slacker who fakes himself as a disabled man
 Ajay
 Kota Srinivasa Rao as Pingalam, who is jealous of Simhadri for his status
 Chalapathi Rao as a minister on Bhai Saab's side
 Sivannarayana Naripeddi
 Srinivasa Reddy as Thief
 Hema
 Ravi Babu as a man who misbehaves with Ram Bhupal and later gets thrashed by Simhadri
 G. V. Sudhakar Naidu as Bhai Saab's aide
 Sameer as Doctor
 Rajan P. Dev as The Kerala Chief Minister (cameo appearance)
 Ramya Krishnan as Item number in the song "Chinnadamme Cheekulu"

Production
After the success of Student No.1 (2001), Rajamouli was initially supposed to direct a fantasy film with Kovelamudi Surya Prakash however the project was shelved due to high budget and lead actor's debut film Neetho (2002) became a failure. Rajamouli narrated the subject of Simhadri to VMC Combines who agreed to produce the film. The film was supposed to be made with the pair of B. Gopal and Balakrishna, which was dropped.

Writer V. Vijayendra Prasad stated that he got the idea for the story while re-watching Moondram Pirai (1982).

Music

Soundtrack was composed by M. M. Keeravani. He revealed that Rajamouli mostly selected tunes which are already used or those rejected by other directors. The song "Ammaina Nannaina" was originally used for the film Kishkinda Kanda (1994) and the song "Chinnadamme" for the film Samarpana (1992). "Singhamalai" was used for the film People's Encounter (1991). Keeravani acknowledged that the tune of "Chiraaku Anuko" was inspired by Cotton Eye Joe.

Release

Distribution
Simhadri distribution rights were sold for  crore. It was made with a budget of  crore of production cost.

Re-release
Almost 2 decades after its original release date, it was released in 4K and IMAX formats on May 20, 2023, commemorating its 20th anniversary. Simhadri collected 5.14 crores gross on day 1 worldwide with its re-release. This is the second highest day 1 collection for any re-released film so far. The film had run 1012 shows across the world on Tarak's birthday.

Reception

Box office
Simhadri had a theatrical run of over 100 days.

Critical response
Jeevi of Idlebrain gave a positive review for the film, citing that the story is "pretty strong" and praised N. T. Rama Rao Jr.'s performance stating that the "character offered him the chance to use all his histrionic capability to impress the crowds and he utilized every frame of it to make a deep impact on the hearts of the viewers".

Remakes
After the success, the film was subsequently remade in Tamil as Gajendra (2004) with Vijayakanth by Suresh Krissna. The film was also remade in Kannada as Kanteerava (2012) with Duniya Vijay.

Notes

References

External links
 

2003 films
Films scored by M. M. Keeravani
Films directed by S. S. Rajamouli
Telugu films remade in other languages
Films shot in Kerala
Films shot in Thiruvananthapuram
Indian action thriller films
2000s Telugu-language films
Films shot in Visakhapatnam
2000s masala films
2003 action thriller films
IMAX films