Title: The Haunted House (1921 film)

The Haunted House is a 1921 American two-reel silent comedy film starring Buster Keaton. It was written and directed by Keaton and Edward F. Cline. The film has a runtime of 21 minutes.

Plot
Keaton plays a teller at a successful bank. Unbeknownst to him, the manager of the bank and his gang are planning on pulling off a robbery and hiding in an old house that they have rigged up with booby traps and effects to make it appear to be haunted. After a mishap that afternoon with Keaton getting glue all over the money and himself, he almost thwarts the gang's robbery, but when the owner of the bank walks in and sees Keaton armed with a gun, he assumes it was he who tried to rob it. Keaton flees and takes refuge in the old house; however, a troupe of actors from a theatre production are also in the house and are clad in their scary costumes (ghosts, skeletons, etc.), leading Keaton and the gang of robbers to believe the house actually is haunted. After Keaton has many encounters with the "ghosts" and the house's booby traps, he discovers the scam, and the manager is revealed as being behind the robbery. As the manager is about to be taken away, he hits Keaton over the head and knocks him out, before escaping. Next, we see Keaton being awoken by two angels at the foot of a large stairway, which he ascends all the way to Heaven. He asks Saint Peter to be let in but is denied and sent all the way down to Hell instead. However, this is all revealed to be a dream sequence, as Keaton regains consciousness in the house seconds later.

Cast
 Buster Keaton as bank clerk
 Virginia Fox as bank president's daughter
 Joe Roberts as bank cashier
 Edward F. Cline as bank customer
 Dorothy Cassil as flirty bank customer (uncredited)
 Mark Hamilton as tallest ghost (uncredited)
 Natalie Talmadge as fainting female bank customer (uncredited)

Legacy
Christopher Workman commented, "[The film] belongs to a different, more simplistic era of comedic storytelling. As such, it doesn't work too well today...[but] it has a certain amount of naive charm. Even in its day, there wasn't much original about it, given that haunted houses occupied by criminals had been a staple of the genre for nearly two decades already."

See also
 List of American films of 1921
 Buster Keaton filmography

References

External links

 
 
 The Haunted House on YouTube
 
 The Haunted House at the International Buster Keaton Society
 The Haunted House - short film with piano score

1921 films
1921 comedy films
American silent short films
American black-and-white films
Films directed by Buster Keaton
American haunted house films
Films directed by Edward F. Cline
1921 short films
Silent American comedy films
Articles containing video clips
Films produced by Joseph M. Schenck
1920s English-language films
Films with screenplays by Buster Keaton
American comedy short films
1920s American films
Silent horror films