Title: Movie and Television Review and Classification Board

The Movie and Television Review and Classification Board  (; abbreviated as MTRCB) is a Philippine government agency under the Office of the President of the Philippines that is responsible for the classification and review of television programs, motion pictures and home videos.

Unlike other organizations worldwide (such as the BBFC), the Board does not rate video games. Thus, both the ESRB system used in the United States, and IARC system are the de facto rating systems used in the Philippines, although there have been attempts at formulating an independent local rating system. Certain video game vendors ask for a valid ID or any other verification to be able to buy M- and AO-rated games. The Board also does not rate literature.

The Movie and Television Review and Classification Board also serves as a de facto censorship body.

History
The MTRCB was initially created as the Board of Censors for Motion Pictures by virtue of Republic Act 3060 signed by President Carlos P. Garcia in 1961 and directly subordinate to the Office of the President. Over the years, its name and powers were changed and expanded by succeeding administrations. In 1980, as part of Executive Order No. 585 issued by President Ferdinand Marcos during the Martial Law , the Board was reconstituted to include senior officials of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Ministry of National Defense, the Ministry of Public Information and the National Intelligence and Security Authority (NISA). To reflect the rising influence of television in the Philippines, the agency was renamed into the Board of Review for Motion Pictures and Television by virtue of Executive Order No. 745 issued by Marcos in 1981. In 1983, its scope was expanded to include live entertainment, and as such the Board was renamed by Marcos into the Board of Review for Motion Pictures, Television and Live Entertainment by virtue of Executive Order No. 868. Controversially, it was also given the power to bar any film deemed "subversive" in content and "undermining faith in the government" 

Ultimately, the economic and political crisis of the 1980s led the Marcos regime to abolish the board and replace it with the current Movie and Television Review and Classification Board in 1985 by virtue of Presidential Decree No. 1986. After the fall of the Marcos dictatorship in 1986, the Board was reconstituted to remove defense and security officials and reduce its composition to civilian personnel, though the ban on subversive material remains. In the 1990s, an Appeals Committee was created to allow appeal and reversals of the MTRCB's decisions.

The Board
The chairman, the vice-chairman and the other 30 Board members compose the Board. Each one holds office for a term of one year but may be reappointed after the expiration of their term. Diorella Maria Sotto-Antonio is the current board chairman appointed since July 7, 2022.

List of board chairpersons

Classification ratings

Movies

While the MTRCB primarily rates most films released in commercial cinemas, independent and art-house films released in the Philippines are not rated by the MTRCB themselves and instead through the Film Development Council of the Philippines and the Film Cultural Exchange Program (FCEP), the films are rated through the FDCP rating system pursuant to the agreed-upon guidelines by the FDCP and the MTRCB.

Summary

No children under the age of 13 may be admitted to a PG-rated film unless when accompanied by an adult. The R-13, R-16, and R-18 ratings are legally restricted. All cinemas are required to check the ages of all patrons who wish to view such films in a cinema. Moviehouses illegally permitting underage patrons to view age-restricted films can be met with fines or other sanctions. The public exhibition of an "X-rated" film in the Philippines is a serious criminal offense and may lead to more severe disciplinary actions.

General Audience ("G")
 G  Viewers of all ages are admitted. A "G" classification advises parents or supervising adults that the film is suitable for all audiences, provided there are no depictions of sex and violence.

Parental Guidance ("PG")
 PG  Viewers below 13 years old should be accompanied by a parent or supervising adult. A "PG" classification advises parents or supervising adults that the film may contain material whose treatment is suitable for children below 13 years of age.

Restricted 13 ("R-13")
 R-13  Only viewers who are 13 years old and above can be admitted. An "R-13" classification advises parents, supervising adults, or the would-be viewers themselves, that the film may contain any of the elements that may not be suitable for children below 13 years of age.

This rating is for 13 years old and above.

Restricted–16 ("R-16")
 R-16  Only viewers who are 16 years old and above can be admitted. An "R-16" classification advises viewers, parents, and supervising adults that the film may contain any of the elements that may not be suitable for children below 16 years of age.

This rating is for 16 years old and above.

Restricted-18 ("R-18")
 R-18  Only viewers who are 18 years old and above can be admitted. An "R-18" classification advises viewers, parents, and supervising adults that the film may contain any of the elements that may not be suitable for children below 18 years of age. 

This rating is for 18 years old and above. SM Cinema does not show films in their cinemas classified by this rating.

Not for Public Exhibition ("X")
 X  "X-rated" films have been deemed by the board to be unsuitable for public exhibition.

A film shall be disapproved for public viewing if, in the judgment of the Board:
 The average person, applying contemporary community standards and values, would find that the dominant theme of the work, taken as a whole appeals solely to the prurient interest and satisfies only the craving for gratuitous sex and/or violence.
 The film depicts in a patently lewd, offensive, or demeaning manner, excretory functions and sexual conduct such as sexual intercourse, masturbation and exhibition of the genitals.
 The film clearly constitutes an attack against any race, creed, or religion.
 The film condones or encourages abuse and exploitation against women and/or children.
 The film promotes or endorses the use of illegal drugs and substances.
 The film tends to undermine the faith and confidence of the people in their government and/or duly-constituted authorities.
 The film glorifies criminals or condones crimes.
 The film may constitute contempt of court or of a quasi-judicial tribunal, or may pertain to matters which are subjudicial in nature.

Use of movie ratings in television
Celestial Movies Pinoy formerly used an advisory for these movie ratings before showing of the film in lieu of television ratings.

Television

The MTRCB has implemented a television content rating system since November 1, 1995. Historically, there were only two television ratings used (see the table below). These ratings consisted of a plain text digital on-screen graphic (or pictogram) appearing on the corner of the screen during a program's run time.

Summary

On October 6, 2011, in order to encourage parents to supervise and be responsible with their children in watching television, the rating system was reformatted, with one additional rating added.

The ratings notice are always played before the start or midway of the show. The rating voice-overs are usually in Filipino, but predominantly English-language stations have the ratings notice spoken in English (within abroad, GMA Pinoy TV, GMA Life TV, GMA News TV International, Kapatid Channel, AksyonTV International, The Filipino Channel, Cinema One and ANC; only spoken in English). Ratings notices were previously broadcast in a 4:3 aspect ratio, but has since been broadcast in a 16:9 widescreen format.

The green 'G', blue 'PG' and red 'SPG' graphic/DOG below are usually seen on the lower right or upper left corner of the screen during the entire show. All programs shown by the television channels are reviewed and classified by the said board. The board may suspend, reject or cancel programs, but cannot revoke broadcast licenses.

General Patronage ("G")

 G  Suitable for all ages. Material for television, which in the judgment of the Board does not contain anything unsuitable for children.

It appears in children's programming, concert specials, and educational programming, as well as some documentaries, home shopping blocks, talent reality shows, and religious programming.

A pictogram advisory accompanied by full-screen written verbal advisory to the effect that the program is classified as "General Patronage" shall be broadcast for at least 10 seconds immediately before the opening credits of the particular television material classified as such.

Parental Guidance / Patnubay at Gabay ("PG")

 PG  Parental guidance suggested. Material for television, which, in the judgment of the Board, may contain some adult material that may be permissible for children to watch but only under the guidance and supervision of a parent or adult.

The television program classified as "PG" must, in the judgment of the Board, meet the following criteria:
 Theme – More serious issues may be tackled but the treatment must be suitable to children below 13 years old.
 Language – Very mild swear words only shall be allowed. Use of a strong expletive in a sexual context or sexually-based expletives shall not be allowed. Neither shall prolonged and/or successive use of expletives be allowed.
 Nudity – Occasional natural, non-sexual nudity, is permissible.
 Sex – Graphic depiction of sexual activity shall not be permitted. Sexual activity may be implied but with no details shown.
 Violence – There should be no glamorization of weapons and crimes. No detail of fighting or other dangerous techniques. No detail or prolonged showing of violence or suffering.
 Horror – Scary sequences must be mild and brief.
 Drugs – There may only be implied depiction of prohibited drugs and/or substances or their use provided it does not condone, encourage or glamorize drug and/or substance use and it should be necessary to the theme and characterization.

A pictogram advisory accompanied by full-screen written and verbal advisory to the effect that the program is classified as "Parental Guidance" shall be broadcast for at least 10 seconds immediately before the opening credits of the particular television material classified as such. GMA Network's Wowowin airs two PG DOGs, the second one being the cue for regional stations to join in the Manila feed.

Strong Parental Guidance / Striktong Patnubay at Gabay ("SPG")
 

 SPG  Stronger and more vigilant parental guidance is suggested. Programs classified as "SPG" may contain more serious topics and themes, which may not be advisable for children to watch except under the very vigilant guidance and presence of a parent or an adult.

Television programs classified as "SPG" must still fall within the parameters of the existing Parental Guidance classification rating. However, to merit the issuance of an "SPG" rating, the gravity of the material must, in the judgment of the Board, be leaning towards the maximum allowable for Parental Guidance rating. In determining the proper classification rating, the Board shall consider the purpose, genre, and time slot of the program as well as the treatment and depiction of attendant factors such as, but not limited to: Theme (Tema), Language (Lenggwahe), Violence (Karahasan), Sex (Sekswal), Horror (Horror) and Drugs (Droga).

In the exercise of its judgment, the Board shall take due consideration of balancing the interest of the State to protect the welfare of the youth with the interest of the broadcast networks to freedom of expression.

A pictogram advisory accompanied by a full-screen written advisory with voice over to the effect that the program is classified as "Strong Parental Guidance" shall be broadcast for at least 20 seconds, immediately before the opening credits and midway in the full airing of the particular television material classified as such. The full-screen advisory shall specifically declare the content descriptors pertinent to the program being shown, such as but not limited to: Theme (Tema), Language (Lenggwahe), Violence (Karahasan), Sex (Sekswal), Horror and Drugs (Droga).

The SPG rating was implemented on February 9, 2012.

Disapproved for Airing on Television ("X")
Any television program that does not conform to the "G", "PG", and "SPG" classification shall be unfit for television broadcast if, in the judgment of the Board applying contemporary Filipino cultural values as standard, it is objectionable for being immoral, indecent, contrary to law and/or good customs, injurious to the prestige of the Republic of the Philippines or its people, or with a dangerous tendency to encourage the commission of violence, or of a wrong, or crime, such as but not limited to:
 The average person, applying contemporary community standards and values, would find that the dominant theme of the work, taken as a whole appeals solely to the prurient interest and satisfies only the craving for gratuitous sex and/or violence.
 The work depicts in a patently lewd, offensive, or demeaning manner, excretory functions, and sexual conduct such as sexual intercourse, masturbation and exhibition of the genitals.
 The work clearly constitutes an attack against any race, creed or religion.
 The work condones or encourages abuse and exploitation against women and/or children.
 The work promotes or endorses the use of illegal drugs and substances.
 The work tends to undermine the faith and confidence of the people in their government and/or duly constituted authorities.
 The work glorifies criminals or condones crimes.
 The work is libelous or defamatory to the good name and reputation of any person, whether living or dead.
 The work may constitute contempt of court of a quasi-judicial tribunal, or may pertain to matters, which are subjudicial in nature.

Exemptions of classification ratings in television
National and local newscasts are exempted from the ratings system (except in the case of selected news stories, such as in ABS-CBN's TV Patrol, which uses an SPG graphic for stories with sensitive or graphic content). Some regional news programs and some CNN Philippines newscasts air a PG advisory before the show, which may violate the rules. These circumstances, however, do not affect the program itself. TV5's Aksyon sa Tanghali, on the other hand, was given an SPG rating in April 2018 due to the profane nature of their public service segments. The rating also includes the news segments of the said edition.

IBC 13 does not use either the green 'G', blue 'PG', or red 'SPG' graphics on selected programs and documentaries produced by the government-controlled Presidential Communications Office (PCO), considering that they are information-based materials. DepEd TV and DepEd ALS also do not use the three aforementioned rating graphics considering that they are educational content.

Home videos

The Optical Media Board formerly governed censorship for home video releases; this has since been managed by the Movie and Television Review and Classification Board.

Before 2015, unlike the theatrical ratings, only three are applied to video releases and printed on labels: General Audience (G) for films previously rated G in cinemas, Parental Guidance (PG) for most PG and some R-13 or R-16 titles (with cuts for the R-ratings), and Restricted For Adults (R) for some R-13, many R-16, and most R-18 titles [without cuts for R-16 and R-18, including films released unrated or with adults-only rating equivalents (e.g. R, 18, M18, NC-17, Category III, and R21) outside the Philippines].

Since 2015, the theatrical ratings were applied as home video ratings, replacing the previous system.

In addition to issuing parental ratings for home video content, routine inspections are also conducted at public transport terminals where passenger buses equipped with onboard entertainment systems can be found, to ensure that the films in question are approved by both agencies for public exhibition and are free of inappropriate content.

Radio

The Kapisanan ng mga Brodkaster ng Pilipinas (KBP; English: Association of Broadcasters of the Philippines), an association unrelated to the government, governs censorship on radio, although it can only reprimand its own members using the required disciplinary action. Some radio stations (notable Brigada and 87.7 MHz Franken-FM) have their own PG and SPG advisory before the start of the program, should it contain mature themes.

Internet
Although the board itself does not govern nor does it censor TV shows and movies online, video streaming services such as Viu, Discovery+, Disney+, iflix, Netflix, HBO Go, and Amazon Prime Video make use of their own content rating systems to ensure whether content is family-friendly or not.

On September 3, 2020, it was reported that MTRCB wanted to seek the "regulation" of video content that is provided by streaming platforms such as Netflix. According to Atty. Jonathan Presquito, the MTRCB legal affairs division chief, there is a necessity proceed with the regulation, especially because several video content are unrated. However, the move was strongly criticized by several groups and people, noting that the MTRCB has become a tool of censorship. Senator Franklin Drilon said that the move was "very impractical".

Controversies

Despite touting itself as promoting Filipino values and "intelligent viewing", the board has drawn criticism from filmmakers and special interest groups for its vested interest in the film and television industries, de facto censorship, stifling of creative freedoms on the grounds of family-friendliness, and allegations of inaccuracy in film and television ratings.

Critics contend that the board has not rated certain media, particularly international superhero, action and fantasy films, such as Michael Bay's Transformers and the Harry Potter series (based on the novels by J.K. Rowling), along with locally produced romantic comedies, strongly for violent or sexual themes, noting the arbitrary and biased classification based on board members' opinions on certain films for mature audiences yet overlooking certain scenes or themes that would be given a higher rating elsewhere.

Since 2019, MTRCB announced that they banned movies like Abominable, and Uncharted immediately due to the film's scene involving the nine-dash line at the map of South China Sea, being reached out of controversy at the Southeast Asia (including Philippines).

Content sanctions
Aside from administering parental ratings for movies and television shows, the MTRCB also reserves the right to sanction a certain program or movie depending on the gravity of the violation as a means of disciplinary action. The following cases involve domestic and international content suspensions, probations, summons, and even self-regulations due to the following issues with the content or cast.

International content
 In 1988, the film The Last Temptation of Christ was banned over its alleged anti-religion theme. At the time, the then-head of the MTRCB, Manoling Morato, was known to be an ultraconservative,  having imposed bans on other films deemed as having illicit and graphic content.
 In 1994 the MTRCB decided to censor footage from the film Schindler's List depicting sex and nudity, with Chairperson Henrietta Mendez arguing that allowing the film's sex scenes to remain could result in "bigger problems in the future with similar scenes in other films." This led to director Steven Spielberg withdrawing the film from distribution in the Philippines unless it was guaranteed an uncut release. The decision was heavily criticized, with actress and future MTRCB chairperson Armida Siguion Reyna castigating the agency for allowing the release of two films about a real-life murder (The Elsa Castillo Story ... Ang Katotohanan and The Elsa Santos Castillo Story: The Chop Chop Lady) while censoring a "powerful movie, which is inspiring, uplifting and humane," while Senators Raul Roco, Orlando Mercado, and four others sponsored a resolution seeking an inquiry into the agency's regulatory functions, stating that its actions "not only insult the intelligence of the local movie-going public but in effect send a wrong message to the world on Filipino tastes, sensibilities and appreciation for the cinematic arts..." On March 4, 1994, Executive Secretary Teofisto Guingona reversed the agency's decision upon his recommendations to and approval by President Fidel V. Ramos, restoring the film's censored scenes and lowering the film's rating from R-18 to R-15 (despite the fact that the latter rating did not exist and was later renamed as R-16). Schindler's List was finally released in its entirety on March 9, 1994.
 In 1995, MTRCB Chair Henrietta Mendez tried to censor a six-second scene featuring pubic hair in the film The Bridges of Madison County. The resulting public uproar led to Mendez' removal by President Ramos. 
On January 4, 2000, a broadcast of the children's television series Teletubbies on GMA Network was accidentally replaced by a still photo of actress Rosanna Roces for several seconds. The photo shows one of her breasts exposed, prompting MTRCB to issue a warning that the station would face stronger sanctions should this, or a similar incident, be repeated. GMA officials stated that the incident was caused by an errant employee who pressed a button on a panel while helping repair a computer.
On July 2, 2018, the replay broadcast of the FIBA Asia qualifying match on TV5 was given an SPG rating after the commercial break to warn the audience that the following scene contained the infamous basketball brawl between Gilas Pilipinas and the Australian Boomers.
In 2019, the MTRCB  banned the film Abominable due to the appearance of the nine-dash line in a scene that contradicted Philippine claims in the South China Sea. 
In November 2021, the MTRCB ordered streaming platform Netflix to remove certain episodes of Pine Gap showing the nine-dash line, deeming it "unfit for public exhibition". It was after the foreign affairs department issued a complaint calling the line "illegal" and a "violation of Philippine sovereignty".
On April 27, 2022, the MTRCB banned the release of the action-adventure film Uncharted due to the appearance of a treasure map featuring "illegal" images of the nine-dash line showing the South China Sea as being part of China's territory, following a request by the Department of Foreign Affairs, stating that the scenes featuring the nine-dash line were "contrary to national interest".

Domestic content

This includes all content sanctions by the MTRCB on domestically produced contents except in the case of suspension of broadcast of television programs and films banned for public screening which are covered in separate articles.

In 2006, the documentary program I-Witness was placed on hold on GMA Network after featuring an episode on "Lukayo", a ritual dance from Laguna that showed old women dancing while wearing wooden phalluses of exaggerated sizes and another ritual that featured masturbation.
On May 10, 2012, the MTRCB issued a 20-day suspension on the public service program T3: Kapatid, Sagot Kita! due to comments on actors Raymart Santiago and Claudine Barretto on its live broadcast. Before that, a brawl between the hosts' brother, Ramon Tulfo and the latter couple happened at Ninoy Aquino International Airport Terminal 3. TV5 questioned the MTRCB's decision to suspend the program, stating that the action was heavy-handed and called it an act of censorship, though it was then lifted after a couple of days.
On May 30, 2012, the board imposed a 3-month suspension to T3: Kapatid Sagot Kita from May 31 to August 31, 2012, without cancellation, regarding to the same issue as above. After the suspension the program was placed under probation, meaning it needed daily permits from the MTRCB before airing until the board was convinced otherwise. However, the suspension was once again lifted on June 21, this time under a 60-day temporary restraining order from the Court of Appeals.
The episode Manika on the drama anthology Maalaala Mo Kaya was slated to be aired on June 2, 2012, but was pulled off after MTRCB imposed an X rating because of its sensitive rape theme. The episode finally aired on June 30, after it was given a SPG rating for its final televised airing.
On February 8, 2013, the MTRCB imposed a six-month probation period on variety show Party Pilipinas for a lewd dance number involving Lovi Poe and Rocco Nacino. They also ordered GMA Network to apologize publicly.
On February 26, 2013, the MTRCB summoned the staff of the weekly musical-variety show ASAP to a gender-sensitivity investigation over a wet performance number involving Anne Curtis.
On December 9, 2013, sketch-comedy show Bubble Gang host Michael V., Rufa Mae Quinto, and GMA Network's executives, were summoned by MTRCB chairman Eugenio Villareal for a mandatory conference after a sexually sensitive comedy skit called "The Adventures of Susie Lualhati" which aired on November 29 and involved a derogatory and discriminatory portrayal of women.
 On June 6, 2014, the MTRCB was summoned by the Philippine Commission on Women to review an episode of reality show Pinoy Big Brother: All In aired on June 4, 2014, where Jayme Jalandoni was asked if she wanted to pose nude for a painting, as part of their sixth weekly task. 
On October 7, 2015, the daily reality-dating game serial Nasaan Ka Mr. Pastillas? on It's Showtime drew the ire of netizens and the women's group Gabriela for its allegedly derogatory portrayal of women. The MTRCB summoned the show's executives to discuss the segment. After a thorough investigation, MTRCB imposed "self-regulation" on the said show, with a list of suggestions to improve the segment.
On July 29, 2016, the MTRCB sent summons to the producers, writers, and directors of the television series FPJ's Ang Probinsyano over a scene in the July 25 episode (Girl in the Rain) with "sexually suggestive themes".
In 2016, executives and producers of romantic dramedy Till I Met You were summoned after complaints came in over various inappropriate scenes and innuendo involving James Reid and Nadine Lustre. Called in were directors Antoinette Jadaone and Andoy Ranay, executive producer Arnel Nacario and writer Shugo Praico. MTRCB said matters to be taken up include scenes from the October 25-28 episodes, deeming them inappropriate for public viewing.
On September 6, 2017, the MTRCB summoned drama series Impostora for intimate scenes involving Kris Bernal and Rafael Rosell.
On July 27, 2019, People's Television Network's PCSO Lottery Draw the program was put on temporary hiatus following a verbal order from President Rodrigo Duterte to suspend all gambling-related operations of PCSO and also Live on PTV 4 by the MTRCB, due to corruption allegations. However, the program partially resumed on July 31 as the suspension of the lotto game was lifted by the President. The Small Town Lottery remains suspended until August 22, 2019.
 On May 31, 2023, the alleged violation of Eat Bulaga!, after airing a replay and preventing the former mainstay hosts, Tito Sotto, Vic Sotto, and Joey de Leon, from live broadcast, was investigated by the board to ensure compliance on broadcasting regulations.
On August 11, 2023, E.A.T. was summoned by the board over the utterance of profanity by host Wally Bayola in the segment Sugod Bahay, Mga Kapatid! which aired on August 10, 2023.

See also

Censorship in the Philippines
List of films banned in the Philippines
Optical Media Board
Television content rating systems
Motion picture rating system
Ad Standards Council of the Philippines
National Telecommunications Commission

References

External links
Official website of the Movie and Television Review and Classification Board
Official website of the Optical Media Board
Official website of the Association of the Philippine Broadcasters

1985 establishments in the Philippines
Censorship in the Philippines
Entertainment rating organizations
Government agencies established in 1985
Government agencies under the Office of the President of the Philippines
Motion picture rating systems
Television in the Philippines