Title: Style (2006 film)

Style is a 2006 Indian Telugu-language dance film written and directed by Raghava Lawrence. Produced by Larsco entertainments, the film stars Prabhu Deva, Raghava Lawrence, Raja, Kamalinee Mukherjee and Charmme Kaur in important roles with Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna in cameo appearances. The film marks Lawrence's second directorial venture after Mass. The soundtrack was composed by Mani Sharma.

Style garnered the Filmfare Award for Best Choreography and also won two Nandi Awards. The film was subsequently dubbed into Tamil as Lakshyam.

Plot
Raghava is a cleaning boy at a dance school in Visakhapatnam, where he and his friends get admitted in a dance school headed by Ganesh, a former dancer who became handicapped due to his rival Anthony orchestrating an accident against him for beating Anthony in a dance competition and heading into the international arena. Raghava and his friends begin training under Ganesh. Despite several obstacles, Raghava and his batch defeat Anthony's batch in the dance competition, where Raghava receives an offer as a dance choreographer in Chiranjeevi's upcoming film.

Cast

Soundtrack

The music was composed by Mani Sharma. Music was released on MADHURA Entertainment Music Company.
Telugu version

Tamil version
"Neruppai" — Karthik
"Style Style" — Jaigeetha, Ravivarma
"Superstar" — Karthik
"Unnil Ulladhu" — Karthik
"Vaada Vaada" — Tippu
"Yaarumillai" — Karthik

Production 
Style was the highest budgeted dance-musical film in India at the time of its release. It was the first Indian film to be shot with Super 35 camera and also color corrected.

Release 
The film was released on 12 January 2006 and was dubbed in Tamil as Lakshyam.

Awards
Filmfare Awards South
Filmfare Award for Best Dance Choreographer - South - Raghava Lawrence (2006)

Nandi Awards - 2006
Best Choreographer - Raghava Lawrence  
Best Child Actor - Master Raghava

References

External links

2006 films
2010s dance films
Indian dance films
Films scored by Mani Sharma
2000s Telugu-language films
Films about disability in India
Films directed by Raghava Lawrence