Title: Jana (film)

Jana is a 2004 Indian Tamil-language action film directed by Shaji Kailas. The film stars Ajith Kumar and Sneha. The score was composed by C. Raja Mani and soundtrack was composed by Dhina, while Rajeev Ravi was the cinematographer.

Plot 

Janarthanan "Jana" lives in a village in Tamil Nadu, and leading a life incognito, taking up the cause of the villagers, and making enemies around. Due to unforeseen circumstances, Jana's past is revealed as a terror to the Mumbai dons and corrupt politicians. At the present, Jana finally meets his rival Bhandari, who is released from prison to have his final round with him.

Cast

Production 
The film was announced in early 2002 titled as Thiruda. Trisha Krishnan was initially signed on to play the lead female role but pulled out due to unavailability of dates. The title was subsequently changed to Jana after the lead character and Ajith began filming in December 2002. Trisha's role was later taken by Sneha.

The shooting took place at Palghat where some sets were erected. It was a lavish set costing 9 lakh, consisting of two big bungalows, one belonging to Raghuvaran and the other to Radharavi, in the film. Most of the story has taken place in these bungalows. Among those present were hero Ajit and heroine Sneha. The sets have been designed by art-director Maniraj. Apart from Palghat, a 20-day schedule took place at locations like Ottappalam, and Shornoor in Kerala.

Soundtrack 
The soundtrack features 6 songs composed by Dhina.

Release and reception 
Jana was released on 1 May 2004. Visual Dasan of Kalki called it a comforting victory film for Ajith. Indiaglitz called it "a complete rehash of Rajini starrer Baasha" and that it "is completely out of sorts movie". Behindwoods wrote "Jana is nothing new except a different on screen looks of Ajith." Sify wrote "Neither great nor ghastly Jana packs in a sting but ends with a whimper and is strictly for the no-holds barred Ajith addicts." Malathi Rangarajan of The Hindu wrote, "A little of Nayakan and a lot of Badshah peppered with some originality in screenplay, a ravishing heroine and an invincible hero make up this summer cocktail".

References

External links 
 

2000s masala films
2000s Tamil-language films
2004 action films
2004 films
Films about organised crime in India
Films directed by Shaji Kailas
Films shot in Kerala
Films shot in Mumbai
Films shot in Ottapalam
Films shot in Palakkad
Indian action films