Title: Mass (2004 film)

Mass is a 2004 Indian Telugu-language masala film written and directed by Raghava Lawrence in his directorial debut. Produced by Nagarjuna under Annapurna Studios banner, it stars Akkineni Nagarjuna, Jyothika, Charmy Kaur, Raghuvaran and Rahul Dev. The music was composed by Devi Sri Prasad. 

Mass was released on 23 December 2004 and was a blockbuster at the box office. It was the highest-grossing film in Nagarjuna's career at the time. The film was dubbed and released in Tamil as Veeran. In 2005, the film was dubbed in Hindi as Meri Jung - One Man Army and was also re-dubbed in Hindi as Mass in 2022.

Plot 
Mass is an orphan, who bonds well with his landlord's son Adi. Mass is in love with a college student Anjali, who happens to be the daughter of Vizag city's gangster Satya. This restricts her from falling for him, as it would land him in danger, but she finally gives in after some time. 

Anjali suggests Mass to tie the knot immediately before her brother Seshu and Satya tries to separate them. They decide to elope and get married in a temple the very next day. While on their way to the temple, where Anjali is waiting, Mass realises that he forgot to bring his late mother's picture. Mass goes back to get the picture while Adi reaches the temple. As Adi reaches the temple, he finds that Anjali's brother Seshu is forcing her to abandon Mass and return with him. Seshu kills Adi when he tries to stop him from taking Anjali away.

Later, Mass moves into Vizag and stays in an apartment hiding his identity to exact vengeance on Satya and Seshu. After many hurdles, Mass finally eliminates Satya and Seshu, thus avenging Adi's death and finally marrying Anjali.

Cast

 Nagarjuna as Mass / Ganesh
 Jyothika as Anjali, Mass's love interest
 Charmy Kaur as Priya
 Raghuvaran as Satya, Anjali's father
 Rahul Dev as Seshu, Anjali's elder brother, the Don of Vizag
 Prakash Raj as Advocate Durga Prasad 
 Sunil as Aditya a.k.a. Adi, considering him as Mass's younger brother
 Dharmavarapu Subramanyam as Adi's father
 Balayya as Anjali's Grandfather
 Jeeva as Police Officer
 Sameer as Police Officer
 Venu Madhav as a Beggar
 Narsing Yadav as Narsing
 Satyam Rajesh as Taxi driver
 Karuna as Sirisha
 Apoorva as Priya's mother
 Ravi Kale as ACP of Visakhapatnam 
 Varsha
 Ruthika 
 Raghava Lawrence in a special appearance in "Mass" song
 Tanu Roy in a special appearance in "Mass" song

Soundtrack

Music composed by Devi Sri Prasad and was released on ADITYA Music Company. The audio was released in an entertaining function held at Taramati Baradari (Golkonda).

Release and reception
The film opened with 191 prints.

A critic from Sify wrote that "Mass, at best packs in sufficient thrills to add up to a fairly engrossing entertainer, which keeps the popcorn popping". Jeevi of Idlebrain.com wrote that "There are no boring moments in this 2.45 hour film though. You should watch Mass on the big screen to enjoy the charming Nag in his new avatar".

Awards and nominations

References

External links
 

2004 films
2000s Telugu-language films
Films scored by Devi Sri Prasad
Indian action films
2000s masala films
Indian films about revenge
2004 directorial debut films
2004 action films
Films directed by Raghava Lawrence