Title: Love on the Run (1979 film)

Love on the Run () is a 1979 French comedy-drama film directed by François Truffaut, his fifth and final film about the character Antoine Doinel. Told in non-linear fashion, with frequent flashbacks to the four previous films, it stars Jean-Pierre Léaud, Claude Jade, Marie-France Pisier, Dorothée, and Dani. It was entered into the 29th Berlin International Film Festival.

Plot
After they kissed at the end of the film Bed and Board, Antoine and his wife Christine were reconciled. However, his affections keep wandering, and on a summer holiday, she finds him in bed with her friend Liliane. They divorce by mutual consent, sharing custody of their son Alphonse, and the autobiographical novel he has been writing for years is published.

In a phone booth, he finds a torn-up photograph of Sabine, a pretty girl who looks quite like Christine, and he decides to find her. Eventually spotting her in a record shop, they start an affair. As with Christine, there are upsets and separations. At his work, he is traced by Lucien, a lover of his mother, who takes him to her grave, which Antoine never had searched.

At a railway station he sees Colette, his first love, who is now an advocate travelling to a court case, He jumps on her train, and they talk over old times, She has read his book, but soon becomes annoyed by his lack of veracity or interest in her life, and as they part, Antoine accidentally drops the photo.

When she arrives back in Paris, Collette decides to return Sabine's photograph to her, and while on the stairs to Sabine's apartment, she meets Christine. The two discuss  Antoine, their lives, and their children. Colette's son has died in an accident, she then divorced, but she hopes to form a permanent relationship with bookstore owner Xavier. Collette is delighted to learn that Xavier is the brother of Sabine. The film ends with Antoine being taken back by Sabine.

Cast
 Jean-Pierre Léaud as Antoine Doinel
 Claude Jade as Christine Doinel
 Marie-France Pisier as Colette
 Dorothée as Sabine Barnerias
 Dani as Liliane
 Daniel Mesguich as Xavier Barnerias
 Julien Bertheau as Monsieur Lucien
 Jean-Pierre Ducos as Christine's lawyer
 Marie Henriau as the Judge
 Rosy Varte as Colette's mother
 Julien Dubois as Alphonse Doinel
 Pierre Dios as M. Renard
 Alain Ollivier as the judge in Aix
 Monique Dury as Mme. Ida
 Emmanuel Clot as the friend at the printing press

Reception
The film holds a rating of 58% on Rotten Tomatoes.

The New York Times placed the film on its Best 1000 Movies Ever list.

References

External links
 
 
 
 Love on the Run an essay by Chris Fujiwara at the Criterion Collection

1979 films
Films set in Paris
1970s French-language films
1979 romantic drama films
Films directed by François Truffaut
Antoine Doinel
Films with screenplays by François Truffaut
Films scored by Georges Delerue
Films about divorce
French romantic drama films
1970s French films