Title: Dedication (film)

Dedication is a 2007 American comedy-drama film starring Billy Crudup and Mandy Moore. Written by David Bromberg, this film is actor Justin Theroux's directorial debut. The film premiered at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival. It was produced by Plum Pictures.

Plot
Henry Roth is an obsessive-compulsive and somewhat misanthropic writer of children's books. His illustrator and only friend Rudy dies after a fabulously successful collaboration on their series of children's books about "Marty the Beaver." Henry is under contract to produce another "Marty the Beaver" book for Christmas sales. His publisher, Arthur Planck, assigns penniless, lovelorn illustrator Lucy Reilly to work with Henry. She's being wooed by her ex-boyfriend Jeremy, who dumped her two years ago but shows up apologetic, having dedicated his new book to her. Lucy and Henry go to their publisher's beach house to work on the book. Will love bloom amid the rocks, or is Henry a bump on Lucy's road to Jeremy? Rudy's voice, from the grave, gives Henry counsel.

Cast
 Billy Crudup as Henry Roth
 Mandy Moore as Lucy Reilly
 Tom Wilkinson as Rudy Holt
 Christine Taylor as Allison
 Bob Balaban as Arthur Planck
 Catherine Lloyd Burns as Mother in Bookstore
 Amy Sedaris as Cassidy's Mom
 Cassidy Hinkle as Cassidy
 Jeremy Shamos as Matthew
 Christopher Fitzgerald as Robin
 Dianne Wiest as Carol
 Jicky Schnee as Mandy the Waitress
 John Ellison Conlee as Man at Lucy's Apartment
 Martin Freeman as Jeremy
 Christopher Grey Misa as Abused Kid
 Catherine Kellner as Abusive Mom
 Bobby Cannavale as Don Meyers
 Peter Bogdanovich as Roger Spade
 Justin Theroux as Lawyer on phone

Production
Dedication was filmed in New York City, Wantagh, and Glen Cove. Adult film actor Erik Rhodes filmed a cameo role for the film but his scenes were ultimately edited out.

Release
The film premiered at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival. It was given a limited theatrical release on August 24, 2007, in 4 theaters. The film grossed a domestic total of $92,853 from 8 theaters.

Critical response
The film received mixed reviews from critics. The film holds a 40% approval rating on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, based on 45 reviews with an average rating of 5.18/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "Mandy Moore and Billy Crudup's lack of chemistry in Dedication makes it hard to maintain interest in this confused love story." Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 50 out of 100, based on 19 reviews.

DVD release
The film was released on DVD on February 12, 2008, in the United States.

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 

2007 films
2007 comedy films
2007 drama films
2007 directorial debut films
2007 independent films
2007 romantic comedy-drama films
American romantic comedy-drama films
Films about writers
Films shot in New York City
Films scored by Edward Shearmur
Films directed by Justin Theroux
American independent films
2000s English-language films
2000s American films