Title: Olympia Film Society

Olympia Film Society (OFS) is a nonprofit arts organization in Olympia, Washington, USA, that shows independent, international and classic film year-round, offers special live performances and produces the Olympia Film Festival. OFS welcomes its members and non-member patrons to the Capitol Theater.

Marked by a steady growth in members, volunteers and regular film screenings, OFS grew from a handful of film lovers renting films once a month to an organization with over 2000 members.

Timeline
1980: OFS was formed when a dozen people gathered at the old Washington School on Legion Way to watch the first show, The 39 Steps and Foreign Correspondent, a double-feature tribute to Alfred Hitchcock.
1981: OFS moved to Capitol City Studios and purchased a 16-millimeter projector.
1984: The Olympia Film Festival was born, taking place at the State Theater. OFS membership jumped from 60 to 600.
1986: OFS started showing films at the Capitol Theater, built in 1924. To accompany the silent classic Pandora's Box, Timothy Brock conducted the Olympia Chamber Orchestra's world premiere of his original film score.
1988: OFS took on its first major capital expenditure to buy a new 35mm projection system.
1990: OFS found a home in the Capitol Theater, signing the lease in time for the November Film Festival. ArtsWalk, Olympia's biannual downtown arts festival, began that year to coincide with the opening of the Olympia Film Festival.
1992: The Northwest Premiere of Disney's Aladdin brought unprecedented attention to the Olympia Film Festival.
1993: The production wing of the Olympia Film Society, the Olympia Film Ranch, was founded. The Film Ranch began providing workshops and equipment rental to OFS members.
1997: Opening night of the OFF14 introduced the first phase of a new Dolby sound system, 12 new JBL surround speakers and a Dolby CP 500 cinema processor. Guests included world-renowned animators The Brothers Quay and the cinematographer Michael Spiller.
1998: The After Quartet packed the Capitol Theater with their rousing score to Fritz Lang's Metropolis. OFF15 included the producer Ted Hope, the opening night filmmaker Hilary Brougher and the film scholar Ray Carney.
1999: The Capitol Theater went digital, thanks to a generous upgrade to the sound system courtesy of Dolby Digital. OFF16 urged Rick Schmidt (author of Feature Filmmaking at Used Car Prices) to dust off his old 16mm prints for a retrospective that was a favorite with audiences. San Francisco's Sprocket Ensemble performed a feature-length program of their live scores to short contemporary animation. A new print of Orson Welles' The Trial closed the festival.
2000: Ray Carney returned to present a retrospective of the films of Robert Bresson. OFF17 presented its most comprehensive series of panel discussions and guest seminars. All Freakin' Night broke the previous records of attendance and bad taste for the classic all-night horror film marathon.
2001: OFS and the Capitol Theater survived the 2001 Nisqually earthquake and resumed operations after six weeks of repairs. With a completed Dolby system and extensive renovations, OFF18 began with a pre-festival screening of Mulholland Drive and ended with a sold out screening of Amélie.
2002: OFS acquired it own video projector, broadening opportunities for media exhibition. The OFF19 welcomed underground legends the Kuchar Brothers (John Waters' self-proclaimed single biggest inspiration) for a career retrospective. Bob and David from Mr. Show hosted a once-in-a-lifetime presentation of one of their guilty pleasures. The festival closed with a screening of Real Women Have Curves.
October 2005: The Regal Foundation offered to hold a one-day fund raiser for the Olympia Film Society, prior to the Grand Opening of their Martin Village (Lacey) Regal Cinemas. All $1.00 ticket sales and $1.00 popcorn and soda sales were donated to OFS to the tune of $22,966.89.
January 2008: The Capitol Theater marquee, a 1940 addition, was removed. Stained glass muses were revealed.

External links
Olympia Film Society website
Olympia Film Festival website

Film organizations in the United States
Culture of Olympia, Washington