Title: Bala (2002 film)

Bala is a 2002 Indian Tamil-language action film written and directed by Deepak, starring Shaam as the titular character in the lead role, while Meera Jasmine, Raghuvaran, Rajan P. Dev, Thilakan, Nagesh, and Karunas play supporting roles. The music was composed by Yuvan Shankar Raja with cinematography by Priyan and editing by V. T. Vijayan. The film was released on 13 December 2002.

Plot
Bala is the favourite hitman of gangster Pasupathi. When Bala is not zooming around in jeeps with a wild-looking gang, parading down lanes with the same gang faithfully following a step behind him, or knocking down one person or another, he is successfully wooing Aarthi, the girl he has fallen for at first sight. Aarthi is the daughter of Jayamani, a rival gangster. Ailing don Paranthaman, the mentor of the two rivals, seeing his protégés at each other's throats, brings a compromise by suggesting that Aarthi will be married to Pasupathi's wayward son. Bala naturally becomes a pariah in both camps, till it's all's well that ends well.

Cast

 Shaam as Bala
 Meera Jasmine as Aarthi
 Raghuvaran as Jayamani
 Rajan P. Dev as Pasupathi
 Thilakan as Paranthaman
 Nagesh as Varadhan
 Karunas as Kutty
 Thalaivasal Vijay as Om Prakash
 Rajasekar as Vishwanath
 Kalairani as Bala's blind mother
 Meera Krishnan as Abirami
 Santhoshi as Purnima
 Mahanadhi Shankar as Madhurai 
 Singamuthu as Venkatarama
 Sabitha Anand as Bhagyam
 Gouthami as Pasupathi's wife
 Kamalesh as Guru
 Master Udayaraj as Jayamani's son
 Baby Srividya as Jayamani's daughter
 Scissor Manohar as the bus conductor
 Muthukaalai as a bus passenger

Production
Deepak, who worked as an assistant director to Gandhi Krishna (of Engineer) and as an editor made his directorial debut with this film. Yuvan Shankar Raja was signed to compose the music for the film. Vidya Balan, the original choice for lead actress, was replaced by Meera Jasmine in the film. Shaam departed from his romantic hero role and portrayed an action oriented role in the film.

Some scenes were shot on a boat about fifteen kilometers from the harbour, in Chennai whereas at the Vauhini Studios, Chennai, a lavish set was erected where Shaam and Meera Jasmine danced to the beat of a song.

Soundtrack
The soundtrack, featuring 5 songs, was composed by Yuvan Shankar Raja and released on 20 October 2002. The song "Bailamo Bailamo" was originally composed for the Srikanth-starrer April Maadhathil, but eventually used in this film.

Release and reception 
A critic from The Hindu stated that "'Bala'  is another of those typical action flicks that flood the cinema scene today". Malini Mannath of Chennai Online opined that "It's yet again a gangster film, the scenes flowing albeit smoothly, but expectantly through clichéd situations giving one a sense of deja vu throughout". Visual Dasan of Kalki criticised the age old story and called the film boring, while praised the dialogues, background score, and cinematography. Despite the failure of Shaam's previous films, this film managed to average business.

References

External links

2002 films
2000s Tamil-language films
Indian action films
Films scored by Yuvan Shankar Raja
2002 action films
2002 directorial debut films