Title: Belinda Bauer (actress)

Belinda Bauer (born Belinda Sylvia Taubman; 13 June 1950) is an Australian actress and Spiritual Psychologist. She lives in Los Angeles, California.

Biography
Belinda grew up in Pymble in Sydney and attended school at Abbotsleigh. Starting her career as a ballet dancer, TV actress and model, she competed as Belinda Taubman in several beauty contests in Sydney, Australia. She was the Australian representative for Miss Queen of the Pacific, in 1968. Belinda Taubman relocated to New York in the early 1970s, and changed her name to Bauer. 

Belinda Bauer worked in New York as a model as the face of Revlon and appearing in numerous fashion magazines including British Vogue. She became popular in several American cult films of the late 1970s and 1980s, including Winter Kills, The American Success Company, Timerider: The Adventure of Lyle Swann and Flashdance. Between television work, she also appeared in the films The Rosary Murders and RoboCop 2.

Bauer's main title roles were in the television films The Sins of Dorian Gray (1983) (a rendition of the Oscar Wilde novel The Picture of Dorian Gray); a live-action Rankin/Bass production called Starcrossed (1985), in which she played an alien woman living on Earth; and as Christine Scavello in the supernatural thriller Dean R. Koontz's Servants of Twilight (1991). She also appeared in the pilot of the television series Airwolf (1984) as Gabrielle Ademaur, a love interest for Stringfellow Hawke (Jan-Michael Vincent). Her last credited appearance was in the erotic thriller Poison Ivy II: Lily (1996).

She often portrayed strong female characters, including Delilah in the film Samson and Delilah (1984)

She presently resides in Los Angeles, California, where she works as a spiritual  psychologist.

Belinda’s great grandfather, Nathaniel James Taubman founded  Taubman’s Paint  in 1897 with his brother George Henry Taubman. Nathaniel and George descended from English Royalty via John of Gaunt ‘s daughter Joan Beaufort, Countess of Westmorland, grand daughter of Edward III. https://storage.ning.com/topology/rest/1.0/file/get/2277139229?profile=original

Belinda's grandmother Sylvia Ritchie’s family owned Ritchie Brothers Steel, making trains, trams, the dome on the Queen Victoria Building in Sydney and farm equipment.  

Her uncle was Donald Robinson the Anglican Archbishop of Sydney from 1982 to 1992.

Selected filmography

References

External links
 Belinda Bauer Spiritual Psychology and Consulting
 
 

1950 births
Living people
20th-century Australian actresses
Actresses from Sydney
Australian film actresses
Australian television actresses
People educated at Abbotsleigh
Australian women psychologists
Australian expatriates in the United States