Title: Munna (2007 film)

Munna is a 2007 Indian Telugu-language action crime film directed by Vamshi Paidipally in his directorial debut and produced by Dil Raju. The film stars Prabhas and Ileana D'Cruz in lead roles, while Prakash Raj, Kota Srinivasa Rao and Rahul Dev appear the supporting roles.  

Munna was released on 26 April 2007.

Plot
Mahesh Kumar alias "Munna" is a college student who  aim is to finish Kamalakar alias Khakha, a crime boss who keeps the entire city under his grip. It is revealed that Khakha is actually Munna's estranged father who was responsible for the deaths of his mother and Munna's young sister. Kakha's opposition Aatma asks Munna to join him, but he refuses his proposal. A mind game ensues where Khakha's second wife, son Rahul and daughter Shruthi leave him and join Munna. After many incidents including his best friend's death, Munna finds out that Aatma was working for Khakha. Aatma and Khakha plans to kill Munna in a factory, but Aatma turns against Khakha and Munna in turn of events. Khakha kills Aatma for his betrayal and  commits suicide after losing everything that he worked for his life. With his vengeance completed, Munna leaves the factory.

Cast

 Prabhas as Mahesh Kumar alias Munna
 Manoj Nandam as a young Munna
 Ileana D'Cruz as Nidhi Chowdary
 Prakash Raj as Kamalakar alias Khakha
 Kota Srinivasa Rao as Srinivasa Rao
 Rahul Dev as Aatma
 Kalyani as Munna's mother
 Sukanya as Kaka's second wife and Munna's stepmother
 Surya as Dr. Niranjan Chowdary, Nidhi's father
 Sudha as Nidhi's mother
 Tanikella Bharani as Qasim
 Posani Krishna Murali as Kishan
 Brahmaji as Purushottam
 Nalla Venu as Tillu
 Sridhar Rao as Rahul, Munna's stepbrother
 Venu Madhav as 'Spoon' Mohan
 Chalapathi Rao as Home Minister M. Sudhakar
 Raghu Babu as Satti Pandu
 Sameer Hasan as an Inspector
 Gundu Sudharshan as a priest
 Uttej as Gun Seller
 Sandra as Nidhi's friend
 Sridhar as Prakash
 Prabhas Sreenu as Sridhar's henchman
 Fish Venkat as Kaka's henchman
 Medha Bahri as Shruti, Munna's stepsister
 Sanjay Vellanki as Munna's friend

Cameo appearance 
 Vamshi Paidipally as passerby to 'Spoon' Mohan
 Shriya Saran in the song "Chammakkuro"

Release
The film released on 26 April 2007.

Reception

Critical reception
Idlebrain gave 3/5 stars and praised Prabhas' performances, stylized direction and budget, but criticized its narration and wrote "There is no holistic perspective in the film. Let us wait and see if Dil Raju's 'Midas Touch' works for this film or not!."

Dubbed versions and remakes
The film was dubbed and released in Tamil as Vetri Thirumagan, in Hindi as Bagawat Ek Jung, in Malayalam with the same name and later in Hindustani as Rowdy Munna in 2021.

The film was also remade into Bangladesh Bengali as Amar Challenge starring Shakib Khan and Sahara.

Music
The film had six songs composed by Harris Jayaraj. The Audio was launched on 23 March 2007 in the presence of guests like Krishnam Raju, Allu Arjun, Sukumar and Bhaskar. Bhaskar released the audio cassette and presented the first unit to Sukumar, Allu Arjun presented the first audio CD to Prabhas. Soundtrack version of 'Manasa' featured the vocals of Sadhana Sargam while the film version retained vocals provided by Mahalakshmi Iyer. Harris Jayaraj received a nomination for Filmfare Best Music Director for his work in the film. The song "Baga Baga" is based on Karu Karu Vizhigalal, which itself is based on Westlife’s ‘Hit You With The Real Thing’.

Awards
Sadhana Sargam won the Filmfare Award for Best Female Playback Singer – Telugu for the song "Manasa".
Nandi Award for Best Cinematographer - Ram Prasad

References

External links
 

2007 films
2000s Telugu-language films
2000s masala films
Films directed by Vamsi Paidipally
Films scored by Harris Jayaraj
Telugu films remade in other languages
2007 action drama films
Indian action drama films
2007 directorial debut films
Films directed by Vamshi Paidipally
Sri Venkateswara Creations films