Title: Star Chinese Movies

Star Chinese Movies () is a Chinese language pay television channel owned by Disney Networks Group Pacific Ltd. It features Chinese films.

The channel mainly broadcasts Chinese-language films (including Chinese films, Cantonese films, Taiwanese films, Singaporean films, and Malaysian films), as well as bilingual Japanese films, Japanese animations (strip TV series and theatrical versions), Korean films, Thai films, etc., and will digitally restore some Hong Kong action films. It was known as the most widely distributed Chinese-language entertainment channel.

On April 29, 2017, Star Chinese Movies provided bilingual services, and most of the movies were broadcast in Mandarin and original sound at the same time.

In addition, they also obtained the pay TV broadcasting rights of the Hong Kong Film Awards and the Golden Horse Awards for the Hong Kong, Macau and Southeast Asia (except Singapore and Malaysia, in which sold to their local broadcaster).

History
It was launched on 1 May 1994 as Star Mandarin Movies as a replacement of BBC World Service Television. At that time, it screened both Hollywood and Chinese-language films and was focused to a pan-Asian audience split into two television channels: Star Movies International (now Fox Movies) and Star Mandarin Movies (now Star Chinese Movies).

On 25 January 2008, a sister channel named Star Chinese Movies 2 was launched, the HD and VOD channels launched a few years later.

On 19 May 2012, The channel logo was changed from a star, to a stylized crown.

On Saturday, 30 September 2023 at 11:59:59pm Hong Kong Time, Star Chinese Movies officially ceased its transmission and broadcasting after officially formal ceasing ceremony that took place in held at Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Macau after its final and last movie Social Distancing, and after showing its final and last movie, shows a message in Chinese above (本頻道將不再提供服務感謝您長期支持與收看) and the English text below (This channel is no longer available, thank you for watching.) and was officially moved to Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar. 

The channel will cease its operations in Taiwan on Sunday, 31 December 2023.

Feeds

Star Chinese Movies Legend 

Star Chinese Movies Legend () (also known as SCM Legend) was a sister movie channel of Star Chinese Movies based in Singapore. First launched on 25 January 2008 as Star Chinese Movies 2 (), later rebranded on 1 October 2012 as Star Chinese Movies Legend. The channel was broadcast British Hong Kong oldies historical heritage and colonial movies from 1 January 1970 to 31 December 1992 durated 23 years was officially main production company took place by STAR TV Filmed Entertainment.

On 1 October 2021 at 00:59:59 Hong Kong Time, Star Chinese Movies Legend or SCM Legend along with all of Fox and Disney channels officially ceased transmission and broadcasting after very three final and last movie and programme aired is My Date with a Vampire, My Date with a Vampire II and My Date with a Vampire III was telecast on Asia Television (ATV)'s ATV Home and after final and last showing the message with Chinese above (本頻道將不再提供服務感謝您長期支持與收看; pinyin: Běn píndào jiāng bù zài tígōng fúwù gǎnxiè nín chángqí zhīchí yú shōukàn) and the English below (This channel is no longer available, thank you for watching.). All officially moved to Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar.

References

External links
 STAR Chinese Movies Taiwan 
 STAR Chinese Movies HD Taiwan 
 STAR Chinese Movies Hong Kong
 STAR Chinese Movies Hong Kong (at Now TV)

Television networks in China
Defunct television channels
Movie channels in Hong Kong
Movie channels in Singapore
Movie channels in Taiwan
Television channels and stations established in 1994
Television channels and stations disestablished in 2023
Disney television networks